[{"Title":"Great!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"82 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a clever and engaging urban love story that just exudes with Kevin Smith's gritty humour. The film's examination of sexuality, and everything involved with it, doesn't for one second sound untrue, even when it makes sure that everything being pointed out is expressed frankly and colourfully. It's not everyday we get a story of a heterosexual man falling in love with a homosexual woman, and although the concept could easily have resulted in a disaster of a movie, Chasing Amy manages to layer everything almost flawlessly. There are no predictable pitfalls in this film, and nothing is wrapped up in a neat little package. We are offered a group of characters that are likable but flawed, who don't always get, or give, what we would usually expect. I have to say, I never knew what was going to happen next, it manages to be consistenly offbeat without being unrealistic. Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams have incredible chemistry together, perfectly displaying all the emotional complications a relationship as eccentric as theirs would have. Jason Lee was also outstanding in his role of the vaguely jealous best friend. The only thing that bothered me about this film was there was too much YELLING!! and it was slightly uneven at times. But generally I liked it a lot, and I'm just thankful that Kevin Smith is producing such fine work like this, it is truly a refreshing escape from Hollywood's formulaic sap. "},{"Title":"The Best Love Story of the Year","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"72 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy has to be the best love story of 1997.  It was emotional, gripping, funny, sad, heartwarming, and had some great jokes.  How could anyone deny that this screenplay was anything less than original, or perfection.  Absolutely intoxicating.  The performances were right on and the writing was magnificent.  Kevin Smith is, without a doubt, one of the best new writers.  With this movie he goes to a whole new level.  Clerks was great, and I think I'm one of the five people that enjoyed Mallrats, but Chasing Amy takes the cake.  Nothing else came even close that year. That movie should have made a star out of Joey Lauren Adams.  She gave the BEST performance in 1997 and was robbed of an Oscar nomination, as was the script.  The scene outside of the ice rink is more than enough to show just how good she was.  And anyone who can watch that ending, the you don't know if you should cry or jump for joy ending, and not feel something, is heartless.  The movie was great.  It is one of my personal favorites, and will always be.   "},{"Title":"Not to be missed!!!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My all-time favourite film!  Kevin Smith creates such truly endearing, eccentric, quirky characters, and then manages to cast actors who seem destined to play their roles.  Joey Lauren Adams steals the show (we need to see more of this brilliant gem!), and the Jason Lee / Ben Affleck dynamic is really powerful - all of the actors appear so natural and comfortable, and Jason Mewes is a gift from God (and that's coming from an athiest!). A beautifully written conversational comedy that very gently uncovers the hypocrisy surrounding gender relationships. This film goes way beyond the 'acceptance of sexual preference' cliche, and instead concentrates on the insecurities that all human beings are born with - gay or straight!  Mr Smith, you are  truly a genius!!!    "},{"Title":"Try and catch it!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"45 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Miles away from his usual low level comedy, in Chasing Amy, Kevin Smith manages to deliver a great rom-com with some serious undertones.There are the standard Smith jokes throughout the film, but this time they take a backseat to the touching tale of Holden and Alyssa. I don't know quite how he did it, but Chasing Amy feels real and unpredictable. It's not some glossy Hugh Grant/Julia Roberts production, instead it's filled with characters that feel more like real people, which is a nice relief.The film manages to be both moving and funny, and the cast do their best work to date (Affleck and Adams at the hockey game must rank as one of my favourite scenes of all time). This may not be Smith's best known film, but it's definitely his best. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Smith's best. Affleck's best. One of the greatest love stories ever.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love stories are difficult to do well. So is comedy. Kevin Smith does both. Very very well. Chasing Amy is, in my opinion Kevin Smith's best movie (Clerks 2nd, Dogma 3rd) and I really don't know where to start the praise.Traditionally, Hollywood romantic comedies are... well, bad. Really lame PG-13 comedy, with some catch phrase repeated ad nauseum, and always some sort of hilarious incident involving a baby or a cute dog. And the characters are just as annoying as the lame jokes, so ultimately, you don't really care about whether or not they get together in the end.Chasing Amy is different. These characters are lifelike.This isn't a romantic comedy for teenage girls. It's a movie for adults. Almost everyone can relate to being a situation where they've loved someone so much, but due to certain circumstances, you just weren't able to have that person. And I guess that's what Amy's all about. Unrequited love. Well, Unrequited love and sexual identity, but that's another topic for another day.The real genius of this film is that for all it's serious themes, it manages to convey it's message without being at all pretentious. Most independent films have this sort of, arrogant pretentious I'm so artistic feel about them.......And I hate that. Smith's success lies in the fact that his movies are meaningful, and they're actually funny as well. And Chasing Amy is no exception.In short, you'll be hard pressed to find a more entertaining, and realistic love story than Chasing Amy. It's combination of hilarious dialogue, interesting characters, and realistic themes makes it a winner. "},{"Title":"A movie that knows how people talk","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To me a film can have no action and no real special effects and still be great.  If that film can take it's characters and make them interesting by making them speak the way we know people do, then you are left with a fantastic film.  So is the case with Kevin Smith's wonderful film Chasing Amy.For anyone who thought that Ben Affleck couldn't act, watch this movie and enjoy how he plays Holden.  He is honest in his approach to a character that is as complex as any great movie character.  Also cast perfectly is Joey Lauren Adams as his girlfriend and Jason Lee is so good as Banky, his best friend and business partner that I really could have seen him with an Oscar nod that year.Kevin Smith's strength is that he knows how people talk and he is honest in his assessment of his characters.  And that is what makes this film the gem that it is.  And did I mention that it is a wonderful romance and it is wickedly funny?If all you've ever seen of Kevin Smith is Clerks, then check out this awesome flick.  It certainly makes you appreciate how good Smith is at writing characters.  A really great film.Note****  If anyone is a true fan of Jaws ( and I, like Smith think it is the greatest movie ever made ) then watch for the scene in Jaws where Hooper and Quint compare wounds to be parodied hilariously in this film.  "},{"Title":"Strange, yet his closest to a mainstream movie","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"41 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is again a look into some strange people's lives. This movie  strays a bit from the style of Kevin Smith's first two movies, in that the  story seems to play a more important role in the movie. In the past the  story was almost irrelevant to the hilariously entertaining dialogue. Not  that this dialogue is not strange and entertaining as well, but the story  does seem to dominate more. Although I enjoyed Clerks the most, I enjoyed  this movie as well.    Don't you love how Brian O'Halloran from Clerks (Dante) keeps popping up in  all of Kevin Smith's movies!? "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Movies","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a huge Kevin Smith fan, its no wonder I love this movie so much, it is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Its a close toss up for my favorite Smith movie, right next to Clerks. The Plot Holden McNeil(Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards(Jason Lee) are two long time best friends and the co-creators of their successful comic book Bluntman and Chronic. One day while they were pushing their comic at a comic/sci fi convention, they met a girl named Alyssa Jones. Holden immediately falls for Alyssa, but his hopes are shattered once he finds out a shocking surprise, she's a lesbian. Still, they form a great friendship which only makes Holden more in love with her. Once Holden reveals his love to Alyssa, they form what seems like a great relationship. Things change; however, once Banky fears that this friendship will affect their long friendship and Holden has to deal with Alyssa's rich past. The Good This is a very well done movie. Kevin Smith is well known for his creative dialog and clever direction in all of his movies, this is no exception. The actors performances, especially those of Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams, and Dwight Ewell, is exceptional. You won't find better direction for this kind of movie. I normally don't like love stories but this is one of those rare exceptions. The Bad Nothing really bad about this movie but its not for everyone. First off, the movie deals with some really touchy subject matter. Its also one of the most profane movies I've seen. If you are offended of either one of these subjects, I wouldn't recommend it.Overall Chasing Amy is one of the best movies I've ever seen. I give it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Adult, funny and moving - one of Kevin Smith's finest achievements","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With his third film, Kevin Smith tried to do something new for him a grown-up film. As loved as it may (deservedly) be, Clerks is remembered for the crude humor rather than the plot, while Mallrats, which was meant to be a smart, amusing teen movie, turned out to be little more than a vehicle for Jason Lee's comedic talent. Chasing Amy is radically different combining Smith's trademark superb dialogue, believable characters and a heartfelt story, it is one of the best, most insightful romantic comedies of the '90s, and the director's most satisfying picture aside from Clerks I and II.Whereas his first two movies kept referencing other films as soon as there was time to do so, Chasing Amy centers on Smith's second great passion comic-books. In fact, it all begins at a convention, where Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) and Holden MacNeil (Ben Affleck) are signing issues of their successful book Bluntman & Chronic. Afterwards, they hang out with fellow artists Hooper X (Dwight Ewell) and Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams), and while Banky spends all of his time arguing with Hooper over the racism in Star Wars (one of the funniest things Smith has ever written) or the gay subtext in Archie comics, something clicks between Holden and Alyssa, and soon enough they start seeing each other almost every day. It is obvious something deeper than friendship is in the air, and they both know it, yet there's a catch Alyssa is a lesbian, or at least she used to be one before meeting Holden. Hence the big question can they have a meaningful relationship with her past being such a huge burden? What kind of sacrifices will have to be made?In another film, the boy-loves-lesbian premise would have been an excuse to deliver a 90-minute marathon of distasteful, gratuitously explicit jokes. Chasing Amy, on the other hand, is good because it really cares for its characters and whatever crudities there may be never feel excessive or out of place, but on the contrary they manage to convey the speaker's emotions more correctly (this is particularly true for Jason Lee's foolproof, energetic performance). The central love story is honest and touching, two characteristics that are evident in the realistic dialogue and acting Adams, who hasn't managed to find a decent role ever since, portrays Alyssa as a human being, not a stereotype, and that's what makes her scenes with Affleck, always at his best when working with Smith, compelling and almost painful to watch.Most of the time, Chasing Amy is a perfect balance between gross-out humor and tender romance, something the director kept toying with on the underrated Jersey Girl (where the jokes were less sweary than usual) and perfected with his masterpiece, Clerks II. There are, however, a few moments when Smith doesn't understand he has to stop and tells us everything about a certain character's personality, whereas he should simply have implied it. Overall, though, this feature remains one of the most hilarious, moving, revealing films of the '90s, with its best moment saved for the director himself halfway through the movie, the mandatory Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Smith) make their appearance. In all the other View Askew flicks, they are just incredibly funny. This time, Bob breaks his silence and gives a long, thoughtful speech that explains the film's title and has more to say about love and relationships than certain movies do in their entire running time. Astonishing.8,5/10 "},{"Title":"Clever movie for the open minded.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not who you love, it's how is a great tagline for the movie.Affleck's character cannot deal with Lauren's character's past and that's the main reason why they can't maintain a serious relationship.Silent Bob in a very important scene talks about Chasing Amy and that's when everything makes more sense. I'm not a big Kevin Smith fan but I have to admit that I liked this movie very much. There are some personal conflicts that not many movie-makers talk about; in this case, it's your partner's love past. Smith brings his own experience to the movie and it's told in an interesting manner.SCRIPT Chasing Amy has a clever fast-paced script filled with funny lines and intelligent discussions related to love relationships. The cast is surprisingly good. Creative script that works as a comedy, a drama, or a romantic comedy with Smith's personal touch.CAST Ben Affleck gives a totally believable performance as the lead male character; Joey Lauren Adams was simply great in her role, and what can I say about Jason Lee? He stole the show whenever he was on screen.Supporting characters like Jay and Silent Bob were a good addition and the movie asked for them.FUN FACTOR It's very high. The subplots are entertaining and the climatic scene involving the three main characters has great dialog.7/10. Surprisingly good. Recommended for open minded people. "}{"Title":"A step back for Smith, and a million steps from greatness","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't understand people who think Kevin Smith is some genius. Sure he deserves a lot of respect for making Clerks, but his scripts always seem like first-draft material.  It is like he is an egotist, he automatically thinks anything that he writes is genius.  It is a shame because his work is good, but it is not genius.  Genius is Billy Wilder.  Almost genius is Neil Simon.  Pretty darn good is Steve Martin (don't believe me? check his writing credits). Mediocre is Kevin Smith.  Mediocre is Kevin Smiths middle name. Billy Wilder, Neil Simon and Steve Martin are all able to create funny characters without resorting to swearing and lewdness, and if they ever did it was so unexpected it was funny.  Kevin Smith kills this kind of comedy dead.Every single character in Chasing Amy (and all Smith's films) are horrible, mean, detestable, unlikeable vulgarians.  Everybody swears and curses for no particular reason other to create a cheap laugh.  Wow, this line of comedy wears thin in a second. Everybody knows that swearing equals comedy, but when it makes up for half of the entire dialogue of the film then it gets beyond pathetic.The general idea for Chasing Amy is not exactly fresh straight guy meets gay chick and fall in and out of love.  So the films premise is weak to begin with, but then add a bunch of unlikeable swearing buffoons to the mix and you'll have to rely on the dialogue and main characters to keep the film going, but Smith fails again here by casting possible the most irritating leading lady since... since EVER!  Joey Lauren Adams has possible the most grating speech patterns in the world.  It is a high pitched wail the entire time.  I found it impossible to like her simply for having a voice like hers.  I couldn't do anything but stare at her equally bizarre mouth and question how such an insanely annoying sound-wave can be emitted from a human being, let alone a leading actress.Apart from miscasting the leading lady (and driving pet dogs crazy the world over with the high-pitched frequency), Kevin Smith then goes after Jay and Silent Bob fans by giving himself (Silent Bob) a heck of a lot to say.It is bad enough giving the supposedly silent Silent Bob something to say, but it is worse when he talks about some rediculous encounter he had once and smokes a cigarette whilst saying it all in such an egotistical way that you just want to slap him and tell him he should learn how to act if he wants to share centre stage with the others.Not only does it single-handedly ruin the Silent Bob myth, but also slows the film to a crawl while the shot lingers on the limp performance of a director trying to act, and looking like he's trying to copy the Marlon Brando/James Dean way of acting ie talking, smoking, and 'method' acting, but forgetting the method bit.I'd forgive a romantic comedy if it had no comedy but was romantic, but Kevin Smith does something difficult he made a romantic comedy without anything romantic OR comedic!!!  Although he does make a 'romantic' scene a laugh-riot (check out the falling in love montage where Ben and 'Dog-Whistle Woman' do 'romantic' things).Dismal film that has no good moments other than the 'black militant' comic-book writer scene at the start. "},{"Title":"Lacks a point.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith isn't typically known for mature work &#150; the majority of his films are funny, but crude. Chasing Amy, his follow-up to the 1995 box office failure Mallrats, is certainly the most adult film he has made, in terms of general context. Overall, however, I was left with mixed feelings.Holden (Ben Affleck) is the co-creator of a popular comic strip named Bluntman and Chronic. One day at a New York City Comicon Convention, a friend of Holden's introduces him to Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), a free-spirited, adventurous girl whom Holden instantly takes a liking to. As they spend more time together, Holden finds himself falling in love. But there's just one problem Alyssa is a lesbian.Holden's best friend and co-writer/artist, Banky (Jason Lee), resents Alyssa &#150; both because he is homophobic and afraid of losing Holden. He doesn't trust Alyssa, and digs up dirt on her that extends into her high school days, when, apparently, she was not just into chicks.Chasing Amy has moments of rare greatness &#150; the dialogue, first of all, is excellent. So is the acting. Joey Lauren Adams has been severely underused since Chasing Amy, starring in undeveloped romantic roles in comedies such as Big Daddy. Her character Alyssa in Smith's film is three-dimensional, and her outburst towards the end of the picture is heartfelt and honest. Jason Lee is hilarious in a very believable way (never stretching Banky into a far-fetched comedic personality) and even Ben Affleck manages to remain tolerable. (Which is always unusual.) I think the problem with Chasing Amy is that it simply tries too hard, and lacks a point. Smith attempted to prove to his critics that he was capable of making a realistic, sophisticated and complex motion picture and tackles some very, very touchy subjects in the process, without ever coming to any solid conclusion.Credit must be given where it is due &#150; Smith is an expert at snappy one-liners and good dialogue. But no matter how clever, insightful and emotionally developed Smith's everyday jargon may very well be, at heart he is still a philistine. One need only listen to five minutes of one of his DVD commentary tracks to realize this. That core immaturity doesn't translate well to the screen in a picture that wants to be taken as something more. It's like a child trying to imitate an adult &#150; the gestures might be there, but the experience and cultivation is not.Another major weakness of Chasing Amy is that it is too blunt, I think. Example? It's heavily implied that Banky is a repressed closet homosexual. It makes sense, and a deleted scene from another of Smith's later films confirms it. But I felt it should never have been addressed at all in Chasing Amy &#150; great films imply, they don't stress. A character from Chasing Amy explains to Holden what we're all thinking &#150; maybe Banky has feelings for Holden that he isn't ready to acknowledge. This is too much. It's too clear, and not subtle enough. It should have been left up to the audience to use their own perceptions. By the time this explanation occurs in the movie, I had already assumed Banky was gay; Smith's desire to put it into words seemed anti-climactic and ruined the speculation.That best sums up the entire film, really -- Chasing Amy has its good parts, but the finished product is messy and contradictory and just too damned wordy. It tries at every turn to be insightful, honest, mature and even epic. The problem with all this is that Smith lacks a point &#150; he wants to say there's nothing wrong with being gay, and love is love no matter whether you're male or female, but it's clear that deep inside he is a bit like Banky &#150; homophobic and immature. His decision to turn Alyssa into a mistake, a woman who has been fooled into lesbianism, who is saved by Holden, doesn't make sense. I'm not criticizing the film's motive &#150; if it had one, I'd judge it based on how well it elucidates it. My own point is that Smith doesn't have one &#150; he's wishy-washy, one moment preaching to his audience about the dangers of homophobia, the next moment turning his lesbian into the very stereotype all lesbians must hate the woman who is afraid of men and deep down inside her heart is actually is attracted to them. I was left wondering what Smith was trying to get across to his audience.For what it's worth, my favorite scene from Chasing Amy is when Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Smith himself) show up. Silent Bob's monologue is honest and tender without coming across as being too showy or gushy. Had the entire film matched this one scene, it would be a great deal better. "},{"Title":"'It's not whom you love, but HOW'.(10/10). Review warning Sexually frank themes, spoilers, and frequent allusions to 'hipness'","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy(1997) is really a conventionally structured study in extreme romantic comedies. Despite its cursing, gaybashing humour, and an apparent conclusion about what lesbians need, Amy(1997)'s indie reply to whether love can blossom between gay and straight is definitely 'It's not whom you love --but HOW'.When we meet them, comicbook artists Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) & Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) of Bank Holdup (clever business name) are raking it in, thanks to having recreated the living duo 'Silent' Bob (Kevin Smith) & Jay (Jason Mewes) (from the semi-prequel Mallrats(1995)), as comic heroes Bluntman & Chronic. Actually, Jay and 'Silent' Bob are also raking it in, thanks to likeness rights. Writer/director Kevin Smith now admits that Mallrats(1995) turned out to be 'a $6,000,000-casting-call for Chasing Amy(1997)'.Amy(1997)'s screenplay schools us about the comicbook business 'The big bucks are in d!ck- and fart-jokes'; and audiences are still made up of 'over- or under-weight guys who don't get laid'.Upon meeting lesser-known artistes Hooper-X (Dwight Ewell) and Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams), Holden is instantly and dangerously smitten with Alyssa. Dangerously, because his romantic impulse is oblivious to the fact that Alyssa is gay. In this story the hero might get the girl of his dreams, but he also gets her lifestyle, which easily outstrips them.To our surprise, we discover Affleck's acting chops in this wrenching role. His monologue well deserves its reputation as the most emotionally accurate, best-delivered declaration of love on screen; yet it was Affleck's own nuanced take that extended the diner scene immediately before. He wanted to portray a man deeply in love, just watching his lady eat, because without such buildup his confession would've seemed too left-field.....crumbling its power.As it stands, his monologue has become the movie's emotional cornerstone, allowing Holden to go into meltdown with'-If this is a crush, I don't think I could TAKE the real thing'.Affleck's intensity is more than matched by Joey Adams'. The toughest reactions are all hers, since it's always Alyssa' reputation being impugned. Her 'in-the-zone' portrayal of the unwitting Queen of Suburban Legend qualifies Adams for any of Hollywood's meatiest parts.The funniest scene belongs to Hooper-X (Ewell) and Banky (Jason Lee, in the role he was born for), as they continue their bickering insider's analysis of the 'classics'. Finally, Banky explodes at Hooper 'You're insane; Archie is not f***ing Mr Weatherby!' Hooper's dishonest brainwashing of an innocent child fan isn't nearly so funny. Duping adults for market penetration is one thing; brainwashing kids (with RACISM, no less) is another.....!!!The gleeful peppering of swearwords gives Amy(1997) a charm that amply rewards our charity in overlooking the pepper. Smith's language is, frankly, a lot easier to take than most other directors' love-scenes; until his Miaow Mix night finally degenerates to an unnecessary mess of gratuitous c-words.That aside, Smith deserves great credit for his candor. His sexually frank dialogue is enlivened by so many pop culture references that Amy(1997) is almost too hip. For instance, it's not often that a writer endows his hero with a gloriously embarrassing erection scene.Banky and Holden's 'chemistry' as friends was key to making their constant mutual cursing seem merely stylistic. Since neither is much good in relationships other than with each other, we eventually witness Banky attempt to satisfy his weekend needs with 30x'strokebooks'. Many have taken this as a sign of Banky's 'homosexual panic'.Obviously, no-one has ever come between them before; but since Holden now only emerges from his Alyssa-cocoon to criticise Banky's (defensive) gaybashing, Banky realises he's losing his friend to a more adult life where what one says, and thinks, MATTER. This newfound seriousness is also prompting Holden to reject a 'sellout' TV version of their comic, causing additional financial discord in their business partnership.To Banky, Alyssa is about to snatch his best friend from him with some 'legitimacy', so it's his private self-doubt that leads us down the garden path of 'homosexuality'. And since Holden really loves Alyssa --he's not just looking for 'cool/weird sex'-- Banky is forced to demonise her (in the deleted 'Mata Hari' scene). Banky's resultant 'dirt' reveals Alyssa to be the infamous 'Finger Cuffs' from the 'burbs (cleverly dovetailing into Smith's 'New Jersey Trilogy'). Alyssa's past catches up with her just as she's gotten over it.True love somehow still sparks between the gay/straight couple, albeit with a gathering of stormclouds. Once Holden finally admits his own objections to Alyssa's past, his rejection of her feels like a bodyblow.Her piercing cries are as raw as cinema gets.Finally, capitulating to his useless (ie as an appendix, or an extra hole in the head) male ego, Holden suggests a most 'male' solution to the intimacy-triangle with Banky a threesome, forcing Alyssa once again to heartbreak.Finally Smith should be commended for his restraint at handling the ending. His subtle depiction of tinged regret remains rare in American cinema. While some audiences cheered Alyssa's final decision, Smith's ending doesn't pull too many punches, making Amy(1997) a truly exhausting ride.Disappointingly, much of the movie debate has centered on Banky's alleged 'homosexuality'. Using Occam's Razor, we need only observe his platonic jealousy alone, Banky would never pine for Holden; but pushed, his abiding love melds with his needs.In an utter travesty of their brotherhood, Holden calls this 'attraction', St Elmo's fire. His rush to judgment is unfair to everyone. We all imprint on the people we love, but that's no reason to fear Freud.Hooper is self-servingly wrong.Banky's love of Holden is, instead, person-specific yet gender-irrelevant; every bit as inclusive as Alyssa's. This makes him PICKY, not gay. Doors to identity like love-triangles should always be treated with respect, not cheapened to a 'threesome'. Both Banky and Alyssa deserve better from Holden.Leaving no stone unturned, Chasing Amy(1997) proudly stands as Kevin Smith's probing, veracious, and very personal stake in romantic-comedy turf. It's difficult to see how anyone, including Smith himself, will ever top it.(10/10)  "},{"Title":"One for the bin","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a dreadful film, with a juvenile script and acting to boot. Its a sad thing, when someone tries to be daring, and doesnt pull it off at all, in any way. Few people can use four-letter words and make it sound natural - Kevs project shoves a stake into its Nerd-but-wants-to-be happening-heart when it tries to be cool and matter of fact. I didnt even see it through to the end (was there one ?), I must confess. The flashbacks from being a 15, 16 year old kid again got the best of me, and I decided I´d waddled in enough mush and pretence for the night.  This is not for those who have passed the big 2 0. "},{"Title":"Making it up as he goes along!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is a very self-conscious and ridiculous motion picture. This clichéd film tries so hard to be different and intelligent but in fact is the exact opposite. The direction is pedestrian, ill conceived and uninspired.The casting of a female lead that sounds as if she has been inhaling helium since the age of three must have been a very difficult task for the director and casting department but they succeeded in grandiose style. To take any serious emotion or distress from such a jabbering high-pitched squealing freak of an actress was too much for me! The director seems to have the opinion that he is some sort of artist. Judging by his demeanour and dress sense, on the extras, he is sorely in error. He has no talent at all and can't act either.The story is corny, predictable and unrealistic. How the male lead could come to such a stupid conclusion that a threesome will solve all his problems is excruciating to watch and probably even more so for women. Can an audience have any sympathy with such ignorantly written characters? Obviously this ridiculously dressed idiot posing as a director has not spent enough time in the company of intelligent women or as Monty Python would say He's making it up as he goes along! Don't waste your time with this crap; Watch some films by Takashi Miike and be challenged! "},{"Title":"Very impressive","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I watched this movie for the first time, I thought it was pretty funny, but I was younger so I didn't indulge its craftiness as much as I did on the second viewing just recently.  Kevin Smith is a very talented writer/director who has a knack for offbeat plots and refreshingly original dialogue.  He displays his talent greatly in this offbeat comedy.  One impressive element of Chasing Amy is it contains very little of the standard, soapy, Hollywood-ish romance.  It's very unpredictable, and doesn't contain the ending many would probably suspect.  Of course, we know that Joey Lauren is going to end up in bed with Ben, but there wouldn't be any intrigue or conflict if that didn't happen.  It's what happens afterwards that counts.  The only cliche I spotted was the scene where Ben reveals his love for Joey.  It takes place on a rainy night.  And Joey gets outraged and runs out of the car--IN THE RAIN!!  Hello?  Pneumonia?  You ever thought of that?  I think if it was real life, she would've waited for Ben to drive her back--THEN shout out her feelings and leave.  Other than that, the film approaches the romance genre and lesbianism with sheer originality and (sometimes brutal) honesty.  In the scene where Jason Lee catches Ben in bed with Joey, all we see is his mouth opened wide and his coffee cup dropping to the floor.  None of that melodramatic, confrontational crap we usually see when a character is surprised to catch their friend in bed with someone they don't expect.  Though I often appraise Smith's witty dialogue, his love for dialogue is also a minor flaw.  In some scenes, the characters use so many adjectives and metaphors that it just sounds more written than acted out.  It just doesn't have that flow.  And it's a little unconvincing to have a character use the term f**king c**ksucker over and over again in one scene, and delivering an intelligent monologue full of college-level SAT words in the next.Despite its minor flaws, Chasing Amy is a film like no other.  One that honestly stands alone.  We've seen other films about lesbianism, but this is one to use the subject in a mature (though profane) and non-preachy manner. It doesn't take advantage of any of the stereotypes.  And I like the surprise at the end where the character, who you least expect, delivers a thoughtful monologue that is the defining moment of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Good news guys, lesbians are just normal girls who haven't yet found the right man!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very disappointed by this film and regret wasting tome by watching it to the end in the vain hope that it would improve.Kevin Smith has attempted to make an intelligent, thought provoking romantic comedy.What he has achieved is an unrealistic, naive and frankly insulting parody of relationships.In a nutshell, boy meets lesbian, falls in love, proclaims his feelings towards her, lesbian then realises she loves him after all and they fall into each other's arms, aaahhh! ('Cos we all know that being gay is a 'choice thing'!) They finally part, but no, not because he's barking up the wrong tree but due to trust and jealousy issues.The film is frankly just a male ego fantasy which merely serves to insult the gay community and reinforce the ignorance, prejudice and misapprehensions that those foolish enough to actually see this as plausible have.It's comedy value is very poor, peppered with Kevin Smith's trademark schoolboy level psychology and monotonous pseudo-intellectual conversations. The acting is reminiscent of an amateur dramatic society play with Ben Affleck as wooden as ever playing....well Ben Affleck.I cannot recommend it at any level and the only unpredictable scene was the one in which 'Silent Bob' had something to say!Kevin Smith has embarrassed himself by proving what an insight-less and uninformed man he is. He lacks wisdom, subtlety and understanding of human nature and sexuality and reveals himself to be naive and foolishly ignorant. Like most of his films his stereotypical male perspective is such a cliché... a melting pot of all the WORST, most NEGATIVE attributes, fantasies, characteristics and attitudes of menfolk. He insults men who do not fit these stereotypes and gay people in general.The only people I can imagine appreciating and identifying with his characters are themselves clichés in search of an identity, or 13 to 25 year old boys who are lacking in life experience and derive their knowledge from comic books and PC games. The film is an insult to anyone who has truly lived and loved, or with half a brain. "},{"Title":"Same old, same old, except worse.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Logic, Smith-style (which is to say totally illogical and idiotic)Well, let's see... my best friend is someone I've known for nineteen years, so it appears that I'm way overdue to have a homosexual relationship with him. Is Kevin Smith naive, ignorant, or just plain stupid? Probably all three, but more of the latter. I'm not homosexual, which is okay by me, because if I was, I would probably be in jail for beating up Kevin Smith. His treatment of the mentality of homosexuality is so ignorant and basic, it almost seems malicious. Perhaps he has something against homosexuals, which is why he has decided to make them appear so simple and confused. However, I ascribe to Hanlon's RazorNever attribute to malice that which can be explained by stupidity.Once again, Smith has patronized us all with another trite script that sounds laboriously rehearsed, and the only different thing is ignorant topicality. And trust me, it ain't enough to make it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"there must be something...","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  more painful than listening to joey adams scream (in her obnoxious squeaky voice) at ben affleck (who proves, in this movie and others, that he is the most overpaid actor in america) for almost two hours... rolling around naked in broken glass?  pressing your face onto a red hot stove?  watching this incredibly tedious film more than once is almost as foolish... *obligatory spoiler warning* affleck stars as a comic book author with the charm and personality of plastic novelty vomit, opposite adams who plays the role of a lesbian who (for some inexplicable reason) abandons her alleged sexual orientation when he makes overtures to her.  their relationship waxes and wanes... as if the audience should care about what happens to two thoughtless self-centered idiots... and the resolution is (for lack of a better word) monumentally stupid.  the dialog is, as one might expect in a kevin smith film, fast-paced and eccentric (with characters rattling off elaborate responses to one another in quick succession)... but the lines (particularly those butchered by affleck) usually seem stilted and unnatural rather than humorous.entertainment for kevin smith sycophants and men who cannot get over pubescent lesbian fetishes... (2/10) "},{"Title":"For Metro High School Kids","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holden (Ben Affleck) and Banky (Jason Lee) are two young NYC comic book artists who happen to be bachelor best friends. In their work they interact with all manner of metro hip dudes and dudettes, one of whom is Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), whom they meet at a Black power symposium, lorded over by a gay, Black empowerment dude named Hooper (humorously played by Dwight Ewell). Casual drinks, romantic complications, and massive dialogue ensue.The main problem I have with this film is that Holden and ... Banky (what a kiddie name) are way too preoccupied with sex. Even though they seemingly are in their mid-twenties, they act like pubescent neophytes. Their ongoing arguments about women and sex sound like something out of Porky's (1982). Banky gets all bent out of shape over trivial issues; and he reacts with lots of overwrought behavior. The friendship between Holden and Alyssa seems contrived, to keep the plot moving. Surely, such a good-looking guy as Holden could find an easier and more compatible love interest. And I never could get a handle on the Alyssa character. With such immature people, and with a talky script that contains an overuse of vulgar terms and sexual references, the film comes across as ... juvenile.The film's casting is fine. The three leads are certainly right for their parts. However, I must say that Joey Lauren Adams' high pitched, squealing voice was more than a little distracting. I did not like that funky musical number during the title sequence, or the rapper scene in the second half; some convenience store dude raps along in a monologue that was truly annoying.Chasing Amy tries so hard to be ... hip. Clearly, Director Kevin Smith's target audience is metro high school kids. But for many viewers over the age of seventeen, the story, and its irritating characters, will merely seem puerile. "}{"Title":"Smith's most complete and mature work to date","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is an anomaly in Kevin Smith's filmography because his standard slacker characters are not in similar positions to where they are in most his films, but are in a very confused place, mentally, physically, emotionally, and sexually. They're out of their comfort zone here, overgrown children slowly coming to the realization of what they are and struggling to fully grasp adult life.Kevin Smith's script here is not his absolute best- Clerks is still one of the funniest and most true-to-life comedy scripts I've ever read, but it's a striking piece from a less juvenile, more wistful writer than we're used to. The romance at the core of Chasing Amy is complex and does accomplish a fair bit of depth and detail in examining sexual identity and basic human interaction. This is not a conventional romantic comedy at all, not just because of its outlandish plot, but also because of essentially everything that occurs around the basic plot. It's not even a conventional slacker comedy. I was surprised by how real the drama in much of this film was, which contrasted sharply with the only real flaw in the film, the inclusion of some melodramatic moments towards the end. It's almost impossible to believe that the guy who wrote Mallrats, with its many failed attempts at drama, wrote this film. Smith impresses, perhaps for the first time in his career, with his direction of his actors. Perhaps he was comfortable enough working with these actors at this point to not really have to direct them in any significant way, but the acting here is far better than in Clerks and Mallrats. Ben Affleck may be bland but he is just right for this part. Jason Lee is great as well, displaying a decent amount of range and solid comedic timing.This movie is intelligent, clever, mature (genuinely mature, not mature in a 'I'm above dick and fart jokes' way), and exceptionally well-written. It's exactly the sort of antidote one needs to most romantic comedies9/10 "},{"Title":"Baseless, Arrogant, & Offensive View of Love","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rarely does one see a film that really gets you going. Sometimes, when philosophy is injected into a film and the analysis of the society as a whole, even when you agree with it, it comes out poorly.Other than the bits of philosophy that were attempted to be persuasively thrown into the film, it was an incredible drag of a story that was quite arrogant and boring. The film assumes that anyone who does not think in accordance with it has been brainwashed and a terrific jerk. And above this, the attempts at comedy that were made were no more than attempts that paid off only amongst the immature. Overall, even though I agree with the overall message, the way that it was portrayed was incredibly vain and unnecessarily sharp. The idea of a group of 20 somethings figuring out the world through their genitals is not the basis for a profound film about forgiveness.If you think that there is more to life than people's sexual history and the relationships of immature people, then I would pass this film up. "},{"Title":"Cultish pop smash for young/naive adults","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy tells of a guy (Affleck) who falls in love with a lesbian (Adams). Obviously scripted and staged and marginally acted by wannabee actor/icon Affleck and break-thru' for Adams, Chasing... explores issues of interest to the sexually naive; an assertion supported by the IMDB.com demographic stats. In spite of the fact the characters are shallow and much too glib, the film does manages some heart and tries hard to be human. Over-rated fodder for young adults. "},{"Title":"Not sure who whines more, whatsername or Benny.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Long-winded, painfully air-headed social commentaries make  Chasing Amy extremely tedious.  Ben, as usual, is flat, boring and awful.  And whatsername sounds worse than a whining Mini Mouse.  Overall, an embarrassing waste of time. "},{"Title":"Horrible!!  What is it with guys and lesbians??","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is awful.  It is merely male fantasy lesbianism on display.  I was very disappointed!  Kevin Smith usually writes very intelligent scripts, but this is lesbianism from the view of male titillation.  Amy's character is two dimensional and seems to be able to just change her sexuality at the drop of a hat, because of some poetic rhetoric and the desire of a man. What a joke!!!   If it were so simple, half the world would be gay. "},{"Title":"Gosh it's tough being a sensitive white guy","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Immature, self-serving claptrap.  The celebrated lesbianism is just a gimmick, as the tedious romance could have been played entirely without it -- what really drives the romantical difficulties is Alyssa's former promiscuity, so the whole thing is a feature film about one of those guys who can't deal with the fact that his girlfriend once had other boyfriends. It's a boy's-eye view of a failed relationship, showing how very hard he tried; none of the other characters are really there.  Alyssa's dialogue in particular seems to have been abstracted from some new-agey sociology textbook.  Affleck spends most of the picture looking astonished. "},{"Title":"hopefully i save you from watch this movie","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, so far I've seen mallrats, clerks, and jay and silent bob strike back as well as this movie and this is by far the worst one I've seen. I think I laughed TOPS once or twice throughout the ENTIRE thing! Wow it was awful. And the scenes were PAINFULLY cliché attempts at being romantic. I mean I've seen good movies that weren't comedies that were based on romance, and I've seen good movies that had both romance and comedy. This one was not good at EITHER of them, sooooooooooo boring to watch I was waiting for it to end so I can watch dogma already and then clerks 2. Seriously, the director was awful at making this movies. Also personally I find the actor that plays alyssa jones' voice annoying, and I find her to be a particularly annoying actor in general.The director tried to make this movie wise and romantic and what came out as a result was garbage. I mean literally, trash.This movie and also little miss sunshine and the hunger games seriously lead me to question some of the ratings on this website. Because all 3 of those movies were more or less garbage. I guess there's some movies some people find they hate, in opposition to the general consensus.And also what surprises me is that movies such as bruce almighty and pineapple express and i love you man are rated so low, (and so many others that I won't get in to) undeservingly. There are some ratings I agree with, but just a lot totally shock me.Well that's my opinion, this movie sucks. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear God","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No one in their right mind knows how much I love this movie. It will open the eyes of people around to help them realize that there has to be some tolerance in the world. I absolutely was overjoyed when I finished watching the movie the first time. Of course, seeing that kind of love die away was hard because it's like real life. Movies are meant to be a way to get out of life in itself. Reality is not what people want to see when they watch movies of any kind. Chasing Amy is the exception to the rule. It has an aura about it that just screams reality. You know something like that could happen in real life. It's amazing. I just can't get over the movie in itself. It's just awesome. I would like to thank Kevin Smith for coming up with this trilogy. Mallrats and Chasing Amy are a lot alike, but I haven't seen the third one that I know. The comic relief in both of those movies have to be the best in the business. "},{"Title":"Affleck and Lee squabble over a lesbian","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is the third, and arguably weakest, of Kevin Smith's series of 'Askewniverse' movies, and is quite a departure from his first two offerings, Clerks & Mallrats. The trademark snappy wit and dialogue is still there, as are the buddy in-joking and the obligatory appearance of Jay & Silent Bob, but the more serious subject matter makes this a more personal film for Smith. When Holden (Affleck) falls for lesbian Alyssa (Adams), his relationship, both with her and with his best friend Banky (Lee) change irrevocably. Falling somewhere in between drama and comedy, but never quite reaching either, the story is a good one, but you can't help but feel it would've received better treatment in the hands of a more accomplished film-maker, perhaps someone who doesn't just cast his friends in the lead roles, although the three leads all deliver satisfactory performances. The dialogue often feels a little forced and produces some uncomfortable scenes, and as a result, when things go belly up for the characters, it's hard to feel any sympathy for anyone but Banky. There are some truly funny moments, usually courtesy of Jason Lee and this is an enjoyable enough movie, but the story kind of just fizzles out and may leave you feeling a little jipped. "},{"Title":"Sometimes gems can be found in the most unexpected places.","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes a micro-budget, tiny romantic comedy can be suddenly miles ahead of the biggest ones. Chasing Amy is one of those little ones, a romantic comedy-drama that contains some deep insight on how people look at sexual preferences. The plot Holden Mcneil (Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) find their friendship spiraling downwards when Holden falls in love with lesbian Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams). This is the third film directed by Kevin Smith and so far his most dramatic one. Although it is a comedy, it contains scenes that are so real and so powerful that they will leave the viewer (in this case, me) stunned. This movie contains what I think is possibly Ben Affleck's best performance in his entire career. There are scenes where he seems to just flow naturally. Another best-performance-of-their-career in this film is Jason Lee who flawlessly shifts from hilariously funny to seriously dramatic. And, last but not least, Joey Lauren Adams is fabulous as Alyssa Jones, the hurricane that Holden and Banky are swept up in. These three people appeared in Mallrats, but their roles were did not have much depth (although Lee completely stole the show from the star). Here, though, all three of them get to broaden their acting range and make their characters three-dimensional and completely believable under the excellent directing talent of Kevin Smith. After the failure of the higher-budgeted Mallrats, Smith decided to make a film closer to him. This film balances comedy and drama perfectly; some high points of drama here includes a scene where Holden confesses his love to Alyssa in a car and a scene during and after a hockey game. The comedy includes the hilarious Lee with his witty, unmatchable dialogue delivery and a scene with Jay and Silent Bob which is, although their shortest appearance in a View Askew movie, one of their funniest. The dialogue here is, like all Smith's movies, laugh-out-loud-funny (Intergalactic Civil War?) to subtly weird (In one scene, Alyssa Jones mentions that she once had a relationship with Gwen Turner, who she, uh, kind of played in Mallrats). This movie, in a way, is a step down from Mallrats and a step up from Mallrats. It also paves the way for the just-as-good Dogma. Just keep 'em coming, Smith. Keep 'em coming.  "}{"Title":"now that my friend is a shared moment","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS This is the third movie in Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse about Two comic book artists named Holden Mcneil and Banky Edwards (played by returning cast mates from Mallrats Ben Affleck and Jason Lee). All is when in their business the comic ''Bluntman and Chronic''starring JAY AND SILENT BOB until holden meets and falls in love with Alyssa Jones (played very well by Joey Luaren Adams) a confirmed lesbian. Holden and Alyssa relationship is going great until Banky digs up dirt on her past and finds that her homosexuality may not be true and the movies final emotional moments are some of the best dialog/performances in the 1990sInteresting postscript to that story silent bob has more lines than jay  "},{"Title":"Most definitely worth it.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Plot Outline Holden MacNeil and Banky Edwards write comics (Banky is a 'tracer', although he'll kick your ass if you call him that), through a mutual friend, who makes a hilarious speech about black comic book heroes, they're introduced to Alyssa, you'll have to forgive me if I call her Amy... because I might. Holden falls in love soon, but finds out she is a lesbian. (Spoiler alert) For some reason, she throws away her previous sexuality and begins a relationship with Holden. What hilarious chaos will ensue? Watch the damn movie.Rating 10/10Review Okay, this movie deserved a ten from me on Jason Lee (Banky)'s performance alone. I'm not kidding. Plus, I didn't despise Ben Affleck, which is rare, my friends. Kevin Smith is an incredibly talented writer/director, and he didn't overdo Jay and Silent Bob usage, like he did in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I guess what I like about this film is that it was the perfect balance between hilariously crude movies (à la Clerks) and way, way over the top and manufactured (à la Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back). Along with Dogma, I'd call this Kevin Smith at his best. A must-see for anyone not lacking a sense of humor or can stand... graphic language. And Joey Lauren Adams's voice. (One of the few bad things about this movie)Best Performance Jason Lee, without a doubt.  "},{"Title":"A Shared Moment","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would have to say out of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma, and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Chasing Amy is the strongest film.  To me, it's the most in depth film.  It seems to be the most personal.  And even though the jokes are more spread out compared to the other films, they are still hilarious with perfect timing.  In one of his best performances, Ben Affleck manages to portray someone being tortured by a love he can't have.  And although the ending is sad, its realistic and powerful.  Smith has succeeded in creating a powerful movie and out of all his films, this will remain his best.  Although Jersey Girl was just as good, Chasing Amy was a little more original.   "},{"Title":"casting couch gone awry again","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a pretty good film for a first time filmmaker...until I learned it was Kevin Smith's fourth film (three features and a documentary). It continually astonishes me to learn how many of my college back in the day friends liked this film.  The preoccupation with lesbians is something that most men grow out of, say, by the 8th or 9th grade, unless they suffer some sort of arrested development.  And what is it with Joey Lauren Adams squeaky voice and the constant use of soft focus with her closeups?  I guess there is something to be said for having a relationship with the director.  Either the publicity poster for the film was heavily doctored, or Adams went off her Ritalin regimen, but she looks awful in the film.  Don't even get me started on Affleck, see my review for Pearl Harbor.  He is a very irritating performer who is clearly in love with the sound of his own voice.  The only bright spot in the film is Jason Lee, who I could watch in just about anything, he's one of the brightest new talents to come along in cinema since Johnny Depp had his breakthrough with Edward Scissorhands. "},{"Title":"A Multi-Level Classic","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most everyone should know the plot from reading the summary, but just in case, here's the story Holden and Banky have been best friends for 20+ years, having known each other since grade school.  They now work together on a comic book called Bluntman and Chronic, which is basically Jay and Silent Bob as superheroes (Note It's probably best that you've seen Clerks and Mallrats beforehand, as this is the third in his interconnected Askewniverse series, which refers to characters, places, and events throughout each film and has the one constant of Jay and Bob in it.)  One night, Holden falls in love with Alyssa Jones while playing darts after a comicon.  The next night, he goes to see her and finds out she's a lesbian. However, they become friends and and he soon enough falls in love with her, and they start a relationship, much to Banky's disgust, throwing their friendship into the trash.This film not only is a great story and a meaningful message about friendship, love, and accepting the past, but an allegory for the years before he made this movie.  Notice how Bluntman And Chronic is a hit but critically slammed (in the DVD special features of deleted scenes), just like Mallrats was.  Also, Alyssa is (literally and figuratively) Joey Lauren Adams, Smith's girlfriend at the time who he broke up with over her past. Holden writes the comic in the end as an apology to her, just like Smith made the movie as an apology/Valentine to Joey.  All the characters are him on some level.This movie rocks.  Skip renting the video and buy Criterion's awesome DVD, with deleted scenes, an awesome commentary track, and much more "},{"Title":"Great Movie disappointed by ending","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy was a great Film by one of the most unheralded  directors of the new generation of Film Kevin Smith.  Besides the fact that it has the lovely Joey Lauren Adams cast as the lead it tackles one the issue of falling for a homosexual.  This I think happens very frequently from what I have seen and experienced. Kevin Smith's story and script was excellent.  I had no objection to the whole movie but I would have liked to have seen more of a resolution between Alyssa and Holden besides him giving a the comic entitled 'Chasing Amy' a term coined by Silent Bob in the coffee house.  It provided the viewer with a open mind to determine the fate of Alyssa and Holden.  While I felt that I wanted more concrete proof that they would get back together in the end because I felt that they were just perfect for each other. Who knows what will happen to them both when it's such a touchy subject.  In the end I thought the movie was great but I felt that it needed more resolution between Holden and Alyssa. "},{"Title":"Two's company, three's a crowd!","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What isn't there about Chasing Amy that anyone couldn't like? It is filled with great characters, who seemed real (more real than some people I know). The main character, Holden McNeil, is the person who holds the film together with his problem. Banky is the trusty companion who watches Holden's back. Then there is Alyssa, who seems to break Banky's world apart. They say that two's company, three's a crowd. This is what the film is based on.The great thing about Chasing Amy, apart from the brilliant acting, is the great humor. And it manages to hold both a comedy genre as well as a drama. There are some superb lines in this movie, delivered from the whole cast. The drama scenes are done to perfection. The scene outside the hockey arena is a standout! Even though the whole film is filled with excellent scenes. The camera work is the only let down of the movie but in no way does it affect the feel of the movie in fact it adds to the realism of the situation. Kevin Smith sure does deliver with this top film, it passes Clerks to be the best of the trilogy. All I can say is that this is one film not to be missed!!! "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well done! "},{"Title":"The best Kevin Smith movie yet the most atypical one?","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is far from your traditional romantic comedy in almost every possible way. It's actually hard to describe why without spoiling it. It's also my favorite Kevin Smith's movie but it's also the one that is the least like his other works despite the appearance of Jay and Silent Bob. The writing is wonderfully sharp, sounds true and is full of insights. The dialogs while being witty most of the time sound honest and heart-felt when needed. The characters seem three-dimensional and believable (except perhaps for Jay as usual) and they are very well played. Even Ben Afleck is actually subtle and decent in this one. The lead actress, Joey Lauren Adams, plays a totally delightful charming complex character. I do not understand why she didn't become a superstar after this role. Some might say it's because of her unconventional voice but personally I love it.An highlight for me was one of the most beautiful sincere declarations of love I've ever heard but I won't say which characters are involved. Being a closet nerd, I enjoyed the comic book references and probably found them more amusing than most although the movie is not particularly funny. I rate it so highly mostly because of the writing, the performances and the emotional resonance, not because it's extremely original or visually striking. In closing, if you've got lesbian,gay or bi friends (or you're one yourself) you should watch this movie even more as it will provoke some interesting discussions.Rating 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Some people spend their whole lives doing it, so if ya catch up, then you gotta hold on...","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy. Chasing the one who got away. Chasing the one person you've built up to mythical proportions in your head since the day you put yourself out there and wrecked it all. Whether you're a man or a woman running down that track, then it hurts; it's really painful. So if you ever find yourself lucky enough to be beating the odds by covering the distance, then don't let the special one in your life slip through your grasp. Who would have thought after the juvenile but hilarious body-part jokes of Clerks and Mallrats that such a mature and touching message would be relayed by Kevin Smith? Well, with Chasing Amy he did it, and I identify with his young adults and their relationship issues to my very core, so I have to say thanks.It isn't just about people of differing sexes and orientations, either. It also deals with the strong emotional ties that can exist between two male friends when a prospective new partner for one of them shows up on the scene. You can share different things with your buddies than you can with the one you love, but will the time come when you have to sacrifice one source of support for the other? These are difficult choices to mull over in a confused and churning mind. Smith shows well the resentment that can break out when passionate observers start to feel neglected as the focus shifts away from them.All of this serious stuff may have some folk worried and yearning for the zinging one-liners, but fear not, they are cut loose at the appropriate moments, too. It just so happens that this time it's the heartbreaking moments that give me personally a jolt, but don't be fooled into expecting a full-on drama, because there are still plenty of laughs here.Both Smith's writing and his need to say something important beautifully blossomed together at the perfect time, all in one film. One particular monologue from Ben Affleck's character Holden just strikes me as being absolutely impeccably phrased, right down to the smallest detail.Kev, you finally had something personal to say, and in the process created something that's become a touchstone for hordes of people. I salute you for it, man. Chasing Amy is good enough to be regarded as a significant achievement in anyone's career. There may be some KS fans out there who did not care for Jersey Girl, but they should not soon forget that he already gave us this fine piece of work, which should be treasured always. "}{"Title":"Perfect 10","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first VIEW ASKEW film I ever saw, and I didn't watch it till 1999 or 2000. I loved it then, and having re-rented it the other day, it is without a doubt, Kevin Smith's finest work to date.I haven't seen JERSEY GIRL yet, so I may have to change my opinion someday. However, right now, CHASING AMY is the creme de la creme. It's smart, hilarious, romantic and incredibly touching, thanks to a beautiful performance by Ben Affleck. I was mad at him for years for moving on to crap like REINDEER GAMES and the astroid flick, but when I watched Amy the other day, I remembered that he's not only really pretty to look at, he's a great actor, capable of making you hurt for him inside when Holden is all out of sorts!!! Jason Lee is superb as the angry, jealous (for one reason or another) best bud who deliberately digs up the dirt on Alyssa just to break the two up, brat!!! And of course Jay and Silent Bob make an appearance and dish out their best advice.It's a rare romantic comedy, a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Disheartened","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tonight I watched Chasing Amy for the first time in about 4 or 5 years and realized that it's really a cheesy, cliché, predictable movie.I almost wish that I hadn't seen it again, because I remembered it as a good piece of film that was really deep and meaningful, well put together and tightly written. In actuality, aside from the self-serving in-jokes (which, as a fan of the Jersey Trilogy, I still greatly appreciate) there's really not much to it. It's the typical romantic comedy type story with a twist of gayness and comic books.The point is Mallrats will always be better, Clerks will always be best, and Dogma will always be the one with Chris Rock. (also, Rick Derris will always be a jerk and there will be a member of the Hicks clan around ever corner.)  "},{"Title":"I may have enjoyed this film... if I lived in Jersey","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing AmyHolden is caught up in the classic love predicament of guy loves girl, girl is a lesbian, guy gets girl although she's a lesbian, guy loses girl, and then guy ends up with guy and girl.Holden and his pal Banky are two comic book artists living in Jersey whose careers are about to take off, despite the fact all Banky does is trace. Everything is going great for the two friends until Holden meets Alyssa, a beautiful and talented woman who also creates comic books. Holden knows that Alyssa is perfect for him, except for the minute detail of her being a lesbian. Despite this draw back, Holden pursues Alyssa until she finally agrees to give in and begins dating him, much to the dismay of Banky, who seriously dislikes Alyssa, and believes his friend's relationship with a lesbian to be doomed from the start. For a while Holden and Alyssa beat the odds as their dating turns into a commitment, one that Holden is more than happy to make. But when Holden discovers some skeletons in Alyssa's closet everything comes crashing down, leaving the two questioning what they mean to each other and if they really do accept whom one another really is.Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams star in Chasing Amy, Kevin Smith's third film about life in New Jersey. Affleck displays a lot of emotion as Holden, a man, who like most, continues to chase something he can't seem to have. Adams shows a lot of spunk in this film, going from wild lesbian, to emotional heterosexual. Such transitions in character would be hard for any actress to pull off. She should be proud of herself for acting so well after not acting at all in Dazed and Confused. The last member of the trio, Lee, is fantastic as the cynical Banky, a person who just can't seem to think of one positive thing to say. Lee has real on-screen charisma and can really be a big star one day if he diversifies his roles, or finds his niche. Although not a star of the film, I'm going to mention Jason Mewes who turns in another hilarious performance as the town hood and comic book hero Jay. Mewes' one-liners are almost always Smith film highlights. Now with the end of my last sentence ends almost every good word I have about this film.Chasing Amy creator Kevin Smith should be at home smacking his head against the wall for coming up with such an unoriginal, wannabe hip, piece of drivel that really seems to be more of a public service announcement from the gay community than it is a love story. He makes a love story with completely unappealing characters. Complex yes, appealing no. How can I give a film about love any validity when the characters don't display any real love? They may come to understand one another better, but I don't actually see any love. As far as Smith's writing goes, I can say that his dialogue does have some real moments, but for the most part he just seems to hide behind the fact that homosexuality is becoming hip in pop culture. Mind you his writing may be better than his delivery, I believe that his Silent Bob character should actually be silent. Smith does however accomplish something that not a lot of filmmakers in Hollywood can, he surprised me. He takes in what in my opinion is a stinker, and adds some extra stink by giving it one of the most absurd endings I have ever had the displeasure of viewing. I actually felt less intelligent after watching this film's ending. Producer Scott Mosier is just as guilty as Smith for this film-making travesty because he just sat back and let Smith take control, when half way through filming he should have told Smith that he had run out of ideas and that maybe someone else should finish the film, or they should just cut their losses and use the film as spare ribbons for Christmas and birthday gifts.After Mallrats I thought Kevin Smith was starting to grasp what elements are needed to make a film entertaining, apparently he proved me wrong. So if you're the kind of person who chases down every movie they hear is good in hopes of being entertained, I advise you to stop before what your doing becomes a problem and you resort to Chasing Amy.Overall Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sorry, but this movie really sucks!","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A friend of mine once suggested the movie to me. Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Kevin Smith... no problem, I thought. I like this guys, although Dogma really annoyed me by watching it for a third time ( - and I'll never watch it again). But I followed my homey's recommendation and got myself in front of the screen, watching Chasing Amy. After this torture I told him, that I've never watched such an strenuous movie ever. Don't get me wrong. The acting's alright. But the boring and unnecessary complicated storyline and the role of the female problem - Amy, really made me angry for about the whole length of this movie. By the way How could a smart-ass like the role of Affleck fell in love witch such an super-boring, super-catchy girl like Amy? No no no, I still annoys me so badly, though I've been watching it some years ago... no no no! "},{"Title":"People Change, you know...","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll cut right to the chase. (SPOILER, BEWARE!). He tells her he's in love with her, adds a cute smile and some really emotional sentiments, and poof! Magic. Years of building her sexual identity, trying everything (yech, that finger cuffs story was awful, and certainly didn't need repeating), and finally defining herself as a lesbian, all vanish into thin air, just because he get's her and she got to this relationship on her own terms? I don't buy it. It's insulting. I'm straight and I was offended in the name of all gay people. Don't watch this movie if you're into to gay films. Don't watch it if you're into romance. Don't even watch it if you're into comics. Watch it only if you're into Ben Afleck, or perhaps if you're really into Rene Zellweger and you already saw all her movies. Joey Lauren Adams certainly looks and talks like her. Especially in those scenes where she mumbles at the top of her squeaky voice while sobbing on Ben's shoulder. "},{"Title":"My hatred of this film","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I purchased this film after seeing Kevin Smiths other 4 films and loving them I thought I would love this. I watched this film and I thought that the talent of Jason Lee an amazingly funny man was wasted. This film is just a long gay/lesbian joke. Ben Aflek's performance is wooden (as usual) and Kevin's best characters (Jay and Silent Bob) are in one scene and then the appearance is wasted there is hardly any comedy there. This is the worst film I have ever seen, I sat through it in the hope that it would improve but sadly it didn't. I know a lot of people love this film and my views are controversial, but watch Kevin's other films (Clerks, Mallrats, Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob Strike back) and you will see why Chasing Amy is such a Disappointing film "},{"Title":"Reinforcing every heterosexual man's misguided ideas about lesbians","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Horrible movie that reinforces the heterosexual male's belief that every lesbian can be straight if she just meets the right man.  I can't believe this has an overall rating of 7.8    Haven't the users of this website seen any movies that really deserve a rating this high??   This movie is ranked only slightly lower than Gone With the Wind.  5 years from now, no one will remember this.  Do yourself a favour, avoid this at all cost.  "},{"Title":"A story I don't care about, with people I don't about in it","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a male fantasy woman, it is what I call the virgin slut. It is a woman who has never had sex with a man before who would love to have sex right away with them. Amy is a variation. She is a lesbian slut. She has had a lot of sex, but she says she has never with a man...so she is the ultimate fantasy woman in this movie.This is why so many young guys love this movie, it has a variation on the ultimate male fantasy (that few men would even admit to themselves, because this fantasy is so illogical).Basically the movie is full of people I wouldn't want to hang out with in real life, so why would I want to watch them on the screen. It is popular with people who want to be boring obnoxious, pretentious nobs.Watch it and enjoy it if you are one....otherwise entertain yourself by putting a raw steak down your pants and go dancing with a pack of hungry dogs. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best film to date.","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's very well made. In fact it's kind of a refreshing take on the drama/romance/comedy genre. This film is more than a romantic comedy. On the surface that's what it may seem, but it's not. It has more substance and more dynamic angles to the whole concept of love, friendships, curiosity, and loyalty. Ben Affleck portrays Holden, he and his friend Banky(Jason Lee) are the comic-book writer, artist, and inker duo of Bluntman and Chronic. Holden is attracted to Alyssa(Joey Lauren Adams) also a comic-book artist, and falls for her hard. Only to later find out that she is a lesbian, which crushes him. Even though they maintain a decent friendship, he still harbors feelings for her, and surprisingly she does as well. This in turn causes some negative reaction to their peers and possibly to themselves. In doing so they ask themselves Can they have relationship with her past being such a huge burden? What kind of sacrifices will have to be made? The film explores all these concepts. I like movies, but I can't recall, and correct me if I'm wrong, if there is another movie with a similar concept prior to Chasing Amy. With that being said, like I said in the beginning of this review, I think this movie really pulled a 360 on the whole genre. It was definitely something new. The three primary leads are great. Affleck and Lee bounce off each other so well in the beginning and it becomes a little upsetting to see them bicker at each other when Joey Lauren Adams's character Alyssa gets in the way of their friendship. Speaking of Alyssa, Lauren Adams is great in the role. She is very cheeky and provides some levity in the film. Smith allows these characters to grow which allows us as the audience to care about them. He writes these characters realistically as possible and I like how he didn't fall under almost any clichés in this film. As always Kevin Smith provides lots of sharp and funny dialogue. But this film was something radically different compared to Clerks and Mallrats. Almost all the time Chasing Amy balances out the crude and mean spirited humor and a tender romance extremely well, and it doesn't feel out of place. Strangely it's actually a nice combination between the two. What I also loved seeing was the appearance of Jay and Silent Bob, who for the most of the time whenever they appear in other films are they for some fun gags and humor. This time around, Silent Bob speaks some wisdom out of his mind. He gives out a thoughtful speech about love and relationships all in a matter of minutes to Holden that explains the film's title. Chasing Amy proves Smith is a very capable writer and director. I enjoy Kevin Smith films, but this film is something else. It's so much more and it only suggests that Smith could do so much more if he pushed himself a bit further. 9.3/10 "},{"Title":"Was it worth the 'Chase?'","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember going to see Chasing Amy opening weekend back in 1997. I also remember Mirimax advertising it like another Kevin Smith comedy-except this time receiving critical acclaim. Which I have to say makes one of the most overrated movies ever next to Shakespeare In Love. There are some great moments thanks to his classic raunchy comic timing in well written (thanks to Smith)scenes-but not enough of them. The hero of the film Holden (well played by Affleck) falls for the attractive Amy (Joey Lauren Adams)who happens to be bi-sexual. This was and is a delicate subject matter or maybe it just was at the time- however this is the problem the film faces. When it comes to the romantic mishaps with the Amy character on top of her bi-sexuality it becomes what Holden can't handle. I think Holden would've approached it much better than his resolution at the film's climax involving a weird threesome offer. I believe everyone who is a Kevin Smith fan should try watching it once and see what you get from it. At least Jay & Silent Bob have one of the greatest scenes in the film. "}{"Title":"Psychological motivation of characters ? Forget it....","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm gonna start with a good thing, namely the acting- the characters were interestingly played. But the story itself was so abstract that I thought i was watching aliens that never had a contact with human life. And this caused that it was impossible to identify with the story as a whole. If it conveys anything it is still shallow and not explored enough. The choices of characters are immature and they feel artificial. The occasional pompous style makes it laughable when it tries to rise this totally NOT universal story to a universal level. Even though the plot was about not adjusting to normal standards, in fact it was full of well known schemes, that ultimately make Chasing Amy a simple romantic story which tries to reach a deep meaning but fails and achieves chaotic something... "},{"Title":"should have been thought out a bit better","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I love Clerks and Clerks 2, Dogma and Strike Back were decent, and I had fairly high hopes for this one as well.Well, with the majority of it, I was quite impressed.......and found the movie quite interesting........essentially Alyssa, who is/was a lesbian.....IMO, hadn't necessarily been a lesbian.....but never found what she wanted in guys, so in turn looked for that something in girls, and still didn't find what she was looking for until she met Holden now, it all turned to crud when the finger-cuff story came up.....everything after that essentially sucked horribly.....basically Alyssa had sex with two guys two years ago, and for some odd reason Holden was appalled with this, and thought that to fix it, him, his friend, and Alyssa should a threesome.........now who in their right mind would come to that idiotic conclusion?.......and apparently holden's best friend was gay, although i still fail to see the logic in that conclusion if it was thought out better, it could have easily been a great movie, but Kevin smith must have been high from the point of fingercuffs till the end so in conclusion, the end of it essentially ruins the whole movie, and i am quite disappointed "},{"Title":"An unconventional romantic comedy.","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy tells the story of two comic book artists who have created a hit comic book called Bluntman and Chronic, based off of Jay and Silent Bob. One of them falls in love with a fellow comic book artist who turns out to be a lesbian. Throughout the film he pines for her, much to the dismay of his friend. This isn't the usual Kevin Smith View Askew film, but it's still highly enjoyable.Kevin Smith had already proved he could make an intelligent comedy with Clerks, as well as a slapstick comedy with Mallrats. Now he proves he can make a romantic comedy with his own unique spin. All of his styles are still there. Comic books, Star Wars, etc. Only this time he adds a relationship. But this isn't your usual romantic comedy. This isn't awkward teenage boy tries to get the girl of his dreams, but instead ends up with the geeky girl that's liked him all along. No, this is the story of a successful comic book artist that unwillingly falls for a lesbian, and tries his best to win her, though the odds are against him. A romantic comedy with Smith's great style is a romantic comedy worth seeing. The story is good, the dialogue is great. My only problem with this movie was that it wasn't as much fun as Mallrats. However, it was more fun than Clerks, at least in my opinion.The acting was pretty good. Joey Lauren Adams was good in her role, though her voice was a little annoying. Ben Affleck was very good, and Jason Lee was hilarious.Overall, this is a very good movie for anyone that wants to see a different kind of romantic comedy, but if you're looking for a Mallrats/Jay and Silent Bob type film, this isn't it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Why you should see this movie","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay. First, let me point out that I am a Kevin Smith fan, and am very much a fanboy like Smith himself. Now, with that being said...This is Kevin Smith's first attempt at serious, grown-up issues. Before Dogma and Jersey Girl, there was Chasing Amy. He honed his writing craft with this movie. He relies less on his self-proclaimed, D**k and Fart jokes, and actually has the actors communicating like adults. The ending is coherent and plausible, but still seems like it was added in because Smith couldn't think of any other way to end it. But this movie has it all, whether you're a View Askew fan, or not (including Kevin Smith's famous F**k DVD quote on the DVD commentary, held over from the Laserdisc Edition).Give this one a look. He finally had something personal to say. "},{"Title":"A more mature Kevin Smith...","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie really surprised me. Very rarely have I ever been affected on an emotional level, and I never saw it coming from a Kevin Smith film. I'll admit, Chasing Amy had me choked up at a few points. I think it is because I saw some aspects of the relationship between Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) and Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams) in my own past relationships.Chasing Amy is about comic book artist Holden falling in love with a fellow artist, who happens to be a lesbian. This movie has a completely different feel than Clerks or Mallrats. This film seems a lot more emotionally mature. It doesn't run along purely on dirty jokes; it tugs at the heart of those who have had similar problems in their relationships.Once again, Affleck and Jason Lee (playing Holden's partner/inker Banky Edwards) give awesome performances, showing that they can play more serious comedic roles. Affleck and Adams show great screen chemistry, which makes their pain that much more realistic and personal for the audience.Of course, a Kevin Smith movie wouldn't be complete without a visit from Jay & Silent Bob, albeit a brief one. This movie has something for nearly everyone, racy comedy with romantic tones. "},{"Title":"Smith's best work to date.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admire Kevin Smith as a filmmaker. He has managed to produce so many different kinds of projects and still keep his own touches in the mix. Chasing Amy is by far his most touching and genuine film. I have never gone through the same situation as Holden and the rest of the gang, but it just all feels so real. Add to that the unique dialogue that is the best thing in all of Smith's films and we have a real pearl of a movie. I love the performances of the entire cast, but the mighty Jason Lee deserves a special thumbs-up. He is hilarious. A comedic genius. Chasing Amy also gives us some unforgettable classic scenes, like the speech Hooper-X gives at the convention. Pure cinematic fun at it's best.. What's a nubian? -Shut the f*ck up!. See this film. Now!***** / *****  "},{"Title":"Striking unique and wonderful!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well....What can I say, you made it again Kevin! After unsuccessful Flick Mallrats(which I liked it anyway) Kevin back to his form with his NJ saga Chasing Amy. The cast of the film is absolutely real and original, I've never see Ben play that great, Lee also hit the right note for Ben's best pal. Someone said that they can't take that kind of the ending,But I think that's the best ending in years. Good job Kevin! (10/10)  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best film (so far)","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CHASING AMY (1997) **** Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Lee, Dwight Ewell, Jason Mewes, Matt Damon (Cameo).  Instant classic comedy with raunchy, frank and all too real dialogue highlighting this surprisingly piercing romance between comic book artists - one straight the other a lesbian - who fall in love despite the odds and the evens.  Affleck balances nicely from fairly liberal to regular guy /jerk as well as Lee as his slightly homophobic, obnoxious best bud who can't figure out what the hell is going on.  But it is Adams who displays some pure naked emotional acting as she tries to cope with her overwhelming decisions.  Superlative screenplay by filmmaker Kevin Smith (who reprises his `Silent Bob' character and provides insight to the film's title).  One of the best films ever made about relationships, sex and love (not necessarily in that order). "},{"Title":"great fun, with a lot to say","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Romatic comedies are a dime a dozen - normally formulaic, forgettable stuff that really smacks of pointlessness (see recent examples like Two Weeks Notice, How To Lose A Guy In 10 Days), but this is a gem. Smith uses his trademark wit and natural storytelling ability to give us a tale of a unique relationship which you won't forget in a hurry. The three lead actors are great, with Jason Lee doing his usual scene-stealing stuff and Affleck better than ever. Except maybe Good Will Hunting...anyway, this has a lot to say about relationships and love, as well as being at times laugh-out-loud funny. It's just a shame that Smith decided to go a bit silly with the two movies that followed, but this is something to treasure. "},{"Title":"The best romantic-comedy ever made!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Kevin Smith's second best film (out of 5). This is an excellent movie! The directing is magnificent, the writing is wonderful, the acting is extraordinary, it is safe to say this will go down in history as a classic. Supurb performances given by Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams, and surprisingly, Ben Affleck. Personally, I think Ben Affleck is not that good of an actor, but in Kevin Smith's films he really shines. He is also great in Dogma, and gives a little, but memorable performance as the notorious, mean, Shannon in Mallrats. The story is about a comic book artist (Ben Affleck) and his tracer (Jason Lee) who likes to think of himself as an inker. Everyone takes him for a tracer, and he gets very irritated and angry. It's actually quite comical. Anyway, he falls inlove with a girl (Joey Lauren Adams), but she cannot be with him, because she roots for the different team! Get it? Anyway, he becomes her friend, and can't fight off his love for her, and Jason Lee hates that, and is strongly against their relationship. The only downside to this movie is that the comic duo, Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) have the shortest part they have ever had in any of Kevin Smith's movies. Though, Kevin Smith gives a very surprisingly long speech to Ben Affleck's character explaining to him, once you find the woman you love, never let her go! This extremly long speech (not really that long, but long for Silent Bob because he only says really one or two lines per movie, hence the name Silent Bob) is suprisingly very intelectual leaving viewers thinking Silent Bob is much more intelligent than he appears to be, and too smart to hang out with stoner, bonehead Jay. Silent Bob has as much or has more lines than big-mouth Jay. This is a really excellent movie, but doesn't live up to standard of Clerks.. That is kind of unfortunate, but maybe one of Kevin Smith's future movies such as Fletch Won and Jersey Girl will. I wouldn't bet my money on Jersey Girl because it is starring obnoxious Jennifer Lopez (or J-Lo as she stupidly likes to call herself). I would highly recommend this to anybody looking for a good, funny and very twisted piece of cinema. See it now! Grade A- "}{"Title":"My favorite movie.  It's not who you love, it's how.","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie and it is the perfect movie for anyone who has ever been in a weird relationship.  If you can get past the filth and the swearing, there really is a great movie here.  Also, I love it since I am a long time comic book fan. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Much has already been written about this film so i'll keep it brief. This is Kevin Smith's masterpiece - more serious than Clerks or Mallrats, funnier than Dogma, and far more intelligent than Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Afleck and Joey Lawernce Adams turn in great performances (the scene with Afleck and Adams in the car is simply amazing). Jason  Lee also brings a strong performance. It raises questions about sexuality that many are afraid to ask. "},{"Title":"Do you love Dialogue? Don't mind profanity? This is it!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie- everything the charactors say are things my friends and I would say if we were a bit smarter & funnier (but we are able to be as profane, thank you).  I adore Jason Lee, will watch him in basically anything, is deliver really works for me.  I also think Ben Afflack is great, I think this is just an example of his interesting a brave choices, he doesn't just pick the independent flicks, or just the big flicks, hell even his art films aren't paticularly arty, just watch him to the cabbage patch, it isn't pretty!   "},{"Title":"My favorite movie.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As with the rest of the movies in the View Askewniverse, this is a study in psychology and sociology, yet you don't even need to have an IQ of 80 to understand it.  Yeah, it's funny as hell, and I don't think I really need to comment on that.  I believe the movie gives us all quite a bit of insight into our own behavior, and, for that, I thank the creators.  Joey Lauren Adams is by far the best actress I've ever seen.  Aside from how cute she was throughout the movie, there were two scenes where she reduced me to tears like I've never shed over any movie.  Kudos to Kevin Smith for the excellent writing, and to everyone else involved in bringing the pride of my DVD collection to us viewers.  This movie has a great deal to say, and should be seen, at least five times, by anyone who thinks rain is wet. "},{"Title":"Smith's best film","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, by far, Kevin Smith's best film. I saw it last summer when Jay and Silent Bob was released as a way to study up to see Jay And Bob. I was instantly in love with the characters and the stroy and when I returned it to the Video store, I immediatly bought a copy for myself.It's funny and dramatic at the same time. I think It shows how talented Smith is and all of it's actor are great,especially Joey Lauren Adams and Jason Lee's. "},{"Title":"A powerful and funny film","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film works on so many levels.  Kevin Smith has done a fantastic job of intertwining his films.  It gives every fan that little something extra looking for the references to the other films.  Chasing Amy is full of them.  The reference to characters from Clerks and Mallrats.  It's also enjoyable to see the actors from all the films popping up in extra roles.  I never get tired of watching the films in the Viewaskeiw universe. "},{"Title":"I hate this movie","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  God, the writer of this film should be in a nut house. I imagine him as a mentally perverted man. Chasing Amy is a terrible movie. It starts fine. Then it gets horrifying. By the end of the movie, I really really felt like vomiting. Performances are very bad. The plot is more than laughable. Is American society similar to what is portrayed in this movie? Because if it is, I´m glad not to live there.1/10. I´d rate it a 0 if the IMDb allowed it. "},{"Title":"See this movie","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie. Very funny at the beginning and then the plot thickens into a realistic and satisfactory ending, which should leave any damsel crying. Ben Affleck is great, it's only sad he dove into big budget crap like Armageddon and Pearl Harbor. This movie goes right next to Swingers, Boiler room, Reservoir dogs, and similar independent movies which I regard as movie every movie loving person should see. You might not necessarily love them, but you should definitely see them. This movie really surprised me in evert possible positive way and it was dead funny in many parts.         10/10 "},{"Title":"A story about the truth of love; raw, honest, and deep.","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy to me is an example of someone writing a story that comes from their heart.  Kevin Smith lays it out plain and simple about relationships, love, and the insecurities many of us deal with.  We all have baggage, though maybe not as extreme as what is in this movie, that we have to deal with in a relationship.  This  movie doesn't play cute, doesn't play timid. It is a raw, honest, humorous at times, deep reaching attempt.  By far his best movie.  Thought the language is viscious, it goes with the movie.  This isn't a nice story about love and relationships.  This is more real. Everything isn't easy, nothing is solved with just a bunch of roses. Highlight of the film is the monolouges by Holden McNeil and Silent Bob. Deep, heart felt writing, saying things we all wish he could or had. Definite must see for especially open minded, college aged persons, but can be enjoyed by anyone who has been through it all and can stand rough language and has an open mind about sex and relationships.  A+ and a special thanks to Kevin Smith for writing and directing a film with such a personal touch.  "},{"Title":"Puts Me In Awe...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie upwards of twenty times, and without fail, this movie puts me in awe every single time.  As an aspiring screenwriter, this movie makes me feel inferior.  To me, it has possibly the best bantering and dialogue of any movie I've seen.  Kevin Smith does a masterful job creating characters that almost anyone can relate to.  If you've ever been hopelessly in love, you know exactly what Holden is going through...and you feel for him as he struggles and muddles his way through everything.  If you've ever been the jealous best friend, you know exactly how Banky feels.  And Jason Lee played this role with complete perfection.  No one can deliver Smith's dialogue quite as well as Lee can.  And for my money, there is no better comic actor than Jason Lee.  And I would be totally remiss if I did not mention Joey Lauren Adams.  Her performance is one of the most emotionally raw performances ever committed to film.  Stunning in every way, it is.To say this movie discourages me from my perspective career would be totally accurate.  This movie displays writing at it's finest.  It is a permanent fixture in my top 3 favorite movies. "}{"Title":"No matter what happens, I will always love Kevin Smith for this film...","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   Kevin Smith some say he just sets up a camera in front of his actors and tells them how to say his words. Its probably true, but for a movie like Chasing Amy, I'd have to agree with him putting a basketball player in the film in a dramatic role (he doesn't, I'm just saying its that  good.)  This is my favorite film, because it covers so many areas, and goes deeper into the sexual mind and conscience than any film I've ever seen. These are real issues, and real people, and its funny, sweet, romantic, heartbreaking, honest, and brilliant. I saw this flick when I was like 15.  It spoke to me then on a certain level, and as I've gotten older I've picked up more and more.  Did I mention I love this film? Its SMART. Be warned, this is not a comedy, at least not for the second half its not.  And don't ever let a conservative watch this, it does more with words than most teen gross out comedies can do with an hour and a half of bad sight gags. This movie made me love Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams, and Kevin  Smith, long before the aforementioned actors hit it BIG. This flick is great, now go buy it. "},{"Title":"An Important Film","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The films of Kevin Smith have been known for three key elements unconventional stories from the state of New Jersey, interesting and profanity laced dialogue, and the fact that all of his films are intelligent and honest. Chasing Amy is no exception. Amy tells the story of Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck), a New Jersey comic book artist, who meets a lesbian named Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams). Together the two form a friendship that leads to Holden falling in love with her. His business partner and best friend Banky (Jason Lee), did not like Alyssa from the start, and is distraught by the new outlook that his friend has. Eventually Alyssa falls for Holden as well, and the movie takes on a new spin. It now becomes the story of a man dealing with his     's past. Beyond that, Chasing Amy is an amazing insight into the world of love and friendship in 1990's America.  "},{"Title":"His best movie and the finest Romantic Comedy of the 90's","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is the director of Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. I have seen all the movies apart from the last one and I think Kevin Smith is one of the finest writers in Hollywood Along with Tarantino and David Mamet He writes absolutely priceless comic dialogue. The previous movies in his 'Red Bank' series were all superb comic movies. Clerks was an inspired look into convenience store workers, Mallrats was a mad Hollywood Teen Movie with some awesome humour and crazy stunts, Dogma was a occasionally rib tickling funny movie with a religious subtone that got you thinking. Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back is a pure slapstick comedy from what I believe but Chasing Amy is the best movie. It has it all, it has the all important chemistry between the leads as Alyssa Joey Lauren Adams and Holden Ben Affleck are so believeable that if you saw them acting on the street you would think they were a regular couple. Jason Lee as Banky Edwards shines in support with a superb performance that is halfway between comic genius and Oscar Worthy. We also see Jay and Silent Bob the 'Stars' of the movies in a priceless cameo and we also get another Oscar Worthy performance from Dwight Ewell as Hooper X, playing the gay black man with an ideal amount of sensitivness and humour. Indeed I don't think there has been a better acted romantic comedy ever. This was quite a departure from the first Smith movies in that it's often more quirky thatn Laugh out Loud funny but the opening Star Wars sketch and Jason Lee supply some superbly funny moments and the ending is very anti-Hollywood. I urge anyone who likes Kevin Smith films to see this again and I implore any film lover to see this movie. If you don't your missing out.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Dramatic Masterpeice","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well if it isn't Kevin Smith's third masterpeice in the New Jersey Saga! When I first saw this movie I never thought Ben Affleck could do such a great performance. The same with Joey Lauren Adams. Ofcourse I knew Jason Lee would always do a great performance like he always does. One thing I like about this movie is that Kevin Smith made this a soft movie unlike his other great work (Clerks, Mallrats). I'm pretty sure every Kevin Smith fan has seen this movie. But if you havn't i think you should all see it!  "},{"Title":"A phenomenal movie that is realistically true","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CHASING AMY, the third of Kevin Smith's New Jersey Chronicles, is about a man named Holden (Ben Affleck) falls in love with a woman (Joey Lauren Adams), but before she knows he finds out she is a lesbian. ***SPOILER*** Eventually they end up dating and Holden's best friend and partner in the comic book industry Banky (Jason Lee) decides he doesn't want her around and her sexually active past catches up with her. ***END SPOILERS*** This film is one that doesn't hide its content, most would sugar coat the realism of sexually active lives, yet this one seems to make sure you know the truth. One of the best films ever made. It has the acting and writing and directing of an oscar winning movie. Even though critically acclaimed and was a critical success, it was not exactly a box office success. Though it should've been.  Though there is a percentage of people who would be offended by it, who cares, you can always  turn it off. I GIVE IT 10/10! ***** out of *****!!! an A+!!! Watch it!  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but still sad","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard for me to remain objective about this movie.  Kevin Smith has his legion of followers, and the why of it is inexplicable.  His direction is largely of the point-and-shoot variety which some do well but he does not; his occasionally-good dialogue indicates that he is much smarter than he allows his movies to be; the acting all seems to be winking at the audience in a manner of pseudo hip self-congratulation.  Lots of talking is done about emotions we're supposed to be seeing rather than emotions actually emoted.  (For instance, Holden and Banky, we're told, have been friends for ages -- a companionship Banky says they've been building; I never believed there was any depth beyond an actor-fake repartee -- Smith and Lee were entirely unconvincing as soul mates.)So there were a few chuckles and now and again a nicely turned phrase or thought.  But mainly I found myself angry that this filmmaker is fashionable and admired.  I'm angry that this attitude -- being intelligent but uncommitted to that intelligence; instead, glibness rules -- is popular, considered desirable and hip.  Yep, I'm upset because I write rings around this guy but can't land a deal.  There you go.  Which makes my criticism no less valid.Rating 6 out of 10.  Objectively. "},{"Title":"I wanna chase some Amy!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Kevin Smith. Written by Kevin Smith. Starring Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and Jason Lee. Co-Starring Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, and Dwight Ewell.Favorite line All every woman really wants, be it mother, senator, nun, is some serious deep-dickin'.*******WARNING Possible spoilers ahead*******When Chasing Amy came out I could not have cared less, I had just seen Mallrats, and had yet to see Clerks. When I finally did see Chasing Amy (shortly after seeing Clerks), I was very moved. It's a touching story if for no other reason than the dialogue was honest and to the point. While many romantic comedies (which sadly is the best category for this movie) beat around the bush and end happily ever after, Chasing Amy didn't. Not that it ended badly, it ended honestly and realistically and I love it for that.Plot/Story Guy falls for girl, girl turns out to be a lesbian, guy forms friendship with girl anyway, guy's best friend becomes jealous, guy gets hot and bothered for girl and professes his love, girl tells him to f*** off and then f***s him, guy's best friend becomes very jealous and digs up dirt on girl, guy is informed of some early dirty escapades of girl and can't deal with it, guy brings up dirt during hockey game and gets told to accept girl for the way she is, guy doesn't, girl tells him to f*** off, fat guy says Chasing Amy, while baked guy makes fun of him and eats sugar, guy comes up with plan for some three way action between guy, girl, and guy's best friend to keep both girl and best friend's friendships, orgy does not ensue and all three sadly part ways. And, of course, all of this revolves around comics.Acting The acting is superb. Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams all turn in memorable performances.Characters Again with the characters. Every character you meet is real. They are good in nature with each having their small foibles, much like the rest of us. I know for a fact in Clerks, Smith wrote the characters based on the people who played them, and I highly suspect the same thing happened with Chasing Amy. How else could you get such great performances on a film with a $250K budget?Effects/Setting In Clerks you knew they were in a convenience store. In Mallrats you knew you they were in the mall. In Chasing Amy you knew they were in...New Jersey? Not that it really matters in the end, but it's never really clear where events are taking place. There was so much attention put into everything except in the setting, why?Score/Soundtrack Surprisingly (or not so) the soundtrack and score are pretty solid. As I've said in past reviews if it doesn't jump out at me then nothing is wrong.The thing that wins me over in every Kevin Smith film is the dialogue and the character interaction. Kevin Smith writes his movies like a comic book, quick and to the point. The characters say what they need to say rather than let you conjecture and assume. You're being told a story that could happen and it's treated that way. There's no BS about the guy falling in love, blowing it, and then getting back together with the love of his life. That stuff doesn't happen and it's refreshing to see that not everyone in Hollywood is delirious. If you haven't seen a Kevin Smith film and are curious what all the hoopla is all about, then start here... "},{"Title":"He finally had something personal to say","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far Kevin Smith's best movie.  If you thought it was like his other movies (full of jokes, excellent comedy) you are mistaken.  This is an excellent drama.  I have yet to see another love story that I thought was more enjoyable.  One can easily identify with one of the characters because we have all experienced some aspect of the story.  The acting is excellent and so is the direction.  The movie looks and sounds great and I was shocked when I found out it only cost $250,000.  If you want to hear witty dialogue watch Clerks, if you want to hear funny one-liners watch Mallrats, but if you want to see an excellent drama you must see Chasing Amy. "},{"Title":"painfully honest script makes for uneasy viewing","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was nice to see Ben Affleck trying to act instead of putting on a uniform and going through that I'm-here-to-save-the-Earth-from-destruction rubbish. I guess this was his last honest role, and he's pretty good. Joey Lauren Adams, on the other hand, with her whining, little-girl voice comes across as another Melanie Griffith--God save us from the faux-ingenue.Jason Lee, as ever, provides the best moments. He's not taken in by his buddy's infatuation, and continues to probe for the truth amid all the self-serving rhetoric. Kevin Smith's script is one of the wordiest I have ever seen; there isn't an idea or emotion that hasn't been carefully thought out, but it's awfully flat and needed a lot of blue-penciling.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I dont know exactly how to express how amazing this movie was. It meant alot to me because the characters are so real. When you see it, you'll immediatly relate to a character I think, it may seem a bit vulger to some of you more squeemish folks, but it's impossible not to picture yourself in it. It's raw and it's honest and it's a must see to anyone who's ever been in a relationship, or had sit back and watch friends date. If you havent seen it, go rent it now. Actually, if you can, find yourself a copy of the DVD, the commentary is wonderfully informative, and the deleted scenes are a must. If you liked this movie for it's content, I cant think of any other movies to compare it to, but if it was the directing, or the writing you liked, Kevin Smith has done 3 other movies that you may also enjoy; Dogma, Mallrats, and Clerks.  "}{"Title":"A little dose of therapy, but a lot funnier.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's rare to see a film about relationships where the people involved onscreen don't end up following some cliche or gimmick that Hollywood has taught us to be a normal occurrence (the guy always gets the girl, thanks to his a)persistence and nice guy qualities, b)a cockamamie scheme involving his weird best friend, c)song and dance routine, etc.). What I enjoyed about Chasing Amy was that I cared about the characters. I didn't necessarily agree with everything they did or said, and I felt downright angry at them in some instances, and this only further proves to me that Kevin Smith created characters that I honestly cared about. Unlike Clerks and Mallrats, (uh-oh, here comes the inevitable comparisons to his past work) Kevin Smith has written a very human story without the slapstick comedy of Mallrats or the cynicism of Clerks. Identifying with the frustrations of someone else is one of the most satisfying things in life. It makes you feel like there is hope, because you're not alone. That is why I will continue to watch Chasing Amy over and over, until I shuffle off this mortal coil. It's like a little dose of therapy, but a lot funnier. "},{"Title":"Flawed but clever comedy about our... um... standards.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a movie that tries to be funny and touching, and excels in one of those areas. The usual clever conversations about well-known pop culture like Star Wars and Archie are great, the usual chat about everyday life, love and porn rings true, and of course, Jay and Silent Bob are awesome. It's full of inside jokes that mostly comic book fanatics and fanboys will get. All this is to be expected from Kevin Smith, whose debut movie Clerks is becoming the stuff of Hollywood legend and gets a little better every time you see it. This time, though, Smith tries something new with his knack for writing emotion. Ben Affleck plays Holden, who, along with his good friend Banky (who is played by Jason Lee and, with a name like Banky, is understandably miffed at the world), have created the cult hit comic Bluntman and Chronic, about two familiar-looking pothead superheroes. Holden is introduced to another comic writer named Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), and the two hit it off immediately. He has big plans for a relationship with Alyssa until he discovers Alyssa is a lesbian and tries to break off connections with her. He finds he can't stay away, though. He's sure it's true love, and pursues a friendship with her, much to the dismay of Banky, who is mad at losing his friend and, the movie suggests, might just be attracted to Holden himself after all these years. I don't want to spoil too much of it, and many of the twists and turns are great, but the whole idea of a lesbian getting cured by finding the right man is a ridiculous stereotype. The movie addresses this unlikely occurrance, but that can't help the fact that the major hinge of the plot is senseless.Some more things that gripe me about this movie 1)Parts of JLA's performance. She's a great flirty actress, but that voice! The scene outside the ice rink is enough to make your ears bleed. 2) Jay and Silent Bob are only in the movie for one scene! It's a great scene with a great setup, of course, but I would've liked it a lot more if, at the end, Silent Bob shows up and demands getting paid for the use of his parable in the title of a comic. 3) Smith, while very gifted in writing, is terrible as a visual director. The camera either jerks around or just sits there like it's dead. And 4)The ending. No, besides Bob not showing up. There is a scene where (SPOILER!!!!! SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER!!!!!) Holden decides to address the rivalry between Banky and Alyssa over Holden's affections. He explains that after much thought, the best way to solve it is.... for all three to have sex with each other. It sounds like a joke on paper, and at first it sounds like a joke in the movie, but you quickly see that they (Holden in the movie, Smith in the script) are quite serious about it. The scene would fail horribly if it wasn't played out and acted the way it was; total sincerity from all three actors. The scene works so well that you're surprised to find that you want it to happen; it seems it would resolve everything so well. But, unfortunately, we're met with a cold turkey ending that is really kind of depressing. I guess the ending we're given is more realistic, but, at the risk of sounding perverted, I think all three of them making love together would've been very emotionally sound, and actually kinda touching.Other than that, it's a very smart and well made movie. Acting and writing are what will make you want to see it again. It's not as funny as Clerks, nor as thoughtful as Dogma, but afterwards you're still left thinking about yourself and your... dare I say it?...standards. "},{"Title":"A lesbian by any other name","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lesbian is a woman who hasn't met the right man.And the moon is made of green cheese.This movie disgusted me, although I think Jason Lee is GREAT. "},{"Title":"The Truest Love Story","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first of the Jersey Trilogy that I was privileged to gaze upon.  Kevin Smith tells love how it is, how it should be and unfortunately, the reality of it.  True love comes in the most uncommon places, in Holden's (Ben Affleck) case, in was in the heart of a lesbian (Joey Lauren Adams).  Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and Jason Lee have great chemistry, bringing to life 3 of the most unforgettable characters I've ever seen.  Kevin Smith again whips together dialog that intrigues the mind and makes you question the status quo. "},{"Title":"Worth chasing!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This excellent comedy-drama stars Ben Afleck as Holden McNeil and Jason Lee as Banky Edwards. The two of them are the writers of the BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC comic books. One day while at a comic convention they meet Hooper LaMont Dwight Ewell and Alyssa Jones Joey Lauren Adams. They invite Holden and Banky for some drinks where Holden develops a crush on Alyssa. The next night  Hooper tells Holden to come to a club, Holden agrees, hoping to get hooked up with Alyssa, Banky comes along just for the fun of it. Once there Holden is shocked to learn that Alyssa is gay. Normally, from there a movie like this would go bad about here, but writer/director Kevin Smith knows better and adds tons of hilarious bits along with witty dialogue. As in all his movies Jay Jason Mewes and Silent Bob Smith appear only for a cameo though. Kevin Smith fans won't be dissapointed neither will you. "},{"Title":"amazing film...a must see for any NJ resident!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  kevin smith did it again....an amazing movie about heartbreak, sex, and angst mixed with comedy that makes you laugh out loud...a must see for anyone whose hometown is in NJ!  in fact, a must see for anyone who has been in love, lust, and everything in between. "},{"Title":"Smith's second best","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"          I remember watching this film several years back and thinking it was pretty funny. But I also thought it was a lot mor serious than the Kevin Smith movies that I had thought were nothing short of hilarious(Clerks and Mallrats). But last night I had money to waste so I bought it, mainly to say I had all of his films.                   But as I was watching it I realized this was a classic comedy. It was more than oftenly hilarious, and also very heartfelt and touching. I think a couple years ago I was to immature to really apreaciate it. But now in those years of growing I've come to find this absolute gem of a little film.         I (and always will)think Clerks was Kevin's best, but this is his second best. Mallrats is his last but i'm in total love with that movie too, it's got to be one of the most laugh at loud films ever. I also have come to the conclusion that we are all Chasing Amy at one point in our lives.         Note if you like this watch High Fidelity or Annie Hall. "},{"Title":"Chases the truth by showing the heart","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See this movie!!  Other reviews have and I am sure will totally dog the ending of this touch of brilliance.  I, on the other hand, absolutely love the ending of this movie.  Kevin Smith has never been typical Hollywood.  He entertains the masses by keeping it real.  This movie is a cross section of a kalidescope of people.  I get tired of fairy tale endings, it ruins much of Hollywood these days.  Placing the ending aside, this is a beautiful movie.  Jason Lee adds the right amount of relief needed to humble ourselves to comfortability of his and Holden's friendship.  We are drawn into all relationships, and are required to question our own as the movie progresses.  You constantly ask yourself, could this really happen?  If I were Holden would I feel the same way?Of Kevin Smith's four movies this is visually beautiful.  The scene with Holden and Alyssa talking in the dark except for one blue light, captivates me time and time again.  Kevin Smith flaunts his talents as a writer by directing a comedic masterpiece as well as a heart touching drama.  You will surly walk away pleased with the beauty of this relationship studyLife is a series of down endings. - Clerks "},{"Title":"A comic book movie without a comic book plot","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is one of my top 10 favorite movies of all time. I have been a fan of Kevin Smith's work since Clerks. This movie gets to show off all of Smith's wonderful skills as a writer. The plot was quite unique. As far as the actors go, I can only say that they should have gotten Oscars.  Jason Lee is his usual gruff on the outside, best friend on the inside character. Many scenes are stolen by his acerbic wit.  Other stand out performances include Dwight Ewell's turn as hooper x and smith himself as Silent bob. While there is nothing novel about Smith's direction style here it is still quite a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, smart, sexy, wise","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its setting (in the daffy world of comic books and cons), the terrific script, Joey Lauren Adams' passionate performance and Ben Affleck's full-strength sex appeal--not to mention a host of outstanding performances by supporting players--make this one of the best relationship movies I've seen in many a year.  The comedy has you by the sex glands from the opening minutes and the ending gives it depth and wisdom.  A wonderful, wonderful movie--don't miss it. "}{"Title":"An engaging and humorous edition to the Jersey trilogy, Brilliant!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this film, well first off I should say that this is my favourite film, I wouldn't claim it to be the best film ever, but I just never tire of watching this. Jason Lee puts in a first class performance as Banky and pretty much steals every scene he's in, accept when Dwight Ewell character Hooper X is on the screen, he provides one of the funniest film characters in recent memory. From the beginning of the Q&A session to the moment Banky goes to check the dents in his car is my personal favourite bit(s), just hilarious. After the extremely entertaining comedy of the first half of the film Kevin Smith takes his film into more serious territory as Holden's (Ben Affleck) relationship with Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) develops. Smith handles it very well and I found it to be quite believable and as intended I found myself caring about what happened to these characters. And even more importantly Smith made me rethink some of my conceptions of love and also the (mis)conceptions we have of homosexuality. The obligatory appearance of Jay and Silent Bob is, as usual, hilarious and Silent Bob provides all of us with some pearls of wisdom. Overall this is Smiths best film (IMO of course) and my personal favourite film, if you haven't seen it check it out, have some good laughs and be touched along the way. "},{"Title":"never seen a film like this, touched me very deep","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a very deeply touching film. I've run over it accidently and in the past three days I've seen it five times. Don't know what else to add. You have to see it and go yourself through all the emotions. Great Characters, great plot and a very clever open ending. Go and think yourself. "},{"Title":"kevin smith is all about truth","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  bravo kevin ! this movie represents love and passion in all its complexity. ben affleck and jason lee light up the screen. brilliant acting, simply breath-taking screenplay and carefully studied scene between affleck, jay & silent bob. kevin tells the whole truth and even more than that; he dips into the youthful mind's imagination, into its fears and into its yearning. i've never seen a director/screenwriter with more guts to show us or tell others what we are really like. a definite 10 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"A great movie by the way.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three years ago, i went to the video-store and the clerk said this movie is the newest  release, is supposed to be very darn good!!! but i wasn't sure, i was thinking about rent for the 110º time karate kid 3 ( a great movie, by the way)but she was so persuasive that i agreed to  rent the darn thing...i went home prepare some popcorn and then 90 minutes later, i just couldn't find the words, it was the first time i saw a Kevin Smith film, everything about the movie is great the script, the characters are very-well developed, Jay and S. Bob are funny as hell...as well as Jason Lee ( What a Great comedian) what impressed me so much was the way that Smith touched this issue ,  those issues  love,friendship,sex and sexual option, he does that with a lot of guts and tenderness. All of that makes Chasing Amy a great flick. If go to the video-store and the clerk tell you to rent  this movie don't think twice.  "},{"Title":"A film anyone who has ever felt the pangs of true love can relate to.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film two years ago when movies meant nothing to me but a way to entertain myself on a boring day.  When I popped it into my VCR I was expecting a vulgar comedic piece of fluff.  However, when the film was over my outlook on the medium and the film itself had changed.  At the time I had no idea who Kevin Smith was, and today I credit him as giving me a new outlook on life.  What I saw when this film was over was a truly beautiful and real story of a man who falls in love with the unattainable and tries to repress his love.  All who have ever been in love and lost what was dear to them have felt what Holden feels.  Somehow, the love seems more precious and pure once it is gone and its presence lingers constantly.  Of all the enjoyable romantic films I have seen, this film is the most human and true to the heart.  Due to Mr. Smith and his wonderful collection of films, Chasing Amy being my favorite, I was inspired to write and become more than just a  community theatre actor.  Flash forward to now.  I have just finished my first feature to be premiered in March and have finally fell into  the grace of an artist who no longer dabbles but creates films, the written word, photos, and memories.  This film helped me delve into a world where a film is not something to talk through but a life changing experience.  Thank you Banky, Holden, and Alyssa for helping me discover the true nature of myself. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, poignant, sad, hopeful-- Love story for the '90s","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie everyone of the gender-bending sexually-questioning generation should see. Forget about whether or not you like the actors, or if you've been turned off by Kevin Smith's cartoonish over-the-top humor in the past. This is truly a work of theatrical art that aspires to literature. It's also pretty damn funny, and I'm a generally a fan of the highball wit school (Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn movies and bantering period pieces) who'se bored by slapstick shenanegans.   The script is sharp and funny, but unlike earlier Smith efforts (such as Mallrats) it doesn't puncture its momentum with pointless barbs and meandering side plots. Even Jay and Silent Bob, who I found exhaustingly dumb in Mallrats, come off as quirky and amusing in their short cameo.What raises Chasing Amy into a realm of its own is its sharp focus on matters of the heart. It explores the complexities of love, sexual definition, and the communities of straight and gay in 1990's NYC. Chasing Amy follows the intense connection between people that sometimes crosses assumed boundaries into erotic attachment. Quite simply, its about love.  And comic books, and quick wit, and drinking and smoking and sex and sadness and more comic books.  And its DEFINATELY worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, poignant, sad, hopeful-- Love story for the '90s","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie everyone of the gender-bending sexually-questioning generation should see. Forget about whether or not you like the actors, or if you've been turned off by Kevin Smith's cartoonish over-the-top humor in the past. This is truly a work of theatrical art that aspires to literature. It's also pretty damn funny, and I'm a generally a fan of the highball wit school (Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn movies and bantering period pieces) who'se bored by slapstick shenanegans.   The script is sharp and funny, but unlike earlier Smith efforts (such as Mallrats) it doesn't puncture its momentum with pointless barbs and meandering side plots. Even Jay and Silent Bob, who I found exhaustingly dumb in Mallrats, come off as quirky and amusing in their short cameo.What raises Chasing Amy into a realm of its own is its sharp focus on matters of the heart. It explores the complexities of love, sexual definition, and the communities of straight and gay in 1990's NYC. Chasing Amy follows the intense connection between people that sometimes crosses assumed boundaries into erotic attachment. Quite simply, its about love.  And comic books, and quick wit, and drinking and smoking and sex and sadness and more comic books.  And its DEFINATELY worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Profane and true","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After making one uproariously entertaining film, `Clerks', and one absolute bomb, `Mallrats', writer-director Kevin Smith has come back and shown us what he's really made of.  `Chasing Amy' has all of the amusing pop culture references and scatological humor as his first two pictures, but now Smith brings to the screen a maturity and sensitivity when dealing with relationships that will take many of his detractors by surprise.  While the premise (guy meets girl, guy falls for girl, guy finds out girl is only sexually attracted to other girls) sounds just like the setup for lots of sophomoric jokes about reproductive anatomy, which do abound, it is also the starting point for one of the most perceptive films about love ever, rivaling Woody Allen's `Annie Hall' and Richard Linklater's `Before Sunrise.'  Smith's strengths are in never exploiting the material to the point at which the audience tunes out, and in drawing characters who, despite the initially far-fetched scenario, seem entirely real to us and, at times, frighteningly like ourselves.  In this particular field, credit must be given to the cast, all Kevin Smith regulars, who give touching and convincing performances across the board.  It is no small feat to act with the comic timing that the screenplay demands and also deliver the deep, heartfelt emotion that makes the film stand so far out from all of the current sexploitation pics that we are bombarded with these days.Although Smith's follow-up, `Dogma', was a disappointment (I guess his films are like the Star Trek series, in which every installment alternates between great and excruciating), he has proven once and for all that he is one of the most talented directors in the business today.  For those interested in seeing a great movie about love, Chasing Amy is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Best Romantic Comedy of the 90's","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith may not use utilize fancy camera work and special effects, but that boy sure can write.  I believe that CHASING AMY is the best romantic comedy since SEX, LIES AND VIDEOTAPE.  There is more insight into the nature of relationships and romance in this film than all the Julia Roberts movies combined! I rated this movie a 10 due to the general weakness of the genre, great performances by Jason Lee and Joey Adams, and the truly original and fresh script. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith does it again.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about Chasing Amy aside from the fact that it's great. This is the third movie in the Jersey Trilogy now known as the Jersey Quartet thanks to Dogma. This is not the funniest one that position is held by Clerks however I liked this one because it was original and I loved the way characters from the other Kevin Smith movies are mentioned in this one as well as Mallrats. This is probably the best romantic comedy that I have seen in the 90's without the cliche ending that all romantic comedies get. I loved the way Jay and Silent Bob matured from the way they acted in Mallrats(Snootchie Bootchies,who says that sh*t it's baby talk.) and the hilarious arguments between Banky(The always awesome Jason Lee) and Hooper especially the one about Archie. Chasing Amy is a great and funny movie and I highly reccomend it ,I can't wait for Dogma. "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrific movie! Kevin Smith's best.  Loved Ben Affleck, who I hated in Good  Will Hunting, and Joey Lauren Adams too.  Very thought provoking, very  intelligent. Plus it contained a surprise or two, which I loved.  See it  and then think aboot it. "},{"Title":"What is the definition of a slut? (answer at the end of my review)","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me warn you up front this is the worst date movie ever. It mercilessly explores the topic of past sexual encounters in a way that will probably lead to an uncomfortable discussion with your date after the movie. Even worse if you don't discuss it, you'll be eying each other suspiciously, forever wondering if the other person is more sexually experienced, and if you'll be adequate.It's also a bad hetero bro movie or hetero gal's night movie because it gets into the subject of homosexuality in a way that will probably make you feel awkward with your friends.So basically you should either watch this movie alone, or with a gay friend. Or if you are gay, congrats, you can watch it with anybody.That said, Chasing Amy is a hard-hitting sex comedy from writer/director Kevin Smith who brought us Clerks, Mallrats, Jay & Silent Bob (who make a brief cameo here), and Dogma. Chasing Amy is perhaps the most serious of the bunch, diving boldly into themes of homophobia, sexism and sexual double standards. Yes, there are some great gags, particularly in the first half. But the love story gets pretty intense in the 2nd half, and humor is downplayed. There are some downright upsetting arguments which shift the tone away from comedy and into heavy drama.For you Ben Affleck fans, be forewarned he's not always the good guy in this flick. In fact, he represents a sort of naïve, ultra-conservative, morally-judgmental attitude of society. His love interest Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) is the good guy who represents open sexuality and free-spiritedness. The only problem is, to me, she sometimes came across as ditzy/hysterical and hard to take seriously. Although she did a very believable job of acting, I can't help but wonder if the role of Alyssa would've been better filled by an actress who is a bit more commanding Cate Blanchett, Charlize Theron, or even Cameron Diaz. Oh well, no biggie.With its sexual-boundary-bending approach, Chasing Amy has a vibe that reminds me of the classic French feminism films of the 60s-70s with Catherine Deneuve and Brigitte Bardot displaying a new sexual honesty that was unheard of until then. It brings to mind the urban dictionary definition of a slut a woman with the morals of a man ;) "},{"Title":"A review from the year 2013","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wouldn't consider myself a huge Kevin Smith fan, but I do enjoy his films. I like Mallrats, Clerks, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back, in particular because they establish a common thread with Jay & Silent Bob, and they don't take themselves too seriously. Kevin Smith is a master of dirty, lewd, crude and downright offensive dialogue, I get that and for the most part I can appreciate it. When he was first making his films in the 90's, this was a somewhat controversial, as he was paving the way for the nerd comedy and doing so with vulgar dialogue, gay jokes, and touchy subject matter. Back in the 90's there really were no films about the comic-con sub culture, and serious gay themed films were rare and far and few between. However its 2013, and the comic book culture has risen to the mainstream. You can't go to a theater these days without seeing a superhero movie in the marquee, gays rights have been more accepted and gay characters are everywhere in the media. Kevin Smith type films are par for the course, and his subject matter is no longer as controversial because so much has changed. I mean you can thank Smith for some of this change, he helped push both comic book films into the mainstream, and in a way, made a film about a lesbian before its was as socially and widely acceptable. So kudos to him.Where am I going with this? Well, as someone who gets Kevin Smith's comedy and dialogue, watching Chasing Amy for the first time in 2013 was really a let down. For some reason out of all the Smith films I've seen, I never got to Chasing Amy, so I was kind of saving it for a rainy day. I knew it is his most critically acclaimed, and coming out right after Mallrats it was his first real dramatic film that wasn't just suppose to be strictly comedic. This films takes its self serious because its about serious subject matter. Maybe I had built it up a bit in my head because of all this, I don't know, but when the rainy day finally came and I sat down to watch it, I wasn't impressed. The first thing I noticed is how much Kevin Smith films don't age well when the subject matter is serious in tone. First because of what I said before, its 2013, these topics are no longer controversial or risqué in any way. Making a film about trying to make a lesbian straight, is no longer new or revelatory. The second thing I notice is how much Smith is trying to prove himself as a relevant and hip writer/director in this film. I think this was the film he wanted to be taken seriously for, and for the most part he did get noticed and recognized at the time, but now its just seems kind of like he was trying too hard. The dialogue seems too hip, too self aware, that it kind of takes away from the plot. Every character has to have a snappy comeback or a clever line of dialogue, it kind of gets annoying after the first half an hour. I mean people always praise Smith for how real his characters are or how clever his dialogue is, but all I kept thinking was how nobody I know talks like this. Its just seems pretty well, pre-written.Lastly, the plot itself I hate to say was pretty mediocre, and in my opinion not very fleshed out. Like I said, Smith was really trying to prove himself as a writer/director here, and it shows. It almost seems this was Smith's way of learning how to make a proper three act Hollywood mainstream film, and because he wasn't a seasoned writer/director at this point, it seems like he was learning as he went along. Joey Lauren Adams as Alyssa is somewhat annoying, and although she has that I-know-I'm-clever smirk and dialogue throughout, I don't really see the attraction. Ben Affleck and Jason Lee as Holden and Banky are fine, but they are just the two typical guy buddies who throw out gay jokes every second that seem to be in every Smith movie. I'm OK with how Holden and Alyssa fall for each other, but by the time we get to third act and we find out about Alyssa's past, and Holden's final solution it just falls apart, and to me made very little sense. I think Smith needed more experience as a screen writer at this point, and this was his experiment with a serious and mainstream film. For the most part he succeeded, as it was critically acclaimed at the time, but I think it had more to do with the then touchy subject matter which is now dated, and the way he wrote scripts, which is now just a Kevin Smith film. I like Kevin Smith, but this is a flawed film. "},{"Title":"Excruciating","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movies can be interesting, original, moving or groundbreaking. They can also be dull, frightening, shocking or if all else fails, just a pretty picture to look at. Chasing Amy I'm afraid falls into none of these categories. It seems to drown out even the poor acting of people who seem either too high or too disinterested to make even half of an effort at being believable real-life humans in that ocean of pointless profanity. After about ten minutes, I was wondering out loud whether to give it another five minutes because the endless stream of pre-pubescent sex jokes and lame stereotypes would give way to something a little more, uh, thought-provoking. But it didn't. Was this what life was like in the late 90s? For me, I was in college then so I guess. But anyone who is sober, not high and an adult is going to have difficulty watching it. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone. Kevin Smith, I want 20 minutes of my life back. "},{"Title":"Average effort from Kevin Smith.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Bluntman and Chronic artist, Holden, meets fellow comic-book creator Alyssa, romance between the two looks unlikely&#151;Alyssa reveals she is a lesbian and claims to have had no experience with men, and is unlikely to ever want any. However, against all odds, the two become friends and, eventually, lovers&#151;upsetting Holden's best pal Banky in the process.But when it transpires that Alyssa hasn't been entirely honest with Holden, and that she is, in fact, a first class slut with a sexual history that would make Ron Jeremy blush, Holden finds it difficult to come to terms with his mixed emotions.I admit that I love director Kevin Smith's work best when it is shallow, pop culture referencing, potty mouthed, and incredibly puerile. Chasing Amy certainly has its fair share of witty lines (my favourite being 'she's a bigger germ-farm than that monkey in Outbreak'), but the jokes are heavily outweighed by full-on sappy romantic drama. Admittedly, it is well written sappy romantic drama, but not exactly what I was looking for when I popped the disc into my player.If the film had followed in the same vein as the first 10 minutes, then Smith might have had pure gold on his hands (the opening scene about Banky being a tracer is hilarious and this is quickly followed by another classic moment in which Hooper X, the creator of pro-black comic, White Hatin' Coon, presents his argument against white imperialism in comics), but Smith gets all serious on us and the film becomes a bit of a downer.After almost two hours of 'intense' relationship trauma, I was ready to pop on Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, to remind myself how funny a Kevin Smith film can really be. "},{"Title":"Flawed but impressive","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy enjoys the odd status as being my favorite flawed movie. Parts of it (the entire Hooper X character, the needless comic-book/cartoon series subplot, and the frankly inaccurate portrayal of the lesbian community) seem amateurish and, at times they are distracting. At its core, however, is an incredibly insightful film about the complexities of human sexual and emotional relationships.  The Joey Lauren Adams character is absolutely unique in modern film she is a sexually, emotionally, and affectionately adventurous woman who makes no apologies for the fact that she is continually exploring what she wants out of life and human relationships.  Ben Affleck and, most especially, Jason Lee have never given better performances.  The incredibly understated, sometimes unspoken way that they navigate the boundaries of their friendship is stunning. This film will be meaningless to people whose relationships have been cut and dry, boy meets girl in the suburbs of the midwest and live happily ever after.  But for those of us who have lived lives like Alyssa, Holden, and Banky, this film is a moving and affirming experience.  I really mean that.  "},{"Title":"NO!!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just a film version of the old homophobic assumption that some women are lesbians only because they haven't met or been laid by the right guy. Guy meets girl. Girl likes girls. Girl decides she likes guy. Girl dates guy. Guy dumps girl. Yeah right. "},{"Title":"Long chunks of dialogue","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hated this movie! Completely unbelievable plot, compounded with unbearably bad writing. One character discoursing for what seems like ten minutes before the other character gets to pound out their ten-minute long discoursive reply. BORING! Hated it. Not to mention the bad acting of Ben Affleck. Yuck. "},{"Title":"unbearable","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some funny, but utterly ridiculous dialogs and shamelessly ignorant and paranoid characters won't be saving this disappointing film.The characters seem to see problems for the sake of filling their boring lives with some excitement. They seem to suffer from serious mood swings. They're insecure and seem to have some real problems with any topic relating to sex.Someone said it best when he described the topic of the film to be about the male ego being bruised / intimidated by a female with much more sexual experience. I totally agree, but what a ridiculous topic for a film. Really, what is so witty about this film when a boy is asking a girl who you love about her sexual past in a full stadium? Please tell me, what is so thought provoking about this film in which the level of conversations is about whether or not one can loose ones virginity by physical means (naturally) or emotional means (...eh...)? Concerning the girl. Who cares about her past? Who cares she is a lesbian? Who cares she has a taste for men as well? So what she has some serious experience? It's all for the better isn't it? There really isn't a problem here, is there? "},{"Title":"overrated annoying","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That girl has the most annoying voice I've ever heard. I seriously hate her voice- squeaky, whiny, screechy, ahhhhhhh. I can't get it out of my head, help! The more I think about this film, which I watched last night, the less I like it. It has all the depth of an adolescent's poetry. There are a few slightly funny moments but not enough to get past the sheer annoying quality of these characters and there teenage dialog. In my opinion this movie has been completely overrated. Utimatly this is a romantic comedy with a twist. If you are into watching a boy's version of a chick-flick which doesn't tax the brain too much and makes a stab at being something a little out of the ordinary, then you might enjoy this (and then forget it straight away). I wish I could forget that girls voice though! "}{"Title":"Tiresome, Trite, and Endlessly Talkative","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Someday, Goddess willing, there will be a film that intelligently and sensitively explores the relationships that gay women have with men. Chasing Amy is NOT that film.Rather, what we have is another male make a lesbian into a hot hetero babe fantasy flick, masquerading as a Gen X insight film. What we get is unrealistic people operating in a make believe world (they don't set the characters in the comic book industry for nothing), who talk endlessly (and in stilted paragraphs) about their sex lives. The acting is wooden when it's not grating, and the dialogue is so leaden that the writer has tried to liven things up by using a variety of profanity in every line. Add a few explicit references to lesbian sexual techniques (oh my, women talking about fisting, how daring) and you have Kitten with a Whip meets Studmuffin McQuade.By far the  most grating conceit of the film, however, is the portrayal of the gay characters.  The female (read lesbian) lead can't be just another normal person who happens to be attracted to other women. Hell no, she's a former 'loose' woman of the straight variety just waiting for the 'right man' to bring her back into the fold. The main gay male character is played with one foot firmly in 'swish' territory, and one expects the characters from the Bird Cage to appear every time he's on camera.  The 2 straight male characters (or are they?) give new meaning to the word boring. The idea that some woman would change her sexual orientation for the male lead is questionable.  In fact, I doubt if he could get someone to change their socks for him, let alone a whole orientation.Overall, do yourself a favor and skip this overly long, overly wordy piece of tripe. You'll learn nothing about how lesbians and straight men interact. In fact, you won't even learn any new profanity. All you will learn is just how long a truly awful film can be!  "},{"Title":"Give Me a Break","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A ridiculous movie. The dialogue is incredibly forced, the acting (even from the capable Affleck) is very bad and the story is so silly it's insulting.Ok, Affleck plays a Comic book artist who falls in love with another artist who - oh by the way - happens to be a lesbian. (with a horrible whiney voice) She eventually falls for Affleck, and they proceed to a happy affair, until Affleck discovers some disturbing history on her high school sex life. Really, after all the gusto and zest with which Afflecks character pursued this girl, he's going to turn on her just like that? ...and Affleck's sexual proposal at the end is pointless and crude.The formula is tired Kevin. Get out of the cracks and try to make a good movie again.  "},{"Title":"Blind Fishing","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This was on two of my lists. One list was the `search for a decent Askew film.' The other was the `lead actresses who sleep with the director' pile.As far as the Kevin Smith quest goes, I have now seen them all. I can see him trying every approach and not really innovating in any of them. I suppose this is the most conventionally competent, which is a shame since the writing (but not the filmmaking) of `Clerks' had some clever ideas 37 episodes as blow jobs; structure of `The Divine Comedy;' sex death and pathos.The frame here is a simple love story. The twists are gayness and it doesn't work out. Guinevere Turner's `Go Fish' was more raw. She's the woman who calls Alyssa up to sing.Smith just touches on the self-referential comicbook device only briefly. Sad, because that's where his genius could have been. "},{"Title":"Multi-layered way beyond the typical Jay and Silent Bob level","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's funny how surprising things can be sometimes. This film in particular. When the opening credits start and you see all that JnSB buffoonery comic style, you're led to believe that Chasing Amy will be just some shallow comedy with fart jokes and infantile gags. And it may be just like that for some time, until it - to your complete surprise - starts unfolding and developing into something new. Which first looks like a half-cooked teen drama about relationships, with the black-and-white views and radical messages, but then turns into something so spot-on and sensitive that only people with enough life experience and wisdom would be able to fully grasp.I'm not sure what might be considered a spoiler for a flick almost two decades old, but, whatever details it contains, it all boils down to one simple truth people are a very unique breed, and each individual may possess a very unique perception of the world around, which constantly changes over time. And this complexity brings to life the beauty of the interaction between people, producing the gamut of feelings, emotions, situations and aspects whose profoundness is next to nothing.Despite the tomfoolery that Jay and Silent Bob are famous for, Kevin Smith managed to create an amazing story about the ways people love each other and the crazy things people do while looking out for that precious feeling. It's one kind of achievement to simply grasp a certain point of view on this topic and put it into some character's mouth, but it's something completely different - and much much more difficult - to create a true pyramid of outlooks, each layer representing a step towards maturity and self-perception, inside your own head and transform each of those layers into a different character, all of them true to their core, so that the viewer relates to different characters and different agendas depending on their own progress on the way up that pyramid.I could basically feel that 10 years ago it would have been Holden's position that i related with, while now - with me almost 32 - Alyssa's words are those that ring really true to me. And that's the magic of this film that, without even breaking a sweat and trying to look any smart and groundbreaking, it creates this all-embracing model of the world of human relationships, not giving anyone any fist class labels but instead letting everyone have some ground to stand on no matter how raw or refined, fresh or experienced, lost or found they are. It takes more than just wits and understanding of human nature to accomplish that. It takes true love for people themselves. And who could have fit the role of that love preacher better and with less hypocrisy than that chubby long-haired cursing and pot-smoking dude? No one really. "},{"Title":"An excellent film which is at turns hilarious and touching","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The third film in Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse, this is an excellent film which it is at turns hilarious and touching. It differs from Smith's stellar debut Clerks (and his mediocre second film Mallrats) in that there is a dramatic story with an undercurrent of comedy as opposed to a comedic story with an undercurrent of drama. There are some extremely frank and well-written scenes in which the characters discuss sex and sexuality in a very honest fashion as well as some where the issues are played purely for laughs. Smith is an excellent writer with a great ear for dialogue and the characters are more realistic than those in most other romantic comedies of the time and since. His skills as a director are not on the same level as his skills as a writer but he is nevertheless good. In either case, he is at his best when dealing with characters and relationships as opposed to stunts and special effects.The film stars Ben Affleck in one of his best performances as Holden McNeil, the co-creator of the popular comic book Bluntman and Chronic based on the adventures of Smith's signature characters Jay and Silent Bob. At a convention, he meets another comic book artist named Alyssa Jones, who was previously mentioned in both Clerks and Mallrats, and is immediately attracted to her. As such, he is extremely disappointed when he discovers that she is a lesbian. As they spend more and more time together, Holden realises that he views her as far more than a friend and confesses to her in quite a moving (and very well acted) speech that he is madly in love with her. Alyssa is furious at him initially as she thinks that he is trying to turn her straight but they nevertheless pursue a relationship, beginning that very night when they have sex. While she goes over the top on a few occasions, particularly when she has to scream, Smith's then girlfriend Joey Lauren Adams gives an extremely good performance as Alyssa and she and Affleck have great chemistry.The script nicely explores the issue of sexuality and the attitudes towards it. Holden is interesting in that he is not always a terribly sympathetic or likable character. He had quite a conservative upbringing and abides by the standard definitions of sex and sexuality. He is very judgmental of Alyssa's sexual history, which is far more adventurous than his own. There is a major double standard on display as he has no problem with her having been with other women but his feelings for her change when he learns that she had a threesome with two guys in high school, one of them being Clerks character Rick Derris. Prior to this, she had led him to believe that he was the only man that she had ever been with. Holden represents the more traditional attitudes to such matters whereas Alyssa is much more of a sexual free spirit, for lack of a better term. Speaking of Alyssa's sexuality, she consistently refers to herself as a lesbian, as do all the other characters, but the evidence would seem to suggest that she is in fact bisexual, a word which is never used in the film incidentally. I'm not talking so much about her youthful sexual experimentation with men and women since in this instance but the fact that she comes to love Holden, perhaps even more than he loves her, even though all of her other adult relationships have been with women. In contrast to Holden, she is never less than sympathetic. She is a strong character who is not ashamed of her past but has nevertheless put it behind her. There is some nice, subtle social commentary on certain people's reluctance to accept the existence of bisexuality as well as slut shaming.The other major character in the film is Holden's best friend of 20 years standing Banky Edwards, who is played very well by Jason Lee who has some of the funniest lines in the early and more comedy-orientated part of the film. Banky is strongly implied to be either a closeted gay man or bisexual himself in that he is clearly in love with Holden but tries to deny it to everyone, even himself. He tends to overcompensate for these feelings by bringing 30 porno magazines on a two day trip and with his passive aggressive gaybashing. He comes to resent Alyssa more and more throughout the film as he thinks that she is taking Holden away from him. As Silent Bob, Smith is extremely verbose on this occasion and delivers a wonderfully heartfelt speech about the end of his relationship with his ex-girlfriend Amy, the unseen title character.Dwight Ewell is a laugh riot as Hooper X, a very camp gay man who uses the whole black rage angle to sell his anti-white comic book. It is absolutely hilarious when, in character, he loudly argues that the original Star Wars trilogy is incredibly racist. His on stage persona is an extremely funny parody of Malcolm X, as the name would suggest, as well as the fact that many rappers like to project a more dangerous image to sell their music. However, Hooper does openly resent being a member of a minority inside a minority so his persona may not be entirely fictional. In his one scene, Jason Mewes provides some of the biggest laughs as Jay. The film also features nice cameos from Scott Mosier, Ethan Suplee (who is much funnier than in Mallrats where he had far more screen time), Brian O'Halloran, Matt Damon and Affleck's younger brother Casey. As ever, I loved the Degrassi Junior High reference! Overall, this is a thought-provoking, moving and funny film which was perhaps ahead of its time in its exploration of people's attitudes towards sexuality. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly Kevin Smith's Best Work","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holden (Ben Affleck) and Banky (Jason Lee) are comic book artists. Everything is going good for them until they meet Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), also a comic book artist. Holden falls for her, but his hopes are crushed when he finds out she is gay.Looking back now (2015), this film was either ahead of its time or completely misguided. Of Kevin Smith's films, this is probably his best. Some would say Clerks, some might say Dogma, but this was where his writing was at its strongest and the direction at its tightest.His approach to sexuality is interesting. Apologists can interpret it as sexuality is fluid. Others might see it as insulting to the gay and lesbian community. There is much that could be debated about it. Following later events of Banky, it is even more interesting to look back on his role in this film. "},{"Title":"The best in love is kinda complex genre!!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This might just be a hallmark in the history of love stories ever made till date. I find myself at a loss of words when it comes to describe the sheer brilliance with which this beautifully written script was adapted for the screen.Not your usual head-over-heels romantic drama here as this movie taps uncharted waters along the way to properly define the meaning of love in a way you have not imagined in your wildest dreams. It talks about love not being about a gay or straight thing but about finding someone who you actually connect with but it doesn't stop just there because it depicts our real life love turbulence remarkably well when a small mistake makes you the next one in a long line of folks CHASING AMY.A silent clap to the writers, the guys who wrote the screenplay and the dialog's; gentlemen you deserve nothing less than knighthood if only I had it my way. The director could have worked slightly better with filming some shots(especially the one shot from the backseat of the car when Holden is driving Amy to her place). On the acting front I believe Alyssa(Joey Lauren Adams) could have used a little more of those things called expressions while improvising a bit more on her screaming abilities. Ben Affleck hits the ball right out of the ballpark for his sublime and subtle portrayal of Holden Mcneil; the average American self absorbed/egoistic guy as compared to a rather dull performance by his on screen contemporary Jason Lee playing his(I just found out i am gay) best friend Banky Edwards. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Kevin Smith writing","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) are New Jersey lifelong best friends who co-author their comic 'Bluntman and Chronic'. Banky is a short-tempered inappropriate loudmouth. Holden meets and falls for Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams) at the Manhattan Comic-com. She writes her book 'Idiosyncratic Routine'. Then they find out that she's a lesbian. Holden becomes good friends with Alyssa. They even start dating. She gets ostracized. Banky finds out that Alyssa's high school nickname is 'Finger Cuffs' from a threesome which causes him to question their whole relationship.Kevin Smith pens hilarious, sharp, inappropriate, explicit dialog. So much of it just had me gut laughing. Banky is such a lovable Neanderthal. The exchangers between Hooper X and Banky about Archie are insanely funny. Holden and Alyssa's relationship is doing a different version of 'When Harry Met Sally'. Only he's digging at some more dangerous grounds. There are some who complained about the 'conversion' of a gay person. It's actually more about Holden's hang ups. I'd argue that he's the more juvenile. The camera work is still amateurish but Smith is going all out with his writing. "},{"Title":"Funny, insightful story of current relationship issues and their nuances.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the wittiest comedies I've seen in some time, and one that really delves into the nuances of what is normal in a modern, romantic relationship; the complexities within this realm are countered/balanced with well-timed wit and excellent acting. Not a movie soon forgotten for those who are more discerning in their choice of cinematic pieces. Probably the best performance by Ben Affleck outside of Good Will Hunting and an excellent performance by Jason Lee as well; I loved the scene where Silent Bob discusses the belated realization of appreciating what you have and then losing it, i.e. of chasing Amy, particularly because Kevin Smith drew upon - at least to some extent - his own personal experiences.I wish the ending would have gone into a bit more detail about just why Amy couldn't be with Holden...some pasts experiences require more than Kevin Smith's quote, to paraphrase just contemplation and not condemnation when entering into a serious romantic relationship; after all, we've all been places at certain moments in our lives that no one else can ever share.But a great movie by a excellent writer/director.-John Hays  "},{"Title":"Still Kevin Smith's best film","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is by far Kevin Smith's best work to date. The film truly illuminates Smith's growing talent as a filmmaker as he, for the moment, moves away from the usual dick and fart jokes and instead focuses on relationships, homosexuality, prejudice as well as a healthy dose of popular culture to boot. His writing is top notch as the witty dialogue leaps off the screen, which help make the characters and the plot more plausible. The film never once takes it's subject matter seriously, no matter how bluntly stated, which remains one of film's charm.Ben Affleck plays Holden, a comic book artist who has just made his big break creating a comic about two superhero stoners with his best friend Banky. While attending a comic book convention, Holden is introduced to Alyssa, a fellow New Jersey native looking for some prestige of her own with her fledging comic. Holden instantly becomes smitten by Alyssa as all things look good except for one problem...Alyssa turns out to be a lesbian. Undaunted Holden persues anyway and somehow persuades Alyssa to switch teams, sending the gay movement back a couple of years. After that the plot seems to take a left turn when Banky brings up some old and surprising news to which ultimately forces Holden to make a choice. The last ten minutes of the film are nothing you would expect from a date film. And for those View Askew fans, yes Jay and Silent Bob are in the film to spread some their much needed wisdom.As stated the writing is the best aspect with the performances being a close second. Jason Lee who plays Banky is short of amazing, playing the ingenious idiot of the film. Ben Affleck is...well, Ben Affleck. There are some points in the film where one tends to forget that Affleck does not exist, and is instead replaced by Holden but they are few and far between. Luckily this was a role written for Affleck which he pulls off nicely. Joey Lauren Adams who plays Alyssa gives a noteworthy performance but is out shined by the only other gay perspective in the film.Dwight Ewell plays a gay black militant comic book creator and does it with a certain flair that is all his own. It's a shame that Ewell was not used more as everything he says is golden. Although Affleck and Lee are the vets in the view askew universe, the newcomers do a nice job of fitting in and carving out a niche of their own.Chasing Amy has it's flaws, namely because of Smith's untrained eye, but at the time it was his best looking film. The screen often looks congested as the camera almost never moves and leaves no visual imprint on the audience. Instead the film relies on Smith's dialogue, which as stated before is very good but not perfect. Writing itself can only go so far as film is a visual medium and it would be nice to actually see something else instead of just people taking. All in all Chasing Amy works quite well as a film and is worth checking out if you have never seen before. This film shows the potential of Kevin Smith and is his best effort since clerks to make a quality film. Smith's later films are all note worthy additions in his library however so far none of them have matched the wit and sophistication of human emotion that Chasing Amy offers.  "}{"Title":"This is Kevin Smith's best movie. Maybe it's not most peoples favorite but it's what he's all about.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of my friends don't quite understand this movie yet and they might never. It struck a nerve with me. Everything about this film is what I love about Smith. The budget was low, the actors were up and coming, and the jokes were sharp and well developed. Smith has said Jersey Girl was a return to this form and as much as I love the guy ... it was far from it. I don't think he has another one of these in him and that's OK. I guess the family man Kevin Smith isn't the most interesting thing for people to watch when they go to the movies.View Askew fans no doubt know Jason Lee made this picture for most people. People see movies to be entertained and he was the most entertaining actor in this flick. The whole convention opening scene is hilarious but the tone shifts a little bit from there with the development of the relationships between all the characters. Ben Affleck is a better actor than he will ever get credit for and this movie put him in his best role. He can do all the action flicks he wants but this is the kind of film he shines in, that will remind people of his charm. Joey Adams' career has faded in recent years but she was right there, giving it all as Alyssa.Smith was baring his personal life in this movie for all his fans and followers to see. Chasing Amy won't make you chuckle as much as you did while watching Clerks, Mallrats or any of his other films really but it will stick with you and if you're like me you'll remember it at the most important times in your life. Don't see it expecting the Smith you've seen elsewhere and you won't be disappointed. My favorite movie ever.  "},{"Title":"More depht and in touch with reality than the earlier ones...","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by my opinion, beyond any doubt Mr. Smith`s best movie.First time I saw the film it did`nt make much sense really... but you know I was like 12 years or something. I saw it again now at the age of 20, and I gotta say you get a whole other perception of the whole thing...I have no idea how he came up with the script but it is darn good!!! And he has added a lot more sense of reality with intricate sub plots supportet with outstanding acting performances. The plot is easy to relate to (relationship problems) and grips you by the balls at times, and gives you a little squeeze here and there.  It actually gets you thinking about your own errors in your past, and maybe even about the one that got awaySo to wrap it up THE best Jersey film for now, "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy, probably the most emotional of all of Smith's (I've yet to see Jersey Girls), and amidst all the usual profanity, it pays off. Smith may not be a great director, but he is a good story teller, and probably the best man around now for one-liners, satirical, political, religious, sexual, or gaseous. Although I'm not a fan of Affleck (Every time I turn on the TV, there he is!), he is always good in Smith's movies. Again though, Jason Lee runs riot, proving to be one of the best deliverers of witty dialogue today. Joey Lauren Adams screaming her lines is extremely affecting and effective, and the movie is slightly heartbreaking, because of her performance. Bob's speech makes more sense with every failed relationship we go through, with every person we leave behind, too scared to talk to them, or commit, whatever. It makes me feel I should do something with my life. The best romantic comedy of the nineties, if it can be called a romantic comedy. Funny too. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Basically a chick-flick, saved by brief Jay and Silent Bob appearance","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? I was mostly bored to tears watching this movie. I have been on a Kevin Smith movie watching streak lately, covering Clerks, Dogma, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and Chasing Amy. In my opinion, it was Kevin Smith's attempt to make a chick-flick for the raunchy crowd. The only parts that I really found interesting was the whole comic book aspect to the movie and a glimpse into the life of the creative people who make them. But other than that, not something I'd want to see again. Jay and Silent Bob make a brief appearance, which was definitely the high point of the movie for me, after which it promptly fell back into the lull and stupor that typified my interest level in this movie. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Did you know that this is in the Drama section where I work?!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if this film fits into a genre at all, I mean it is funny but has these cute little sentimental bits with it.  I think if this film had just consisted of the speech Silent Bob gives in the restaurant to Ben Affleck over and over for 2 hours I would feel I got my moneys worth! This scene shall be memorised and go down in history the same way Withnail and I has with its drinking games. "},{"Title":"This movie ages well","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I seen part of Chasing Amy in 1998, and ended up buying the VHS.  If you have, or have not seen Clerks, and or Mallrats.  The story will have different meanings and punchlines.  I have watched this movie four times. Including last weekend.  Every time I watch it, I see something new or funny.  Although I have never found myself in any of the situations of the characters.  I can relate to them.  This film has changed the way I look at people, and the modern world.  This work of art is best if watched once a year or so.  As you age your perception of the drama will change and grow. And you'll laugh while doing it!  I demand a sequel!  "},{"Title":"I'm not a Tracer!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the third connecting movie in Kevin Smith's View Askew Universe.  Chasing Amy is basically a movie about the ups and downs two people face while trying their luck out in a relationship.  Although being a Smith movie you know it can't be quite that simple and you can expect some very interesting dialogue.  This is a classic Smith movie with a much more moderate budget than Mallrats, but the story line in this movie just blows that of Mallrats away.  Not to take anything away from Mallrats because I love that movie, but you will see the story works much better over all here than it did there.Chasing Amy delights us with the lovable performances brought to us by Jason Lee.  He plays Banky Edwards which has a good similarity to Brodie Bruce, which is who he played in Mallrats.  Although this time he finds himself working in the world of comic books rather than just being a collector and admirer.  We also get to see Ben Affleck in a much more dominant role than he played it Mallrats.  They work together on a comic book which is inspired by the lives of Jay & Silent Bob.  Once Joey Lauren Adams gets in the mix, the movie really begins and you will just love this movie.  It is full of the great colorful language and dialogue one should expect from one of Kevin's movies.  In my opinion, I would say this is the best one Kevin Smith has done so far.  The reason is because he was able to give us what we expected to see in one of his movies and add to it by building a funny/dramatic plot.  It works very well.  Thumbs up to Kevin, Scott and the whole bunch who keep us pleased by these hysterical masterpieces.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Mallrats with depth","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Chasing Amy the whole time loving the brilliant comedy and regretting the interuptions of seriousness, which I played off as  Kevin Smith merely trying to fill in the storyline. But then when the movie's various twists and turns came to an abrupt and much undesired halt I realised that now, at the conclusion of the movie, all i wanted was the seriousness to be resolved. I wanted to learn more about the storyline, I wanted to forget the comedy and see the story.A great movie, the kind that plays better the second viewing. "},{"Title":"An honest review","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie mostly only appeals to fans of viewaskew, but i am also sure that this movie makes many new askewniverse fans as well.  The plot is billed as guy falls in love with girl, girls gay but most of the movie is spent on the relationship after the gay girl falls for himThis movie is great because it doesn't have one purpose, the guy to get the girl, most of the movie is the way the relationship affects the three main character's and their lives.  Smith films are great because they don't give clear cut messages, they don't preach to you.  you're left to walk away with your own ideas on sexuality, spirituality, and life. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy 6/10","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Third in Kevin Smith's series of five `View Askew' films, Chasing Amy is probably his least funny of the ones I've seen (half of Clerks., Dogma, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back), and, although it's a better movie than the others, doesn't have that unique `Kevin Smith' film. Although this film had some, I like my crude humor just out there and said, instead of hidden underneath, subtly hinting only.After a very annoying opening credit sequence, we meet Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) in a regular Smith moment with Banky arguing with a customer at a comic convention over the correct definition of his job as an inker on a comic book; the customer just says he traces the lines. Then they meet Hooper (Dwight Ewell), who, at first, seems a lot like Chris Rock's Chaka Luther King in JASBSB, and he introduces them to Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), whom Holden instantly falls for. That is, before he finds out that Alyssa is a lesbian.Although it is an un-Smith film, Chasing Amy does have one regular Kevin Smith trait most scenes go on for too long. Smith knows when something works and something doesn't, but he obvious feels too much for his work and doesn't want to let any of it go (that's also why there are so many deleted scenes on the DVD). He should have, because it's 110 minute runtime goes on for too long, and without many funny parts in it, it loses something.However, if you take it for something else, a romantic drama, that Chasing Amy is your movie. Not only does it really evoke the feelings of the characters, it has excellent acting, leaded by Adams. Although she had to destroy her credibility two years later in Adam Sandler's Big Daddy, she's a terrific actress. Affleck, amazingly, wasn't bad, in fact, he was pretty good, and so was Lee, who've I always liked. However, Jay and Silent Bob only had one scene in Chasing Amy, and if they had been included in more scenes, it would have been funnier (maybe that's why I liked JASBSB) a lot.If you're a huge fan of Kevin Smith, you'll love Chasing Amy. If, like me, you're a casual fan, you'll think that this movie is OK but doesn't live up to the others.My rating 6/10Rated R for strong graphic sex-related dialogue, language, sexuality and drug content. "}{"Title":"smith shows more","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy was a little different turn after Kevin Smith had made a pair of films about slackers (Clerks and Mallrats), the work of writer/director Smith matured and gained critical respect with his low budget, independent comedy drama about love, sex, and the fine line between the two. Ben Alfeck (Holden), Jason Lee (Banky), and Joey Lauren Adams (Alyssa) who you have seen in Smith's films before do a great job here in this final film in the New Jersey Trilogy. The only thing I didn't like about this movie was Jay and Silent Bob weren't in this movie very much, but the movie was still a very good one without them not being around very much. If you haven't seen Chasing Amy or any of Smith's films you should. "},{"Title":"You'll never love the same way again.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Conventional has always been just the WRONG word to describe New Jersey director Kevin Smith. In the space of five films, he managed to put a fresh spin on the workplace comedy, the teen-sex movie, religion, and comic merriment and mischief as a whole. With Chasing Amy, though, Kevin accomplished something personal and beautiful. Though the film is, in reality, his love-letter to former flame Joey Lauren Adams (Alyssa Jones), his exploration of the extreme possibilities of love and relationships in the '90s has the potential to force us all to examine how we see that someone that falls asleep in our arms every night. On a cinematic note, this film boasts career-performances for its three wonderful leads Ben Affleck as the dashing-yet-perplexed Holden McNeil; the endlessly charismatic Jason Lee as his loyal-yet-conflicted Banky Edwards; and finally, Joey Lauren Adams as jaded, remorseless, unapologetically honest Alyssa Jones. It's truly a shame that after this film, Affleck's last great roles were in the remainder of the View Askew films and a little ditty about two boys and a girl in Boston called Good Will Hunting that won Mork from Ork a shiny little prize, Jason Lee was reduced to playing lovably dim idiots instead of the angst-exuding rebels of Amy and Mallrats which won him such fanfare, and Joey....well, let's just say I wasn't a fan of Big Daddy and leave it at that. In short, this is everything great that independent cinema is capable of being entertaining, edgy, thought-provoking, and almost too personal to not shine with the loving care and dedication of its creator. PS....guys, re the speech Holden gives Alyssa in the rain....DON'T. IT DOES NOT WORK. When she tells you off and gets out of the car, don't expect her to run back and kiss you. If she's running back, it could well be to kick you. Run. Run fast.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Mallrats and Dogma","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am NOT going sit here and tell you that this movie sucked. Simply because it didn't.This movie was great, a great watch. I loved it as I do all Kevin Smith movies.However, a lot of people think this is the best of the 5. I think Mallrats and Dogma were ahead of it.I think that it had potential to be funnier, but focused too much on the plot. I didn't hurt the movie, but it hurt the comic aspect of it.I gave it a 9, only because of Mallrats and Dogma "},{"Title":"Entertaining but Overly Ambitious","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, while often humorous and occasionally moving, is not really Kevin Smith's best.  While it does have some funny moments, especially with Jay and Silent Bob's appearance, it tries to depart from the typical dick and fart joke, but fails to reach the level of a compelling drama.  The film itself is a fairly straightforward commentary on dealing with a lover's past in relationships, but the normal Kevin Smith humor disrupts the flow of any meaningful message the film might otherwise have conveyed.  Even ignoring its ambivalent mood, many of the scenes intended to address truly important problems in relationships were ineffective, either being unconvincing as a result of bad acting, overly drawn-out as a result of bad directing, or just plain sappy.  On the other hand, certain scenes are reasonably convincing (if you can get over Joey Lauren Adams' voice and Ben Affleck's existence).  See it if you want neither an overboard comedy nor a serious drama.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Potential to be great...but that's it.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning minor spoiling.After watching the movie, this thought came to mind The message the movie delivers is great, but the overall execution was mediocre.The comedic aspect of the movie delivers.  I thought the comic angle, although not necessary, was a good compliment.  Jason Lee is superb, as is Dwight Ewell.  In fact, all the acting is generally good.  However, the main point to the movie, the evolution of the relationship of Holden and Alyssa, does not deliver.  Whether it's poor acting, or bad script writing, their relationship does not seem genuine.  Unfortunately, that takes away from the message the movie is trying to deliver.I'm giving it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"So much dialogue, so little to say","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Affleck, as ever, stamps his dynamic screen presence onto each and every scene he's in. He makes this film his own. He IS Holden. You can't imagine anyone else ever even daring to think about taking on this role. Well, actually, you can. In fact, you can think of hundreds of actors who could have done a better job than Benny Boy. Here he sleep-walks through a progression of snappily-scripted set pieces that scream 'MESSAGE' at you. Mr. Smith is trying to tell you something here. Think of any one of a thousand scenes in Spike Lee's back catalogue - you know the bits I'm talking about - the ones where Spike has two characters discuss the big 'issues' of the film and they do so with all the subtlety of a flying sledgehammer. And if anyone is well suited to deliver Smith's platitudes, it's Mr. Affleck. The machine- gun delivery of the dialogue (no Pinteresque pauses in this film) grates very quickly. Every character has their lengthy retorts immediately to hand every time, and they deliver them with the velocity of a Brazilian football commentator on amphetamines. Yet despite this pacy dialogue, the film drags. The sermons between Ben and the 'is she-isn't she' lesbian soon grow very tedious and we know where all this is going. Holden's 'solution' at the end of the film is as believable as the 'Best Original Screenplay' Oscar that Affleck and Damon received for 'Good Will Hunting' (I'm still in shock. I thought the Oscars had lost their capacity to amuse, depress or even interest me years ago - I was wrong). If you are in any way in touch with your sexuality; if you have experienced even the most fleeting relationship with another human being, you will surely be bemused by the comments some people have posted here stating that this film 'moved them'. It moved me too to weep that I had sat through such trite pap. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, Quite Good","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is one of those films in my opinion that gives you a look at falling for somebody only to find their secrets and how to confront it. I liked Holden (Affleck) cause of the way he feels for Alyssa, but is shocked when the truth comes out. I found Banky quite amusing for his take on romance, lesbianism and comics. For the fans out there who are romantically challenged, curious or just like comic books, then this is a film for you!!! "},{"Title":"simply the best","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll try not to spoil it, I suppose it's mostly a generation piece, kind of like another of my favorites long before called Before Sunrise, but this one is much darker, and much more realistic, and one the best movie I have seen in a long time... If you were to ask, I'd say it was the best movie I'd ever seen, but I would be biased, I can relate - it seems a really personal piece... What makes it stand out, aside from being well-written, well-acted, and just well-done, is that unlike most hollywood movies, which always have a happy ending, and what's more, resolution, all strings neatly tied up, this one more closely resembles reality, where things are just never neatly resolved, and there are seldom truly happy endings... Gripping from start to end, this is a movie you can watch over and over again, and never tire of... If you've ever loved and lost, that is...P.S. All Kevin Smith movies are awesome, and you should watch them all in order! (it'll make the most sense that way!). I have to give praise, I'm sure he'll check in eventually, and I want him to make more movies! "},{"Title":"When sexuality is a obsticle and passion and stupidity is another","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is the work of the genius Kevin Smith. I personally think this is his best movie.Its a pleasure to watch the mix between sadness, laughs, and tought fullness. This movie is perhaps not dealing with the most important issues in the society but it sure as hell is dealing with the interpersonal relation between two men and their relationship. Then the woman comes into the picture and things are changing. The case that the woman says herself to be a lesbian complicates things even more.Big up for all the characters, its a brilliant movie who is not to be seen for its message but for its content on real-life basis.  "},{"Title":"Great dialogue, well written, and thoroughly enjoyable.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film forces us to examine the way in which we think about sex and the double standards that can be associated with it. I had a hard time believing it was written by a man because the female perspective was well executed. Great dialogue, well written, and thoroughly enjoyable "}{"Title":"The voice complaints - Charlie Brown","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK - I really loved this movie, so did my wife.  I vote a 8 out of 10.What prompted me to post I have seen this movie at least 6 times, so I know it pretty well.  So given that October 31 has recently come for me, I was watching _Great Pumpkin Charlie Brown_.Yha, I know this sounds off topic - but anyone who loves Chasing Amy needs to watch the scene where Lucy is telling off Linus in the pumpkin patch.The voice of Lucy in the Lucy and Linus scene is almost identical to Alyssa's voice (Joey Lauren Adams) in her most dramatic scenes.  1)  the scene where she gives in to Holden (Ben Affleck) on the street in the rain after getting out of the car.  2) the scene after the hockey game.Some of the phrases that Lucy uses and the sounds behind them are identical to those in Chasing Amy!  Lines like all your fault (first time), what a fool I was.  The voicing of these is _identical_!I doubt that Kevin Smith did this with intention, but hard to ignore the inking references in the film.  A tribute to one of the greatest inkers of all time? "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is actually probably my favorite of all the Kevin Smith films. I think it was a great subject matter to taken on, a realistic one for a change. I actually have never been much of a Ben Affleck fan, but just loved him in this. As for the ending, I thought it was excellent, I cheered!! Seem weird? Nope, I am just sick of romance movies where everything always works out perfect and everyone lives happily ever after.... anyone with a few years behind them knows life just don't always work that way! In real life, even the best soul mates can sometimes screw things up and lose it. Someone else on here called it unrealistic, I happen to think it was one of the MOST realistic endings to a romance movie I have ever seen. And no, I am not down on love... I am happily married to the person I believe I was meant to be with... but have had relationships that could have lasted until one small thing caused it to be lost... it may seem unrealistic to some people but to many of us who have been around the block a few times, that was as realisitic as it can get! "},{"Title":"Squeeee!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't matter how good this film is, it doesn't matter how good the plot is, the acting, or the scenery. Joey Adams' voice is like an ice-cold sonic vibration in my skull. This shrill wench's squeak-speak meant I could never understand what Ben Affleck saw in her. And she was continually smug as well, much like Kevin Smith's films. "},{"Title":"I loved it till i reached the ending. (It was silly..I think they wanted it different..But it went silly)","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved it till i reached the ending. (It was silly..I think they wanted it different..But it went silly).Yeah yeah...people get bored of same endings...I agree we all want to see something different..but not silly man. Just don't so something different without making a sense of it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last night was my first Kevin Smith experience and I was disappointed. Credit goes to Smith for attempting such slippery subject matter (which he confronts with energy), but his writing style is simply too thick and dense, too writerly to succeed.  Whenever a character is asked to perform a monologue, the audience has to play catch-up, the awkward phrasing placing them outside the action.  Other users here have compared Smith with Woody Allen - understandable in that they both attempt a version of real life in terms of easily understood social conventions.  The difference is that Allen was working from cinematic templates provided by Bergman, Ford and the Marx Brothers while Smith finds his inspiration in Lucas, Spielberg and, I dunno, Ivan Reitman???  Perhaps this explains why the direction was so humorless and flat and why I cringed more than I laughed.  Still, it gets a 6 out of ten.  Not horrible, but less than I expected.   "},{"Title":"Another stupid movie for watch and forget","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't worth the time to see or remember or write anything about it. Story and characters are not even close to real people. Actors play worth high school movie club, but cinema. Go and see `Casanova di Federico Fellini' - this movie will buy back your time spent on Kevin's trash. But be prepared to look outside of US to find even a VHS. "},{"Title":"A great, funny, smart love story for each and every one of us...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy has such a combination of elements that it reaches out and grabs hold of anybody who's ever been in a relationship similiar in nature to the one expressed onscreen.. smart, funny, touching.. the kind of film that has a resonance, a power.. Now, personally, I couldn't see myself falling into the trapping Holden falls into in the film, but if I were in that situation, he came up with just the kind of 'off' solution trying to fix the situation that I could see myself coming up with.. many traits in that regard and a few others I seem to share..The best film Kevin Smith has churned out, even though all of 'em hold a special place in my heart... in order from most favorate to least is my Smith list... 1.Chasing Amy, 2. Dogma, 3. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, 4. Clerks, 5. Mallrats ... yep, that's it... Ben Affleck does his best work in this film, as the co-comicbook creater of Bluntman and Cronic.. along with the always good, Jason Lee (interesting to note I bought this and Almost Famous the bootleg cut together, which shows you opposite spectrums of Lee's performances... great comic performer who has such a presence on screen...).. Hooper-X, that guy is just great in his perfomance.. Joey Lauren Adams brings in pretty cool performance as well.. Dogma was the first film I saw from Kevin Smith, was convinced to watch it by my mom.. and I've not looked back since.. picked up Clerks on vhs, soon after followed by Chasing Amy (and now the dvd), and then Mallrats (which I learned from watching it that I'd actually seen this one years prior on TV or something.. so, in actuality, that was my first Kevin Smith experience.. even though my least favorate of the series, it has some good moments..).. "},{"Title":"the BEST relationship movie EVER!!!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why Kevin Smith was not nominated for an academy award for this movie.  He is an incredible 'real-life' movie director.  It is an extreme circumstance and an incredible situation, but it does not matter.  This movie is life.  It is unpredictable, raw and real.  I wish more movies displayed this.  I don't like Ben Affleck.  I don't necessarily like any of the other character's in this movie.  But it display's life.  Real, unpredictable and full of emotion.  Watch it.  Love it.  Watch it again. It will prompt you to think.  Any real 'Criterion Movie' should do this. It's graphic.  It's complete.  And it is this the movie that will make you think for the rest of your relationship life. "},{"Title":"Credibility","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the first I saw that showed a credible view on a heterosexual-gay relationship. I do not know too much about it, but after seeing this movie I could imagine the problems of a man who falls in love with a gay girl. He then tries a friendship with her, but in the end he has to be honest about his true feelings for her. This is all shown in roughness and complexity. Not to mention her problems in this complicated situation. And 'Amy' is such an attractive woman, that I would have the same reaction as Ben! This careful casting draws me into the movie. My only problem with this movie is the end. It seems like many movies have a problem ending, and this one is no different Ben draws a very bad, sentimental comic about the story, but no reasonable living creature would ever consider buying this! But at the same time Ben's character should be a very popular and gifted comic artist. I don't buy this. But it is of no concern for the nuance the story is being told with. Extra Jason Lee plays a very good side-kick as Ben's friend. He's funny and tragic at the same time. To end this in complete honesty I didn't think much of Ben Affleck as an actor, but by playing this part in this movie he showed his guts. Dear Ben, I apologize! "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedy Done Right!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic comedy films ever.  I usually can't stand the mushy, melodramatic antics in the vast majority of these films.  Unlike most, Chasing Amy is as funny as it is original.  This film is pretty much the only reason why I like Ben Affleck.  Jason Lee is also phenomenal. Also, what happened to Dwight Ewell?  I thought his character Hooper was pure genius.  Joey Lauren Adams voice was slightly annoying in parts, but I think she did a great job overall.  In two words, EXCELLENT MOVIE! "}{"Title":"Write and Direct what you know...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story to this was actually based on Kevin and Joeys relationship, well without her being a lesbian. But the general idea of it. A guy who is somewhat successful but never wants to leave his small town (he was even in talks for the Clerks Animated Series during this time,much like Holden) who meets a girl who is alot more experienced sexually then he is. Joey Lauren Adams speeches were perfect. Ben Affleck no only resembled Kevin but was the only person i could verbally dueling with Jason Lee. This is one of the greatest and funniest love stories of all time, and i think thats due to the fact that it was writen from Kevin Heart. "},{"Title":"Kevin Does it again!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a great film and a totally different affair to Mallrats and Clerks. I loved every minute of it and the lack of Jay and Silent Bob is forgiven just because the one scene they are in is great ( plus that scene explains the films title). Well worth seeing on it's own but I recommend seeing Clerks and Mallrats first to get some of the in jokes. "},{"Title":"Best Romance Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams go great together. Jason Lee was fantastic in this movie. The actors were very good.The script was written very well. Kevin Smith is great again! It's not as good as Dogma but it is still excellent. A VERY GOOD romantic comedy for you!  "},{"Title":"great writing makes a realistic, bittersweet love story","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, when I first saw, did not have as much impact on me as it did as I got older and went through more complicated relationships. This film is a labor of love on Kevin Smith's part more so than most films are today. The dialogue transcends Smith's usually crude comments and replaces them with witty social commentary and natural interactions between Holden and Alyssa and between Banky and Holden. This film is important to it's creator and should be viewed if you ever had problems in a relationship that are of a more serious nature. It's a wonderful examination of how we restrain ourselves of who we are allowed to love, and makes you see a bigger picture that unconditional love is not as easily attainable as we all like to believe. "},{"Title":"Greatness","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the funniest movie in the Jersey trilogy. Jason Lee is great as Banky Edwards, and is well on his way to stardom! Affleck is typical Affleck, boring. But the rest of the cast picks up for him. Its a very good movie. I highly suggest renting it. There is vulgar language, however there is thought behind the language and that is all that matters. Chasing Amy rules!  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very enjoyable movie.  The characters are weird and whacky, which might wrong-foot some viewers but we found all the performances compelling.  Plenty of other reviewers have sketched the characters and performances in detail so there seems no need to repeat the praise.In many ways it is simply a very good romantic comedy with a twist or two. Yet we found ourselves discussing issues about relationships and attitudes afterward, which we would normally only expect to do after seeing more serious drama.  That is the sign of an excellent script, which clearly this movie has.It probably won't change your life, but it is certainly capable of improving your evening or even your weekend! "},{"Title":"Sucks.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sucks. Really bad. I mean, this is one of the worst movies I've seen in a while. It seemed to me that all this movie planned to do was use bad words until the audience got sick of it. Sure, there are some meanings in it like Silent Bob's speech - nothing I haven't heard somewhere before... and better! Miss this if you feel like doing yourself justice. The only reason to see this would be to complete the stories from the other 4 movies he's made. "},{"Title":"The Darkest Romantic Comedy Ever!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy was definately one of the best films that came out of the 90's. Kevin Smiths finest along with Clerks. by far.The cast are absolutely brilliant especially Jason Lee as the whining Banky. Affleck is really good in a performance that to date is his best by far.The first half on this film is absolutley hilarious but as the film goes on the film developes a much more black dark side.WATCH THIS FILM   "},{"Title":"A good try for Kevin Smith","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A really big departure from the generation X ansgt ofClerksandMallrats,this is a quirky,Woody Allen-meets-Kevin Smith romantic comedy-drama.Holden McNeill(Ben Affleck)and Banky Edwards(Jason Lee)are two comic book hot shots in New Jersey,they booth are life long friends.After Holden meets Alyssa(Joey Lauren Adams),their lives change.Alyssa is a lesbian,after spending so much time with Holden,he falls in love with her,she gets mad for a few minutes then they kiss and fall in love.Meanwhile Banky makes menacing and crude comments about Alyssa and gays in general to Holden,which is both hilarious and sad.The movie is long,slow paced,but manages to be mildly entertaining.Unfortunately Jay and Silent Bob(Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith)are only shown during the last half of the movie.Silent Bob gives a touching,poignant speech about Chasing Amy,which should of got Academy Award-nominated.I'm a big fan of Kevin smith but this movie is just too humdrum and should of been more like the first two movies of his.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith actually went off his goofy path with Chasing Amy, the story about a guy who falls in love with a lesbian. Ben Affleck plays, Holden, a comic book artist who falls in love at first sight with Lesbian Alyssa who he has no clue that she is gay until she lays one on her ex-girlfriend Kim. Holden is crushed to know that Alyssa is gay but as time goes on, the two fall in love and during the process, Holden's best friend, Banky, starts to get jealous and starts to reveal Alyssa's past to corrupt Holden to feel inadequate because he wasn't the first man in Alyssa's life so he could feel special because she changed. The movie portrays these relationship between Holden, Banky and Alyssa and their repercussions of their actions very well. This is one of Kevin Smith's best and should not be missed! "}{"Title":"Quite wonderful","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith's finest film to date - a truly endearing, multi faceted love story which not only dispels the needless fluff that infects most mainstream romantic comedies, but does so quietly, subversively, and warmly.There are no cop-outs, no unbelievable characters or scenarios, and definately no shortage of big laughs. So many scenes scream classic that it is hard to comprehend why this doesn't make the Imdb Top 250 movies list. A deeply mature, witty and humane film; and one which deserves full scale classic status.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wouldn't say this is the best movie I've ever seen, but it's pretty good.  This movie is definitely not for everyone, but it's got some pretty good comedy in it and a pretty good story.  There is an extraordinary amount of cuss words and adult themes in the film, but if that doesn't bother you, than by all means, go ahead and check this movie out.  I think Jason Lee's character made this movie to me.  I liked his character a lot, I'm not really sure why, but I thought he was great.  Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams did a great job too, as did Dwight Ewell.  I'd never heard of Dwight Ewell before, but I thought his character was hilarious.  There isn't really much else I can say about this movie.  Make sure that you see Clerks before you see this film, there are some references that you may catch.  There may also be some references to Mallrats, but I still haven't seen it, so I'm not sure.  In case you didn't know, Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back are all written and directed by Kevin Smith (a.k.a. Silent Bob).  I hope you like the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Razzor sharp wit from Smith","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this film for one reason. Kevin Smith manages to create a Romantic comedy (God I hate using that term in context to this film) without being sentimental and girlly and at the same time avoids becoming and episode of Friends. Smith finally creates a personal story pumped full of his razzor sharp wit that is so individual to his films.Best Romantic comedy of all time razzor sharp comedy.Smith is great! "},{"Title":"I hate this movie","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  God, the writer of this film should be in a nut house. I imagine him as a mentally perverted man. Chasing Amy is a terrible movie. It starts fine. Then it gets horrifying. By the end of the movie, I really really felt like vomiting. Performances are very bad. The plot is more than laughable. Is American society similar to what is portrayed in this movie? Because if it is, I´m glad not to live there.1/10. I´d rate it a 0 if the IMDb allowed it. "},{"Title":"An exception to my rule","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw Chasing Amy on Oxygen (not the gas, the women's channel here in the 'States.) Even though it's a work of fiction, it's still nice to think that men can fall for lesbians, just as women fall for gay men (more often than I care to admit).Ben Affleck is not my favorite actor, but when the conditions are right (i.e., if he's working with Matt Damon, if he's being directed by Kevin Smith), he's surprisingly good.  "},{"Title":"A couple of mild spoilers below","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange film.  I admire it more than I like it, and I'm a little surprised I like it at all, since although it struck a chord for many other male viewers, it struck none for me.  Basic story Holden falls deeply in love with a lesbian and they even end up getting together, but the instant she's his, he's made so uncomfortable by her sexually adventurous past that he ends up destroying the relationship.  It's like an episode of Seinfeld, in which George breaks up with some gorgeous woman (usually a far better catch than he is) because of her taste in bras, or the way she pronounces the word sushi.  Holden's psychology is alien to me.  I can imagine myself being equally stupid, or just as much of a jerk, in other ways, but not in this particular one; I don't see how I could bring myself to care about Alyssa's past promiscuity if I tried.But to each his own this is clearly Smith's most heartfelt film, and you don't have to share his concerns to find them compelling, at least when they're presented with such raw sincerity.  It may even be Smith's BEST film.  It and Mallrats are the only two he's made that are at all well crafted; in Chasing Amy, Smith even begins to show some visual sense, for the first and (to date) last time in his career.  (That panning shot in the rain is real, honest-to-God CINEMA; it's a relief to see camerawork in a Smith films that needs no excuses.)  And his speeches, longer than ever, really are speeches - not mere rants, as they are in his weaker films, and what rants there are are used to good effect.  It's during the speeches, in fact, that most of the action takes place.A few things ring false.  Holden talks about taking the relationship to the next level so often you begin to think he's playing Dungeons and Dragons. Banky's intense jealousy of Holden's new girlfriend is no evidence at all that he's gay - what's more, I suspect that Smith isn't convinced on this point either, and that he only went along with the Freudian hogwash about all jealousy being sexual jealousy in order not to appear naïve. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best film to date","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The more I watch his films(and I wasn't a fan originally when Clerks was released, but I've come around), the more I think this wonderful comedy will be remembered as the best film of his career. His heart's more clearly in this picture than in any of hs other pictures, and this film best captures his ability to blend the thoughtful with the vulgar until you realize they're really part of the same thing. Not many comedy writers, once they've set up a classic screwball premise, have the guts to follow it through to its inevitable conclusion. Smith, in Chasing Amy, does, and it's a beautiful thing. "},{"Title":"Great Smith film","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I don't see Chasing Amy as the best View Askew movie it is very good. The main problem of the movie is that in a few scenes it takes a little long for the story to develop, but other than that, there's not much negative to be said about this flick. Smith has a talent for writing witty and sharp dialogue, and he uses this ability extraordinarily in this film. Ben Affleck's and Jason Lee's performances are really great, and you get the feeling these two has been friends all their life. They work great as this comic drawing couple of friends, although Jason Lee's characters is rather offended when a comic fan tells him that he is only a tracer. Joey Lauren Adams is also great as Alyssa, and the development of her and Affleck's relationship in the movie is interesting and worthwhile to follow. The film is essentially a sweet, comedy, about the more awkward relationships we might enter and experience when our love is not of the more ordinary kind. Great movie, with a great cast, directed beautifully by Smith as always. "},{"Title":"Another great lesson in life slapped on the silver screen.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is definitely not your usual Hollywood rubbish ( you know, those films that are made purely for profit, not wisdom ). No doubt that the story was a little left of centre ( especially for a sheltered individual such as I ), but the plot itself holds pertinence for every person thats ever fallen in love sometimes you only get one real shot so be very careful you don't blow it, and I think this film portrays that perfectly; what with Holden and his sudden dose of moral bulls**t, I think is a lesson for every bozo out there that has been or is ruled by there libido stop thinking through your crutches and get a life.SpoilerI believe the part where Alyssa gives Holden both barrels after he interrogates her is about as fine a performance as you or I will be lucky to see.8 out of 10. Great acting by all.     "},{"Title":"Possibly Kevin Smith's best work","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith has made two wonderful films (Clerks, Dogma) and two simply above-average movies (Mallrats, Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back). Chasing Amy, while fitting into the whole Jersey Films story line, is a film quite unlike the others.Chasing Amy is, simply, a movie about the barriers that exist between people that prevent them from ending up with a happily-ever-after. At its core, the film is about the relationships we form and how those relationships fail. It is not just about the relationship between Ben Afflack and Joey Lauren Adams (both of whom are marvelous on screen), but about the futility of Chasing Amy, a phantom who simply doesn't exist. She is the bunch of grapes above Tantalus's head. Amy is the goal that is forever out of reach.The beauty of Chasing Amy is that somehow this is a hopeful message.It's silly to rank this film amongst the other Jersey films it is simply too different. Of Smith's films though it is right with Dogma as the most enjoyable. "}{"Title":"A great unique romantic comedy but not without flaws","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, this film is damn good.  The chemistry between Affleck and Adams is noticable from the first time they meet (I almost thought they were dating during the making of this film rather than her and Kevin Smith).  They both also put in excellent performances where you really feel the emotions they are pouring out (a little bit too much at times, admittedly).  Jason Lee is also very good as the third wheel who cant stand to see his childhood buddy moving on.  Jay and Silent Bob make a small cameo near the end that is perfectly suited to their styles - Mewes being his same hilarious nasty self while Smith again puts all of it into perspective for us (much like he did at the end of Clerks with the lasagna line).  This movie works and says more about relationships in the 90s than a thousand episodes of Friends.***********SPOILERS ALERT**********SPOILERS ALERT************My only real beef with this film is near the end.  The whole scene where Holden gets Banky and Alyssa together to suggest a menage a trois as a means of solving their love triangle is more than a bit far-fetched.  I almost thought Smith was going to use this as a way to show them both how he felt about them and how they should all work it out (as a facetious joke perhaps) but Holden is actually serious.  This is where the movie breaks down and loses its authenticity.  The hanging ending which everyone in the audience seems to be kinda irked at (most everyone is rooting for Holden and Alyssa to get it worked out) is actually pretty on-the-money in terms of realism. A lot of times the good guy doesn't get the girl and they all just move on and learn from the lesson.  But the menage a trois part just rubbed me as being ill-fitted for what is otherwise a great film.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is mesmerizing.  The acting is also superb.  This movie demonstrates the myriad feelings people have and how they can't hide them.  Chasing Amy also explains what happens to people when they allow their feelings to control their thoughts and actions.  Smith is a superb directer who also reveals how people react to their sexual needs.  Next to Good Will Hunting this is Ben Affleck's best role .  I recommend this to anyone who loves movies. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great start, crash & burn ending","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Note some spoilersOh my Gawd, how can such a well crafted movie just fall apart at the end? I got hooked on Kevin Smith after seeing Clerks, one of the funniest and most original movies ever. This was followed by Mallrats which isn't quite as good, but still better than at least 95% of the other teenage/young adult comedies out there. Then came Chasing Amy. For the first hour of this film, it was an absolute delight. It explores the budding romance between Holden, a comic book artist, and Alyssa, who also does a comic book, and who has some secrets regarding her sex life. There are a number of scenes that are just classic, most notably the bar scene, in which Alyssa belts out a bluesy love song, only Holden finds out it's not him it's directed at, but rather someone named Kim. Later, the gang find themselves at a bar comparing love injuries in a scene stolen straight out of Jaws. As things progress, Holden and Alyssa find themselves thoroughly enjoying each other's company, yet Holden realizes his feelings go beyond mere friendship. About halfway though the film, he works up the courage to finally tell Alyssa the truth, that he's in love with her. This scene plays out beautifully, he pours his heart out, and initially seems to crash and burn, but then it all works out. Kevin Smith builds the tension up perfectly, then releases it as the two fall into each other's arms. And, to be honest, it's not just Holden who falls for Alyssa, she is so adorable and full of life that it's tough for anyone not to. Kudos to Joey Lauren Adams (who was also featured in Mallrats) for creating such an appealing character. But then comes the Big Split. Holden's partner, Banky, has been skeptical of this relationship from Day One. The two guys have been friends since grade school and he's afraid this love interest will ruin their relationship, both as friends and as comic artists. He digs around, and discovers that Alyssa got the high school nickname Finger Cuffs as a result of a romp with two boys. When Holden confronts her with this, she admits it is true, and that leads to a huge fight between them. Which, quite frankly, I find hard to buy. After all, Holden has watched her passionately kiss another girl, he knows she's far from being a babe in the woods, yet a single episode from ten years earlier is driving him insane, causing him to risk ruining an otherwise wonderful love affair. I mean, he's basically a modern guy, sensitive, tolerant, and at least semi-sophisticated, so his freaking out just seems totally out of character.But the absolute worst is his solution to this problem. His fix? He gets both Banky and Alyssa in the same room, then proposes, Let's all have sex. I mean, reach for the barf bags! Banky and Alyssa both react like they've just been caught in a permanent nightmare, as well, they should. Kevin Smith, what were you THINKING??!?! Needless to say, everything falls apart, and Holden ends up losing both Alyssa and his best friend. This has got to be one of the most bizarre, unsatisfying endings to an otherwise first rate film I have ever seen. How does a sweet romance, albeit with a bit of a twist, end up like THIS? It's not as if I want every movie to end up on a picture perfect Disney type note, but this was just horrible.  "},{"Title":"Simply put, the best Romantic Comedy ever","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, I know what you're thinking (as clichéd as that sounds)I'm a guy. I don't watch no 'romantic comedies'. Those are chick flicks.And to be honest, I generally think the same thing. You want to talk about a romantic joke? Lets talk about my love life.But this is the movie that proves the exception to the rule, and the very fact that Kevin Smith wrote and directed it should send up the white flag from even the stoutest and most stubborn of manly men. Chasing Amy is sometimes crude, sometimes serious, and almost always funny. Take the lewd humor from Clerks, toss in a lesbian, a lovestruck comicbook artist and, of course, Jay and Silent Bob, and you've got a funny and genuinely touching movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of Kevin Smiths more serouis movies, and its not a bad attempt at all to be honest. It tries to twist a concept which people seem stuck in stone on. It takes a lesbian women, and allows her to fall in love with a str8 man when most people actually think its vice versa and that your sexuality is actually ingrained in Stone when its not. The most truthful line i've ever heard was in this movie and it has kinda shaped my view on things, its not who you love, its how believe that and you will believe anything.This movie tackles certain elements which most mainstream movies don't like to, like parts of lesbian and gay culture and also the reaction to a str8 man loving a gay women, and in this case, she is not some blonde haired/blue eyed bimbo, she's just a normal girl with a past, and fortuantly, a past which she's not ashamed off.Watch this movie with a box of kleenexs by your side girls, and also make sure that the man uses this when he starts drooling, but a word of advice also, make sure you tie him down (esp if thats your thing!) this movie doesn't end on a atypical note, it ends on quite a obscure note at that, AND i was quite surprised with (and also happy) girls will love and understand this ending, on the other hand the guys will just want to go get another beer ( Str8 men huh? I'm just glad they're useful for ONE thing... "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, AWFUL","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hmmm, I won't waste much of my breath on this one.  If you're into painfully awkward overacting, the most misplaced, half-witted sort of humour known to man, and dialogues that are meant to be snappy and clever but are actually just plain stupid, this is exactly what you're looking for. If, however, you have any hint of taste AT ALL, you better avoid this annoying turd.  It's for your own good.  Oh, and to everyone who compares Kevin Smith's screenwriting skills to Quentin Tarantino's throwing in a f**k or a b*tch every two words is NOT the same thing as writing brilliant, witty dialogues. In one word awful. "},{"Title":"Cheaply made excellent talkie","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This small film first attracted me because I saw Joey Lauren Adams on the box, and she wasn't that well known at the time. I thought an 18 rated film with her in was bound to have nudity in. In a remarkable turn of events, I remain so glad to have been wrong its almost unreal. This is the film which started me on the long road to purchasing all things Kevin Smith, and its still as fresh to me, as the day I bought it. Guy falls for girl and something weird happens has been done to death, but you don't care, because the strength of all the characters makes you forget you're watching a film, and you just let it run (like all good films should make you feel). Repeated viewing ensures you pick all the class one-liners, Jason Lee is a star and even if you don't like Ben Affleck, he doesn't play Ben Affleck here.There's a theory that this films is saying every lesbian needs that one perfect guy, be that as it may, this is a great film, and the ending doesn't sell you out. Watch it for dialogue, humour, good acting and emotion. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The lives of two successful comic book artists go awry when one of them falls in love with a charismatic lesbian named Alyssa Jones.  This high-grossing, award winning indie film is the third and probably the most serious entry in Kevin Smith's New Jersey quintet.  While still maintaining Smith's wonderful trademark humor, it also succeeds in making many valid points about today's society and its one-sided views on homosexuality, sexual curiosity, experimental sex, and racism.  Apart from being a side-splitting comedy and a thoughtful observational piece, this film also serves as a heart-breaking and beautifully written love story told through the hauntingly convincing performances of Joey Lauren Adams and Ben Affleck. Trust me, you don't want to miss this film.  Jay and Silent Bob reprise their roles from the previous two films (Clerks and Mallrats), but they only have about ten minutes worth of screen time here. "},{"Title":"Pretty Enjoyable","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Possibly a spoiler ahead*I haven't seen Clerks but I did get to see Mallrats and found Jay and Silent Bob two of the funniest characters since Wayne and Garth (Wayne's World).  I wanted to see more of them so I decided to watch this movie that didn't disappoint.  Okay Jay and Silent Bob weren't it much andyou have to wait a good while for them to ome along but the film itself gives a proper story line, an excellent scriptand a sense that this is a mature side of Kevin Smith. Well done to him. A bad point is that it drags on a bit and doesn't give a completelysatisfactory ending but the film does keep you entertained and interested for the whole movie.*** 3 stars. "},{"Title":"Smith Goes Soft For A Favorable Change","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** So far in Kevin Smith's film career, `Chasing Amy' is his `Driving Miss Daisy' of movie achievements.  He went from sardonic, sophomoric comedy to earthly, emotional realism, putting forth an intensely magnified story of sexuality and the fragile boundaries of love.  His writing maturated into a tale well told involving common debate ground for customary issues, the ongoing battle of the sexes and the dire consequences of traversing to the other side of our ironclad gender coalitions.The ill-fated tale begins with two twenty-somethings working together on their well-renowned comic book `Bluntman and Chronic'.  Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) and Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) are lifelong friends, and what better way to spoil their friendship than to bring a woman into the picture. Enter Hooper X, the author of a pro-black comic with a pronounced hedonistic and riotous reputation that belies his true nature he's as flamboyantly gay as they come.  Hooper X is stereotypically but nonetheless hilariously portrayed by talented beau Dwight Ewell.  He garners most of the laughs in this film to keep Smith's deeply emotive content from getting too serious. He acquaints a fellow comrade from the gay community to Banky and Holden at a comic book convention, unbeknownst to three of them that this mere introduction is the beginning of a whirlwind of emotional conflict.The name of the whirlwind is Alyssa Jones, and upon their first meeting, Holden is on a mission to claim her.  It's not until he and his wisecracking companion are invited to an outing at a gay bar does Holden realize Alyssa is a bona fide lesbian and his conquest for a breathless fling is shattered. Unfettered by her conspicuous sexual agenda, Alyssa pursues a warm and trusting friendship with Holden, spending time with him over the months, generally palling around and having a good time.  After a stretch, Holden recognizes that his feelings for Alyssa are beyond platonic, and this is the point in the movie when everything straight becomes askew (no pun intended).Banky consistently intercedes, knowledgeable of Holden's threshold of tolerance for relationships.  He advises him that his newfound adoration will not have a pretty ending, but Holden and Alyssa are bull-headedly driven by their honest affections and defy the odds, including the coarse rebuff from her once-loyal lesbian clique.  Eventually, provided the impossible circumstances and Banky's mistrust for Alyssa's sordid past, their relationship unravels and abruptly ends over a heated argument and a woeful awareness of the impossibility of their happiness.Smith's writing and direction is in top form in his third installment of young adult films, reprising his references to notorious characters of the past, including Alyssa Jones herself, Brandy Spenning, and the unintended necrophiliac Caitlin Bree.  He ties all of his stories together closely, showing us what a small world it is, especially in New Jersey.  It also comes as no surprise that Joey Lauren Adams was entitled to the lead role, being Kevin's girl and all (at the time).  She actually proved to be a greater actress than I thought, amidst her nasal screaming and profane dialogue.  Jason Lee has gotten better over the years, but it's like he's going back to his Brody routine with all the endless diatribes he goes on. His character is witty, but Smith is stereotyping his acting ability every step of the way by always making him the sideman.  Jason Mewes is much improved here, abating his hyperactive methodology for a more subdued and genuine disposition.  Smith even poked fun at his own work by mocking the ridiculous `Snootchy Bootchie' dialect that Mewes popularized.  A lot of the actor's lines are Smith's self-effacing humor, and they clash perfectly amongst the love and heartbreak of the movie.Lastly, we have Ben Affleck as the sensitive chap, a warm and welcome presence after the total slimeball he played in Smith's horror of a screenplay `Mallrats'.  That material was well beneath him, and thank God Smith made it up to him by offering him the part of Holden.  Ben is obviously the diamond in the rough here, fine-tuning the level of interest in the audience with his natural-born charisma.  Let's face it this man is gorgeous, a head-turner.  There's no way you can take your eyes off him, nor ignore that beautiful smile.  He was perfect for this part and made you feel for him every step of the way.  Women will watch this film and wonder, `Where the hell can I find a man like THAT?!!?'To sum all the parts, this is a very worthwhile film and can touch a lot of people, especially if they've loved and lost for whatever reason at some point in their lives.  This is far from cinematic genius and I don't think Smith will ever be capable of creating a masterpiece, but his raw sincerity and whole-hearted approach is meaningful and direct.  That alone is enough to help one gain a new or amended perspective of life, love and art. "}{"Title":"I didn't really like it","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Smith fans are either gonna be put off or happy with Kev's 1997 film, one that deals with sexuality and gets a little too bogged down for my tastes. That doesn't mean Amy doesn't have moments. It's just a tad melodramatic for a Smith film. Dogma more than makes up for it, though.               7/10    "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith done right","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok...Clerks annoyed me.I understand why Clerks is so renown, why it rocketed Kevin Smith to stardom, why it initiated a trilogy that is the staple of many college movie collections.  It was among a very small breed of dialogue-based films.  It made clever use of intertitles.  It was even smartly existential in its own way.  But it annoyed me.  The acting was headache-inspiring in spots (check Dante's girlfriend..) and people who are impressed by it because it was shot in black and white (and they are out there) deserve a smack.  In general, I was unimpressed.Ditto for Mallrats.  I don't think I stand alone on that one.But Chasing Amy finally brought some class to Jersey...and as a Philadelphia-area native, I know that's tough to do.  Once you get over 2 things- Joey Lauren Adams' voice and Ben Affleck's goatee- you'll find a really great modern love story tangled up in there.  Not to be missed is Jason Lee's fantastic performance as the oft-angry, latently-homosexual Banky.  And Hooper X, the effeminate gay black man (minority in a minority) with the Black Panther public image, is one of the best characters I've seen on film.  Oh, and watch the heart-wrenching scene outside the hockey game.  Adams is absolutely wonderful in her role.You know, Affleck's a big star now (so's Damon...you've got to see his cameo in this), but he doesn't forget his friends.  Which is why he reprised Holden MacNeil in Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back.  I also tend to think it was just a great character for him.  His performance in Amy is better than in Armageddon.  Honest.Kevin Smith got it right in Chasing Amy.  He even delivered a monologue in it.  There's nothing remotely irritable  in this movie (I'm overlooking the very end, naturally).  But a flick about comics, lesbians, and skee ball that isn't touting the glories of corn nuts is fine by me.And Best Opening Music Ever. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is famous for his Jay and Silent Bob characters and infamous for dick and fart jokes. However, Smith takes a step away from all that in this highly moving and personal story. The two most obvious themes that run throughout all his movies are J&SB and his compelling dialog. While J&SB's appearance in this flick is crucial (and of course hands down one of the funniest in the entire film), it is Smith's ability to write dialog that keeps this movie riveting and thought provoking. I believe it is this film, and the equally as intriguing Dogma, that will catapult Smith into the non-View Askew movie universe as a highly versatile writer and director. "},{"Title":"The Lag Was Felt","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loved it.  Brilliant with a 'real' depth of culture shock.  But it left me with a lag.  I will never rent this movie or own it until I see these two united in some scene somewhere in the future.  You can't leave us hangin like that for long and it's been four years. It was well written and deserves a sequel so...  we're waiting. Don't let us down(cause I really wanna watch it again knowing they hook up). "},{"Title":"Warm, funny and poignant","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The third chapter in Kevin Smith's New Jersey trilogy (following Clerks and the underrated Mallrats) sees the young writer/ director come of age. The dialogue is still laugh-out-loud funny and the content often crude but here Smith gives us a little something more. Chasing Amy is as surprising as it is touching, as funny as it is convincing. It is all of those and much, much more. The big plus the picture has going for it is that the whole thing feels so truthful (i.e. love does hurt). The performances are perfectly judged, in particular the lead trio Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams are all faultless. The return to low budget is also a great help, it gives the film the realism that makes it all so believable. Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Smith himself) return (albeit briefly) in a surprisingly touching scene, and the ending is smart and honest. A fine film. "},{"Title":"Why all the negative reviews?!?","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  REVIEW CHASING AMY **** out of ****The best movie of 1997, a great year for films, was Kevin Smith's second best film! His characters talk, talk, talk, talk about various things (mostly sex) and it is all painfully honest. This isn't Shakespeare, this is a romantic comedy and a non-cliched one at that! I can't believe all these negative reviews! It's a disgrace! "},{"Title":"Bi-sexuality for dummies","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some movies are about the way they look. This one looks like a school play (like all of Smith's movies), but it has something to say (like most of Smith's movies) about the ever fluid border between `accepted' and `unacceptable' in love and in sex. It's all in your mind, Mr. Tweedy.10/10 for clever monologues + 5/10 for poor acting = 8/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having recently head of Kevin Smith, via the movie Dogma, I wanted to watch his other movies. So I decided to watch this movie. Not knowing the plot very well, I was hoping for jokes galore and hillarious antics. However, what i did discover was a romantic chick flick, which to me was a bit disappointing. Having seen Dogma, and finding how hillarious it was, I was hoping much of the same in this movie. Dont get me wrong, there was some hillarious parts in this movie. 1)The theory that Star Wars was racist. 2) Any lines that was uttered by the comic genius Jason Lee. 3) Jay dumb and stupid one liners about sex. However it was too romantic, and that was not the only bad part of it. Joey Lauren Adams voice really irrated me, and the concept of Silent Bob being silent was broken when he explained to Ben Affleck his love problem. This is a disappointing movie but it aint all too bad.      "},{"Title":"How would Bogart have handled Alkyssa?","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mostly fascinating and humorous meander through the recent romantic comedy with bite territory.  This film overcomes an unpromising scenario (2 overgrown schoolboys writing comic books for a living - deeply meaningful stuff) and some acting limitations (Affleck's rather wooden performance and Adams' annoying shriekings), to draw you in and release you at its end to the wide world with a few fresh perspectives on life, love and gender.  This has to be down to the creativity of its young director, the amazing almost unbelievably good dialogue and some truly memorable characters (Lee (especially), Ewell, Mewes and Kevin Smith himself).So smart, sassy and sexy is this film that it's like a new window on a hardly familiar world.  Time and again, the dialogues are so cool, fast and funny I'm left amazed.  How could anybody (let alone everybody in the movie) have a quick enough brain to talk hip-perfect all the time?  I guess that could be the reason their speech is peppered with profanity - using it so liberally gives their brains a fraction more time to think of the exactly correct jargon for what they want to say.This film makes me feel old (30s).  What a difference a few decades make!  What would the likes of Bogart, Wayne or Eastwood have made of a young woman like Alyssa, smart talking, foul-mouthed, sexually ambivalent and voracious?  Would she have stirred their unshakeable masculinity?  How would they have handled her?  A lot differently from Affleck, I feel sure.  (Maybe there's an idea for a new comedy there)One minor quibble - like so many 90s films this one shows virtually all the characters smoking throughout.  Why is that necessary?  It's not realistic (smoking rates are like 25% rather than 90%), and its more likely to harm health than any amount of sexual experimentation.  Overall, though, a good thought-provoking film.  "},{"Title":"Erm... is it saying to be 'conventional' is good?","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I'm reading *way* too much into a Kevin Smith movie, but isn't it very Forrest Gump-esque in the way it seems to suggest that doing 'normal' things is good but doing 'unconventional' things will come back to haunt you in the end? Which seems to be a very interesting thing to suggest especially since Kevin Smith's movies are hardly conventional...Oh, and Affleck's 'solution' to his problems is totally ridiculous. I just can't buy it! "}{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is perfect.  It's a brilliant mix of comedy and drama.  The writing is fantastic, and the acting is really good.  I've watched this movie so many times, and the director's commentary of it at least twice.  There are the obvious references to Mallrats and Clerks, but if you haven't seen those or don't like them, the movie works anyway.  I'd reccomend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Good funny take no prisoners hetero-lesbian love story.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great Film, Jason Lee and Joey Adams are spectacular in their roles. Kevin Smith did a great job at making the film not just totally about love, or totally about comedy. I wouldn't call this a chickflick romantic comedy because the subject matter is just so much more original. The only downpoint of the entire movie, is Jay and Silent Bob's appearance, its only 10 minutes. But don't miss this film Its a keeper. "},{"Title":"i liked ben affleck, but the movie itself was not that funny, even with the help of comic sensation jason lee.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  when renting this movie, i was expecting something close to the same kind of movie mallrats was. After all, 4 main characters from mall rats are in this. (ben affleck, jason lee, jason mewes,who plays his part as jay very well, and kevin smith, who i liked a lot in this movie and mallrats.) it was more of a drama. and joey lauren adams, please, she is terrible. now i cant be too hard on kevin smith, he does work on a low budget. not his best work all the same. and ben affleck, this is his best performance ever. (probably) overall it was a pleasure to watch though. 6/10 "},{"Title":"not his best movie","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is my favorite comedy director, and my third favorite director, but this kind of sucked. It was trying to be more main stream. Now don't get me wrong, I like some main stream movies, but not a movie of this type or from Kevin Smith. It was also a little to dramatic. There were plenty of good jokes, but I thought it might be building to something, but it really failed to do so. I just like this movie for the jokes. There were a lot of good ones, that I think were able to make this pretty enjoyable. This is not a movie I would like to watch a lot, because it didn't really do anything, but I laughed at it, and that's why I rented it, so I suppose it was alright. Watch it if you have seen all of Smith's others, but if you have a choice between this or one of one of Kevin Smith's others you haven't seen, pick one of the others. "},{"Title":"Chase this one down.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the only romantic comedy I like, with good reason it's not sappy. It's chock full of Kevin Smith comedy (weird interpritations about modern comics and pop culture) along with very graphic discussions about sex, which is the seasoning for this very good film about relationships. Affleck and Lee play perfectly believable roles, Affleck being the lead, and Lee being the secondary. Joey Lauren Adams, is extremely believable as the girl you can't help but like (and for all you people who say that her voice is annoying, I have no clue what you are talking about, I think it's cute & sexy, besides it's not like she can help it). And for those who complain that it's about a lesbians going strait when they find the right guy, I think anybody with half a brain can find out she's bisexual, she had just been on a chick stint for a while. And for those who have a problem with the profanity, loosen up, they're just words!WARNING-POSSIBLE SPOILERS I think the ending made this flick great, if it had been directed by the modern cruddy director, it would have had a sappy predictable ending, but this one is very realistic, and left me more than satisfied.  "},{"Title":"Great sophmoric humor woven into a touching love story","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can enjoy sophmoric humor just for the sake of it as it brings out that junior high buried inside me.  But without a basic story, as in Mallrats, things can get a little boring at times.  By contrast, Chasing Amy is a great flick using an unorthodox love story as the background for the humor. This really keeps the movie interesting on both levels and I enjoyed it thoroughly. Even though I watched the trilogy (Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy) out of order, this is my favorite to date. After Chasing, Dogma is Smith's  best.  If you liked any of his films a little bit, then you should love this one; I did.   "},{"Title":"The second best View Askew flick","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Chasing Amy my jaw dropped. The flim had heart and made you think about love and where it takes you. The plot revolves around Holden( the excellent Ben Affleck) who along with his sidekick Banky (the also excellent Jason Lee) have a comic called BluntMan and Chronic. When Holden falls for Alyssa Jones it therants their realtionship. This storyline is played out excellent by the cast and each cast memeber has a scene stealing line. The best two scenes are at the comic convention with Hooper X and the apperance of Jay and Silent Bob. Rent this flick along with Dogma for a great night. "},{"Title":"Not for the homophobic, but they should watch, anyway...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, let me say that I claim no expertise on the issue(s) of sexual orientation.However, for those who say that the female protagonist in this flick is a lesbian, I would presume to say that bisexual is a better description of the character's orientation.SPOILER ALERTI did like the way it turned out. That part was quite plausible, especially given the jealous nature of the Affleck character.This movie should be required viewing for everyone who believes that homosexuals are made and not born... "},{"Title":"The usual Smith ups and downs","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I am a fan of Clerks from way back when, I only recently started watching some of Kevin Smith's other films. After seeing Dogma a couple of weeks ago (original but flawed IMHO) I decided to check this film out.I was pleasantly surprised for the most part. I found Chasing Amy to have a good blend of humor (mostly from Banky and the black comic book artist) and a pretty touching romance story with Affleck and Adams.POSSIBLE SPOILERS For all the people griping about the tenuous sexual orientation of Alyssa's character, I found it realistic. (In fact, had a friend who was a committed lesbian who fell in love with a man. It does happen...) She's a sexually adventurous girl who's looking for an emotional connection in a lover, which she finds in Affleck's Holden. I thought the two scenes where Holden tells her he loves her and Alyssa's confrontation outside the hockey rink were excellently written and acted (save for the melodramatic rain). People complain about Adams's voice, but I was blown away by her delivery in the hockey rink scene.But the problem for me is that Alyssa's lesbianism isn't really important to the picture, yet it takes up much of the early story. Essentially, this is a story about a) how men have difficulty coping with the sexual histories of their girlfriends/spouses and b) the affect of love on your other friendships. While her sexual orientation sets up some early conflict, at the end of the movie it seemed...unnecessary.I also had a big problem with Holden's solution at the end. Alyssa's reaction was in keeping with her character, but Banky's was totally out of his character. Even if he had those feelings, he would have thought Holden was out of his mind and told him so. However, I did like the epilogue at the end -- a nice, warm touch without being too Hollywood.Finally, it amazes me how Kevin Smith can have such an amazing ear for dialog at times and then inject these ridiculous monologues into all of his movies. Sometimes they work (Randall's segue on the Death Star in Clerks being a perfect example), but most of the ones here fell a little flat.Anyway, I'm at least entertained by Smith's work, so it's off to rent Mallrats.BTW, if you haven't seen Chasing Amy on DVD, it's worth seeing the Criterion edition for the extras. Some very interesting stuff. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully ridiculous plot","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I disagree with all those people who complain that Chasing Amy is about lesbians being straightened out...  I did not see it that way at all. It's about a bisexual woman figuring out her identity.  Hey, it happens. In a world where you are supposed to be either straight or gay, some people DO go from one extreme to the other before realizing that they can be attracted to either sex.  And for Pete's sake, this is ONE woman being portrayed, it's not supposed to be everyone is it??The acting was pretty bad in spots, the characters tended to suddenly jump into philosophical monologues that just didn't sound like real conversation, and as I mentioned Joey Adams' voice is grating, but I really liked this movie.  The plot became wonderfully ridiculous, and the side characters were great fun. "}{"Title":"Kevin Smith + Lesbians= a Kevin Smith movie with lesbians!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit at the time I saw this (early 98 would have seen it sooner if not for the damn junkie at the video store) I had pretty high expectations as by the point I was a full fledged View Askew fanatic. And while chances are my review here will mean very little in your decision to see this, I gotta say it the first time I saw it I was disappointed. The performances where solid all around from Affleck (who's I've grown to appreciate more in movies), Addams, Lee and others and there where some classic scenes but the biggest problem with me at the time lay in the last of the movie which falls into melodrama and just didn't do anything beyond that. Being such a fan of Mallrats and Clerks I was a little annoyed having to see Joey Lauren Addams cry very badly several times in the movie and the downbeat ending. All in all I was somewhat crushed by the movie and vowed to erase it from my memory forever.Three years later, with a better view of things I sat down and watched it again. This time I ended up enjoying the movie as a whole and appreciating the personal story thing. Joey's terribly unbelievable crying is still pretty damn annoying but overall this is a great movie. The movie still has that typical Smith dialogue and arguments about things like the sex lives of Archie characters and lesbians (This makes up for a lot of dialouge) just not as much as Clerks and Mallrats and that was another problem, expecting more of the same and rejecting the movie when it didn't have more of the same. The ending was the other thing I liked more after another viewing. Sure, it's not the kind of ending you want but it has a real quality to it and in the end, you have a feeling that there will be your happy ending you just wont see it on screen.I can see I'm babbling here so let me say this, Chasing Amy is a good movie. It features excellent acting from everyone involved as they create likeable and believable characters, some must-see cameos, and a original story that deserves a good look from both casual flick viewers and View Askew types. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie left me absolutely dumbfounded the first time I saw it. Halfway through I was wondering why everyone kept calling it a comedy because things weren't looking so bright. But I kept watching, and it became one of my favorite movies. The writing was incredible, as was the acting; this movie had been so underrated when it was out in theatres! It's a realistic story, and it unfolds full of all the emotions that come with love and a relationship in the real world. It truly lives up to its tagline that it tells it like it feels.  "},{"Title":"Decent film with Cultish following.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The star of this show is Jason Lee, who plays the side-kick to Ben Affleck's lead.  Ben offers the least strong performance, asking the viewer to read much into an opened mouthed blank stare. Joey Lauren Adams, who plays the powerful romantic lead, tries to do much with a role that gets somewhat preachy in parts.  Dwight Ewell well plays a role of Black Power spin meister/ wise homosexual which produces many laughs. The film has several weak moments, but many fresh and interesting dialogues. There are several moments where the writer tries more to shock than enlighten or carry the story.  Overall a decent film. "},{"Title":"So good it scared me","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is really hard for me. I never though that I would ever like a Kevin Smith film this much. I'm an insomniac, so last night at 300am on a local cable channel they showed Chasing Amy, and because I was not in the mood for channel surfing I left it and watched. Ohh God, help me!!! I couldn't get my eyes from it, I was so anxious to know what was going to happen next, and I got so much into the characters that I really felt what they felt at the moment. I am by far not a Kevin Smith fan, before last night I even despised him for being such a shallow stuff maker or sometimes even way too pretentious, but now, I'm enlightened by his visions of love in the post generation x era and how the standards break people apart. Love is love regardless of the person's past, regardless of the person's taste and of course regardless of gender. You just never know in who will you find the love of your life...What if the person that is perfect for you is from your own gender? What is more important love or friendship?. I've felt like this some time in my life, but again...Who hasn't?Another thing I noticed and that I think is the reason why this film is so good, is that Chasing Amy is Smith's most personal film. I have the strong feeling that Amy really exists and this films was a love letter for her, a love letter in which he is saying I'm sorry, I was such an a****e. "},{"Title":"Comedy with a twist.....","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the least funniest of the series. But that is not to say its not funny, Jason Lee is at his absolutely funniest in this role, he saves what could have been a very boring movie. Ben Affleck isn't really cut out for comedy in my opinion but seems to fit into his role well. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is god and Jason Mewes is the messenger! but...","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...they left it late to join this great movie!I loved this movie like all of the other View Askew films...I genuwinly hope Jason Lee got at least one award for Banky!!! FUNNY FUNNY STUFF!!!Joey Lauren Adams was brilliant!!!Ben Affleck's last film before going BIG HOLLYWOOD DUDE style was brilliant.Kevin Smith is GOD and Jason Mewes is the messenger!  Whoever thought Bob's speech wasn't great needs to watch again!!!********1/2 out of ********** "},{"Title":"Honest film","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a great film simply because it is very hones and very real. It is not a typical Hollywood film where boy meets girl, boy loses girl and boy wins back girl and everyone lives happily ever after. This film shows that relationships whether it be gay or straight are not easy and need time and a lot of labour to make them wonderful. It also shows flaws in men and women giving this film a breath of fresh air saying no one is better or worse than the other. The chemistry between the leads Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams is super and they both give their best performances in their career. Adams especially is gorgeous and I fell in love with her watching this film. I recommend this film to anybody who is having or has gone through relationship problems in the past. You will laugh, cry and this film most importantly will make you think. "},{"Title":"Great romantic comedy for the 90s and beyond","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy represents fine work by a great writer and director.  Kevin Smith weaves a web of dialogue that rolls off the tongues of the actors like poetry.  Ben Affleck is thoroughly engaging as Holden, who falls for Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) without knowing about her alternative lifestyle.  Jason Lee and Dwight Ewell steal scenes as Holden's comic-book partner Banky and a fake-militant Black gay comic book writer, respectively.  There are so many angles to this movie that it is hard to explain.  The only thing missing is closure.  The ending is rather odd, and not altogether satisfying.  I read somewhere that Kevin Smith will be tying up the loose ends in the upcoming Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back in August.  Well, if it's as good as this movie, it will be well worth the time.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Worthy Follow-up","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What was semi-obvious to me with Clerks, I now confirm with Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy. That is outside of trying to be true to his vision of the world - his movies are about him, semi-autobiographical on some level. Which is fine because I've gotten nothing against people telling life stories. Usually they are the most truthful and closest to the heart. How much of Chasing Amy is real life Kevin Smith, his experiences and how much is pure movie is only know to him, but in any whichever case, this is among his top work (and you can't convince me otherwise that Ben Affleck hasn't been made to look like a taller and more handsome Kevin Smith with beard either).The movie revolved around two friends Holden (Affleck) and Banky (Jason Lee) who make a meager living penning a comic book - Bluntman & Chronic - based off none other than Jay and Silent Bob. In short order, they befriend a female within the comic industry and it's obvious Holden is taken with her. It's in a weirdly funny, but crushing scene that he finds out she's a lesbian. What goes from here is patterned Smith-isms. Talking about lesbians, star wars, guy stuff, and in between that a dose of human emotion and the world that surrounds these people's existence. Kevin Smith, like with his great debut Clerks, has shown his strength lies in relaying simple stories with relatively simple people that ring true ...... and unlike similar entries in the field, he doesn't bore us with stupid characters, redundant settings or beat-us-over-the-head with a stick situations while trying to drive home some message. He manages nicely to balance the film's serious moments out with touches of light heartiness that work just right. It goes without saying the appearance of Silent Bob and Jay is of course a scene looked most forward to and like much of the film, it's brief, to the point and it works. The movie has very little in the way of excitement and it's even slow at times, but if you like his material, his perspective and are willing to look past the occasional dull spot, you find another Kevin Smith patterned masterpiece. "},{"Title":"God bless Kevin Smith!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a spectacular filmmaker. Honestly, in my opinion, this guy doesn't know how to make a bad movie. Clerks was one of the greatest indies of our time, Mallrats was a hilarious follow-up and Dogma was one of the most clever movies I've seen. Which brings me to Chasing Amy.Chasing Amy is not the simple boy meets girl and they fall in love story, no way! Let's face it, if it was, it would be boring. What's the catch? The girl is gay. But that doesn't stop him from falling in love with her, while his best friend is jealous and this leads to arguing-a- plenty.This in my opinion was Kevin Smith's second best. Mallrats is still my favorite. Probably because I'm not one for drama. But in this movie I found even the dramatic scenes to be entertaining and intriguing.Speaking of intriguing, there's an outstanding cast. This is Ben Affleck at his best. Joey Adams steals the show with a superb performance and Jason Lee is great.Way to go, Smith. 10/10P.S Jay and Silent Bob rule!!!  "}{"Title":"Vulgarity-the new formula","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apparently, people think that sex, sin and vulgarity are the elements that make for a great movie.  It's really too bad, too, as this movie's plot is creative enough in that it could have been just as entertaining without all of the vulgar trash that so heavily weighs it down.  Given that fact, this movie rates at only about a 3 in 10.  Don't be deceived by the IMDB user rating...this movie sucks for several reasons. First of all, I'll talk about the vulgarity.  I didn't count how many times the F word was used, but it easily numbered over 100.  This is a script that is wreaks of mindless dialogue.  In every conversation, the viewer is unable to get past the extreme overuse of vulgarity.  It seriously hampers that ability of the dialogue to support and develop the characters. In fact, it's as if every character's disposition is the same.  This vulgarity was neither necessary, nor did it in any way enhance the story or the characters.  Point made? Second of all, the acting is (to say the least) substandard.  Joey Lauren Adams was hardly acting at all.  She was simply going through the motions and saying the dialogue, neglecting to put any of herself in to the character.  But, then, this character hardly lends itself to being filled with any actor that has merely an ounce of respectability.Ben Affleck is a talented young and up-coming actor who I am a great admirer of.  But in this movie he came up dry.  No emotion, and again going through the motions.  My analysis is that the script is so vulgar and mindless that no actor in their right mind would ever be able to portray these characters in a way which was emotionally viable or realistic.Those who enjoyed this movie are obviously people who enjoy indulging in sin and immorality and have no concept of reverence and respectability. It is a sad fact that this movie could have been half decent without all of the trash that it is saturated with.  I wish I'd never had the misfortune of stumbling across this movie, but it certainly offended me to the point that I felt I should warn others away from it.  Stay clear of this movie, unless you're a perverted wacko! "},{"Title":"I'm just glad I didn't watch this one with my mother....","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A 90's version of the classic love story - Boy Meets Girl. Boy Falls For Girl, Boy and Girl Overcome Almost Insurmountable Obstacles and Live Happily Ever After.  Let's just say Kevin Smith's third feature film doesn't exactly follow this formula to the letter.Did I mention the the Girl in the above formula happens to be a lesbian? That certainly throws a wrench into the plans.The witty and sexually frank dialogue in Chasing Amy will certainly not appeal to everyone, but can be quite humourous at times.  I must admit, the early scene with Joey Lauren Adams and Jason Lee comparing battle scars left me feeling a little squeamish and more than a little thankful that I was not watching this film with either of my parents.The main characters were not completely developed, but were much more than cookie-cutter devices serving only to carry the plot.  Affleck, Lee and Adams did an admirable job of turning their characters into people that we cared about and rooted for throughout the unfolding of the story.  They displayed surprising range, ability and chemistry.The highlight of the film (besides the shot of Joey Lauren Adams in a Toronto Maple Leafs jersey....Go Leafs Go) was definitely Holden's speech to Alyssa where he reveals his true feelings to her.  Now there's a speech every girl wants to hear at some point in her life.  Well done.  Smith's script is emotionally on target in nearly every scene.  It dives into a sensitive subject head on and doesn't look back.  For the most part, it does an excellent job exploring life, love and sexual confusion.While a lot of people have taken issue with the ending of the film, I thought it was perfect.  Not everything falls into place as you think it should and there is no unrealistic emotional climax.  This is real life, not Hollywood.This movie has inspired me to see the other entries into Smith's New Jersey trilogy.  Smith clearly has his finger on the pulse of the Generation-X.  "},{"Title":"Best romantic comedy of all time","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of Kevin Smith and all the actors invloved here. I have seen and own all of his movies. This is the one that truly hits the mark though.SPOILER AHEADEveryone who says negative things about the movie becuase of the fact that a lesbian fell in love with a guy and changed her sexual preference. It wasnt becuase they slept together, but if u all remember it is the moment when he tells her how he feels and then she runs back to him and kisses him in the rain...she didnt chnage becuase he had a d**k, she changed becuase he was the best person she could ever be with.END SPOILERThe jokes are plentiful and are rude and hilarious, Jason Lee has some of the funniest scenes in the movie...as do Joey Lauren Adams, and Ben affleck who are both tremendous.  For all you naysayers out there, just rent or buy the dvd, and listen to the commentary...I would give this movie an 11... "},{"Title":"Hilarious, yet, overrated","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Kevin Smith.  The man is one of the greatest writers in film, if not the greatest.  I fell in love with Clerks first, my favorite comedy of all time.  I love Dogma, though it is a bit on the preachy side.  I even liked that terribly stupid Mallrats.  Chasing Amy was the last KS movie for me to see, and I heard it was the best.  Well, it is and it ain't.First off, the movie's first half is hilarious.  The black gay guy still makes me laugh.  The second half is centered on the love story, which doesn't really bother me.My beef is with the ending.  Even my fellow Kevin Smith fanatic friend agrees with me on this one  The ending is terrible.  I don't want to give it away, because I always want as many people as possible to read my reviews.  But I have this thing with endings.  If the ending is bad, it's hard for me to like the movie.  The ending is really important because it's the final impression of the movie.  The last chance to impress the audience. It is what the whole movie has been building to.  And I really believe that Chasing Amy's ending is SOOOO STUPID!  I honestly don't know what Kevin Smith was thinking.  Well, the good news is that the first half is funny enough to make up for the ending.I know Chasing Amy is the best written of all of Kevin Smith's work, but I was disappointed.  It is probably my least favorite of all Kevin Smith movies (MALLRATS WAS NOT THAT BAD!... okay it was).  But, Kevin Smith is a genius, and he shows it in Chasing Amy... just not as much as I had wished he'd done.Oh, by the way, this is without a doubt the nastiest of all of Kevin's work. So, if you found Clerks to be a little over the edge, leave this one alone. But, if you're a fan of Kevin Smith, or you just liked his movies, you will like Chasing Amy... or at least half of it.7/10 "},{"Title":"A great Kevin Smith movie about relationships.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this Kevin Smith creation, Ben Affleck plays Holden McNeil.  A struggling comic book artist who falls in love with Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) only to find out she's a lesbian.  And the two try to maintain their relationship and theirs becomes a threat to Holden's best friend, Banky. (Jason Lee).  Alyssa like Holden is also a comic book artist herself.Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob appear in this to give advice to Holden about what to do with Alyssa.  Also, Matt Damon makes a cameo appearance in this movie as a customer at the comic book convention.  Ben Affleck is a very superb actor for his time just like his friend, Matt Damon.Although this movie is loaded with profanity and adult-themed jokes it's worth seeing for anyone who is a fan of Kevin's work.  What can I say, I really enjoyed this flick!  And I hope to see Jason Mewes do some more movies in the future.  "},{"Title":"Truth... Kevin Smith style","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done it again. With his subtle witticisms and an honesty that only hits right between the eyes, he has brought us a brilliant piece of work that reveals some truths about male-female relationships that at first seem distant, but soon become obvious.Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams turn in some outstanding performances as the couple that make that dangerous leap from friends to lovers. Jason Lee puts in a good turn as Affleck's best friend who becomes a little more than hostile towards his friend's new relationship.There, as always, are the Smith regulars, Jay and Silent Bob, delivering their normal, equal-parts foul-mouthed attitude/sage-like wisdom. Also, look out for Dwight Ewell's part as the Black activist comic-book artist/gay bartender.With his best work since 'Clerks', Smith has brought us a movie that genuinely astounds, touches and delivers us from some of the other 'truth about relationships' movies that have come from Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite of the Jersey Films.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many critics have praised Kevin Smith's keen ear for dialogue.  I've seen his work from his four films to the Daredevil books he penned for Marvel Comics.  I think through everything, this is by far his best work, which I hope he'll one day be able to top so I can say the same about another one of his projects.What makes this film stand out is the sense of honesty and believability this film and its characters portray.  An unusual love story, with comic book artist Holden (Ben Affleck) falling in love with another comic book writer Alyssa (the uber-cute Joey Lauren Adams) who happens to be lesbian. Coming to terms with an askew (pardon the pun) relationship and dealing with his jealous, overprotective best friend (Jason Lee) are his main concerns throughout the film.This film is both comedy and drama.  Smith uses his usual over-the-top observational humor and insightful points to tell a story about imperfect love.  It's funny, it's sad, and you can't help but feel sorry for Holden as he runs the risk of ruining everything in his life while attempting to make all of the pieces fit.Kevin Smith needs to stick more to films like this.  That doesn't mean that all of his films should be about lesbians, but observational humor is where he by far succeeds the most.  He still hasn't got the physical, slapstick humor to match his verbal wit, but hopefully things will balance out in time.  His writing has always been smart, honest, realistic, and often laugh out loud funny, even in a more serious moment.  Even Silent Bob's (rather outspoken for the character) comment on lost love is a real eye-opener.  I think everyone chases their own Amy at one point or another.Hollywood's idea of a good film may be based on box-office receipts, but good writing or a relationship to the characters is what keeps people coming back to see a film years later.  This film remains one of my top favorites, and while the film's premise may or may not be realistically possible, you can't help but see that parallels found in any relationship. "},{"Title":"WOW! Can you say any more?","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie with high expectations and a real palpable sense of merriment. I loved Dogma and Clerks and in one way or another both had changed me, either my outlook on life or in Dogma's case had forced me to totally re-evaluate my entire believe structure, I'm sure that you can appreciate how much of a rarity that is today.So I went into Chasing Amy looking to A) Be entertained and laugh my socks off and B) Watch a movie that was going to  challenge what I know and make me think, make me contemplate on the highest levels what I'd just seen, and yes a movie that I suspected was gonna change my views on whatever it's message was going to be.BOY I REALLY UNDERESTIMATED THATYou know those moments at the end of a movie where you have to just sit in your chair as the credits roll and contemplate what your just saw? Even if the nice theatre cleaner is BEGGING you to move? Well this movie for me was a collection of those moments. I was watching on TV which meant that I couldn't exactly have paused it but I very much wanted to...even neeeded to it's sheer intensity is astounding and yet never looses the pace.The characters presented are great, fully fleshed out and you grow to love them. Affleck and Adams share an onscreen chemistry that is beyond words and the performances are utterly astounding. One of the greatest things about this movie is the acting.The usual Kevin Smith homor is of course there and every gag is well set up and works.However where this movie shines, where it's heart lies is in the interpersonal relationships between its three leads. No matter what your prejiduces are towards homosexuals you'll find it hard to still have them at the end of this movie. From Alyssa's confused bisexuality/lesbiansm to Bankly's repressed feelings you can't help but be pulled into the sheer and PURE EMOTIONS that these characters share.It's not the perfect movie, ok well maybe it is it ranks above Dogma for me and hits in at my number two fave movie of all time (1st is X-men by the way) if you haven't seen this then you haven't lived. It's a must. Go to your video store and rent it, go BUY THE DAMN THING you'll wanna watch it again and again I can promise you.Alanis Morrisette? Nah KEVIN SMITH IS GOD!!! "},{"Title":"Love Has No Boundaries","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!  SPOILERS!!!!!I rented this movie because I find Kevin Smith hilarious. I can't call myself a Kevin Smith fan because I don't follow his every move and I am not very familiar with his work. I have seen Mallrats and Clerks and think they are hysterical. The kind of teenagers and people he depicted are people I probably never would have hung out with in high school because I am such a nerd myself but I found myself sympathizing and laughing with them. What I like about his scripts are the very insightful, intelligent, funny, and frank conversations that his characters engage in. Although I liked Mallrats and Clerks, in many ways they don't compare to Chasing Amy.As I've heard, Chasing Amy is a very personal story for Kevin Smith and you can really tell because this movie has so much heart to it. There are so many funny parts in this movie (Return of the Jedi is the most INSULTING installment to Star Wars series.... DEEP INSIDE , we all wants to be white!!!!)However, it's those times of heartache, contemplation and controversy that really makes this film outstanding. I'm not a big fan of Ben Affleck but I find him bearable and sympathetic in this movie.The movie definitely belongs to Joey Lauren Adams who portrays Alyssa. Alyssa made me question who I was and my own prejudices. She really made me think about love and the meaning of love. This character is so different from many that I have seen because as despicable and immoral as her character could have been, she was written as a dignified heroine searching for truth and love in this day and age. I found myself rooting for her. I admired the fact that she strongly stood up for who she was and what she'd been through- with no apologies. She respected herself. Although I didn't agree with her lifestyle, I sympathized with her struggle to find herself. Kevin Smith did a great job of illuminating her character as a human-being first and a lesbian second. Her monologue about looking for love without any boundaries or prejudices or fear still gets to me every time that I watch it.Ben Affleck's Holden is quite sympathetic. He seems to be your regular guy next door. Nothing too extraordinary. Someone who is somewhat sensitive but still a guy. A romantic at heart. His famous revelatory monologue to Alyssa reveals this.In the end, Alyssa proves to be the wise one I know you think that doing this will give you experience. But I've been down that road and I didn't find what I was looking for. I'm past that. I cannot accompany you on your journey.Yes, we are all on our own personal journeys. Perhaps the toughest lesson to learn is to not be afraid to be alone. For awhile. In the meantime, we have to accept and embrace who we are individually and to accept that individuality in others with no prejudice and with sympathy and understanding. I'm sure if we all did this, we could find true love.  "},{"Title":"Great first half, then becomes repetitive","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first half of Chasing Amy was great, a typical blend of realistic characters and memorable dialogue. Then, the movie takes an unexpected turn and becomes a whiny. Still, the first half of it is so funny, the best scene being the bit where Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams compare their wounds. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Great cast, great screenplay","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A comic drawer falls in love with a lesbian and starts a relationship with her but his best friend hates homosexuals and tries to sabotage their relationship. This plot isn't quite believable but I see it as one more combination among thousands of romantic comedies about different numbers of people with different sexual attitudes loving and sleeping with each other. These movies are so typical for the 1990s. Sometimes they turn out as immature kitschy teenager stories, sometimes they are intelligent. But in every case everybody is talking a lot about sex. Chasing Amy belongs to the second type. It's one of those movies that don't make you laugh uncontrollably but grin all the time. The characters are convincing and portrayed by sensational young actors. And as for those dialogues! Kevin Smith should have won an Oscar for his screenplay. Apart from being great fun, this movie is important because it represents our young generation, where every problem, more or less serious, is dealt with by talking, talking, talking. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is about a lesbian?  ... Um, no.   Chasing Amy is about a guy in love with a lesbian?   No, not exactly.  The marketing for this movie leads you to think such things, but it's much more; that's what makes Chasing Amy so wonderful.Writer/Director/Actor Kevin Smith's story of lovelorn Holden (Ben Affleck) who has his heart set on Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) couldn't be more accurate in its portrayal of modern love and dating.   His acting troupe (Lee, Mewes, Affleck, Adams) so to speak are all at their best; yet, it's Kevin Silent Bob Smith who steals the movie, imparting his wisdom like a Gen-X guru.Chasing Amy is absolutely brilliant; moving and funny.  "},{"Title":"The greatest of the Greats from Kevin Smith","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leave it to the comic book collector turned indy director Kevin Smith to make a movie about a messed up relationship. A Cult comic book artist Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) meets a hot girl (Joey Lauren Addams), Alysa Jones at a comic convention. He finds out she's a lesbian, and then falls in love with her, which is unfortunate for him, because his perfect little world is in upheaval, with a new girl friend, and his relationship falling apart with his best friend Banky (Jason Lee). This is a romantic comedy Kevin Smith style, so of course it's hilarious, check it out.   "},{"Title":"More than comedy","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Chasing Amy' is both funny and wrought by emotion.  Sprinkled with references to his other movies, these add to the humor element, but are not integral to the film.  Smith's characters and their performances alone suffice.  Smith's writing is so honest and moving at times I wonder how much of his inspiration was based on his personal experience.Joey Lauren Adam's performance in three scenes is particularly gripping (no spoilers for which these are).  Overall, her performance is one of my favorites in film (Take that for what it is worth.  I thought Matt Dillon has dead-on in 'Drugstore Cowboy')  Ben Affleck plays Holden so well that at times I just want to turn off the movie because I hate seeing the character make mistakes that he will regret.  Yet, I continue to watch in hope that I might learn and not repeat his choices.  However, I don't hate or blame the characters for their actions.  They are humans learning about themselves and how they view the world. "},{"Title":"Way to go Kevin.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another great work of art from the fine collection of movies made by Kevin Smith which include Clerks, Mallrats, and Dogma. In Chasing Amy, Ben Affleck falls for Joey Lauren Adams whom just happens to be gay. Throughout the entire movie Jason Lee is very funny, as he almost always is, and at times he is downright hilarious.  While this movie is not as funny as Mallrats, or Clerks, it is as much a Kevin Smith film as they all are.  Do yourself a favor, and watch all four of these Smith movies again.  Just be sure not to hurt yourself while laughing too hard.  "},{"Title":"One of Kevin Smith's Best--Thought Provoking and Touching","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Chasing Amy is definitely Kevin Smith's most well-executed film.  Don't get me wrong, I loved Clerks and I loved Mallrats, but those didn't have stories with as much substance to them as this one does.The subject matter is heavy--I've read a few comments stating this is every straight guy's fantasy and I really want to comment on that as well because I don't think it is.  The movie isn't about how deep down inside, every lesbian wants a man.  It actually seems to be based on the old argument that there only one person for each of us ... man or woman, it shouldn't matter because when you're in love, well ... that is what matters.  And the fact that Alyssa is a lesbian and Holden falls for her?  Well, that's the obvious complication ... and it starts to seem like something that they'll have to work through in order to make their relationship work.However, it is destroying everything around them because everyone around them is telling them that it isn't right.  It isn't normal.  They should stop and do what they're supposed to.  And you notice that what destroys them in the end isn't her being a lesbian, its her heterosexual past. Does this suggest that Alyssa was gay because she'd been in so many bad situations?  I don't think so.  What this film ultimately becomes about is trust.  Especially trust in a relationship.  And how without trust, a relationship cannot survive.Now, the film could have been patronizing and all Hollywood, but it isn't. It doesn't end with them together.  It doesn't end with Banky and Holden being friends.  It ends with them falling apart, and a meeting at a comics convention that gives them all closure.  When I finished watching the movie for the first time, I had a look of astonishment on my face--deep.  That was the word I kept saying.  Smith's dialogue is excellent as usual, the performances--especially Ben Affleck and Jason Lee--are remarkable, and I'm glad that Jay and Silent Bob are put to such limited use, and I love Smith's use of self-parody.Definitely a keeper. "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not my thing. Didn't like it. Too crude, too unlikely, couldn't relate to it, hated it.I only watched it because a friend of mine constantly raved about it, convincing me to at least see it. But as usual, my first impressions of a movie before I see it prevailed, and it was precisely the kind of film I don't enjoy. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy that breaks all the rules","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done it again. This romantic comedy breaks all the rules and takes a tired genre and turns it up a notch. Chasing Amy is about two creators (Ben Affleck,Jason Lee) of one of the hottest comic books around and the lives they lead. At a convention they met up with the interesting creator (Joey Lauren Adams) of a comic that's toward the female point of view. During a night at a NYC club Ben falls hard for her. But what they don't know is that their lives will never be the same. Since this is a Kevin Smith film there the obligatory movie and comic book references, spoofs of pop culture, and lots of cameos. If you know Kevin Smith then you know that you will see some very familiar faces in all of his films. Ben Affleck pulls off a good performance here. It's seems like he's playing a spoof of himself but he's very good. Jason Lee is so funny. I loved him in Mallrats but I don't think he got enough time in Dogma. In this film thought, he kills. The other performances are good too. Joey Lauren Adams is cute and she's a very cool love interest for Affleck. It's a different role and she plays it well. But Affleck and Lee stand out from all the rest. The only problem I had is that Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes,Kevin Smith) are only in one scene. The scene is one of the best in the film but I think they should have been in more just to mix it up a bit. Other than that this is a great film. Chasing Amy is a guy's romantic comedy but it appeals to everyone also. Kevin Smith's third film like all of his others once again breaks new ground and is extremely funny.               "},{"Title":"Funny but flawed","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first ten minutes of this film, during the exchange between Banky and the Black Power comic book artist were some of the funniest moments I have ever seen. And story is a good one, and Kevin Smith wants to deal with some interesting issues. However, its fatal flaw is in Silent Bob's advice to Holden... Holden proceeds to completely miss the point entirely and come up with a solution that is, in my mind, completely unbelievable. The only explanation I can come up with is that Kevin Smith (who plays Silent Bob) wanted to make his own character look superior in comparison to his fellow cast members.I have to go along with the views of a previous commenter that the ending could have been worse -- it could have been a happy ending. But the climactic moment in the plot is still so poorly executed that I can't enjoy this movie as much as I do Clerks, or even Mallrats. "},{"Title":"Fabulous-one of the best view askew films.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith Started this series with greatness with his hysterically funny and groundbreaking Clerks. He prequeled this film with his next also very funny movie Mallrats. Then he sequeled Clerks with this film, Chasing Amy.This film is absolutely great. Now the comedy may be a little new age, but the storyline is still sweet. It questions homosexuality, and sexuality in whole with a humurous approach.This movie isn't trying to preach anything. It doesn't give any rules about sex or love, but simply tells the story of two people very in love, but very different.It shows the bonds and ties that can wear out in a relationship, and how the past can cloud the future. It has a very small but meaningful story.Definitely a must see. "}{"Title":"Movie B  DVD  A-","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy		B/A-				7.2.00			1.851/5.1 	First Viewing		169 EnhancedA very interesting look at relationships and generation X.  It borders on being too vulgar (as the generation often is) and for many it will be too vulgar.  The movie itself is definitely a lower budget production, but the DVD is first class.  Tons of extras including deleted scenes and commentary.  "},{"Title":"Snoochie boochies..","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, first let me get this off my chest.  I am a BIG fan of Kevin Smith. That out of the way, I continue.I saw CA the first day it was released in theatres.  When it was over, I didn't know what to think.  After 'Clerks' and 'Mallrats', it was not what I was expecting.  Although there were moments (and many of them) that were humourous, it seemed to me that this was a departure; an attempt at tackling a serious subject, with some juvenile humour thrown in for flavour.  Through the whole movie, one could not help but feel for the characters.  Holden, for falling helplessly in love with a lesbian.  Alyssa, for wanting a more 'everyday' life.  And Banky, for feeling jilted and trying to retain control of his own life, which relied on Holden's state of mind.  It seems as though everything is just spiraling out of control. The end of the movie was not a pleasant one.  People prefer happy endings.Although this movie did not end on a particularly *sad* note, it could have been different.Again, I'm a BIG Kevin Smith fan.  But of the four 'Jay & Silent Bob' movies, this one ranks #4.  Still a good rental.   "},{"Title":"Best raunchy comedy ever..","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's Something About Mary has been known as one of the funniest movies ever for its hilarious laughs and adult-rated humor. Since its release and because of its fame, everyone knows   that Mary is one of the most crude, raunchy love-stories ever told on screen. After seeing Chasing Amy, Mary seems like a Pokemon cartoon, or a movie you'd let your 3 year old watch.(Not that I recommend it, just don't let anyone under about 17 years old watch it.) Not only does Chasing Amy blow away any Farrelly brothers comedy in the crude-category, but challenges most love stories along the lines of acting, characters, and storyline. Joey-Lauren Adams, the main character (whose name is not Amy), gives a great performance as a desirable lesbian who Ben Affleck falls for. Ben (Holden) tries to get her to switch over and make it work. The task is large, but Affleck handles it well, and the chemistry the two have on screen makes this picture more than just funny. The humor itself it nothing less than amazing. It is not in anyway slapstick like Mary, but rather 100% crude and clever dialogue that makes your eyes jump out, and your voice cry with laughter. The lines that Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) delivers are unforgettable, and so funny. IMDb I don't think can list 90% of his quotes-they are that bad! Though you will be surprised at first to hear the language, do  yourself a favor and get passed it. Sit back, relax, get used to it, and watch what is one of the best comedies of the past few years.  "},{"Title":"Probably Smiths finest","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A touching comedy filled with great moments, probably Smiths finest hour with a deftness and light touch not usually seen in his films.One of my all time favourites, highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Who doesn't like New Jersey?","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very funny, original, and wrenching. Watch out, at one point Amy's voice is so tortured, it is about to shatter glass, so cover your ears. Also, I must thank this movie for turning me on to Meow Mix. And I am still wondering about Jughead, too. "},{"Title":"Cracking film - One of the best I've seen","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As is usual I have seen the Kevin Smith movies out of sequence. Mallrats (which I quite liked), Clerks (fantastic), Dogma (Extremely funny) and now Chasing Amy. Chasing Amy may now be my personal favourite, a very touching love story with comic overtones. The three main characters Alyssa, Holden and Banky play off each other brilliantly and you can feel the love between each of them (who loves who is revealed in the film). The ending may not be for everybody but I thought it was good, a more traditional ending would not have worked as well for me, this one felt more real. Kevin we need more films like this - keep making them please.  "},{"Title":"Gentle, understated, and *personal*","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alyssa comes between Holden and Banky.  Alyssa is a lesbian.  Holden manipulates her emotions and alienates Banky.  Banky wants to destroy the relationship.  Chasing Amy tackles some major issues, and for a raunchy comedy, it's actually as gentle and delicate as flicks come.  It makes some well-stated observations about human relationships, like how people want to feel like they're on the same level.  The big ending is an understated, muted one Holden writes a comic book not about action heroes, but about his own failed relationship.  He makes his first *personal* work.  The ending is that much more powerful when the audience realizes that Holden's first penning of self parallels Kevin Smith's first truly emotional, personal work as well.  It's a bittersweet movie about the one who got away.  It starts a little slower than the others, and the soundtrack bites a little in places, but it's a small sacrifice to pay to watch a work of art play before your eyes. "},{"Title":"A different view","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge Kevin Smith fan.  I saw 'Clerks' after a friend recommended it to me, and I found a copy second-hand.  I then saw 'Mallrats', 'Dogma' and 'Chasing Amy' which was the last of the Smith films I saw.  Being a lesbian myself, I was excited at the prospect of seeing Smith tackle a subject which is so close to my heart.  Rather than scream how brilliant this movie is, I'll explain my thoughts and feelings towards the film, speaking as a lesbian.I guess my first impression of the movie was that the cult repetition, such as the girl dying in the pool, 'Star Wars', ice hockey etc., etc., seemed a little self-conscious.  In the other movies the beauty and humour of the repetition was that it was natural, but I felt that it seemed slightly unnatural and out of context here.Secondly, I found the character of Allysa totally unconvincing as a lesbian; she slated lipstick lesbians often, but failed to realise that she herself was one.  While jokes like Hey, since you like chicks, do you ever look in the mirror naked? where juvenile, as were the continuous shots of girl-on-girl action (which was utterly gratuitous and unnatural, however - it is something which is rarely shown in the cinema, and is therefore a good thing, bad representation is better than no representation).  I disliked the stereotypes of gay people - saying that they all stick together in little dark clubs, and the fact that Allysa's friends reject her when she finally 'meets the right boy'.  I prefer the company of straight people, and I doubt they'd judge if I fell for a man. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this movie a lot, but this needs to be said.This film is purely a 'curing fantasy' for boys - this girl was never gay in the first place, and was cured once she was screwed by the right man. When Ben Affleck's character puts this to her, she hits him playfully with a pillow and giggles.... eugh!Although I have a strong dislike for much of 'Chasing Amy's concepts and representations, there were some parts which I strongly related to.  The parts that really stick in my mind are the parts were Alyssa goes into yelling-overdrive in the rain.  I can relate to her feeling trapped and confused and angry and scared - she knows that it will all end in tears but her feelings are so confused that she cannot help herself - she knows it is happening and she cannot stop it.  I guess it's an aspect of gay life which which is often overlooked; we're not all professional queers who know what we want and how to get it. This is more thanks to Smith's writing than his casting.I think the funniest line was this you're banging away, not noticing the bored look in her eye... to which he replies, Not at all!  I always notice that bored look in their eyes.  and the part (not ruining the plot) in the penultimate scene when Banky leans into his hands and yells Oh thank God!!!.  I also liked the part where Allysa sings a song in the club, and Holden thinks that she is singing to him, only to watch her fall into the arms of a woman at the end of the song (much to Banky's amusement!) The Jay and Silent Bob scene really is fantastic, their finest hour.It could have been worse... it could have had a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Classic Smith","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is classic Kevin Smith.   It is funny, romantic, well written and thoroughly entertaining.  It amazes me every time I see one of his films what a great dialogue he uses in his films.    Jason Lee is awesome as usual. "},{"Title":"Best of three!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually saw the movies in a weird order. I saw Mall Rats, then Chasing Amy, then Clerks......I must confess that out of the three movies, Chasing Amy was by far the best one. Clerks was Boring. Mall Rats was about typical. Chasing Amy offers the movie goer a change of pace. We watch as a young man falls in love with a woman that has a secret. When he finds out, he freaks out and almost loses her and his best friend. But, as with all movies in our lives it ends with happiness and a few loose ends. Thus we end up with sequels...like  Dogma. "}{"Title":"How can one man be this funny?","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith writes the best scripts on the planet, but he doesn't stop there.. Usually when I see a good movie, I always think, I shouldn't have made that ending or I would have cut that scene.. But with this movie, all I could think of, was that I had to see it again. I love a good love story, and I think this one is as good as they come. It's funny, very funny. The cast is great. But what really makes this movie great is the script, the dialog is so real, but without any of the boring stuff that's always heard in my life.  "},{"Title":"The most honest movie of all time","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first comment I've heard for this movie was It's a strange movie. When my sister & me were going to see it on TV, that was the friend of hers (who's American) who was making this comment. Strange... I don't think so. It's just something awesome. You can't even describe it. 'Cause it says it all. It doesn't lie (except Alyssa's lie for Holden being her first). Never. And it's funny to death. Maybe too funny. I want to say Congraf****ntulations to Mr. Kevin Smith aka Silent Bob, for making us watch such a great movie. 1000 and more out of 10. I'm waiting for Dogma to come here (in Istanbul), I can't wait for it! "},{"Title":"Best film ever made!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy has become my absolute favorite movie! I feel that the films examination of sexuality and friendship are just so great. I can somehow relate to the problems of this, our primate needs, to love and be loved. The theme of the movie is also so universal, compare Fucking Åmål, that I think people everywhere can,and not just I, relate to it. The tagline sex is easy, love is hard is all so true, because that's the way I feel about it. There can be nothing more too say, this film is great, even the best film ever made! according to me!   "},{"Title":"Anybody else feel like this?????","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was well done, in acting as well as script and plot.However, I had one problem with it, in that you see recurring actors from Mallrats (Jason Lee, Ben Affleck) being different characters.I wouldn't mind this at all, except that there is mention of past Mallrats characters (e.g.Brandy Svenning;The girl who died in the YMCA pool).It seems hard to grasp the fact that Lee and Affleck hated each other in Mallrats, but have been best friends forever in Amy.At times it feels like a sequel while at others, a totally stand-alone movie.All of this aside, still one of the best all around movies I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"The best work Smith has done","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clerks was exceptional,Mallrats was brilliant but Chasing Amy.....well is simply the best.This is a modern love story exploring the sexuality of the confused main characters. The film starts off extremely funny like Smiths other films with sharp wit & dialogue,but the second half is more serious & often quite touching. Smith blends the this nicely with the humor. This almost turns into a strong drama with lots of tension being built up between the outstanding main characters, but luckily does not. The references to the people in Clerks like Caitlan  > are nice & make the film almost feel like a sequel. The cameo from Jay & silent Bob was also first-rate. This film also contains the funniest line ever    Since you like chicks right, do you just look at yourself naked in the mirror. Go see this flawless movie. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What can I say?","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? After the realism of Clerks and the farce that was Mallrats, Kevin Smith's next film had to live up to a certain, as the French say, I don't know what. Because of the poor performance of Mallrats at the Box Office, what Smith often calls the sophomore slump, the critics who had loved Clerks were to be a finicky audience. Though, I was not one of those critics I was still cautious when it came to seeing Chasing Amy. I personally enjoyed Mallrats, cherishing its simplicity and slapstick, but still not as much as I had enjoyed Clerks. I desperately wanted Smith to return to the low budget feel of Clerks and with Chasing Amy, he did. The story, the dialogue, filled with humor and heart, plus Jason Lee, in my opinion the saving grace of Mallrats, to boot. Here's to Mr. Smith! Que Bella. "},{"Title":"Engaging Comedy-drama","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Writer director Kevin Smith has created a witty, perceptive and quite original script with Chasing Amy.  Constantly involving and often quite touching, the three main leads work well together. Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams and Jason Lee give subtle, intelligent performances, with Dwight Ewell doing an amusing comic turn.  Smith's screenplay offers many intriguing and challenging ideas, and his direction is very much on-target.  A quite successful production which bears repeated viewings.  "},{"Title":"Finger-Cuffs","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank you to Kevin Smith (director of Clerks) for this charming and unique, never-predictable love story.  Boy meets girl, boy likes girl, girl likes other girls.  Quite complicated, huh?  The script is excellent- there's never a dull moment.  The characters all seem real.  Ben Affleck as Holden and Jason Lee as his best friend Banky- who work together on their own comic book.  Holden meets Alyssa (Smith's then girlfriend Joey Lauren Adams) and quickly falls for her even though she's a lesbian.  They become good friends and eventually Holden confesses his love.  A surprising relationship is formed then challenged by other forces (e.g., Alyssa's naughty past, Banky hates Alyssa because he wants Holden all to himself).  Smith is back on track after the piece of crap that is Mallrats with this touching love story.  Oh yeah, and for good measure Smith throws in references to Clerks and Silent Bob actually talks!! "},{"Title":"almost excellent","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for the ending I thoroughly enjoyed the movie. I did not like the ending much. My take on it was that the relationship had ended. I would have felt much better if they had gotten together. Also the scene where Holden tries to arrange a threesome did not do much for me since it seemed that Holden was out of character. Great acting by Joey Adams. I had seen her in one other movie where she was a barmaid but I could not find it in IMDB. She was also very good in that one. she certainly has star appeal "},{"Title":"Great movie but not as fun as Clerks","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, don't get me wrong.  It's fun and moving and the ending, while not exactly a sad ending is non-linear and touching.  The plot takes no particular formula and goes where it wants to not being afraid of going somewhere that a movie won't usually go.  Some scenes don't work especially one near the end (though the last one is great), but the movie makes up for it with some hilarious scenes and dialogue (the best scenes are with Hooper) and another funny scene with Jay and Silent Bob.  Great if you don't mind a lot of dirty language (I don't). "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is probably one of the best romantic comedies in the history of the drama because it was something new and Kevin Smith is one of the great innovators. Smith has successfully tackled every major aspect of life (work-Clerks, recreation-Mallrats, love-Chasing Amy, religion-Dogma) and he makes us look at these things in a new light. What I liked most about Chasing Amy was the fact that the guy didn't get the girl like he's supposed to. Everyone wants Holden and Alyssa to make up but in reality that doesn't happen. Smith didn't sugar coat this movie and that's why it's great. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I have ever seen.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is, without a doubt, the best movie I have ever seen.  The direction and casting are top notch, but what really puts this film over the top is the dialogue.  It sounds exactly the way you would expect people to talk and it is very engaging.  I am thankful every day that I stumbled on this precious jewel.  You don't often come across love stories that actually work.  This one does perfectly. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is fantastic beyond words. The dialogue is hillarious, but true at the same time. The three main players are superb, especially the excellent Jason Lee, his character Banky holds his own. Affleck and Adams play well against each other and there is a great chemistry between them.I sympathised with Afflecks holden for most of the film. This is the first film I have seen where I really cared about the characters and could empathise with them. but the best thing about the film for me was the banter between Lee and Affleck.The story line was fresh and original. Kevin Smith once again shows us what an amazingly talented man he is. "},{"Title":"Something Personal To Say","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Jersey boy (Central Jersey at that), I feel almost obligated to love and respect the world of Kevin Smith's movies.  Of course, it all started for me, when I decided to take a chance and see some weird little movie called Chasing Amy after reading some good reviews about it.  It was probably the best chance I ever took on a movie, and I heartily recommend it.Chasing Amy is one of the first movies since Annie Hall to present a romantic comedy that isn't a copy of well, Annie Hall.  These people don't seem like characters, they seem like people.  Not that I know anyone like this.  The lead trio of Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, and Joey Lauren Adams are just about perfect.  Rarely have actors had such natural chemistry and interplay.  They run the gamut from touching to hysterical, without ever sounding unbelievable.  The movie starts off like Smith's other movies, with some very funny comic book/Star Wars humor, and while it has some funny parts throughout, it also manages to be a very touching and telling story about romance and love.And I would be remiss not to mention the Jay and Silent Bob scene, which I consider one of my all-time favorite scenes of any movie (I'm not kidding).  It perfectly sums up the movie in about 10 minutes.  It's funny, surprising, unexpected, touching, and affecting.  And it comes from two drug dealers talking to a comic book artist.  Only in the Askewniverse.After being blown away that fateful first viewing, I prompty caught up on the rest of Smith's work, and while both Clerks and the underrated Mallrats are both hysterical, they can't touch Amy.  Highly recommended to fans of romantic comedies, genre bending flicks, and, of course, the works of Kevin Smith.Now that, my friend, is a shared moment.   "},{"Title":"No Point in Gilding the Lily","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What more can I add to all the bouquets that have been justifiably thrown?  It IS the first set of films I have seen together that have pieces of each in the other Alyssa is referenced in Mall Rats, and the homoerotic themes are played out well.  Great acknowledgement that in us all exists the 'opposite' sex.Interesting to read the comments from the guy who called this 'garbage'.  You often wonder if reviewers like that are overreacting to their own homo instincts, or whether the movie really IS garbage.  Having seen it, I know the answer!!!  Jason Lee is one DOLL and plays well against another stud, Ben Affleck.  Think I like him better in this one than in DOGMA, but he had the best lines in this one.  The chemistry between him and the girl was outstanding.   All along, I thought that you were born homo or hetereo, ignoring Gore Vidal's point that 'gender typing is just a statistician's game.  I choose what sex I wish to be involved with whenever I want to.  It's not one or the other exclusively.'So this gal had just been experimenting.  What a gorgeous point is made about our suppressed puritanism, as Affleck freaks out when she 'confesses' to the 'two on 1' episode.  But when he suggests the same act to 'cure him of his problem', she quite rightly says, I'm past that.  Wouldn't solve a thing, just make matters worse.   Don't we all hate it when someone we've really cared about shows that fatal flaw of character that ends it for us?  Maybe we're all too idealistic, but I've been there and it would have been quite unrealistic for her to 'kiss and make up'.  Wonder if Kevin Smith really had his 'Amy', and why he keeps mentioning Alyssa Jones in these movies?  It would be fun, if voyeuristic, to venture into Red Bank and find the real analogues to his characters. Hey, Kevin, you're quite a religious guy!!!! Show this one to your teen-ager Sunday School class.  Some day I am hoping that my old love, the Christian church, actually becomes so. Incorporating this and Dogma in the Sunday School curriculum might help. "},{"Title":"Extremley offensive and funny","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith can do no wrong.  Since the hilarious Clerks, I have been a fan of his and especially Jay and Silent Bob.  When they returned (however briefly) in this movie it automatically earned at least a five.  Having seen the movie though what Smith has produced here is perhaps his finest moment. A love story with a twist and a brain.  Some people may take offense at some of the dialogue but no one can deny it is very funny.  It is also refreshing to see romance from both a male and female perspective and also not turned into a total girl fest.  An intelligent piece of film making to see with your friends or your lover equally, just don't make Ben Affleck's mistake of trying to combine the two!!! "},{"Title":"Chasing Who?","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It takes a while to figure out who Amy is.. but what a wonderful romantic comedy.The only thing I have against this truly modern masterpiece is I came up with the premise before this came out, I was going to do a movie on a guy who unknowingly falls for a lesbian, but I didn't plan them to get together.This, I believe, is when Ben Affleck came out into the mainstream and though I liked him in his small roles in DAZED & CONFUSED, SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, and GOOD WILL HUNTING, he still hasn't outmatched his charming performance here opposite Joey Lauren Adams in the story of a guy who falls for.. well, you already know the story.But what reigns superior from other comedies using the whole gay/straight situation for punchlines and screwball situations is how true and honest it is. There's always scenes where questions arise on choosing to be homosexual. Jason Lee confronts Adams in a cynical way at a nightclub table about traditionalism and what he finds natural. Affleck seems curious as well as puzzled on a swingset next to Adams as they talk about the true process of losing virginity. This could have been handled in a made for television melodramatic way but Kevin Smith is very authentic with his writing and gives us nothing but honest and truth with dialogue and characters free of stereotypes.There are even great satirical jabs at prejudice mostly concerning with the flamboyantly gay character Dwight Ewell plays who disguises himself as an angry black supremist/cartoonist who both questions the racist symbolism between the STAR WARS characters (Darth Vader, a BLACK villain who tries to drag white farmboy Skywalker to the DARK side) and the secret love connection between Archie and Jughead.Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Lee, and Dwight Ewell are all in top form every time they walk up on screen and these are only perfect talents to carry the keen and hysterical laugh-inducing writing and directing of the fine Kevin Smith. The chemistry is divine. The ending is bittersweet and very real, as well as the whole movie. A deserving 10! "},{"Title":"is this mainstream ?","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Q Who writes the best movie dialogue at the moment ?Its a difficult question to answer,but in all conversations regarding it,Kevin Smiths name would be impossible to ignore. The delightful rapport(particuarly between Affleck and Lee)is the highlight of Smiths most mainstream movie.While Chasing Amy will never find a huge audience,it has risen from the near obscurity of its ancestors(Clerks and Mallrats)and is Smiths most sensitive picture to date(I get the feeling that Dogma will not continue this trend)with good performances all round.The fact that Affleck can actually lend depth to a Smith character is testamount to his talent,Adams kisses a woman(need I say more ?)and Lee reprises his role as the funniest man on earth.Possibly the best scene of the movie,though comes in the shape of Jay and Silent Bob,characters of pure genius.You get the feeling from watching Smiths movies that he didnt intend them to be analysed,but when its as good as this,how can we resist ? "},{"Title":"Interesting but Irritating","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy allows Kevin Smith to explore some of his ideas that he briefly presented in Clerks (probably the best super low budget film of the 90's). Now with more money and better actors he is able to take his time to develop his story. Things begin with two male friends well played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee. I found the raunchy humor which is typical of Smith very funny.Things become stirred up when Affleck meets Alyssa played by Joey Lauren Adams. To Affleck's surprise Alyssa is a lesbian. But is she? Now I wondered if people might be offended that a character  can change her sexual preference so quickly. But Smith's idea was so interesting that I went with it. Because what happens between Affleck and Adams, supposedly the central event of the movie, wasn't as important as how Lee's character, Banky, reacts to the relationship. If Banky is only a friend then why is he upset enough to sabotage it?Smith improves as a film maker in many ways. He even gets Silent Bob's side kick Jay played by Jason Mewes to seem half way believable and after seeing Clerks that is quite an accomplishment.There are two things that hurt Chasing Amy. Smith uses the offended boyfriend routine a bit too much here. I know the hypocrite liberal guy is supposed to be shown as a jerk but it seems over done. This bone head type of reaction was done with a lighter touch in Clerks. But what really irritated me about Chasing Amy was the performance by Joey Lauren Adams. Through about half of the movie she is pretty good when she is tough and coy. When she becomes the defensive and emotional scorned woman her voice is too strained and unbearably whiny.Still, Chasing Amy looks at love in unique ways. It has an ending that feels very real compared to the Pretty Woman trend of the last several years. It has sharp humor and unexpected depth that is well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is a genius!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. Kevin Smith is a genius-hard to beleive that one man can write and direct such a super movie. Although the plot is very simple to understand-man falls in love with gay woman-the movie says so much. Everything makes total sense! Banky-played by Jason Lee-is hilarious. And you cant help but totally have a huge crush on Ben Affleck after this movie. The script is brilliant-extremely obscene and graphic in some parts but the whole movie made total sense. This is a great movie for people who like comedy and who like a little bit of sensitivity in film as well. "}{"Title":"clerks is funnier,but chasing amy is a better movie all around","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  clerks was a funnier movie,but chasing amy added more tojust laughs,and made it better. chasing amy is a big  improvement over smith's last movie mallrats. mallrats was unfunny,and wasn't that interesting. chasing amy is a  entertaining,and funny movie. i give chasing amy *** outof **** "},{"Title":"The best of Kevin Smith's work.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy has Kevin Smith's hallmark humor, but the movie is approached in a serious way. Chasing Amy is Kevin Smith's masterpiece showing maturity and sophistication (while still have his trademark profane humor). Holden, played by Ben is a comic book artist who falls for a fellow comic book artist, Alyssa. The only problem is that Alyssa is a switch-hitter for the other team. Alyssa's a lesbian. Banky, Holden's inker, played by Jason Lee (who's always a delight as his performances are astounding) constantly discourages Holden with his brand of mock-male bravado that borders on chauvinism. In one scene, Banky explains the necessity of Stroke-Magazines en-masse. Holden advances anyway undeterred and succeeds in becoming Alyssa's friend. After that, a whirlwind romance ensues but Holden still can't come to grips about Alyssa's promiscuous past and things begin to fall apart. It's a personal movie that's apologetic and explores love-sex, and relationships in the 90's. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"An amazing, sharp and fun movie. Tells about the relations between straits to gays and lesbians in a very special way","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing amy is the best drama film i've seen in the past 5 years or so. We're talking about a feature that deals with several interesting issues at the same time. Coming along with an outstanding script writting by director Kevin smith and with an amazing acting performances by the film's major trio - Ben affleck, Jason lee and the wonderfull Joey Lauren Adams - this movie is the bomb!!! Smith's dealing with the gay straight issue, the black and white subject and love in general are all just worth addmiration. It has great scenes, each and every one of them is relevant to the story. It combines great drama but than again humor, relationships, friendships and a lot more. Taking a look at Clerks and Mallrats, This movie was brought to perfection by director smith. Some of the texts in the movie can be so real, and you know - what can I say It is there between you and me - you can't deny that...  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What makes this potentially deeply flawed film brilliant, in my humble estimation, is it's honesty. It has the guts to show the pettiness and insecurities of men in all of their embarrassing, gut wrenching glory. Overly verbose monologues that no one would actually say quite that way, poorly lit, badly set up shots, choppy editing and occasionally less than stellar performances litter this film. Doesn't matter. I find it undeniably great. It hits you where you live. The simple truth of the white, middle class, open-minded liberal guy, falling in love with a lesbian. Her having lived this extremely promiscuous gay lifestyle not bothering him one bit. Then finding out she'd done something a little nutty in high school with a > couple of guys making him positively psycho. That's honesty. Holden's humiliating concept of how to remedy his feeling of insecurity is a stroke of comic/tragic brilliance. The relationship between Holden and Banky is one for the ages in my book. Alyssa is a beautifully crafted, complex character. Smith never f**ks with her. I love that. She comes out of the piece smelling like a rose (having her with a woman at the end was also a nice realistic touch). Screwball comedy, intensely honest drama all in one film. All that and Jay and Silent Bob. Awesome.  "},{"Title":"Funny+profound","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just bought this movie today on the strength of it's rep, and it is well deserved. The sharp, vulgar dialogue between holden, hooper and especially blanky is sooo funny, the first scene and where blanky is explaining porn to a little kid, i just laughed out loud not many films make me do this. But also it was a very serious movie in parts with heavy feelings involved. I think what the film is saying is that you can fall for anyone, no matter age and in this case gender. Alyssa is saying you should not limit yourself to only straight or gay, but both, which is a very thought provoking but strangely logical notion. Brilliant, loving acting by Affleck and Adams, the leads, but affleck turns out to screw up the relationship with his hang ups. Beautiful, moving scenes indispresed with vulgar brutal FUNNY dialouge- anyone who finds this film not funny is way too stuck up!! This has turned me on to kevin smith films and i hope to get hold of more. Also- brilliant scene with silent bob, unforgettable!! "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Love Story With A Twist","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now this was a great movie. Kevin Smith has out done himself this time. A love story for the ages.Imagine a guy, who meets a girl, and falls for her in a hard way later to find out, to his dismay that this girls only likes other girls. Well imagine no more, all you have to do is go and see this film. This was done in such a clever way and once again the script which Smith has written is golden. Only Smith could write such a movie and direct in in such a way as to engage the audience while they watch. Jay & Silent Bob are unfortunately absent for most of this movie, but when they do show up, they make an impact, a hilarious scene.Who can stop Kevin Smith, he's a genius, he goes non stop, he knows how to make a movie, what else can I say.One thing for sure is that Smith's next Movie Dogma, is the one movie that i have been waiting for since Clerks, and it's so close, i'm just dying to see it, i'm sure it will be an instant classic. SNOOGANS.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy was a very real movie to me.  As I was watching this film I felt like was watching myself in that situation or at least was there as a third party.  I felt every time the actors expressed an emotion.  That is what is missing in todays films.  To get that kind of response I usually go to the theatre.  I must say the actors in Chasing Amy really impressed me and I will continue to look for them in other films.  Overall it was a great film.EIGHT OUT OF TEN "},{"Title":"nothing less then excellent","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The third installment of the new jersey trio is by far the best one. a funny and honest look at the dynamics of relationships between friends and lovers. small and touching, very well acted (jason lee is an undiscovered great talent). The kind of movies you never forget. a must see! "},{"Title":"Good, but spotty","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie overall is good, and a bit more serious than you'd expect.  It has it's funny parts, to be sure, but, there's quite a bit of drama here. One of the most foul mouthed movies I've ever scene, next to Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown.  Nothing is unsafe from this guy's scrutiny, whether it be Black Power, Catholocism, or homosexuality.  It's not for the fainthearted and definitely not for kids.  There are some scenes that are expositionalistic in my opinion.  All the foul, frank sexual discussions, while funny, seem thrown into the movie. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie. I learned from this movie.When Blankie figures out what kinda bar he is in his smile is so great. the ice hockey scene is just awesome,totally awesome.Just a real good ,smart movie.this is a must see for anyone who knows what love is. "}{"Title":"Rented this movie, watched it, loved it, rewinded it and watched it again!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since Kevin Smith's movie Clerks has been one of my favorites since I watched it at the Rotterdam Film Festival in 1994 (or 1995) I wanted to see what else he made. Chasing Amy was one of the search hits I got at IMDB so I rented it. The movie started with some music that made me wonder if I should have rented it at all but when the music stopped a perfect night began. A roller coaster ride of emotions ranging from delight to sadness followed. Interesting and funny characters, swift and highly amusing dialogues, a warm but sad love story about the pain that love can bring between two people and how to deal with this pain without losing the relationship our yourself. I find it amazing how Smith manages to tell a story of this kind and still make a movie that leaves a smile on the face of the viewer after it's over. "},{"Title":"Better the second time...","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched Chasing Amy for the second time. It has been about a year since my first viewing of this and i must admit that it was a bit better the second time. I still thought that it was seriously NOT funny. I must also admit that I tried to NOT pay attention to any of the s**t in the background and anything like that. I wanted to just (try to) enjoy the movie and not notice the comic book creators spread throughout and I tried not to notice the cameos of the producer and all that stuff. I wanted to enjoy the movie. Although I liked it better the second time, I did NOT enjoy it. It was too long, too boring, too gay, and too politically correct for my tastes. It is Kevin Smith's WORST movie.  "},{"Title":"If you could get through it, you got something.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Coming from a town of only 55,000 I don't have much exposure to the gay and lesbian community.  Sitting through this Kevin Smith classic was a challenge at first.  But after seeing it I learned a little about myself and my views and opinions on relationships.  Once I was able to get past the homosexuality there was something there.  (Since first viewing, I have seen other films with strong homosexual content that would put Chasing Amy in the Disney category)  There was enough Kevin Smith humor and brilliant dialogue to keep me watching.  It made me think about myself, even more than Clerks did.  Another Jaws reference was established as well just as in the other two NJ3 films. (Hooper in Chasing Amy, Brodie in Mallrats, Salsa Shark in Clerks)  If you would like to see a movie that helps you get in touch with a side of you that you never thought existed, try it out sometime.  Because come on, that's what I'm sayin' how long can a tongue really get? "},{"Title":"Director Kevin Smith's best yet","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen all three (to date) of Kevin Smith's films, Chasing Amy is far and away the best. There's still the crass humour from Clerks but it's mixed with a real sensitivity. It shows Smith is about much more than just fart jokes. I admit it, there were times when I cried during the film, because leading actors Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams play their roles with the emotions just under the surface. The only fault in the film is Smith's decision to go a little too far with the relationship dynamics of Holden (Affleck) and his best friend Banky (Lee). "},{"Title":"listen don't watch","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats I didn't find funny, but this movie is sooooooo funny. But if u r one of those people who like to watch and not listen then its going to be damn. Cuse this movie has some crude humor in the dialog. And every time i watch it i hear something new. The lead actress did an excellent job. This movie is funny , heart warming , and more funny.=) "},{"Title":"A brilliant, sad, movie","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a comedy, this is one of the saddest films I've ever seen. It was funny, truly one of the funniest movies I've seen in years (and OK, so there's some crude language, but that's preferable to Mike Myers' potty obsession), but the core of the story was in the relationships. Watching Holden make his doomed proposal to Alyssa and Banky was one of the hardest things to watch I've ever seen; you knew what he was going to say, and like Alyssa, you just wanted him to stop. The way that Alyssa mutters Don't to herself is heartbreaking. It's like watching a train wreck in slow motion.I also have no problem with Holden's sudden about-face when confronted with Alyssa's past - I don't agree with Holden's actions (in fact I think he's an idiot for the rest of the movie), but love is like that. If Chasing Amy has any serious message about relationships, it's that relationships make no sense. You don't know who'll you'll fall in love with or why, and you don't know what will make you fall out of love either.The dialogue is funny, the acting adequate (I like Joey Lauren Adams' voice!), and the story is original enough to be memorable. The only thing I didn't like was Hooper's stock characterization, which is likely to offend both gays and blacks. Somehow I don't think Smith is too concerned about that. He's making a self-contained, self-referential universe in his films, just like Star Wars. In twenty years, will directors be making in-jokes referencing Kevin Smith films?... "},{"Title":"What's a Nubian?","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE best line in the film is the title of this little diatribe...Fantastically acted by Joey Lauren, Ben, and Jason, Chasing Amy is definitely one of my top 15 films.The reality and crunch of the dialogue is what makes this film pure gold, not to mention sly little references to the other two NJ3 films.  (Rick Deris was a patron at Quick Stop in Clerks; I'm not even going to touch the Meow Mix conversation; and we all remember the Jones sister's book from Mallrats; and Julie Dwier makes a posthumous appearance in all 3 films)Chasing Amy is oh, so very un-PC, because it deals in the arena of love, and who is ever PC in love?  I am a college student majoring in women's studies, and I have heard many of my collegues and professors bash this film for living up to the male pornographic fantasy, well maybe it does, but it is also a love story.  And for those that prescribe to the Banky-SeriousDeepDickin' school of thought in reference to this issue, they obviously went to get popcorn during Alyssa's explanation of why she chose Holden.  This is a story that strengthens the reasoning of homosexuality, the reason being that Alyssa didn't want to discount half of the world's population to find her soulmate, because of their gender.  She had bad experiences with men, so she switched to women.  Simple as that.Things that I love about this film The Chasing Amy speech w/ Jay & Silent Bob The opening standoff with Hooper and Banky the Archie conversation (which reminds me of old high school lunch table conversations Bert & Ernie are gay, and the Smurfs were Communists!) the explanation on the swings and ... the sign language conversation at the end*for Good Will Hunting fans notice Matt Damon as the other executive (that's not Dante) notice Casey Affleck in the opening tracer bit... "},{"Title":"Mirror Image","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay.  I must admit that the lesbian falling in love with a man thing (despite Smith's explanation for Alyssa as to why she could despite being a lesbian) kind of irked me.  I was not terribly impressed with the plot of the movie.  But there were a few things I loved.The movie was different.  I wouldn't say it was completely original, but definitely not Hollywood.  No director is ever going to be 100% accurate with the portrayal of human relationships, but that is to be expected. This movie was one of the first movies that showed relationships and dialogue within them to almost mirror ones that I have had.  I think Smith could have left out the whole gay/straight deal and not much would've been taken away.Affleck's speech to Alyssa expressing his love I swear I have practically said the same thing myself (to a woman who didn't feel the same way).  And Alyssa's reaction (at least her original reaction) was so realistic.  And the scene outside the ice rink so realistic I was left totally in awe, and crying by the end of it.  Very few movies remind me of my love life.  This one did.But maybe that's the catch.  I thought Smith's interpretation of love hit the target much closer than any director has in the past, but that could be just because his interpretation is awfully close to mine.And of course, Jason Lee was excellent.Because the other three don't *#&$ exist!   )   "},{"Title":"Great twist on an old story","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When you look at Chasing Amy closely you realize something. Kevin Smith has taken the cliched story of a woman who falls in love with a gay man and simply reversed the genders and at the same time adding a much needed dose of reality to the story. I thought that this was a very realistic take on romance no matter how complicated. Smith looked at the fact that most filmmakers overlook. Romance can be painful and damaging. Most people don't look at how painful love can be. I have seen this movie a few times and unlike Clerks the humour does begin to fade a bit. Also you begin to notice things about the characters you didn't the first time. After the third viewing I realized that I really don't like the Ben Affleck character. He is the only part of the movie that I don't completely connect with. He gets really arrogant after the the third time you meet him. Everything else is absolutely perfect though. Jason Lee is as hilarious as he was in Mallrats and is a perfect foil for Ben Affleck. Hooper X had me busting a gut even the third time I saw his speeches. Also, Jay and Silent Bob are great in their familiar supporting role (Silent Bob's speech was pure gold). I think people who loved Clerks might have a problem with Chasing Amy. I say this because people expecting the same light hearted antics will be surprised to see a serious and often profound love story under all the dirty jokes. "},{"Title":"very realistic","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film presents an amazingly truthful representation of the complications involved with having a relationship in the nineties. It brings about issues like experimentation, promiscuity, and homosexuality with an unusual frankness. The dialogue is one very impressive thing. It is the dialogue of real people. Real people discuss sex frankly. It is not the synthetic dialogue heard in films like Picture Perfect or My Best Friend's Wedding. The story, which is about a heterosexual man wooing a lesbian, is very fresh. The cinematography and direction are amateurish, but this film did not have a big budget. Kevin Smith belongs to a group of directors that value honesty and individuality over big budgets, explosions, and the same old formulaic plots forced down the throats of the public over and over. "}{"Title":"A director comes of age","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clerks showed us just what can be done with a few credit cards & a bit of imagination. Mallrats made us laugh, despite the fact that what we knew we were laughing at was dumb. But Here, I feel, with this film, Kevin Smith has shown, to a much greater extent, what he can do.Chasing Amy unlike it's predesesors is on the whole a more grown up film, It deal's with relationship's in a much more serious (yet funny) way, & this is why I feel it's Kevin Smith's best film. Clerks was good, but each line was joke after joke, & as anyone will tell you jokes can become tiresome (especially after 200 hearings, which seemed to happen between me & my friends after watching the film at every party), Mallrats was much the same, all the time it was joke after joke. However Chasing Amy, although still having some great comic lines coming from Jason Lee as Brodie, has a much greater Sensitivity & in a way much more of mature outlook on love.Both Ben Affleck & Joey Lauren Adams put in good performances, & our utterly believable. But this film's beauty lies in it's dealings with relationships. The Basic Plot shows that there is no control over how we love, it's completley irrational.The other major bonus of the film is the ending.  I don't mind saying that I cried at the end because you know what you want to happen, but know it can't.I recommend everybody to watch this film. This shows a Director's coming of age. Await the future "},{"Title":"Lesby friends","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems to me that a lot of people like Chasing Amy just because it's a Kevin Smith film.  Since I've never seen Clerks or Mallrats I didn't give a darn who he was and came to like this movie for different reasons.  First of all  It's story. Guy meets girl, guy likes girl, guy finds out girl is a lesbian, guy starts friendship with girl, guy falls in love with girl, guy starts dating girl, guy hears rumor about girl, guy confronts girl, guy upsets girl, guy apolgizes to girl and suggest a threesome with his best friend, guy gets slapped by girl............It was original.  There was no sugar coated happy ending which can often make a film less affective. Another thing I liked about Chasing Amy is the acting.  Jason Lee was cool as the wise cracking Banky, Dwight Ewell stole the show as the flamboyant Hooper X, and Joey Lauren Adams stood out from her previous supporting roles as a cool lesbian comic strip writer.   I can't really mention the star, ben affleck with the other actors because there wasn't anything great about his character or acting.  But that's not to say he doesn't have talent because Ben always holds his own in his movies. "},{"Title":"A movie that hit home for me...","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie hit very close to home for me, except for the fact that I am not gay. The performances were great, the story good as well. Kevin Smith is a great director, actor and writer. I own all three of the NJ3, and they are all great. He sent me an autograph and he and his movies provide me with entertainment when I still watch them. Kevin Smith is a wonderful person and this movie breaks the boundaries of what love is and isn't. Watch it for the raising of emotions, the great jokes and the insight into your relationships in your own life. Bravo to everybody who made this movie.  "},{"Title":"Loved it! funny, romantic, and witty","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any Kevin Smith movie is worth seeing. Clever writer1 You don't want to miss any lines. Don't watch it with your parents though, they don't like that tasty sex talk that others find interesting and funny.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much.  Both main characters and two supporting characters are believable and well-written.  Others have commented it is very talky, and rightly so - the last speech by Holden is at least two minutes too long.  There are more hits than misses though and the dialogue-laden script works, especially with the genuine chemistry between Holden and Alyssa.  The remarkably nontraditional ending is quite a surprise.Look for a cameo by Matt Damon. "},{"Title":"Boy meets girl, girl meets boy, girl meets girl and boy meets boy","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of the people submitting on this movie have got it all wrong. It's not about Smith having a fear for homosexuals. What he's trying to do is to create characters that reflects how the society in general treats and thinks of homosexuals and all the prejudices against them. Chasing Amy comes off as one of the most entertaining and heartwarming movies I've seen in a long time, outscoring both Clerks and Mallrats.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious and overrated waste of celluloid","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went along to see Chasing Amy with reasonably high expectations, as many of my friends had been raving about it.It is the only film I have ever seen where I feel as though the film makers have stolen two hours of my life.And I want it back.Put simply, this film is the most pretentious piece of rubbish it's ever been my misfortune to encounter.It starts of really well a terrific analysis of how the Star Wars trilogy maintains the oppression of black people. Very cleverly written, and well delivered. The film makers should have stopped there, but unfortunately they didn't.The film raises many interesting questions about how people deal with their own sexuality and that over others. It raises the issue of infatuation and people building up fantasy worlds in their heads. It raises the issue of prejudice.And it completely fails to explore any of these issues that it raises.Instead, it spends the rest of the time preening itself and saying, Look how wonderfully cool and daring we are raising these issues.And the behaviour of the characters often ranges from the bizarre to the inexplicable. Indeed, their behaviours, I feel, result from the plot, rather than the plot resulting from what the characters do.Consider the scene late in the film when Holden, who has been developed all through the film as someone who is completely insecure about his own sexuality, proposes a way to overcome their problems.Keh?Someone who, it appears, guilt trips over things like masturbation, suddenly is secure and comfortable enough with themselves to propose such a thing as a means of getting out of a difficult emotional situation?Sorry, pull the other one and play jingle bells.This is one instance of many where the characters behave in a completely plot driven manner.I went to see this film as one of a group of ten people. At the conclusion of the film, five people thought it was one of the best films they'd ever seen. The other five felt as I do.Maybe it will work for you. I don't know. My advice if you're contemplating seeing this film, strongly contemplate doing something else instead. Watching grass grow would be a better way to spend two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"best of the NJ3","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While Clerks was just kind of a rant, and Mallrats was pretty dumb (damn funny, but dumb), Kevin Smith seems to have matured a lot with this one. This seems like a really personal movie for him. All of Joey Lauren Adams' screaming kind of bugged me, but other than that, the performances were all top-notch. After Mallrats, I knew Jason Lee was hilarious, but he proved in this that he can act too. Ben Affleck is good, like always. But Jason Lee is my favorite. He needs to be in more stuff. This is Smith's movie, though, right down to Silent Bob's breakout performance! He is always in control of this great story, which is one of the most original I've ever seen. The ending has upset some people, but, as gut-wrenching as it is, it needed to happen that way. The end is just so true to life, with the tearful I'll see you arounds, where they both know full well they probably won't. Tough stuff, but that's the way it is. Overall, just a great movie. Funny, smart, sad, it's got everything. Check it out. "},{"Title":"A COP OUT","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some have noticed. albeit in a kind of roundabout way, what a cop out in the way this film ends.  Kevin Smith's heterosexuality comes barking at us. Is it not possible that a woman would choose a lesbian life style without having to prove that she is capable of having an intimate relationship with a man?  Come on,  Mr. Smith, loosen up. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie more than I thought I would.I didn't think I could get through more than 5 minutes of Joey Lauren Adams' annoying voice.  But I stuck with it and was glad I did.But its obvious attempts at being cool got on my nerves.  "}{"Title":"The power of Kevin Smith...","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy followed the horrible release of Mallrats, and proved to my own sarcastically doubtful mind that Kevin Smith had indeed, not lost his cinematic prowess. This fine film depicts the complexity which is life in its most commonly confused forms of love, friendship, and truth. With a delightful cast, simple, yet attractive camera work, and sly humor, Smith rallies the movie-fantatic in us to let all possibilities out, and for 100 plus minutes, just enjoy...  "},{"Title":"Something personal to say","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done it again.  The touch he seemed to lose with Mallrats has returned full force.  In a very touching, and personal, film Kevin Smith has outdone himself.  Changing his style a bit he finally makes a movie that takes place in more than one day - he has made a REAL movie.  Not that there was anything wrong with Clerks.  I loved Clerks for its simplicity, but this was just... wow.  Not being a big fan of Ben Affleck I was completely impressed by him in this movie.  Also with Joey Lauren Adams I was moved - yes her voice is a little too much and you can start the movie thinking am I going to have to listen to her for the whole movie!  but it doesn't become an issue, in fact I grew to love her voice.  The movie was very true to life - it didn't give us a fake, Hollywood ending, it was true to the situation.  Sure maybe people don't like to see something a little sad or realistic, but I think Mr. Smith handled it just fine.  And his cameo as Silent Bob was perfect - much longer than his others, but just right.  I congratulate you Mr. Smith and look forward to Dogma. "},{"Title":"A truly original movie with great script","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It is one of my all-time favorities. It is one of the most cleverly crafted, well acted movies.  I can't think of a movie that it resembles.  It is that original. And it is hilarious. The characters are very likeable and real.  Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, and Joey Lauren Adams had great chemistry.  They all should have won awards.  Kevin Smith certainly should have won a screenplay award.  One thing I really liked about this movie is that it explored why people are attracted to each other.  This isn't the simple, boy meets girl and falls in love. We get to learn why Affleck's and Adam's character care about each other.  It made me think of why I'm with my girlfriend.  It is a very thought-provoking movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious yet surprisingly mature film","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never thought I'd be able to forgive Kevin Smith after MALLRATS, but this film was wonderful.  Not only is it as hysterically funny as CLERKS, but it also tells a surprisingly mature and touching love story.  Some critics have carped that Smith is just a dialogue writer, but when the dialogue (a skill that seems above the head of most writers these days) is this good, why complain?  Of course, the STAR WARS references are funny, but I also liked the I love you speech Holden made to Alyssa.  And that relationship was really well drawn out as well, showing Smith to be an expert on writing guys who can't handle women who are sexually experienced, yet are not bad guys. Affleck is good as Holden, but the real surprise here is Adams as Alyssa. She brings the right amount of humor, spunk, and vulnerability to the role, and she should have received an Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"Smith returns to form","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith returns to form in this excellent film, one that once again shows that he may very well be the best writer in the business.  While I wouldn't put it on the same comedic level as Clerks, this is Smith's most dramatic film to date, and it is now clear that he can write heartfelt emotion just as well as he can write hilarious banter.  Films don't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"90% really fantastic movie, 10% utter garbage","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind that this movie doesn't end happily. What I couldn't take was the shift in Affleck's character, forced to make a Guess Who's Coming to Dinner speech in one of the most uncomfortably bad scenes in recent memory. His conflict over the relationship is contrived and rings false. It's like the screenwriter wasn't able to let go this part of the script even though the rest of the movie doesn't point in this direction. Some great performances, especially from Adams, but ultimately I felt let down. "},{"Title":"The best yet...","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!!! I didn't think that Clerks could be beaten, but this film has done it.  Ben Affleck is excellent, a Genuine cross between Vince Vaughn in Swingers and Hamlet!  I have a new found respect for him, I'll even forgive him for Armageddon.  I am now officially in love with Joey Lauren Adams, I can't wait to see her next film.  The same goes for Kevin Smith, can he go wrong?? I think its sooo cool having these young film makers (Smith/Affleck/Damon/ et al)making films that we want to see...  more Power to them...  "},{"Title":"True to Life, well, close enough!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a movie worth checking out, may be too complicated for the younger audience to grasp the concepts in it, but worth seeing nonetheless.The ending, while not your typical Hollywood ending, was more true to life, than just making the audience happy, which led to a very well written story overall. "},{"Title":"A rare, adult treat","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A genuinely adult film, dealing with grown up, often messy ,emotions. It has a rare honesty about relationships both between men and women and between men and men. Beautifully written in a literate and witty manner - it is no surprise that Smith's favourite film is A Man For All Seasons. One of the best romantic films ever made. The ending is horribly sad.  "},{"Title":"Very well done until the stupid ending...","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with most of the positive comments I've seen. The acting was good and it was cool to see these Gen X kids in a comic book writer/artist universe (how often do you see that world portrayed on the big screen?) -- but the final meeting/compromise which Affleck's character comes up with was too stupid for words! I don't know if it was meant to be literal but would a heterosexual male really agree to a homosexual act simply to be on the same level as his girlfriend?  I kinda doubt it. I know I wouldn't. The whole thing smacked of screenwriter shock value time.   "}{"Title":"This movie has it all","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie has everything a good movie needs. It's funny, it's sad and it makes you think. Makes you think about your own sexuality and how everybody or almost everybody sees other people's sexual gender as a tabu! This movie is light, with all the cartoons and that, and it's heavy with the subject that it brings up. "},{"Title":"Another great movie from Kevin Smith","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy, like Mallrats, takes place in the same universe as Clerks, but isn't an actual sequel.  This movie seems to be Kevin Smith's most popular movie.  It's the most non-cliched romantic comedy I've ever seen. Kevin shows his serious side by writing and directing very emotional scenes.  The actors are very good (once again, we get to see Ben Affleck right before he becomes famous).  Kevin shows his usual vulgar humor mixed with realistic dialogue and characterazation as well.  The ending, although strange, is not the boring Hollywood everyone is happy ending. "},{"Title":"God damn is that a true story?","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That movie is great for one thing, anyone who have ever lived something similar to this will understand me I am sure. What this film is showing is too damn realistic. maybe i loved this film cause i make the same mistake as Holden, but it touch me right here and it comes in my list a good film. It has its place near films like phenomenom, or archangel. i cannot put it in the braveheart or The Mission class but it is well worth a try. I give it 9  "},{"Title":"My favorite Kevin Smith movie","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith could be the next John Hughes. Smith, like Hughes, churns out hilarious movie after hilarious movie about youngsters (teens in Hughes' case; 20-somethings in Smith's case).Chasing Amy is probably my favorite Smith movie. It's just as hilarious as Clerks and Mallrats, yet it also has moments of true emotion, drama and seriousness. It's hard to find a movie today that can be both funny and touching.When Chasing Amy is funny, it is VERY funny, and when it is dramatic it is VERY dramatic. An excellent film, any way you look at it. "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that this is the best movie I have ever seen... period. It's an honest look at love without all the 'magic falling stars' crap.  I don't have much more to say about this movie, except watch it.  Oh yeah, and anyone who expected Holden and Alyssa to be together at the end probably also believed that Holden was serious about the menage-a-trois stuff.  Get serious. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is my favorite movie. Holden's spirited and eloquent speech in which he professes his love for Alyssa is a speech I have long wanted to give myself--even before I saw the movie. That scene is so well-written, it qualifies as the best scene in a movie that has so much smart dialogue, it's hard to believe there is a stand-out scene.Update I haven't seen this move in 10 years, but I still remember the effect that speech had on me. The woman I loved then has since gone from my life, but I still remember the feeling. I'm about to watch it again. I would recommend you watch it again even if you've seen it before. "},{"Title":"The most honest movie I've ever seen","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Returning back to his roots of lower-budget, script-based drama/comedy, Kevin Smith has created his second masterpiece in three tries.  Chasing Amy is the most honest movie I've ever seen.For a movie shot using only a quarter of a million dollars, it is a surprisingly well-constructed, the script is every bit as good as Clerks' was.  While many parts are hilarious, and there are some very great lines, Chasing Amy is a drama all the way, and a very good one.  Smith knows how to make fun of love and sex while recognizing how serious it can be to those involved.  Not an instant of this movie is anything but directly on-target. "},{"Title":"Could have been a good movie, but the ending destroys the entire two hours.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first hour was an excellent comedy, and I loved the commentary on comic book society, but let's face it  nobody in their right mind would react the way that stupid protagonist did.  I mean, you like the guy so much, he's a great guy, and then...he's a complete idiot.  He loses his friend, the girl, and the movie.  Ugh!  The ending of this movie actually angered me quite a bit.  Watch it until silent Bob starts talking, and then turn it OFF. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My friends recommended this film to me and I finally saw it! I couldn't belive how good it was. The dialogue is so sharp and witty, the acting spectacular and the story played a bigger role in this one than in Kevin Smith's other two films. I suggest seeing Clerks before seeing Chasing Amy, since Chasing Amy gives away what may be the greatest joke in Clerks.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes the past is too hard to get past.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done it again- he brings the lives of urban teens to the screen in a realistic and unashamed way. Sure some of the movie is uncomfortable to watch- some of the language tough to hear- but Alyssa's character is one that needs to be seen. Most of all this movie proved men are from mars and women from venus... sometimes the gap seems too big to overcome- only silent bob has the wisdom to know it can be done.Film noir and cinema verite in a modern blender- but not for the meek viewer.     "}{"Title":"A strange movie that isn't very good.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A strange movie, different to any other. I don't think it's worth paying to see. "},{"Title":"Alive, exploring, growing, real!","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fun!  Explores a world unknown to me.  Full of love and personal growth. Painful lessons and paths not taken. "},{"Title":"A sleeper -- One of the best movies of 1997.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the only Kevin Smith movie I've ever seen and I think it is great. Yes, I'm aware of the Jersey trilogy and I've been meaning to see Clerks. This movie had everything.  I laughed, cried, was touched, and repulsed.  I can't remember coming away from a movie feeling those 4 emotions.  Everyone was great in it but Dwight Ewell's Hooper was riveting and very funny.  Hope to see Dwight in more Smith movies.  Can't wait for Dogma!! "},{"Title":"the ending was all that was wrong","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  alright, through the first ninety or one hundred minutes of this movie i was thoroughly impressed.  and then came the ending. which made me hate holden and kind of turned me off to the whole thing.  but now i own it on video, so i just watch until holden decides to tell alyssa and banky that he wants to have sex with them and then i turn it off.  but i will say that this is a great movie to watch if you have really conservative friends, because it always freaks them out. "},{"Title":"Smith's Best","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith gets serious and pulls it off beautifully.  There is plenty of classic Kevin Smith banter in this (including a riff on the ol' scar comparing scene from Jaws), but he still manages to go for the drama.  Ben Affleck is great as Holden, the guy who falls for a lesbian.  Jason Lee is hilarious as his sidekick, some of the best gestures and facial expressions in the biz.  And Joey Lauren Adams is just wonderful in her turn as the object of Holden's affections.  Surprisingly honest, this casts out any doubt of Smith's abilities after the critically bashed Mallrats.  Keep your eyes open for a great scene with Jay and Silent Bob (from Smith's Clerks and Mallrats), who don't apear until near the end.  By far, Smith's best film. "},{"Title":"Amazing story and performances","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely a personal favorite;  the dialogue is sharp, the story is gripping and the acting is amazing!  Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams have incredible chemistry, while Jason Lee's intensity and hilarious cynicism make the film a classic.  Best film, 1997. "},{"Title":"Smith's most meaningful film to date.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie you see just because it's Smith, sneaks up on you and you find yourself actually caring for what happens to these characters. There isn't a single scene or situation that isn't believable or meaningful to its audience. We have all been in these characters shoes at one time or another , and to see it portrayed on the screen so skillfully is like confirmation that we are not alone in our own romantic struggles. We can see ourselves as these characters, although we're probably not as funny.  "},{"Title":"After repeated viewings. . . .","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie about six times now, and there are a couple of things that have started to bother me a little -- mostly Holden's profession of love to Alyssa in the car in the rain. Still, when you consider that MOST romantic comedies get on your nerves on the FIRST viewing, that ends up being pretty high praise. It's one of my favorites ever. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the best dialogue in a movie I have viewed in a long time. For those  interested in Smith movies, see his website for interesting trivia /  background information (you can link from this site). "},{"Title":"KEVIN SMITH IS GOD","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith did it again.  Chasing Amy (the third and final indstallment in the writer-director's Jersey Trilogy) is a marvelous film.  It has is more mainstream then Clerks and Mallrats, but maintains the realism and wonderful dialogue of Smith's other work.  The numerous references to characters in the previous films and the speech by Silent Bob are an added treat to die hard Kevin Smith fans.  This can only raise expectations for Smith's next film, Dogma.   "}{"Title":"Still Relevant Today","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Kevin Smith manages to again to combine his own brand of invented humor with a strong, heartfelt, underlying message. Chasing Amy is exactly what you would expect and want from Smith, with his casting of usual suspects that have become a staple in his movies. While this film is more laden with emotional moments than his previous works, the comic relief of reoccurring inside jokes is always there to pick you back up and remind you that this is not a Lifetime movie. Using sex and sexuality so bluntly in a film makes it difficult to assign a singular theme to the film. Acceptance, loss of innocence, love conquers all, and individual vs. society all have equal validity as the major theme. The magic of this film is that it manages to successfully intertwine all of them.The main plot of the movie centers on a pair of independent comic book artists and lifelong friends named Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards, played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee, as they prepare to take their comic Bluntman & Chronic mainstream. Everything is perfect until Holden meets fellow aspiring comic artist Alyssa Jones, played by Joey Lauren Adams. He quickly falls head over heels and pursues a relationship her until he learns one important detail She is gay. Even worse than that, she is bisexual with an extremely promiscuous past. Holden decides that he can make Alyssa turn straight and continues his courtship of her with devastating results. All the while, jealousy rears its evil head in the form of Holden's friend Banky becoming envious of the amount of time and effort Holden is putting into his futile pursuit of Alyssa instead of their own friendship. Holden manages to eventually win Alyssa's heart but it comes at a cost and is short lived. His friendship with Banky cannot take the strain of an outsider coming between them and his own feelings of inadequacy and disgust of Alyssa's past get the better of him.No Kevin Smith film would be complete without an appearance of Jay and Silent Bob. They make a minor plot contribution by being the inspiration for Holden and Banky's Bluntman & Chronic comic. They share a small but important role of representing Holden's inner conflict and subconscious in physical form when they meet with him to collect their royalty check. This meeting contributes to the loss of innocence them with its talk of lost love and regrets. Another plot point is the offer made to Holden and Banky to take their comic to the masses. This creates tension between them because Holden does not want to sellout while Banky wants the money and fame that will result from it. This serves to initiate the animosity Banky feels because Holden considers his relationship with Alyssa more important that their own. This adds to the love conquers all theme because Banky feels that he and Holden are family. Their platonic love should come first. When trying to find a comparable movie that has the same theme and messages as Chasing Amy we run into a brick wall. There are dozens of movies that share different aspects of the message it promotes, but nothing that directly reflects it. In my opinion, the only thing you can compare a Kevin Smith movie to is another Kevin Smith movie. They all circle the same sun in his view askewed universe. Dozens of independent films and even a few big studio productions, such as In &Out starring Kevin Klein, cover the theme of sexual acceptance but finding one movie that covers all of the issues is near impossible. It is unique. However, if you do have a moment to watch In & Out, the scene with the masculinity audio tapes is especially hilarious. Smith has honed his own way of shooting his films. His use of lighting to highlight key moments in Chasing Amy is most obvious during the scene where Holden and Alyssa are watching a local band at a bar. When Alyssa is called onstage to sing with the band, she is put center stage with a spotlight on her. She is highlighted as Holden's object of desire as he watches from the crowd. When she is done singing her love song, which Holden thinks is for him, the spotlight moves to a woman in crowd next to him. This is when he learns that Alyssa is gay. The spotlight is used to draw your attention to the important person in the frame and is used with Alyssa numerous times throughout the film. The use of dialogue is always a main point in all of Smith's films. The repartee between the characters is akin to the back and forth of a professional comedy duo. Each line is well versed and delivered quickly. Underneath the Star Wars comments and geek culture references, there is always a strong message that you can easily understand. Smith manages to do this trick well multiple times in every film. The monologue by Silent Bob when gives Holden advice about how to deal with Alyssa is the perfect example. Being a man of few words, Silent Bob delivers his poignant message of not judging others without judging yourself perfectly. Several other speeches from other characters in the film share the structure that makes you think of something in a new or different way.Chasing Amy was a movie ahead of its time. With all of the current laws regarding gay marriage this movie seems even more relevant now than it did in 1997. It teaches that everyone is different and that is OK. Follow your heart without limits and accept people for who they are so you do not find yourself Chasing Amy "},{"Title":"If you seek Amy","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shot on a low budget and with actors who'd yet to become hugely famous, Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy is one of the better gay/straight relationship movies from the 1990s. Capturing a certain Zeitgeist, the film stars Ben Afflect and Jason Lee as Holden and Banky, a couple of comic book artists and lifelong friends.Half of Smith's film is an ode to the graphic novel subculture. The other half is a serio-comic portrait of male and female sexual insecurity. Here, Holden's in love with a young woman called Alyssa (Joey Lauren), a woman whom he learns has had numerous sexual relationships with men and women. His ego wounded, Holden attempts to prove to Alyssa that he, and he alone, is all that she needs. It's the old hyper-masculinist notion that all a bisexual/lesbian needs is good heterosexual sex. Alyssa, of course, finds Holden's change in personality to be revolting. She drifts away from him.At its best, Chasing Amy portrays the incredible pressures weighting down on people who don't identify as being mono-sexual or heterosexual. Characters are constantly pushing Alyssa to choose the right team, tastelessly slut shaming her in public, and no-one ever considers the poor girl's own personal desires, wants and intentions. Alyssa, meanwhile, attempts to remain headstrong. She's open to finding happiness wherever it may lie, she says, and is determined to not limit the likelihood of finding that one person who'd complement me so completely. Through her, Holden and Banky learn a certain tolerance and openness.Queer cinema blossomed in the 1990s. Smuggling sincerity behind raunchy humour, Chasing Amy is one of the earliest pieces of queer cinema to target straight frat-boys, teens and stoners.7.9/10 &#x96; Some kind of classic. "},{"Title":"An intriguing and surprising look at mature themes","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy made me think. It's a movie based on dialog, a character study centered on two guys and a girl, their interactions and feelings. It's a comedy but a totally obscene one. It's mostly about sex, though comic books are a prevalent theme as well.So what did the movie make me think about? Bisexuality and homosexuality and the blurred line in between. Ethnic stereotypes. Life lessons and choices. The movie doesn't just touch on this stuff, it dives in. It's very brave, I think. I disagree with a lot of things in it and you will too. That doesn't mean it's not important to ask questions. There are some lines that will really stick with you, whether you want them to or not.Ben Affleck is brilliant. I really liked him in this. The same goes for the whole cast. "},{"Title":"Gunga.....","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since it's the summer of comedy, and this was on my list and it got an depressing emotion out of me, I thought I'd review it. This definitely feels like Kevin Smiths most heartfelt film, it's not to big on the comedy. The best part of this film is that I was thoroughly interested, I only ever checked the runtime because I wanted it to be a little longer. Do not read if sensitive. Let just sum it up. The characters were believable for the most part, Joey Lauren Adams surprisingly didn't annoyed me, that's a first for her. Banky was the only character I actually cared about, even if he was a bit of an as-hole. Holden was just your average every man. And I'll get to Alyssa in a bit. Jay and silent bob only have one scene, I thought there would be more of them since they are on the cover, but oh well. There was a lot of good scenes, my favorites being the hockey rink scene and Silent Bobs story. Those had more weight to the story.Now comes the biggest thing people love to argue over, Alyssa's past. I've looked up and down the forums here, and people love talking about this. Well, it did bring a lot of drama into the story. Don't get sensitive over this, but yes, Alyssa was a slut, no argument there. Just watch the film and count how many sexual relations she talks about, your a joke if you don't think she isn't. The part about this that hit me the most was, this is very much a real thing, just look at people now-a-days. How would you react if your girlfriend or boyfriend was a whore, it's disgusting to think about. I would have taken Holden's side, even though his proposal in the end was a very dumb thing to do. Of course she truly did love him, but hey, she did some sick things, that no amount of Listerine can wash away. I probably would have just walked away from it. I for one have zero tolerance for loose women, so yeah it's understandable. Then people will cry, she was trying to find that someone, so a threesome is finding that someone, making a dirty film is finding that someone, sleeping around is finding that someone. BS, that's called being a slut, plain and simple, there is no argument. People like this spread diseases, it's not so bad being a virgin.Anyway, the film should have ended after the apartment proposal, because the rest doesn't make it any less depressing. Anyway, I feel like watching this movie again right now. "},{"Title":"A little late, but not TOO late, I hope","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoiler alert.Chasing Amy is a small movie that does everything it set out to do. It is the kind of small movie all independent movies try to be, but that almost none achieve. It shows little lives, little people, little events in ways and language we all can understand and identify with. Even if we haven't fallen in love with a lesbian or written a successful comic book, we all want to know what it might be like - and the former, would be, for most of us, confusing; the latter would be less glamorous. And no, neither one for any of us would be a subject for an epic film - but would most likely be a film like Chasing Amy.There are moments of confusion for Holden, as his absorbed ideas about homosexuality are challenged by reality, and his feelings when confronted with open sexuality in an undisguised, un-Hollywood young hotty, in Alyssa. He's lived a cloistered life; that is made abundantly clear by Kevin Smith's excellent reality-based writing and directing. Smith obviously know the world he is portraying.Chasing Amy is, in a way, like Before Sunset but with a lesbian, and without Paris - the one that got away, and with Holden wondering what in the world he was supposed to do.This is a movie I loved from moment one. I had not seen Clerks, so it was my introduction to Kevin Smith. I got a thing going for Joey Lauren Adams that is still going on. And Jay and Silent Bob are the funniest two characters I've seen in films in decades. Any of us who doesn't know a Jay has simply not lived in the USA of the late 20th century till now.This is a movie I never miss seeing if the opportunity comes up.The bar booth scene with Banky and Alyssa comparing dating notes is priceless - right up there with Jack Nicholson ordering a sandwich in the diner in Five Easy Pieces.I'd give Cahsin Amy a 10, but, though it achieves everything it sets out to do, it is just that one little bit that Kevin Smith didn't try to do with it that holds me back. Heck, if he had tried for more, he might have messed it up, so I should be glad he didn't. It is pretty much perfect the way it is. I debated between 9 and 10, and my 9.49 has to round down...LOLGreat flick! "},{"Title":"Good in parts...","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a production, it was OK; I did feel it didn't quite work though because the sound quality was so poor. Some scenes, although the acting was excellent, sounded like just two people shouting in a room &#x96; I expected better. As for performances; I thought all the lead actors were excellent; particularly Joey Lauren Adams, she pulled off the part very well. For me, it was a film that was good in parts, but over all didn't quite achieve the level I was looking for. I don't quite know why&#x85; maybe because I'm a tad older than 26 and I've seen and done a lot of things, I found Holden's actions towards the end of the film a little too rash and stupid (particularly stupid). Over all, I felt the ending was a bit of a let down, but there was just enough in there for my recommendation&#x85; But I can't recommend a second viewing (cue hate mail).SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 6.8/10.You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"Romance meets life","Date":"25 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somewhere between avalanches of sappy, clichéd, tearjerking pseudo-romantic drones came a movie that actually had some identity in it. The characters in this movie are all people you can genuinely care about, which makes the whole thing pretty compelling. For once in a romantic movie I wanted things to end happily, not to just end. At one point there's the inevitable scene in which Ben Affleck gets a monologue. I'm pretty sure I would have absolutely hated that scene in any other movie, but in this one it just works really well. This movie actually contains a lot of beautiful scenes, especially near the ending. Especially Jay and Silent Bob's cameo is one of my all-time favourite scenes, because they serve such a different purpose than in their other movies. They're not just there to hang around and be funny, though they do that too. The ending is also an interesting choice. To some this movie might be a bit unbelievable at times, but the implausibilities aren't bothersome, and this movie looks very real. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best and most heartfelt movie","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy is a romantic comedy about comic book artist Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) who becomes smitten with a fellow comic book artist (Joey Lauren Adams) before learning that she's a lesbian. However, they soon develop a close friendship that leads to Holden yearning for something more.Smith's script includes the usual plethora of dick and fart jokes but here he also taps into the more substantial area of human relationships. While the straight man/lesbian angle is probably not something that most can relate to it provides a good representation of any sort of senseless longing for a relationship that's doomed from the start. There may have been a couple of instances where I thought that the sentiments expressed didn't quite ring true but overall the film handles the subject matter admirably.The cast includes several familiar faces from other Kevin Smith offerings including Ben Affleck (back when he was cool), Jason Lee, Jason Mewes & Smith himself. Joey Lauren Adams landed a Golden Globe nomination for her performance, which was warranted, I guess. Overall, the acting is solid but nothing to get excited about.Smith's direction is pretty straightforward and ably handled. The soundtrack is somewhat hit or miss with a few songs that haven't aged particularly well.All in all, Chasing Amy is a worthwhile romantic comedy/drama. It is also, in my opinion, Kevin Smith's best film. "},{"Title":"An Alright Movie","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is more of a Romance/Drama movie from Kevin Smith and his View Askew group. The movie really bases itself on new characters with Jason Lee playing Banky Edwards instead of Brodie Bruce. Ben Affleck, who plays the star of the movie, is in the role of Holden McNeil and Joey Lauren Adams is playing Alyssa Jones. I have to say that this was an alright movie and it really had it's share of funny moments. Plus we get to hear a lot of talking in this movie from Silent Bob, mostly he is notorious for saying just one word or phrase in the View Askew/Kevin Smith movies. All I really have to say negatively about this movie is that it really wasn't as comedy based as previous movies, because the focal point was a love story.7/10 "},{"Title":"I hate Ben Affleck","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and I'll probably always hate him. But not in this movie. In this movie, I feel for him and his lady. I'm truly not the usual sucker for romantic comedies such as P.S. I love You or Made of Honor. But Chasing Amy really got me going and more than once I almost jumped off my couch screaming Just kiss each other, for Christ's sake!It's so romantic without getting too cheesy. Some lines are so beautifully written that I felt a yank within my chest. The only thing I seriously dislike is what happens with Banky towards the end of the movie. That seemed a little bit too forced for my taste. But the rest...especially the ending...original, emotional, beautiful. I rate movies mostly by how they effect me. This one really redefined romantic comedy for me in a very good way. But Ben Affleck is still a pansy. "}{"Title":"Great.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a VERY big Kevin Smith fan back in high school. Now that's not to say that I'm not anymore, or that I grew out of it or anything like that. It has more to do with the likes of Jersey Girl, and him doing segments for Leno and living in LA etc.Not that by any stretch of the imagination does this mean that I DON'T like him any more, it's just more-so along the lines of, my fandom decreased somewhat.I loved 'Chasing Amy'. Loved it to bits. One week 'Amy' would be my fave Smith film then the next it'd be 'Dogma', and it switched around a lot, until I got older and realised, that perhaps I liked them equally. lol.I hadn't seen this movie in a long time until just then, like seriously, I kept putting hiring/buying it off for some reason or another. (I had it on tape somewhere, but who the hell knows where that ended up). Watching it just then was like a whole different experience, considering all the relationship type experiences I've been through since my last viewing.At first, when it started I was thinking about the end, and how weird it was going to seem and if I was going to dislike it now. But the end came, and my thoughts were more along the lines of 'oh, Holden's just an idiot, with an idiotic plan'. And Alyssa talks sense...'What if I moan differently' etc etc.Now, the thing is, I know quite a few girls like Alyssa. So I kind of feel like why would he make such a big deal out of it. But then again, a lot of people would. The main thing that I would've been angry at her for was lying to me, not necessarily at the start, that was a lie she had carried for a long time, but then after they got together she kept the lie going. I don't know, but there's quite a lot of depth to, how they got together, then how they broke up that I didn't see before, because I only saw the black and white of it.Now onto the actual film-making. Sometimes the acting was a little off, a line here, a line there kind of thing, I guess it adds to it's 'American independent charm', but with such quality performances overall it could really do without these minor hiccups.The 'Jaws' reference was hilarious MOSTLEY as I had literally JUST watched it, on cable, I noticed it was on before I was going to start this on DVD and decided to watch Jaws first (Check my user reviews, just wrote a review for it before I started watching this). So that was weird and cool, especially as I had forgotten about that part.The dialouge is of course just perfect. Hmmm why can't Smith make another GREAT movie?? I really liked the 'one year later' part. They all seemed like they had to fight through lots of pain, and that they were still struggling, but surviving. Then it left it all unsure...the only way it could. (I didn't like the one panel they showed in the Chasing Amy comic, the 'I'm so sorry Amy(or did it say Alyssa?), wherever you are. I'm sorry'. Why would he have put that in the comic? instead of waiting until the next time he saw her, whenever it may've been).9/10.(Reviewed after 10+ viewings, although as I mentioned, I hadn't seen it for 6ish years) "},{"Title":"A heartbreaking work of genius","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is one of the very best films I've ever seen, and is certainly the best independent film I've seen. And I'm not sure I ever want to see it again. It was also the most painful film I've ever seen. The raw emotion and heartbreak that permeated the second half of the film were portrayed far more realistically than in any other film I've seen - particularly the ending, which I'm not ashamed to say moved me to tears. I credit Kevin Smith's direction, and - eternally, for she is wonderful - Joey Lauren Adams' superb, sensitive acting skills.I've noted a great deal of comment and debate regarding the gay and lesbian themes of the film; most prominently, the view that a gay person cannot become or be made straight just by encountering a certain person of the opposite sex. I'm not going to enter that discussion, because as a relatively inexperienced, straight male, I don't know what I'm talking about. I do know that the world is a large enough and strange enough place that something like Holden's and Alyssa's romance could happen - how likely that is, is another question entirely.But regardless of those arguments, I think we might all agree that the pain Alyssa felt from the shabby way she was treated by Holden ... the fight at the hockey rink, the suggestion of a threesome with Banky ... was incredibly, heart-wrenchingly real (and so vividly and touchingly brought to life by Ms. Adams).Secondly, I think we can agree that besides being lovers, Alyssa and Holden had a true, viable friendship. I haven't seen it mentioned in too many posts, that not only did the Alyssa-Holden romance end so tragically, but also that friendship. I think we can all agree that losing a friendship can bring as much pain as losing a lover. "},{"Title":"The best monologue about love ....EVER!","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Banky Edwards and Holden McNeil are a successful writer/artist comic book partnership who are close to hitting the big time, until one of the duo falls for the beautiful, and unusual, Alyssa Jones. However, after Holden finds out she is a lesbian he is distraught, eventually settling for just her friendship, until eventually after receiving a gift that seems to anyone else, like something and nothing, he realises he can no longer stand just being her friend, and tells her. The outpouring of emotion and the words that seem to pour out of him are so perfect and so sum up love, how we'd like it to be, how it makes us feel, how hurt it makes us and how joyful it makes us when we are caught up in the best of its wake are captured perfectly in this moment. No word is too much, and no line is too little.After this point in the story the lives of all the different characters are changed forever and the tidal wave of emotions that reign down over all the main characters in this story lead to an ending that is anything but cliché, anything but Hollywood, but is absolutely perfect and makes for a revelatory film for Kevin Smith that he has since never bettered. The dialogue of every character is crisp, refreshing, funny and honest. He hones in on love like a demon wanting to show every aspect of the good and the bad as his razor sharp script moves like a roller coaster, while the film always moves on up.The direction is like something from Sex, Lies and videotape with a camera that seems to be there merely to record the unfolding drama like an eyewitness that sometimes makes for uncomfortable viewing, like we're watching private moments that we shouldn't and yet at the same time we can't take her eyes off it. Ben Affleck is in the role of his life and he gives the greatest performance of his career in a dazzling turn as Holden McNeil. Also of note is a star making turn by Jason Lee is a psychotic Banky Edwards who is so consumed with rage but is superbly unintentionally funny because of it, even when he is truly awful.Another great moment of note, the one scene with Jay and Silent Bob who is fantastically unsilent in this film and his speech is brilliantly poignant and completely accurate on the insecurities of men, in the face of a woman with more experience.A great film and deserves to be higher. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy turned out to be one of those movies I needed to re-watch and re-watch again before discovering I really liked it.At first I was unimpressed by what many people referred to as Kevin's Smith best film. I still don't consider it his best film (that'd be Clerks.) but I appreciate it more.The main male characters Holden and Banky (Ben Affleck and Jason Lee) are the usual pair of buddies that Smith frequently uses in his movies. The straight man (Affleck) and the whacky guy (Lee). Thankfully, this time both characters were very interesting and had pretty good chemistry, as opposed to Mallrats in which Jason Lee did pretty much all the work while Jeremy London didn't help.Joey Lauren Adams was great. I haven't seen her in much else but she really fit the role of Alyssa Jones, and the chemistry between her and Affleck worked decently.Dwight Ewell was also great as Hooper. Very funny and well-written for such a small role.The writing is good. Smith's dialogue is as good as usual. Very funny in moments, and while I think the dramatic parts weren't a strong point, it's far from bad.Acting-wise, Lee, Adams and Ewell are perfect in their roles. Affleck, well, he was believable enough but he's definitely the weakest link. Especially in scenes with just him and Jason Lee, you can tell that Lee is submerged in the character while Affleck seems to be trying hard to sound dramatic. Still, it's not a big complaint and Affleck's acting doesn't ruin the movie or anything like that. It helps that his character is sympathetic, though.Chasing Amy is my third favorite Kevin Smith movie (behind Clerks and the sequel) and a very good movie overall. Might take a few viewings before finally getting it but I think it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's greatest movie","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie years ago on VHS I loved it-thought it was a great American movie. It's creator, Kevin Smith, had already made a name for himself with slacker comedies like Clerks and Mallrats. None of those movies really did it for me though.This movie shows that Smith can create mature and adult movies...albeit with his requisite 'edgier' material. In other words this movie has adult concepts, to do with sex, which don't really make it a movie suitable for youngsters.The plot of the movie is reminiscent of novels by the 19th century English author Thomas Hardy (a favourite author of mine). I.e. the lead character, always a man, falls in love with a woman. The desired woman has some sort of 'history' which does not sit well with the man's internalised societal morality-thus the character is conflicted between love for the woman and angst over what 'society' would think of the woman.The movie explores how we put up barriers to true love and how can we can realise too late that what society thinks isn't really important enough to care about.The title of the movie also functions as a metaphor for these kinds of situations...the Amy of the title could be any loved one we hurt and try to regain their affections...chasing them in the hope that we can start over again without internalised societal prejudices.A terrific movie with fine performances. The characters Jay and Silent Bob make yet another appearance in a Smith movie. If that is a negative for you, then I think the rest of the movie is more than adequate compensation for this.It's a pity Smith hasn't made anything as good or as mature as this since. "},{"Title":"Simply amazing!","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As an avid movie fan, i will see just about everything. That being said, somehow this move slipped passed me till just a few weeks ago. though not unfamiliar with Kevin Smith films, Id never heard of this one until i was in the midst of an argument about how good clerks 2 stood up to the original.All i have to say about this movie is WOW! I cant think of a movie that grabs you like this one does. The story is so engaging, the characters so well made, and most of all, it's put together in such away that while watching it you believe it all. You feel like someone must of followed a random couple around with a tape recorder to get the dialog, because its never contrived or sugar coated. the reactions seemed genuine, and they made mistakes, said the wrong things, got upset, just like you and i would if we were there, in that situation...The most surprising thing, though, is Ben Affleck. Amazing job i didn't know he was capable of, and seeing this, its hard to believe that he became a star for crap like Armageddon when he can do so much more... "},{"Title":"The usual crude humour from Kevin Smith, but this time with some drama","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By the time Chasing Amy came out, it was still many years before I would ever see or even hear of any of Kevin Smith's films, which didn't matter, since I was still too young to watch any of them. However, it's been over a decade since then, and right now, I tend to like a lot of crude humour, so I'm slowly exploring the works of Smith, a filmmaker well-known for that type of thing. After watching his first two films, Clerks and Mallrats, I have gotten around to watching this third effort of his, and it was a slightly different experience, but still a good one overall.Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards are two great friends who work together as comic book artists. While at a comic book convention one day, they meet another artist named Alyssa Jones, introduced to them by Hooper LaMont, who is also in the comic book business. Holden quickly develops a crush on Alyssa, but soon learns that she is a lesbian. Much trouble ensues, as Holden and Alyssa become great friends, but Holden wants to be more than that, which doesn't seem likely to ever happen. Many struggles lie ahead for the young comic book artist in his romantic life, as he has a lot to learn, and his new crush also threatens his long-term friendship with Banky! Since this movie is from Kevin Smith, you can obviously expect lots of extremely vulgar jokes and profanity. Like Smith's first two films, some scenes in this one made me laugh pretty hard. However, unlike its two predecessors, this one also made me think. A while into the film, it seems to turn from a comedy into more of a drama, which certainly cannot be said about Clerks and Mallrats. Although I wasn't expecting that, I'm not complaining, as the drama kept me watching, and may have even put a lump in my throat for a while. On the other hand, the film also left me a bit confused as to what it was implying, and I know there's been controversy over this, which doesn't surprise me in the least. Many seem to think this movie is intelligent, while some others think it's naive and ignorant (I see lots of conflicting reviews here), and it seemed sort of like a bit of both to me, but what do I know? I guess I'm just not experienced enough to take a strong stance on this issue. Nonetheless, I have to give Chasing Amy credit for all the entertainment value I found in it.Anyone who can't stand constant swearing and crude talk about sex should obviously avoid this film like the plague. Like I said, you can expect that from Kevin Smith's films. It certainly shouldn't surprise anyone who knows his style. If you usually find Smith funny, then you should probably find some good laughs in this one, but I'm not sure what you would think of the drama. If you just want comedy, I'm sure you would be disappointed, but if Smith's usual crude jokes combined with touching and fairly heavy drama sounds good to you, then you could be very impressed. Chasing Amy is certainly not for everyone, but clearly, it has appeal, for more than one reason it seems. "},{"Title":"Great but under-appreciated","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i'm a long time Kevin Smith fan and this was the last film in his series I got around 2 seeing. And I wish i'd seen it sooner.The film in general I feel has much more emotion and depth than his previous films, maybe now only matched by Clerks 1 and 2. You really start to feel for the characters and feel sad when there sad and happy when there happy, and on a much more entertaining level then the usual romantic comedyThe comedy, though still very funny, is left behind slightly more than his usually movies but it more than makes up for that with great dialogue, a terrific performance from the cast and a very interesting story.Give it a watch as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"the heart behind all those dirty jokes","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer-director Kevin Smith made a name for himself in the independent film world with his adult (NC-17 level) dialogue-heavy movie Clerks in 1994. His follow-up walked within those same general footprints, albeit with more funding, and became the mess that only fans could stomach. His third movie, Chasing Amy, was a surprisingly mature departure, as he merged the profanity-laced humor of his first two efforts with an unexpected emotional storyline.Chasing Amy tells the story of a comic book writer, his best friend (the tracer), and the lesbian who threatens to come between them. In a matter of speaking it's a high concept romantic comedy with a lesbian tossed in for good measure. It's a hetero-male fantasy that plays out a scenario of a straight male getting a lesbian to fall for him. The improbability of the situation is broached again and again to comedic and emotional satisfaction. In a way, the film is more about relationships in general and the manners in which those in them try to change or fix the other. It's a great film written by an intelligent guy who thankfully doesn't only cow tow to the base needs of his core audience. "},{"Title":"Frank, articulate, sexy and funny.","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A modern romance written and directed by Kevin Smith. Holden(Ben Affleck)and Banky(Jason Lee)are long time friends and creators of some way-out comic books. Banky's dialog is pretty profound and profane; not accepting that its not exactly polite.Both pretty much believe its a man's world until they meet Alyssa(Joey Lauren Adams), a singer in what seems to be a punk band. Holden falls head over heals for her; and even after realizing she is lesbian, he still immerses himself into their relationship. When he starts finding out about her past, he tries to put up a roadblock to slow things down. She admits to all of her sexual activity in the past; Binky is still critical of the relationship and holds a lot of resentment. Holden is wanting to forgive and move forward. Alyssa decides the whole matter is not worth all of the wasted emotions. But the romance lives in theory. The language is foul, rude, crude and full of sexual references...which I think makes the whole film seem like real life. If you think you may be right on the fridge of normal society...this movie is for you. "}{"Title":"I think I know how Smith might feel on this one...","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The third film by writer-director Kevin Smith (and the last in his so-called New Jersey Trilogy), Chasing Amy perhaps represents a cinematic maturity for the New Jersey-bred filmmaker. I've only courted one woman in my entire 21-year lifetime, but she was no lesbian; she was far from it. But she had some issues that she kept from me, and it hurt a lot when I discovered a few shocking truths about her. Moving along, though, Chasing Amy is a touching romantic-comedy, done in true Kevin Smith fashion. Holden and Banky, played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee, respectively, are two comic book artists about to land a big-time gig with their book, Bluntman and Chronic. But at a comic book convention, Holden meets and falls for Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), a fellow comic book artist. The two hit it off nicely, and wonder if a relationship is on the horizon. Going back to my own personal experiences, I knew a woman who seemed right for me, because we had so much in common and we seemed so right for one another; you could have called her my soul-mate, if you believe in that sort of thing. But problems arise when Holden discovers that Alyssa is a lesbian, and may be incapable of providing the sort of affection he's looking for. So Holden continues anyway, Banky's disapproval notwithstanding, after receiving some advice from those two slackers, Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself). Chasing Amy is my personal favorite of Smith's, following his vulgar debut Clerks. (1994). The acting is fantastic from all involved, and Jersey-native Smith's excellent word-play again suffices in another intelligent look at relationships that arrives at the conclusion that it's not who you love, but how.10/10 "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this film is unconventional in terms of romance, but it is beautiful in every way. i am a big Kevin smith fan and this is without a doubt 1 of my favourite films (not just because I'm a girl n we like romantic films but because it is perfect in every way, an imaginative storyline, beautiful script, and familiar Kevin smith cast- even jay and silent bob). I'm not a Ben affleck fan, but his speech to Alyssa made me emotional, not in a teary eyed way but in a way that made me feel (I'm not sure of the right word)comforted? it reminded me of how i felt after watching eternal sunshine of a spotless mind and also lost in translation. its a film that reaches out and touches the viewer. "},{"Title":"Sad but true","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not a lot of people have seen this movie, and its a shame. This is the first movie where i actually thought Ben Afleck was great. Ben Afleck's character, Holden, though most of us guys will hate to admit it,9 out of 10 of us would have reacted accordingly. Joe Lauren Adams made me fall in love with her character, Alyssa, in the movie. Finally, Jason Lee, though we might hate him for being a dick, he was amazing in this movie. Kevin Smith did a great job in creating the characters,specially Alyssa and Banky ( i mean, any guy who watches this movie will fall for Alyssa). The other thing to appreciate about this movie, is that it is unpredictable, we do not know where it will lead. It is not a boring chick flick, nor a typical love story. It is a story that has a lot of realism, and that shows how narrow minded we are. I strongly recommend this movie, specially to men because it will help them realize certain things about themselves. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, funny, honest look at relationships","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourite movies and one of my faves in the View Askewniverse (surpassed only narrowly by Clerks), and it's as relevant today as it was when it was released nearly a decade ago. (In fact, the only thing dating the film is that these days, Kevin Smith is casting his wife, Jen, instead of his then-girlfriend Joey Lauren Adams, in his movies).As with most of Smith's movies, the basic plot here is simple, focusing more on witty dialogue and banter than on action or suspense. That said, Chasing Amy is a definite step forward for Smith - it takes the gross-out humour and comic-book dialogue and adds a heaping dose of character development and heart.Ben Affleck stars as Holden, another homage name (see Dante in Clerks), a comic book artist who has fallen in love with Alyssa, played by Joey Lauren Adams. There's just one problem Alyssa is a lesbian, and Holden doesn't exactly fit into her plans. Jason Lee, as Holden's best friend, disapproves and thinks that Holden is just setting himself up for heartbreak.What ensues is a sometimes hilariously-funny, sometimes sad, but touchingly and refreshingly realistic look at modern relationships, labels, definitions, sexuality, and human nature. Smith is never heavy-handed - his dialogue is just as crude as ever, but he resists the temptation to preach or to go with the obvious here. And of course he makes his requisite cameo as Silent Bob alongside buddy Jason Mewes as Jay - and when Silent Bob speaks here, he actually gets to say something interesting for a change (no I won't give it away, watch the movie!) This isn't really a movie about homosexuality... and guys, if you're going to see it in hopes of some raunchy lesbian sex scenes, you'll be disappointed. Instead, it's a movie about relationships and friendships in general. And, for a Kevin Smith movie, it's incredibly mature. If you haven't seen this yet, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"There are some flaws, but overall a really good film.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stars Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Lee, Dwight Ewell, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Scott Mosier. Cameos by Ethan Suplee, Casey Affleck, Matt Damon, Brian O'Halloran.This is really a change for Kevin Smith films. It's a fairly slow moving love story, with some humor, but it's mostly a drama. And it's quite enjoyable. It's about Holden McNeil (Affleck), a comic book artist that falls in love with comic book writer Alyssa Jones (Adams), but finds out she's a lesbian. It's really got a rock solid screenplay with a lot of great monologues, and is a very powerful film, but there are a few minor problems. The first for me was the ending. I just found the ending made the movie seem almost pointless. It was too slow, but luckily Banky Edwards (Lee) kept the film afloat during some of it's lulls. Overall, however, this is a great romance-drama comedy (sort of comedy) and Smith did a great job writing and directing. For fans of the two recurring stoners, Jay and Bob make a crucial appearance in the film.My rating *** out of ****. 111 mins. R for Strong Language, Some Strong Sexual Dialogue and Some Drug References. "},{"Title":"What I learnt about women from movies...","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What I learnt from Chasing Amy (and other movies) is that the woman (whether or not she s a lesbian) will always ruin your life.Two guys are getting along, working productively, and suddenly a woman comes along. She's a lesbian, she just wants to be friends, yet they end up in bed together.Not that that should have come as any surprise. But by adding the volatile chemical - female - into the situation, we end up with a man that loses the woman he loves, the friend of 20 years, and the successful comic book franchise that they built together.You'll find it everywhere. Romper Stomper. Add female and all hell breaks loose. In Family Man Nic Cage finds that a wife is a ball and chain. You may love her, but she won't leave small town nowhere so that Nic can grab an amazing career with a Manhattan penthouse and more spending cash than she'd ever know. Talking of Nic Cage, he's an angel, falls in love with a mortal woman, and gives up his 'angelness' to be with a mortal woman, who then goes and dies leaving him lost and alone.So guys, if Chasing Amy and one one of countless other movies haven't yet woken you up to the fact...if you fall in love with a woman, you are guaranteed to be in pain for the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"Cutting edge story-telling, first rate film","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is a very funny, very moving film about a heterosexual man who falls in love with a lesbian.As a love story it's as true and sad and beautiful as any other I've seen, (and that includes Casablanca, Brief Encounter and While You Were Sleeping!). It's funny as hell and you'll still be discussing some of the ideas hours after the film's finished.If you've seen any other Kevin Smith films and liked them, then I can't recommend this enough. At the risk of sounding like a sociology text book, no one else is able, or willing to write about masculine identity in a post-feminist, gender confused world, with this level of courage and honesty. Chasing Amy goes straight for the fault lines in the male sexual psyche and starts digging. Kevin Smith is an inspiration.For anyone worried about it, there's profanity and frank sex talk, but nothing violent or sexually-explicit. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith at his peak","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a big fan of Kevin Smith's films, this one is my favourite. I think it shows Smith at his peak of what he tries to do, it balances comedy and drama perfectly and doesn't have too much of one or the other. The acting is brilliant, I particularly like Jason Lee's character. I like Ben Affleck in Kevin Smith films and in this he is very good. I do find Joey Lauran Adam's voice so annoying though! The dialogue is brilliant and very funny, delivered really well by the actors who are perfect in their roles. My favourite scene is with Holden and Alyssa in the car in the rain, it changes so suddenly and makes the audience go from laughing and chatty to so silent you could hear a pin drop. This is a must see for any Kevin Smith fan, and I highly recommend it for anyone else too. "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's comedy about two comic book artists who seem to be doing okay until a female comic book artist causes one of them (affleck) to fall in love with her which makes the other one (Jason Lee) pretty mad. The film is very funny, not much needs to happen, Kevin Smith lets us see the characters and funny things in a perfect way. I thought this film was just as good as other classics such as Clerks and Mallrats, though a bit different, the writing was very good for this film, and the performances were good as well especially Jason Lee. A very entertaining film, another good one from Kevin Smith.--- IMDb Rating 7.5, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MPAARated R for strong graphic sex-related dialogue, language, sexuality and drug content. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating18AChasing Amy is the third Kevin Smith film and also his best.The film has a great story and is a good romantic comedy/drama.I suggest seeing this film if you like romantic comedy films.Chasing Amy is also very funny and has some really funny moments but it is also a drama which is sad at times.The ending is sort of sad as well.The film stars Ben Affleck and Jason Lee.The film is about two comic book artists and best friends.One day one of them meets this other comic book artists who he really likes but finds out she is a lesbian.With plenty of funny scenes but also drama Chasing Amy is Kevin Smith's best film(I have not seen Dogma or Clerks 2).Runtime113min 10/10 "}{"Title":"Very Raunchy Talking, Bittersweet Romantic Comedy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy is being promoted a la Jerry Maguire like a date movie - I just hope the folks aren't on their first or even second date because I think they have to be fairly comfortable with each other after the extremely frank amusing conversations about sex, oral and otherwise. I saw this with a matinée crowd half of senior citizens and half of rowdy high school and college kids out on vacation. The seniors loved the romance and the kids shut right up once the dialog turned truth-and-dare-ish. Like Clerks, the R rating is all about the dialog not in the discreet visuals.I'm a Jersey Girl so couldn't resist a movie with a courting scene playing skee ball Down the Shore. I assume the gay critics won't like it for the inconsistent lesbian.The scene where they break up during a hockey game seemed to be designed to satirize the opposite type scene in other romantic movies.Should we take a vote on who thinks Alyssa and Holden would ever get back together? This will reveal the cynics vs. realists vs. romantics among us. I realize that just like in Gone With The Wind these two have hurt each other too much to get back together. So I'll just make a new movie in my head that gets them back together just like I do with GWTW which I have now so convinced myself is the Real Movie that when I catch it on TV I'm surprised that in the end they still break up.(originally written 4/25/1997) "},{"Title":"i loved this movie","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a love story telling the world it's not who you love but how you love them and that my friends is how life should be. this is not traditional i love story because he touches on different lifestyles in a tastes full manner. he also touches on hang up a lot of hang up most males have but done face and it cause confusion in Holden's life and friendships. I love how Kevin Smith inter grates many of his old and new charters into his story lines. Snoochie Boochies. the only thing i wished for was more Jay and silent Bob but after watching other films by Mr. Smith i realized that was just the right dose of the boys. So i hope you liked this and many of his other works. I can hardly wait till Clerks 2 hits the screen. IVXX "},{"Title":"You really shouldn't miss this one.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith shows his serious side here. Chasing Amy is no skeevy stoner flick. Ironically, to fully understand some of Smith's other movies (namely, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back), the kind of fan that is usually drawn to ViewAskew movies would really need to start here.This is a sweetheart of a movie which addresses the general inability of men to accept a woman's previous experience(s). Afflec and Adams have a remarkable on-screen chemistry which, with the help of Smith's writing, takes the film to a level that other filmmakers strive to achieve, and they are rarely successful. If you have seen Kevin Smith's other movies, you will not expect this one. His articulate characters are refreshing. The combination of sophisticated dialog, unique plot, and acting talent make a spectacular movie that is thoroughly enjoyable no matter who you are. "},{"Title":"His Best","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot begin to describe how huge a fan I am of Kevin's work. Of all of his endeavors, however, Chasing Amy is the best. Clerks was great, coming from someone who worked for the largest retail company in the world; Mallrats, well, I was one (I even worked in an arcade at the local mall.) Amy, though, hit an emotional nerve Casablanca couldn't even see. Last year I found myself in a dating situation with a girl and I found myself quoting, God and a friend mine as witnesses, I began quoting some of Affleck's (Holden's) lines. The final scenes, including the hilarious and yet eye opening diner scene are very powerful. The more I watch Amy, the more I feel the eyes becoming watery. Very emotional; very moving. "},{"Title":"One of the best Romances in movies","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Throughout the history of film, there have been those sort of movies that are romances, and they with the hunk of the movies getting the girl, the couple getting married, the couple having sex and resulting with a baby, etc. But, it is every once in a blue moon that a film like Chasing Amy comes along. This film captured the reality of being head over heels to such an extent that it is creepy. The dialogue, like in all Kevin Smith's films is very true to life, and shows the chemistry between Holden (Ben Affleck) and Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) like no other romance has ever done. The reality of talking about sex. The reality of talking about love. All those things. It is just such a film that kicks you in the gut when you don't want it to. But, it is truly, with all thought put into, one of the greatest movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"None","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, so I think Chasing AMy is Smith's best movie. Why? It has everything, especially heart. I kinda think that's what he was aiming for. I read the little booklet that came with it. In there he said he hopes to better reach people's hearts. I'm probably the only guy he reached that's straight. Sorry if thats offensive to anyone. But it just touched me....it kinda made me think about relationships, the whole gay issue, people, and just other things. I'm not anything special or anything, but it's just a great movie to watch...I liked how it had everything. Great job Kevin Smith. I'd like to say more but I'm not big on writing comments so I'll stop....here. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy A completely underrated film","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best movies you will ever see! Kevin Smith's writing and directing are brilliant as usual. Ben Affleck gives what I believe is one of his best performances as Holden, a comic book writer who falls for a girl who isn't exactly attainable. He spends the better part of the film befriending and eventually romancing Alyssa, another comic book writer who is also a lesbian. He finds himself in a difficult position when his best friend and comic writing partner Banky expresses dissatisfaction with the Holden and Alyssa relationship. As always, Jay and Silent Bob make an appearance, although sadly it's only one scene. Excellent film, tugs at the proverbial heart-strings. See this movie and slap anyone who compares it to Gigli. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith meets Woody Allen","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is easily Kevin SMith's most over-hyped film. CLERKS drew much of its quality and fanbase from the sense of identification many viewers had with Dante Hicks and the convenience store job hell anyway. Unfortunately, apparently Smith both bombed with MALLRATS and got called an artist a ton, so he figured I've got to make a movie about artists! I never understood the alleged romantic draw of these movies The Alleged love stories of artists differ so greatly from those of anyone who works for a friggin living is so great I can only imagine that people WANT romantic comedies to not reflect reality. This one sure as hell doesn't. Once you get past the gimmick of He's in love with a lesbian!(Tee hee, tee hee) You'll probably see that this is not really that new a relative straight character(Affleck, or Banky Edwards) has to put up with an irritating bastard (Jason Lee) as he looks into his girlfriend's past. Joey Lauren Adams is a mind-bogglingly bad actress making Jason Mewes look like he kinda knows what he's doing, that's how bad she is. I'll say no more on that. I couldn't have cared less if she ended up with Banky or threw herself onto the train tracks. I will concede that Jason Lee had, by my count, one fairly good sight gag, but it wasn't worth the nearly two hours this thing lasts.Avoid unless you are an artist, "},{"Title":"What a well done movie","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy is a very well done movie. A lot of critics balked at his effort in Mallrats (even though I enjoyed that movie very much), so this movie was definitely a welcome back of sorts for ViewAskew. I wont include a synopsis, since this movie is about 8 years old now. Ben Affleck turns in a very inspired performance in this flick, as does Joey Lauren Adams. Keivn Smith's writing and directing is once again very good, and this movie takes a different approach than his former movies. Overall, I think this is a great movie. It is funny, sad, ironic, and tender all the same. It still has plenty of dick and fart jokes to keep the consummate fan afloat for the ride. Definitely check this movie out, as well as all the other Kevin Smith masterpieces. "},{"Title":"His best movie ever","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Kevin Smith. I love the humour that is provided in his movies, it's hilarious. Starting with Clerks, up until Jay and Silent Bon strike back (I haven't seen Jersey Girl yet) I loved his flicks, they are awesome...And Chasing Amy is his best movie, ever...it's more mature than his other movis, but still has his unique humour. It can make you cry and laugh at the same time. Even Ben Affleck is cool in the movie, and I have to mention that I don't like that dude... So, go and buy this love-story-comedy-classic... By the way, Joey Lauren Adams, is way hot..) "}{"Title":"Very good comedy/drama/romance","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Comic book artist Holden (Ben Affleck) falls in love with beautiful fellow comic book artist Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams). Unfortunately she's a lesbian and Holden's caustic partner Banky (Jason Lee) hates her. But he can't deny his true feelings...and she starts falling for him too. But can their relationship ever work?For Kevin Smith this is a very mature, well-done movie. Most of his movies are chock full of non-stop profanity, immature behavior and really sick stupid jokes. This is no exception but it also has a very well-written, insightful script full of great lines and realistic behavior and situations. You believe all the characters and situations--they seem like real people. Also, it doesn't cop out at the end--it ends realistically (but not tragically). Also Smith never makes fun of lesbians (except for some one-liners from Lee which are shown as being wrong) or condescends to them. He also has an African-American gay man Hooper (Dwight Ewell) who is portrayed sensitively (and realistically).Acting is also great. Affleck and Adams are just superb--they play off each other very well and are just excellent. Lee is also in top form as Banky--he's an arrogant, insensitive, loud-mouthed jerk, and Lee pulls it off perfectly. And Ewell is hysterical is his too few scenes as Hooper. The only bad spot are when Jay and Silent Bob show up. They're holdovers from other Smith films and are very stupid and unfunny and their sequence is totally not needed (and runs on for almost 15 minutes).The script, as I said, is great but there are some highlights A fight between Lee and Ewell over the homo content in Archie comic books; Lee and Adams swapping amusing sex stories (this sequence will shock most people with the frank dialogue--but Affleck's facial expressions are priceless); Affleck and Adams explicit discussion on lesbian sex vs. straight sex and the infamous Lee/Affleck kiss. Be warned the movie has TONS of profanity (I heard it almost got an NC-17 for the dialogue alone). Also look for Matt Damon in a VERY small role.Well worth catching if you can handle explicit material. But because of Jay and Silent Bob I can only give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Funny? No. Cool? No. Romantic? No.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find great difficulty to understand what people might appreciate in this movie. A mediocre teenage flick with the unfortunate signature of Kevin Smith (not that I have especially liked his films anyway). This is so full of stereotypes and cliches you can guess the next scene in every detail. I can't even remember how many times I said the word pathetic. Even the Jay and Silent Bob part is tiring. Avoid. "},{"Title":"more nauseating; goatee or acting?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So this isn't exactly a constructive comment, but although the first time I watched this movie the minimal humor and temporarily engaging raunch gracefully allowed me to enjoy it, the second time I noticed something. At first I thought it was that Affleck was distracted by talking about lesbianism.  Then I became distracted by the goatee.  Then, in a paroxysm of lucidity I realized that this man cannot act.  His mouth hangs open stupidly the entire time and all of his emotions become bemusement and poorly attempted stupifaction.  I don't think he is supposed to be so annoying, but I hope his recent success precludes his involvement in any more of an otherwise funny series.  I get this image of him and Matt Damon sitting around writing a screenplay and Matt has this idea and offers it up for suggestion and finds that Affleck has ruined his oriental rug by spilling pudding.  At least he wasn't bad playing himself in Dazed and Confused or Good Will hunting, but I think to enjoy this film it must be in spite of Affleck. "},{"Title":"Badly acted/directed low budget misguided social commentary","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The really sad thing about this film is that I think that Kevin Smith is a really good comic actor/writer/director.  Clerks brought a fresh, new style to low-budget filmmaking, and is rightly a cult classic.Where I think he went awry with this one is the whole ultra-liberal alternative social commentary - the sheer arrogance of his belief that he could enlighten his fans by exposing them to the realities of homosexual lifestyle and counter-culture.  The really pathetic part stems from the preachy tone of the mainline gay characters - Archie is gay - obviously --- Why does sex have to be intercourse?  How do you define losing your virginity?  I thought it was stupid to eliminate half the population in my search for the perfect partner.  All complete with circular and flatly pedantic arguments in a thinly-veiled attempt to cast gay culture as mainstream and somehow more intelligent/enlightened while casting more traditional and conservative inter-sexual roles as somehow narrow and ignorant.To pull this off, of course, Kevin Smith must whitewash the reality of homosexuality - none of his gay characters are remotely dysfunctional, despite the fact that in reality, many if not most homosexuals turn to the alternative lifestyle as a rebellion or as the result of bad wiring resulting from trauma (I can't tell you how many gay people I've known have histories of sexual abuse as a child, other-gender parent issues or component neurological dysfunction).  The pushy nature of Hooper, lighting about with a delusional sense of grandeur at the notion that he understands the truth about human sexuality.  Or Alyssa's tirade of how her history of loose sexual encounters was somehow not about low self-esteem or self-worth, but was instead a glorious journey of independence, empowerment and self-discovery (IT WAS MY CHOICE!  AND I WONT APOLOGIZE FOR ANY OF IT!), even when she was getting trained by the high-school losers who hung around her house eating her parents' food and trolling for her dad's porn.Reality check?  Quite the opposite.  Smith's documentary of homo-culture comes off as little more than a badly written, badly acted gay joke, wrought with clichés and sub-culture denial.  "},{"Title":"AT least I tried...","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a love-it-or-hate-it affair. Either you get him, or you don't. I sorta liked Dogma, and I enjoyed the short-lived Clerks show, which is mostly why I rented this. (The other part is because Maltin actually liked it. I figured it must be somewhat good.)Ben Affleck and Jason Lee are two cartoonists whose lives are pretty boring (judging by what we see). One day, they meet this girl they knew, Amy,(Joey Lauren Adams) who has become a lesbian. And yet, Affleck falls in love with her. The plot is stale, generic romantic comedy with a twist; it works on paper, but on-screen, it sorta fizzles out with a wet fart. It's not a bad idea, but a fresh script turns out only being an exercise in lesbian exploitation. The interpretation is frank and funny, especially in a scene where Lee and Adams talk about their past, um, experiences. But their attractive acting can't undermine the biggest flaw; it's very, very boring. Nothing very good happens in the film (except maybe the appearance of the hilarious Jay and Silent Bob) and the other parts are filled with mindless chatter and incessant yelling, screaming and swearing. Some people might like this film, but I didn't. Sorry. 4/10P.STo the guy who said if you liked this, you should see Annie Hall and High Fidelity. I liked both of them a lot more than this film. Check out those two before you venture into Chasing Amy. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ultimate generation X relationship movie. Very touching, extremely funny  "},{"Title":"WEIRD","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is one of the weirderst movies I've ever seen....I enjoyed Ben very much he's so sweet!! If you haven't seen it yet, whatch it when you're very there otherwise you won't understand the  world afterwards... If anyone of you knows Ben give him a kiss from me for that movie.  "},{"Title":"Joey Lauren Adam is very good in an otherwise poorly done comedy","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is about the attraction between Holden (Ben Affleck), writer of a very successful contemporary comic strip, and Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), another comic book artist. The conflict is that Holden is heterosexual and Alyssa isn't.I enjoyed about the first 2/3 of the film, but the climax seemed contrived. Would any man who had found his soul mate, his one true love, ask her to do what Holden asks of Alyssa? As romantic comedies go, the ending was hardly satisfying.I also had problems with the acting. Joey Lauren Adam was very good, but Ben Affleck at times seemed to be delivering lines without giving them emotional depth. But what really turned me off was the role of one of the two guys to whom Holden had to pay some sort of royalty because his fictitious comic book characters resembled these guys. One is identified in the cast as Silent Bob. I'm not sure of his partner's name. This guy's acting was atrocious! Plus the slang dialog he was given to say sounded so artificial. In one part of their scene Silent Bob is talking to Holden and this guy looks at Bob and then looks at the counter and at Bob again, even during the time he is holding a container as if he is pouring sugar into his coffee.It is a shame that the film is not better, because the the story had great potential. Alyssa's explanation of why she got into unconventional life styles exposes the idea that in addition to those gay people who have known since childhood that they found the wrong gender attractive, some gays may just be trying to increase their chance of finding the perfect mate. The film is also set in an interesting milieu, the world of underground and contemporary comic books. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy (1997) **** (out of 4) Kevin Smith's comedy/drama is one of my favorite films and in my opinion one of the rawest and most honest love stories out there. A comic book artist (Ben Affleck) falls in love with a girl (Joey Lauren Adams) not knowing she's a lesbian. The two quickly become friends but when they try to take it to the next level things start to unravel. I think this film works on every level but the greatest thing is the wonderful screenplay from Smith, which hits all the rights marks from the comedy to the drama. Affleck isn't the greatest actor in the world but he pulls this character off nicely. Jason Lee is terrific as his friend but it's Adams who really steals the show with a remarkable performance. What I enjoyed most was how honest and open the thing was regarding relationships, love, sex and even other issues that are brought up in the film. This is certainly the highlight (so far) of Smith's career. "},{"Title":"Original, Moving and funny!!","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this film its a rarity i think a romantic film with likable, genuine and honest characters. Kevin Smith has the ability to go from talking in detail about lesbian sex one minute and then genuinely touching dialogue the next. Clerks 2 is still my favourite smith film but this one is not far behind its a story i can relate to and his characters appeal to the everyday guy. If you you want to see a funny, touching, witty and honest film this is it, Kevin Smith does it better than a lot of directors with bigger budgets and stars. Its a shame that such rubbish gets more attention than his fine films. I thoroughly recommend you watch this you wont be disappointed!! Chasing amy 2 anyone? "}{"Title":"Chasing Amy will set the standard for quite some time","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Several problems have emerged in the realm of romance movies, among them tedium and predictability. Typically, Comedy is used to relieve tedium while the plot is advanced, however there is still the problem of predictability, which needs a unique solution in each film. Chasing Amy used a two-pronged approach, both using subject matter/language fairly straight forward or even out of line for when it came out (and to a lesser extent, even today) to set a realistic tone for the movie instead of a sappy idealistic one, then it hammers home with several VERY emotional scenes which it seems everyone (Or at least every guy) connects with. In particular, Holden's speech to Alyssa in the car echoes something EVERY man has felt about that special woman, more so than any movie before it has done. And all throughout, the master comedy stylings of Kevin Smith's unique dialog keeps us riveted through the plot.This movie is neither tedious nor predictable, and it connects to everyone I've seen it with. I've never seen someone watch the car scene for the first time and not be struck silent for a solid 10 minutes. Very moving, and not soon to be outdone. Especially since this was a romantic comedy done from a man's perspective, as opposed to the typical female romantic illusion, it's more realistic with gritty, hilarious dialog and one of the best romantic plots I've ever seen.Bravo Kevin Smith, really, Bravo. "},{"Title":"A normal movie should not be this good...","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this I wasn't really into it and I just didn't get the humor or the themes or the premise of the movie whatsoever. I guess I was fourteen, maybe thirteen, and I was just like, Yeah that was alright I guess. That Silent Bob guy sure talked a lot. But the second time which was about a year and a half later (I was then/still am 15) I was so impressed by it. It made me feel such a wide range of emotions and by the end just made me feel so human. When Banky gave Holden that thumbs up I did it along with him but didn't even realize it. When it was over I was just couldn't believe that one movie could be so perfect on every level.It taught me that gay people are exactly the same as straight people and you should accept them and not feel weird about it. I know that wasn't a moral that was pressed onto the movie, but everyone seemed just fine with Alyssa being a lesbian and I guess I learned by example. But even more it taught me that you should always hang on to your friends and make sure you've always got their back. And no matter what you should never let something stupid ruin a great relationship.I know you can only rate a movie on IMDb from one to ten stars, but there aren't enough stars in the galaxy to rate this. I truly think that it should have gotten best picture for 1997; and while some people hated it, that's fine, but I just can't understand how they could. Kevin Smith really outdid himself on this one. "},{"Title":"Smith's Best Movie, Maybe.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Top notch writing. Excellent acting and directing. The most coherent story of Smith's without any major plot-holes. Easily better than Clerks - although you may not think so until the last scene fades to black. If you've ever loved and lost - and the reason you lost was because of your own stupidity - then you will get this movie. From what I've gathered from various printed sources, this film is the most personal story of Smith's yet, and it shows. This perfect little nugget makes up for Mallrats - which was still a halfway decent flick - and proves that even before Jersey Girl, he could make a movie where the story was the most important part, and didn't need the constant presence of Jay & Bob to keep your attention. Very impressive and I hope Kevin's still got another Chasing Amy in him because everything after Dogma has been, at best, just OK. "},{"Title":"very funny movie","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is the third part of the Jersey Trilogy. Not as blatantly funny as his other two installments but very good. Definitely a good date movie. Like all of Kevin's movies he references his others in this one. It helps to watch these movies in chronological order, although it really doesn't matter, if you can get your hands on all three watch 'em in order. This movie has softer humor than his others but it is very funny. The four way street bit is awesome. Also when he finds out she is a lesbian, it is great. We her Silent Bob's longest line in this movie. He tells the story of one of his ex-girlfriend Amy. This movie is also set up to lead right into Dogma. If you look closely there are train tickets in Jay and Silent Bob's pockets. Great flick. "},{"Title":"loser","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not believe in any of these characters from start to finish.  It strikes me that this movie was written by someone who was trying to be very hip and cool, but he comes up with something contrived and phony.  The humor is forced, bordering on the sit-com level.  I have seen more convincing acting in a high school play.   "},{"Title":"One of Kevin Smith's best","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy is quite touching, quite romantic, but to be honest, I didn't find it that funny, excluding the few scenes with Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith).  The film is a romantic comedy, and very rarely can a film maker make one that is funny.  But still, Smith can still evoke a few laughs here and there.Ben Affleck stars as a Comic Book artist who falls in love with Joey Lauren Adams, which is fine except for one thing- she's a lesbian.  The film looks at the two's growing relationship and it doesn't turn overly acted, but it is quite touching.  Smith always knows where to hit the best angles and lines, and this is a good example of it.  Great performances, a better than average script, and finely tuned directing gets this film to be one of the best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"disgusting and stupid","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay, so i saw this movie today. this movie is really stupid and disgusting. the comic guy (ben affleck) had serious problem about Alyssa sex with two guys 10 yrs ago . and later come up with idea to have sex with his comic partner and Alyssa. how stupid is that ??the plot is too stupid for me to continue watching it and make me feel really angry. there are other movies that are stupid fun. but definitely not this one.I don't recommend it because this movie give you nothing but leaving with angry and dumb.i give 1/10  "},{"Title":"Is crap too strong a statement?","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worse movies that I've ever had the misfortune to watch. It was a complete waste of my time.  It was neither funny, well acted, believable or interesting.  Ben Affleck was terrible!  Joey Lauren Adams was annoying and can't act to save her soul.  Jason Lee was okay, but not great either.  Additionally, to say this was a lesbian movie is more than insulting to lesbians.  This was a typical straight man's view of what it is to be a lesbian (i.e., that if she meets the right man, it will straighten her out -- PUH-LEEZ).  Steer clear of this movie! "},{"Title":"I would say a master piece","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smiths third movie (following Clerks and Mallrats) is in my opinion one of the best movies ever made. Sure you can argue that the settings are cheap, the dialog somewhat obscene and script ridiculous. But that's just at first glance. Sure, if you look at this movie with the conviction that this is just another romantic comedy with a couple of twists, it will probably go by you as an decent movie you can watch on a boring Friday night. But, if you read between the lines and think about what this story is telling you, it becomes a true inspiration. Basically a movie about misplaced affections, hang ups and the judgmental people all around us, this movie light a beacon and points out the some of the most important stuffs in life. "},{"Title":"An all-around great and heartfelt movie","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised how well CHASING AMY holds up. It's a '90s movie to the core, but that's not a bad thing here (except for Affleck's douchey goatee). I've always loved this movie for the jokes and how it's steeped in mid-'90s comics culture, but its personal story hasn't lost any lustre. What Kevin Smith really does well here is draw you into Holden and Alyssa's burgeoning friendship and the sweetness therein. What's frustrating about all of this is how much of a dick Holden is in this story. It's cool to know that this is in some way autobiographical, but you just want to strangle the guy (he is one colossal idiot). The movie's great because it's not just dick and fart jokes. But they're there, and that's the other reason I love this movie it is genuinely hilarious in parts; the What's a Nubian? scene, Banky's facial expression when it dawns on him that they're in a gay bar, the Archie conversation, and Banky's flying off into a rage when he's accused of being a tracer. Jason Lee is the unsung comedic hero of this movie, and by god if he doesn't walk away with the best lines. It's still a serious movie, but you can't help but love that guy. There's also just the right amount of Jason Mewes present here (and that scene with Jay and Silent Bob is a real treat).There might be a higher percentage of jokes in other Kevin Smith movies, but CHASING AMY has my favorites. And Smith's best writing.8.5/10 "}{"Title":"A more mature but no less vulgar attempt from Smith","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith burst onto the Hollywood scene with his hilarious debut Clerks. An extremely low budget affair, Clerks relied almost solely on its razor sharp script, leading to many critics labelling Smith as the next Tarantino. After a somewhat disappointing follow up, Smith made Chasing Amy; a slightly more mature, but no less vulgar approach to a romantic comedy.Ben Affleck plays Holden McNeil, a comic book artist who lives with his best friend and spends most of his time playing video games and attending comic conventions. This all changes when he meets Alyssa Jones. A fellow comic book artist, Alyssa's refreshing outlook on life quickly leads to Holden falling madly in love with her. The only problem is, she is a lesbian.The rest of the movie deals with how Holden and Alyssa deal with each others feelings, all whilst trying to keep Holden's best friend Banky appeased. Those who are familiar with Smith's work will know what to expect here; dialogue which is both extremely funny and extremely offensive, countless comic book and Star Wars references and an inevitable appearance from Jay and Silent Bob. There are some truly inspired scenes, such as one character's take on the racism inherent in Star Wars as well as a Jaws homage which comes out of nowhere.But what's most surprising is the level of maturity shown in Chasing Amy. Whereas Smith's first two films were shallow affairs, Chasing Amy delves a little deeper to explore potentially heavy themes such as sexuality, repressed homosexuality and past relationships. There are some instances where the script struggles to deal with the weighty issues being explored, and, on more than one occasion, the actors resort to yelling at each other to convey emotion. But these are minor nitpicks in an otherwise enjoyable, and refreshing take on a romantic comedy.Not quite as funny as Clerks, but containing a whole lot more substance than any other Smith film to date. Chasing Amy is definitely worth a watch but not for the easily offended. "},{"Title":"Exquisite","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's taken at least three years, but I think now I can say that I really really like Kevin Smith. As of now I've only seen his work in Clerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy and the Clerks Animated Series (which I just finished up last night - way too underrated!), but that's just enough to realize that Kevin Smith is a relic of the 90s, at once both a nostalgic and a realist, and someone who presents these values simultaneously and seamlessly in his scripts. Chasing Amy concerns the lives of two lifelong friends and comic book artists, Holden and Banky (played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee, respectfully), whose friendship is put into peril by the introduction to and subsequent infatuation with Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams), a fellow comic book artist. Trouble arises to even further levels when Alyssa's sexual preferences towards women are made evident, yet Holden cannot let his love for her drop. However, the movie rejects stereotypical romantic movie plot lines and obstacles and instead focuses on the psychology of love, something that Kevin Smith knows is a malleable, yet serious topic of discussion. The script delves into the world of sexuality, exploring the issues of sexual history, gender and preference, while all at once maintaining the sharp social tongue that surfaces in all of Kevin Smith's work.One issue I have with this movie, however, is of it's portrayal of lesbians. I feel as though the movie portrayed lesbians as being either subversive man-haters who complain another one bites the dust when Alyssa mentions her evolving relationship with Holden, or as pliant objects of sexual desire, being the holy grail of sexual experiences for Banky. Gay culture is still depicted in a very narrow way, while the heteronormative lifestyle is still portrayed as a whole.Chasing Amy is, at once, a movie which is cruelly stereotypical towards some aspects of human life, yet completely reformatory towards others. If you're a person who can deal with politically incorrect humour, then you'd like it. "},{"Title":"an unconventional comedy that deals with realistic issues","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers may appear so do not fear. I thoroughly enjoyed this film and having watched this an adult I have been able to enjoy all the subtle messages that are contained within. I have become so fed up of the traditional Hollywood formula so this was a breath of fresh air. For all the criticism of Ben Affleck as an actor this film seemed to accommodate his style and he pulled of an impressive performance. The complex relationship between his and Joey Lauren Adams character's is thought provoking and asks real questions. Somewhat of a rarity in film nowadays. Credit should be given to the supporting actors as they add to the emotional nuances that the script provided and most importantly portrayed realistic people with actual problems and life struggles. I like Kevin Smith and enjoy his take on film and hope that he continues to ask real questions and most importantly continue making films driven by his own passion. If I were to find any flaw in this premise it will have to be in that Joey Lauren Adams's Character refers to herself as a lesbian but she clearly has had intimate relationships with men, this might attributed to confusion within her own sexuality or that for that period in time she is only dating women but even if that is the case that would still make her bisexual. Perhaps this is just a commentary on how some men view lesbianism as the dialogue in the film does actually address this. Thought Provoking. "},{"Title":"Engaging indie","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I haven't see that many Kevin Smith movies, and the ones I have seen were a mixed bag, but Chasing Amy is a genuinely entertaining and thoughtful movie. Jason Lee is very good, Affleck is decent, and Adams isn't bad once you get used to her Kewpie-doll voice. It's a movie that tries to think outside the conventions of movies, and while it doesn't entirely succeed, it does offer some surprises.This is also a movie that you will respond to differently depending on where you are in your own life. I saw it twice about ten year apart and liked it both times, but not necessarily for the same reasons. And a friend of mine saw the movie completely differently the second time she saw it. In short, it's funny and sometimes touching and it has something to say. "},{"Title":"This movie will mean different things to different viewers","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a lot more going on in this movie than meets the eye. But, the parable by Silent Bob pretty much sums it all up for me. The lifestyles, both traditional and alternative, seem to be diversions to the real message. The only absurd scene in the movie is when Holden arranges a meeting with Alyssa and Banky. The scene was totally unnecessary and it seemed like an awkward attempt to get to the final result. It was the only scene that turned me off. Like, who would propose such a thing to a person you supposedly love more than anything? Anyways, Holden blows it much like many of us have blown it when it comes to screwing up our relationships. We think of every reason in the book to why the relationship is wrong when in reality we are not ready to grow a relationship. The parable by Bob sums it all up on why we are chasing Amy. We can spend a lifetime looking for something we've lost. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy &#x97; Very emotional and unusual romance with some jokes and a bit of tragedy","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is about the one that got away, and how stupid and hurtful we can be when we're confronted something that test the limit of our knowledge. Romance with a few gags, a tragedy, a movie where you can stop and think. What would you have done? Personally, I think the girl and the black guy are very wise. The two white dudes are pure vanilla stupid.The emotional scenes are touching, and the dialogs are as solid as Kevin Smith can make them. The story is captivating with nice novel ideas, and the maturity of the treatment in the subject matter is beyond reproach.Joey Lauren Adams is little known as actresses go, but she gives us a powerful and very emotional performance. Ben Affleck might not be at his best, but it is still a pretty good performance. While you just want to slap some sense into Jason Lee's character, he plays the uncouth badmouth with little respect like a pro.Looking for a nice romance with an offbeat sentiment and you don't mind if it's not as slick as the high budget flicks Hollywood produces? This is yours. Try it. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy, a textbook example of a good Rom-com","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Kevin Smith's 3rd film, Chasing Amy concerns Holden McNeil, a comic book artist, with best Banky Edwards beside him every step of the way, the two have become a hit with their comic book series, Bluntman & Chronic, based on the two characters Jay & Silent Bob, from the previous two films, (Clerks. & Mallrats). At a comic convention, Holden meets Alyssa, the girl he's only dreamed of, but he is crushed when he finds out that she is a lesbian.This is a what every Rom-com should be, it shouldn't try following the hot buttons of pop culture, it should be an original idea, with a cast of characters we should actually care about!Kevin Smith knew what we wanted, not something done a thousand times, but it should be something from your life, not something from a movie you saw on TV last night, it should be a story that we can level with as a theater going audience! I honestly can't remember the last time I made a bet that I could make a girl cool in time for the prom!The film is a definite 8.5 ticket stub in my books!The film is on Netflix for instant streaming, it's a definite check it out! "},{"Title":"Romance 101 Kevin Smith style","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a big fan of Kevin Smith's work in the 90's (2000's not so much with the exception of 'Clerks II'.) His movies, all set in the backdrop of Jersey, were each filled with witty dialogue, well-drawn out characters, and humor. 'Chasing Amy,' his 1997 romance movie, perfectly fits the bill as his other top achievements(mainly 'Clerks' and 'Dogma,') while establishing a signature style of it's own.The story follws Holden (Ben Affleck), a comic book artist who writes 'Bluntman and Chronic,' with his longtime friend Banky (Jason Lee.) Holden is introduced to a beautiful woman, Alyssa (a magnificent Joey Lauren Adams) by his very flamboyant friend, Hopper (Dwight Ewell).Holden falls in love with Alyssa in an instant. And everything is looking up when she extends him an invitation to a night club a few days after meeting. Only one problem it's a lesbian club, and Alyssa's fits right in with the crowd.Unlike any other Smith movie, this one poses a very poignant moral conundrum what happens when you fall in love with someone who's attracted to a different sex? The movie constantly questions this, sometimes going a bit overboard. But, for the most part, it's a very balanced argument on the underlying nature of human sexuality preferences and what constitutes as 'love.' But let those deep themes and morale questions scare you off. It's still not a Terrance Malick picture, there's plenty of humor throughout the 1 hour and 51 minute running time. Like many other Smith pictures, the dialogue is VERY raunchy at times. Probably not a good idea to watch this with the parents. Also, the film often mentions back to Smith's previous two efforts (Clerks and Mallrats.) Not saying it's necessary, but in order to complete a viewing experience, prior knowledge of these two will provide additional jokes.I would highly recommend to not only fans who favor Smith's brand of hi-jinks, but too any fan of cinema. I would hesitate to simple label this a 'romantic comedy,' a term that has been soiled in recent years. No, 'Chasing...' is surprisingly more intellgient, emotional, and clever than many, movie other movies in the 'romance' department. "},{"Title":"Almost a really good movie, after all it is Kevin Smith and his non-stop foul mouth.","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has no character called Amy, only an anecdotal reference to Silent Bob's old girlfriend, Amy, whom he foolishly let slip away and thereafter every girl was a potential Amy, and he calls the process chasing Amy.Ben Affleck is Holden McNeil and along with his life-long friend Jason Lee as Banky Edwards produce a very popular comic book. At one of those events where comic book authors show up and sit at tables to sign copies for fans, Holden meets funny-voice Joey Lauren Adams as Alyssa Jones who also produces a comic book. They seem to click right away and soon Holden and Alyssa are spending a lot of time together.In one case, Holden is fairly shocked to see Alyssa making out with a girlfriend of hers. She is a lesbian but Holden is in the process of falling in love with her, in a way that he never has felt for any woman.So Alyssa becomes Holden's Amy, will his chase be successful? It gets complicated and rarely goes in a direction I thought it would.Ben's kid brother Casey Affleck has a very small role as Little Kid, a comic book fan. And right before hitting it big in Good Will Hunting along with Affleck is Matt Damon as Shawn Oran, an executive in a very brief appearance.The story is clever, and appropriate, it never resorts to clichés, but Smith's fondness for very dirty language and very graphic sexual references spoils much of this movie as it does most of his others. This could have been a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Man-flick like no other","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A man-flick like no other. It's realistic witty, but got weird at the end&#x85; like, I like you Ben Affleck , but even this is too much for my taste. But that's alright the weird plot end lasted for 2 minutes and it was over. Any how, the story follows comic book writers, one of whom falls in love with a lesbian. He befriends her and finally tells her that he loves her. Things keeps going and he finally gets the girl and when he does he find that she has a past that he doesn't find altogether agreeable. Drama ensues and the love his life turns into a realistic story about romance.Great conversation with an interesting story. For those who like Clerks and everything in made by these boys it's a good movie to watch. "}{"Title":"Romantic comedy with a twist","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film had a pretty decent storyline and was more romantic filled than Kevin Smith's general comedies. It was interesting watching the film but wasn't that funny. It deals with more mature themes. Though the film gets off track some times and has some boring moments but in general its pretty good and offers some twist along the way.Unlike other Kevin Smith films, Chasing Amy film seems to be the only one in which Smith really seems to care about his characters and their lives. His only problem is that his direction is far from being as efficient as his writing. Though I didn't really care much about the characters, specifically the lead female Alyssa. Her voice and attitude throughout the film was very annoying and disturbing. It was hard to take any serious emotion or distress from such a jabbering high-pitched squealing freak of an actress. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is a film about three straight dudes trying to navigate the mysteries of queer identity and female sexuality Ben Affleck's conservative Holden, Jason Lee's homophobic Banky, and well-meaning writer/director Kevin Smith. The film is ambitious in tackling gender and sexual politics--perhaps excessively so--but while it delivers its share of cringe-worthy moments, they're often followed by more nuanced perspective. Dialectics of phobia and openness and ignorance and epiphany are at play throughout the film, yes, but Chasing Amy is ultimately a fairly simple love story between a man and a woman, for all the good and bad that that implies. Smith's style is charmingly efficient he assembles his actors in front of the camera, he frames them pleasantly on the thirds, and he lets the movie happen. This makes Amy a very performance-driven movie, which sometimes works against it--Affleck is a bit wooden, and one wishes Joey Lauren Adams weren't instructed to cry hysterically so often--but the film boasts some fantastic supporting work Dwight Ewell as Hooper, Lee as Banky, and Smith himself as Silent Bob, all excellent. It is perhaps superficially disappointing that a film of this subject matter would dwell so deeply on monogamous heterosexual romance, but Amy ultimately only aspires to be a film about relationship baggage--and when it does dive into politics, it's more honest exploration of sexual fluidity than male hetero-fantasy. While the two leads are perhaps the weakest elements of the the film, their relationship and its effect on the film's characters is fascinating, ranking with some of Smith's best work. Chasing Amy works great as a small-scale character study, and it makes a compelling case for the Kevin Smith Indie's humble corner in film history. TK 9/17/10 "},{"Title":"Definitely a Fun Chase","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith is a genius when it comes to movies. Everything I've seen with him Im a fan of and I like. Somethings I don't like as much, but Im so into him a Front Row Steve will be made for him in this month. Chasing Amy is the third masterpiece in a row that Kevin Smith did right after the poorly received Mallrats and the acclaimed Clerks. Both movies I enjoy and are on my list of favorites and so is this one. This movie has Clerks style dialogue, a brilliant cast, and an excellent story. Only shot with an advanced 16mm called Super16 than blown up to 35mm, it may not look better than newer films, but sure is way better than a lot of them. A classic Comedy and a fine Romantic love story.Kevin Smith has blown my mind with dialogue. Hes a genius when it comes to large conversations in movies. Wheter dirty or just plain out of the ordinary, he can do it. Give him two or more characters, a setting, and a topic, and he'll turn it into a five minute talk about whatever the hell comes up. Clerks of all his films has the funniest dialogue. To date and since 2006, Clerks has been my favorite movie and Im willing to bet it will stay my favorite forever. One of the first R rated films I watched and whenever I watch it back I pick something up I never caught before. Its a kind of movie I watch it at least two times a year and never get tired of it. Its that kind of movie.Chasing Amy's plot is different from Kevin Smith's previous work it's a serious love story and sort of turns away from the buddies goofing around at the same time stays with it has a romantic story brings into play. Holden and Banky (Affleck and Lee) are two comic book writers whose friendship is effected when Alyssa Jones (Adams) walks into Holden's life and the two develop a close bond. Holden is crushed when Alyssa reveals she is a lesbian, but its not stopping him from still trying to maintain a relationship. But when Holden uncovers secret nicknames and such from Alyssa's past. His relationship is on the rocks. Not only with Alyssa, but his friendship with Banky is also starting to fade as all Holden starts talking and caring about is Alyssa.Not only having a great concept. Chasing Amy does a brilliant keeping in sync with the View Askew storyline. Alyssa Jones is the sister of Heather Jones who walked in the Quick Stop in Clerks when Dante is getting fined. As well as Rick Derris being brought up numerous times who was in the Quick Stop at the same time with Heather. Caitlin Bree from Clerks is mentioned as well by Alyssa when they had an encounter which I wont get into.Some dialogue in the movie, is very interesting and can almost span sometimes for half an hour which is why I like Smith's early work. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is referenced by a lot of people as their favorite KS movie. Not mine. Though still appreciating it, I feel that it was too Hollywood and that Vulgar was the last great KS movie. Nowadays I feel he does what he thinks would sell rather than his first movies he did with a rock bottom budget where he was working independently and had more freedom. This movie disappoints in no way and having the DVD be from Criterion Collection adds to the fun of the entire film all around.Starring Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Lee, Dwight Ewell, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Brian O'Halloran, and Matt Damon. Directed by Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"Probably Kevin Smith's Masterpiece","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit that I'm not a huge fan of Kevin Smith. Before seeing Chasing Amy I had only seen Clerks, Clerks II, most of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, and some of Dogma. I liked Clerks and actually thought Clerks II was better, but wasn't a particular fan of the humor presented in the Clerks films and the bits and pieces of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and Dogma that I had witnessed. I'm not saying that Kevin Smith's a bad writer or anything like that, just that I don't share his sense of humor most of the time.That being said, I heavily enjoyed Chasing Amy, even finding Jay and Silent Bob's cameo to be particularly funny coming from the stoner duo who I don't necessarily dislike, but definitely don't love. But aside from the many pop culture references and jokes there's actually much else to enjoy here. The entire cast turns in great performances, with Ben Affleck giving a stand out in the lead role and Jason Lee handing in a great take on the sarcastic best friend character.But what I really loved was the style of the film. I really enjoyed the camera work in the film, with Kevin Smith using hand-held camera work in quite a departure from the often times stable and static world of Kevin Smith's films. I believe it enhances the feeling of unstableness in Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams's character's relationship.There's not really anything bad I can think to say about this movie. Being not particularly into the world of View Askew I was pleasantly surprised by this film and award it ten stars without a second thought. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is one of the smartest screenwriters ever","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer-director Kevin Smith is one of the smartest and most underrated filmmakers out there. What Smith does here that is different from his other movies is that when Smith writes dialogue, he writes the way people talk.Ben Affleck and Jason Lee star as Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards, the creators of the famous comic book series, Bluntman and Chronic. They meet Alyssa Jones (played in a breakthrough performance by Joey Lauren Adams). Holden starts to have a thing for Alyssa. Then he finds out that Alyssa doesn't like men in an intimate way. They still become really good friends. Banky feels that his friendship with Holden may be threatened by Alyssa.This is Kevin Smith's smartest movie. He shows some real brilliance as a director and even more as a writer. Smith knows how to depict the love and relationships through these characters without going too over the top. "},{"Title":"This Is A Huge Step From Kevin Smith","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This Movie's Plot Is Where A Comic Book Artist Falls In Love With A Lesbian. It Sounds Like A Comedy But Listen To Me This Is Just A Romance It Is Exactly Like Jersy Girl A Mixture Of Comedy & Some Heartwarming Stuff.This Has The Perfotmance Of Ben Afleck(The Same Year He Did Good Will Hunting) As Holden McNiel & Jason Lee As His Sad Case(Metaphorically) Friend & Joey Lauren Adams As The Lesbian. This Movie Is A Truthfully Great Romance But As A Comedy Is Awful I Decided 9 For A Rating Because It Can Be Entertaining For Those Who See It As A Romance Not A Comedy This Movie Is Like Howard The Duck You Have To See It Right To Say That Was Entertaining. Rating9/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best film and the career highlight for almost everyone involved in the film. It has also become a personal favourite of my own.","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so unbelievably good. Everything about it is brilliant. This should be seen by all. Though I'm not sure I'd recommend it to my parents. Kevin Smith is the kinda guy you either love or hate. In his career he has developed some of the most quotable cult classics. However some people feel that his characters are all the same. That is not entirely incorrect, to many people his characters all seem to be course and over oppinionated. However Kevin Smith provides such balance in most of his films between comedy and drama, between a crude man and a not as crude man that his films actually feel more realistic and close to home than any other comedy. I'm sure everyone can feel somewhat connected to the characters, everyone knows people like these (though maybe not as extreme). It is quite relateable really, the friendship between Holden and Banky, Holden being the intellectual and mostly staying silent or apologizing for his less socially acceptable friend. Admitedly these films are not for everyone, and personally I feel that this film has cruder dialogue than most other Kevin Smith films. Some may feel that the crudeness is unnecessary, however that is Kevin Smith. That I guess is his real talent. To be able to hide a love story behind a crude mess of comical characters that you may not wish to know in real life but sure as hell are entertaining to watch on screen.This was the first Kevin Smith movie I saw, I first saw it in 2006 on late night TV when I was only 13. I didn't know what to expect, and due to how late it was and my lack of understanding of some of the situations I didn't get as much out of it as I have now. However this was not all negative as it introduced me to Kevin Smith. Of course I wasn't aware of exactly who Kevin Smith was back then, but I became more intrigued as my older brother mentioned films such as Mallrats and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back that I started to realize my familiarity with these characters. About a year later I saw Jay and Silent Bob Strike back, again this was on late night TV. This was a much easier movie to get into and from there I got to know the askew universe far more. From there I felt inspired to rent out Clerks 2, having seen adds for it on TV, I knew it had something to do with the others. I enjoyed it thoroughly and from there I considered myself a minor Kevin Smith fan. Researching him on the internet and discovering all the links to one another each of his films display. Still I was wary as I knew it wasn't all for me having seen how much of Chasing Amy had gone over my head. But by the time I saw the original Clerks I became a true Kevin Smith fan.Admitedly though I picked up Clerks 2 in a bargain bin and figured that no Kevin Smith film could ever top it. It wasn't until earlier today (technically yesterday as it is past midnight when I'm writing this comment) after having picked up 'Clerks.' at quite a good price that I decided that to really bring more to my current Kevin Smith Collection (Clerks., Clerks 2, Mallrats) I should treat myself and buy Chasing Amy (despite it not exactly being at a bargain price at where I was shopping). I knew that I'd be pleasantly surprised. However I could not anticipate just how much I would love this movie.All the jokes completely clicked with me. The writing was some of the best I'd ever seen. I really thought the character of Holden was relateable to me (or at least how I wish I was). His dry wit. His sharp jokes. His wide vocabulary. Holden is really a clever guy with a desire to find someone he can connect with. Sure Ben Affleck has made a few bad career choices, but this is by far his finest performance. Jason Lee too delivers a career best. He plays a great contrasting character to Holden. He is a bitter, cynical man who we see is really quite unfulfilled in his life. Having nothing really except his friendship with Holden. And appearing to not even having a career without him. Banky is, a brilliant and surprising character (no spoilers). Like many people have already said, Joey Lauren Adam's steals the show. I myself always found her to be annoying in her other roles (especially her voice). And while her voice is no different, I hate to say it but she inhabits her role so convincingly that it would be a crime for me to not applaud it. In fact right now off the top of my head I cannot remember ever being as wowed as I was by any female actor. If you want proof look at the scene that takes place outside the hockey rink.This is not just a love story, it is also a story of friendship. It is a relationship triangle (however not in a conventional sense). Each actor contributes heavily to their own respective roles. The film's conclusion is so unforgettable that you must just see if for yourself. TML O'Hare. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Smith's contra-sexual comedy/drama tries too hard to be funny and shocking all at once. As if it isn't obvious to us that this is a taboo topic, Smith pounds us with this touchy subject. The fact is most of the world has accepted homosexuals and bisexuals as just another preference, instead of deviants.Chasing Amy tries to be so funny that it allows the drama to suffer too often, especially in the instance of the awfully miscalculated final proposal, which at first appears to be a joke, but when it becomes clear Holden is serious, we know he's lost the plot, along with the film.The three leads play off each other well, as the love-hate relationship of the two guys is tested by Holden's new found love. Joey Lauren Adams is an attractive bombshell (and she drops a few bombshells too), but her occasional over acting somewhat spoils her otherwise strong performance.Pic's best moment occurs when Holden gets together with the real life guys upon whom he has based his cartoon heroes. Otherwise a disappointing misfire.Saturday, July 5, 1997 - Kino Cinema MelbourneBelieve it or not, I actually enjoyed Kevin Smith's Chasing Amy a lot more on second viewing. The first time I saw this film I was very disappointed. I felt it had missed the mark and that it failed on many levels. This time however I could see how insightful Smith had been in his rendering of people and circumstances in this modern sexual age. I may not agree with many of his conclusions, but his accuracy is undeniable in his many observations of the 90's sexual encounter and the emotions it dredges up.Ben Affleck is in touch with his confused and bewildered character Holden, portraying him well. Jason Lee is the frustrated Banky, while Joey Lauren Adams is strong, if a little too dramatic, as Alyssa, the love of many peoples lives.Chasing Amy does end on a rather off-beat, and in fact rather mis-judged note, though I guess we can forgive Smith this imperfection. Not recommended for the easily offended.Monday, June 22nd, 1998 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"An effort to put life in a very small box","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At a total this film is something you should not watch alone, you must have someone to discuss the meaning of it all. The ending was perfect for the movie, the story was a very good idea but the script had a way to make it... unreal to my eyes. The moment that Holden confess his feelings to Alyssa was far more unreal than ever. The whole script was not well written though the basic idea was perfect. Jason Lee played his part perfect and was the only totally real person in the film. The part that you are open minded to the sexuality of the other person and at the same time, so close minded about what she had done in the past I can't quite get it. I mean, that's not real, it's not even stupid! This is worse than everything. And after a couple of weeks thinking of the problem, what the hell was this idea for?? To make sure that it's gonna be a drama? Bloody hell! My bottom line is that you either gonna love it or hate it. If you have an open mind you gotta see it just to get the basic idea of the film. Don't expect anything better than moderate performances from Ben Affleck or Joey Lauren Adams, you ain't gonna have it. You have give it a shot!P.S. If you do not have an open mind just see the first half of the movie, if that. You are just going to waste your time, or if you see it with someone open minded, you gonna end up talking for hours without reaching to a conclusion!!! "},{"Title":"Candid conversations of sexuality come to life!","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brilliant characters lose their appeal after the movie reaches it's halfway point, and even after the anticipated appearance of Jay and Silent Bob puts a smile back on your face, Chasing Amy is again ruined by the stupidity of the protagonists. Not at all saying Kevin Smith is a conventional writer/director, but characters usually get wiser as the story progresses. Not this bunch. What starts off as an intriguing, charming, compelling, and hilarious example of cinema goes suicide lovers on its audience. A very bi-polar flick that only those who don't get fooled into being a quiet observer rather than a movie-goer can truly enjoy. High points include Affleck's confession of love, the cunnilingus conversation between Lee and Adams (the only time you'll see the two get along), and everything that has to do with Hooper X, the only consistent character in the movie. Contradicting my negative tone, this movie is worth watching at least once, but then the movie contradicts itself far more than I do. "}{"Title":"Very funny, very touching","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is the film that proved that Kevin Smith could assemble a story that was more than pop culture references and long dialogue scenes. Those elements are still here, as are Jay and Silent Bob; but, there is also a terrific story of relationships and love.The film centers around Holden, a comic writer and artist who has a crush on Alyssa, another artist, who also happens to be a lesbian. Holden strikes up a friendship with Alyssa, based on shared friends and acquaintances and mutual amusement. However, friendship is not enough for Holden and he professes his love for Alyssa. Complicating things is the deteriorating relationship between Holden and his partner, Banky. Banky repeatedly tries to wake Holden up to the reality of his relationship with Alyssa, but also seems to harbor a deeper resentment. Love blooms for the unlikely couple, but is irrevocably damaged by Holden's difficulties in dealing with Alyssa's past.The script is first rate, a cut above Smith's previous efforts (skillful as they were). The relationships are far stronger and there is a real story here. The performances are outstanding, particularly Ben Affleck and Jason Lee. Smith helped show that Affleck could really act, given the right material. Joey Lauren Adams acquits herself quite well as Alyssa. The supporting characters are funny and memorable, with a new twist given to Jay and Silent Bob. The visuals are still rather static, but continue to show growth on the part of Smith.The film was critically lauded and highly successful, given it's small distribution and limited budget. It showed the depth that was lingering under the surface of Smith's previous efforts, and showed that he could handle bigger ideas. It cemented his reputation as a writer of sharp dialogue and amusing characters, while adding an understanding of relationship dynamics. It's also very funny and heartbreaking. If you only ever watch one of Kevin Smith's films, make sure it's this one. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's Best Work","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the movie. Kevin Smith did an excellent job on this one. Wheredid he think of this stuff. Or was it something that happened to him. Truth is stranger than fiction. The acting was great, the characters believable. Holding (Ben Afflack's Best movie) did such a great moving job dealing with Alissa and her problem. Till the end but managed to save a little face. Binky is the funny man in the movie. The fall guy and he's good at it. Get you to wonder if this is the way Jersey guys grew up. Would love to see a follow up for the movie. Hopfully with the whole cast list in Clerk 2. Would like to see a follow up for Mallrats also. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Interwoven Film","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love stories are difficult to do and to make it a comedy even takes it into more risky territory. Very few films can successfully interweave a love story and a comedy without getting something like a Sandra Bullock movie or a Ben Stiller movie. But Kevin Smith, Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, and Joey Lauren Adams have done it successfully.This is not a film for teenyboppers or anything like that. It is a film that deals with unrequited love. Ben Affleck, in his best role, finds himself in love with a woman that he knows that he can never have and amazingly enough doesn't come off as whiny or anything like that. Kevin Smith, who is known for his dialogue and films like Clerks and Dogma, has written his best script. He walks a tightrope as he stays true to his sense of humor but also presents a beautiful, sad lovesick story.This is not a movie for everybody and that should be understood. While having it's moments of immaturity like other Kevin Smith comedies, it is still a very mature film and serious. But if you are looking for a good, original, and yet beautifully sad story, this is a film for you. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's intelligent study on how to deal with love","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone needs to watch movies like this, after watching a film like Chasing Amy you feel as though you know something more about how to deal with relationships. That's what I love, the film shows you situations that people go through and the lessons from making mistakes in life. Some people find themselves chasing fro the perfect person their entire life, not realising that the person fro them is right in front of them.This is a film not afraid to be controversial and study an issue that is very relevant in today's society. Chasing Amy is as close as you will get to romance in any of his movies. It hits the sentimental and complex notes that make it a modern masterpiece. It's fun, cute and sexy study of sexual choices and how you can never really find the perfect women. I think Chasing Amy is a groundbreaking and very important movie because it deals with topics such as homophobia. A turning point for Kevin Smith who manages to give you tips as Silent Bob on women and how he is always Chasing Amy. Kevin Smith as usual proves his movies are about characters and fast, witty dialogue. There is always a joke flying around in this wonderful sentimental comedy which leaves room for the beauty of repeat viewings. But unlike most romantic comedies (which I loathe with a passion usually) this is very different, it's not afraid to talk about sexual encounters and be frank about subjects that some people may find offensive, it tells you everything. The characters created feel real because the edge of not everything turns out the way you want it. That is something that most romantic movies are afraid to do, it makes the audience dream shatter. But that is the important point it makes everything more real. You can relate and personalise as usual with certain situations. At the same time the film is very off the wall and hilariously sexually charged with the beautiful Joey Lauren Adams playing Alyssa Jones. She acts with talent and steals the show, how she did not get nominated or even win best actress is beyond me. The Acadmeny seems to never respects the independent movie masterpieces though.What always surprises me about Kevin Smith movies is that Ben Affleck proves he can act! Ben Affleck puts on a very believable and cool role that is creatively acted. Kevin Smith might seem at first glance the kind of director who exploits crude humour. He is actually the complete opposite, they are deep, meaningful films that deal with relevant issues. You feel uplifted and yet left with a moral when watching a Kevin Smith movie because he hits the goal of entertainment. This is a movie made not for money, but for the viewer and something Kevin Smith needed to show to people who could understand situations he probably went through. Kevin Smith creates a funny movie that underneath is a very serious study of sexual nature. Kevin Smith handles risqué subjects gently and with precision. Kevin Smith is not there to show off, but to rather show his love of film.Overall a stunning, emotionally complex movie for example the scene in the car which shows a genius is at work. The dialogue and the acting hold the scene together, one that could seem very lame if done not correctly. And one more example would be the highly amusing ice hockey scene in which the pair argue while you see the image of the fight between the players breaking out and the heartbeat accompanying the scene. "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Great","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched Chasing Amy for the first time last night/this morning. I think that it was a great movie. It was funny when it had to be, but it was also somber. It wasn't a death or never-again kind of somber, but a maybe-if kind of somber.It was just that Holden still had some things to realize about himself. Even though at the convention he hadn't found them yet, he was telling Banky and Alyssa that he wasn't very far off. If you listen to and watch the ending close enough, it's obvious that Holden hadn't talked to either of them in that year-long span. And I think that Smith was wanting the audience to do a little soul-searching of their own after this movie.I'll admit, Holden talking about the three of them having sex together did seem a little out of character, but Adams' character brought the film back to the overall emotional tone of the second half of the film.Overall, it was one of Smith's best works, if not the best. It was classic Jay-and-Silent-Bob-funny in the beginning and unknowingly worked its way into this romantic-drama film that really captured the emotional relationship to its depths. He showed this same scheme of the emotional relationship in Clerks, but it was lost in between all the calamity and hilarity. Plus, you didn't get the background of the relationship. In Chasing Amy, he just let it be its own separate entity. I think that this movie will go down as one of the forgotten greats that will be overshadowed by the idiotic hilarity of Mallrats or Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and from what I've seen maybe even Clerks II. "},{"Title":"a vital and informed observation of sexuality in action","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I honestly only bought Chasing Amy on DVD because, while I hadn't seen it before, I knew what a damned fine actor Dwight Ewell was, and I trusted it would be good.I interviewed Dwight for Queer Radio by phone from the USA in around '97 - in promotion of the local cinema release of Hal Hartley's Flirt (in which he plays the central gay character in the middle story). Dwight was happy to talk about his experience in Stonewall, but was particularly excited about the work he'd just done with Chasing Amy. So now I know why.This is one of the very few films I've seen which dares to show the truth that most gay men, lesbians and straights are scared of - that sexuality is fluid, and that while most of us have a strong preference for a particular gender, we also go to extreme lengths to deny the bit of us that finds attractive people attractive - regardless of their gender.Kevin Smith isn't being at all preachy, but thankfully he's also not descending into banality for the sake of a few laughs. I don't think there's a throw away line in the whole film.This is an enthralling romantic comedy drama - and a thoroughly rewarding experience. It must have been a high impact date-movie for anyone thinking they were going to a light comedy.Great cast, tight script, beautiful editing, nice sound. Thank you Dwight - it only took 9 years to see this film, but you've made my day. "},{"Title":"what a piece of work is man and woman","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At this point, Kevin Smith had only directed Clerks. and Mallrats, but Chasing Amy really showed his talent. It portrays a young man (Ben Affleck) falling for a woman (Joey Lauren Adams), only to find out that she's a lesbian. I think that my two favorite scenes are the racism speech about Star Wars, and the joke about who gets to the dollar bill first.True, this is the sort of movie that could only really appeal to people below thirty, but Kevin Smith always knows how to put a neat spin on everything. Ben Affleck and Matt Damon of course co-starred in Good Will Hunting later that year, and Kevin Smith continues casting them in his movies. All in all, this is something that you're sure to like. "},{"Title":"Awesome!  Not for watching with parents in room though!","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takes place in area where I have lived (and still do) for over 30 years. That's not the reason I give it a 10 though... or maybe it is in some way. First movie (I think) I saw of Kevin's is Dogma. Oh baby, that view of Convention Hall in Asbury Park.. I was sold on him. Recently rented Clerks.... more of a fan. Seen Jersey Girl... liked it. Let's see.. what else did this dude do... no, not doodoo... although it seems that his movie Mallrats was panned as such. Tried renting a copy but they said it was lost. I was totally entranced by the acting and dialog... oh, and of course, the direction. The constant bad language was a bit uncomfortable, but I guess it was designed to make it more real and/or to make a point. Point was made well. Acting was great. Anyway, I'm a fan, and look forward to seeing Clerks 2. Keep up the good work Kevin. ^5 "},{"Title":"Guerilla film-making at its best","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Given the film's relatively meagre budget of $250,000, it meant that Kevin, Moiser et al had to call in favours, use all of their contacts, get their friends and relatives and their friends and relatives to appear in the film, and get everyone working for scale (film-making's minimum wage).Personally, I think the film is better for it, as it means that the film has a gritty realism to it, rather than a Hollywood stylisation, although this is also due to Robert 'Ratface' Holtzman's production design.The casting of such people as Jason Lee's ex-wife, Carman, as Alyssa's lesbian lover, Kevin's cousin as Codee London, Casey Affleck as The Kid, etc, also adds a further layer of enjoyment, for me at least.Smith's 'no style' style also adds to the film as well, as simple, no-frills shots makes the film seem more realistic,( even if the plot is rather unrealistic!) For goodness' sake, Kevin even said that it was his sci-fi film, as that would never happen! "},{"Title":"Chasng Amy","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this movie it was probably one of the best movies that Kevin Smith had ever thought up.It shows how the boundaries of being either gay or straight could some how be broken by love.During that time the thought of making a movie with homo sexuality would make directors and producers scared of making because of what the audience thought.Ben Affleck was meant to be in this part.Jason Lee has been in comedic parts and dramatic parts but when you see him in this movie you see a different side of his character that you never seen in any of his movies before,which shows the determination for this movie.If you want to see a love story then you should get this movie because I guarantee it will show what can really do to a person. "}{"Title":"witty, at times contrived, but loved nevertheless","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, I am unbiased about the film maker Kevin Smith as I have both loved and loathed his work. Chasing Amy is one of his I have loved.A mate of mine watched it for the first time and, whilst loving the charm and wit of the script had problems with the reality of the storyline. This time last week I was at a bar and began to get along very well with a beautiful young women. We danced, drank and had fun. At the end of the night I asked to catch up later for coffee to which she replied that she actually fancied one of the girls I was with and if I could tell her that she liked her. My mate was a witness and proceeded to blurt out, drunk, Go Chase Amy I don't like Ben Affleck. He has screen presence and obvious good looks, but in every film he is a liability because he simply cannot be convincing and plays the same guy in every film (i.e Hugh Grant) However, that's because he basically plays Holden McNeil in every film, so this was quite appropriate.Joey Lauren Adams.... hearing her voice makes me think of Lolita. Ahem... did I just say that... I don't know if there is any element of truth in this, but having heard the rumor that the script was written for her, and that it was 'something personal to say' promotes the film immensely... on the back of a very good acting performance never the less.Jason Lee is excellent and gets about 90% of the one liners. He is far more effective in promoting the 'relationship' between he and Holden, which speaks volumes of his comic ability.The type of film used by Smith is appropriate and gives it that 'indie' feel, which is where this film belongs (on the shelf right next to clerks) The soundtrack is OK, touching final piece. Holden's solution to fix his own shitty life is contrived and expected before it arrives but this is rescued by the anti-climactic ending. The film should have been a tragedy and I am glad it ended that way (a threesome? please...)Tips for anyone in love with a girl they're not with recite Holden's speech to Alyssa in his car... it's a sure thing.Tips for anyone in love with a girl they're with Don't recite Holden's speech to Banky and Alyssa in his apartment... it's corny and doomed. "},{"Title":"It's Smith, need I say more?","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The funniest romantic comedy ever written! Obviously not as marvellous as Clerks, nor as blatantly funny as Mallrats, but still a film worth watching 50 times or more.Banky Edwards drawing a diagram that proves that men-loving lesbians don't exist is worth the price tag alone!Jay and Silent Bob fans may be disappointed as they have more of a cameo role in this film, but Bobs 'Amy tale' is legendary. It makes his usual one-liners seem minuscule in comparison.Trust me, anyone who tells you not to watch this film is not worthy of your friendship. Spit on them and call them names, then run away and buy this film. Yes. "},{"Title":"Clerks ('97 Remix)","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this disappointing. It seems to me as if Kevin Smith came up with a new romantic scenario and paint-by-numbers'd it into the Clerks formula. Two guys work and spend a lot of time together; one is gruff, the other relatively tame. They have a quirky job and make lots of quirky references to pop culture. The tame one has girl problems with which the gruff one gets involved because he is overprotective of his friend. Cue many extended dialogue sequences in which they sort out their emotions. Then Jay and Silent Bob turn up randomly about 3/4 of the way in and offer some advice, and it all works out for everyone, sorta.Also I didn't like Alyssa much anyway, and why does Hooper X's character randomly disappear after like 4 scenes? He's easily the most interesting of them.Chasing Amy's not bad at all, but it could've been a lot better. "},{"Title":"Alysssa Jones Is My F*cking Hero","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adoring fan I am of Kevin Smith, this movie stands out in a way that none of the other films ever will, at least to me. It is effortlessly, and casually brilliant. It is utterly unique, original, intelligent, even controversial, but not in a sickeningly self-determined uppity sort of way. It's f*cking real, raw, fleshy, dripping with pathetic desires, relationship dramas, inner conflicts, doubt, failure,all the blissful moments of life.More significantly, Alyssa Jones is the kind of character we don't see in film, and if per chance we do, she's tangled in stereotypes linked to her sexual preferences, and when more is revealed she'd apologize for her past and beg forgiveness, leaving the happily ever after solely in the hands of the discriminating, all powerful, possessive, egotistical man. Instead Alyssa backs herself up, she claims her past as her own with no shame. How many of the rest of us would like to have the balls to do that? How many of our boyfriends would give us that same look of disgust and betrayal while beneath the surface seething with insecurity, and feelings of inadequacy? Alyssa Jones is my f*cking hero. Knowing that you love someone and realizing you shouldn't be with them, and following through with that, is one of the most challenging acts to face in humanity.Furthermore, Alyssa doesn't try to cram herself into some box you can check when filling out a form. She's tried everything she wanted to try. She's gone between women and men, and back again while facing adversity from her closest companions, you have to respect that. As silly as it seems since this movie most often lies in the comedy section, (which yeah, it's funnier than hell in some parts, but is it not more?), I relate to this character, and instill in myself those attributes I admire (or try to) more than any other fictional character I've come across. For clarification purposes I find the other characters appealingly complex and relatable, and the rant on egotistical, all powerful males was directed at the general norm we'd see in the context of Alyssa and Holden's relationship. In fairness though, a lot of it does pertain to Holden, he's just not quite so cardboard cut-out predictable.All in all, here is dialogue not manufactured to please a massive audience, but to honestly give dignity to it's characters, and story. If it speaks to you it's because it is you, it's real, if it doesn't you're kidding yourself, we've all been there, in some way, shape, or form.Joey Lauren Adams's performance was phenomenal. She's great, she's cute, sexy, beautiful, not artificial, unlike any other but yet within reach to all of us. And I must say I've always held this to be Ben Affleck's best performance by a long shot, I felt every word, gesture, twinge of shame and embarrassment totally resonated. Jason Lee always lively perfection, he does it so well you really believe he's just playing himself, he is that sarcastic, selfish dick sitting on the couch eating cereal, sucking at video games. Kevin Smith, I adore, hold a deep rooted infatuation for, regardless of the facts I'm not into guys, and he is married and famous while I'm a Minnesota girl. Anyways, there is no one like him, and no film to rival Chasing Amy. "},{"Title":"Simply the best!","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unbelievable funny and original. This movie is HILARIOUS and tells a story.Kevin Smith wrote, directed, and had a role as Silent Bob.Holden and Banky are best friends (played by Ben Affleck and Jason Lee). Holden falls in love and later finds out this girl is a lesbian. He begins to second guess the relationship, and he finds it is starting to interfere with his friendship with Banky.Kevin Smith wrote a funny, original script. He is not afraid to say what many of us are. I can watch this over and over again and still love it every time. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful romantic comedy?  oh yeah.  Science fiction?  not quite.","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When this movie came out, I was too young not just to get in and see it, but too young to get it. Sure the humor is top notch and today lots of 14 year old kids have seen more vulgar stuff in movies. But this movie gives you the chance for your own personal reflection. You might find someone who's like Banky, looking out for a friends dumb move. Or Holden's passion and superiority/inferiority issues, or Alyssa's experimental journey through life in your own life.I love this movie, and while Kevin Smith in an interview said something along the lines of how events in this movie could never really happen, its easy to see the archetypes here play out here with its bittersweet results just like you could expect in real life. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not being a big Ben Affleck fan I saw this movie with trepidation. What I saw was a very entertaining and well acted movie. Jay and Silent Bob steal the movie where Silent Bob actually gives some good words of wisdom. He tells Affleck that he should not dwell upon his girlfriend's relationships with her exes because whether it was better or worse the girlfriend is only interested in Affleck now so the past doesn't matter.Silent Bob goes on to say that his relationship with Amy was ruined by not heading this advice and he didn't realize it till it was too late. Affleck still manages to muddle his relationship and not be able to enjoy his personal success in the comic book world because he still mulls over the blown chance he had with his girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smiths second classic","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I myself had nothing against Mallrats I thought it was great, but fans were a little annoyed shall we say about it and Smith even apologized for making it. So Mallrats is known as his failure by many fans.But then came this what a way to prove he is one off the greatest film makers ever! Chasing Amy is my favourite romantic film. Its hysterical, extremely well written script, great performances, I could go on all night.I found this little gem on tape in a cruddy car boot sale, and payed £2 for it, I thought to myself It looks alright, and it is Kevin Smith but when I watched it I was only half impressed, then a few days later I don't know why but I watched it again and felt like jumping out my bedroom window for not liking it, yes this film really really grows on you.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"why only a 7 you ask?","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I gave this movie a rating of 7, solely because it really doesn't add up to 8 rank comparability. But don't take that out of context. Chasing Amy, volume two of the ever cult popular New Jersey trilogy by Kevin Smith looks at the life of two comic book designers who are best friends split apart by ones love for a lesbian. As if that's not enough to make you want to watch it, it also has Jay and Silent Bob. This movie is loved by many people and rightfully so. As far as the story goes, it stands alone compared to it's counterparts Clerks, and Mallrats. This movie is sickly funny and intriguing. Ben Affleck plays one of his more solid roles in this movie. Though his hair is awful. And Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams play exceptionally good supporting roles. A must see. "},{"Title":"Seeing people as you should...  Real funny and sad...  LOVE!","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has been out for years. I was surprised I enjoyed it as much as I did. I just have to say to any of you who have not seen this movie, take an hour and a half and watch it. It starts out a just a stoner-funny type film but actually unravels into some deep relationship issues. You never know someone when you meet them. You never know where they have been, or who they have been with. You never know until you ask, and you shouldn't ask questions that you don't really want to know the answer to. I try to practice that. But, in this movie, there is a straight man (Ben) and a gay woman (Joey Lauren Adams), she is so cute! But, anyways, they meet and he falls in love with her. You can tell she is falling in love with him, but she is trying to fight it, since she is now a lesbian. To his knowledge, she has always been a lesbian. So, they hook up and everything is good. At least at first. His best friend, who ends up being a closet homo, hates the girl. He wants to sabotage the relationship, so, and this is the funniest part of the film, he runs into an old high school friend of the girl, Alyssa. He goes off about how she took two guys on at one time and it was just hilarious the way he describes it. You have to watch it. Too funny for words even. After that, there is a nickname that is revealed... finger cuffs... like Chinese finger cuffs... so, after that, he takes her to a hockey game and non-chalantly asks he about the incident. So, she knew he was leading up to it, and as loud as she could she screams yea, i f-ed two guys at once! is that what you wanna hear? so the fight continues into the parking lot where, they both torture each other with mean things they say. The usual relationship crap. But here is where is starts to get interesting. How do you care for someone that does things you don't like? How can you be with someone now when you can't or won't let go of the past? i know we have all had the questions come up at one point in our lives, but to see how these characters deal with it, darkly humorous, but still so emotional, it's rather intense. I watched it with my husband, and I can tell you, it is a great movie for you if your relationship is on the rocks. It really makes you re-evaluate what is and isn't important in life and love. The ending was awesome. I hate the Hollywood-happy ending cop out, so when she threw away the comic book, it made me crack a smile. That is what he gets. I just don't understand why he never went with his guy friend who has been in love with him for 20 years... well, somethings are better left unsaid... WATCH THIS MOVIE! it really makes your tummy hurt from laughing... i know i did. "}{"Title":"My thoughts on Chasing Amy","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just re-watched Chasing Amy this evening and thought I would post my feelings about it for the dicerning readers of the IMDb!! I love Kevin Smith movies and this film would be one of my favourites of all time...but.... Whilst it is funny and the characters are great and witty, it doesn't quite 'gel' for me. I find Joey's character just too overbearing and selfish - the only characters I could really enjoy were the Ben Affleck/Jason Lee, who as usual are on top form. I love the whole message of the film about insecurity in relationships etc...but I just don't find the relationship between Joey/Ben works for me. I think it's possibly because I also just watched Mallrats and the two are very different beasts!!!-) "},{"Title":"Emotional yet funny final entry in the New Jersey Trilogy - WARNING SPOILERS!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WARNING SPOILERS!!Chasing Amy is considered to be the third and final entry in Kevin Smith's New Jersey Trilogy (Clerks and Mallrats are the other two entries). It focuses on a comic book writer/artist Holden who falls for Alyssa, unbeknownst to him - she is gay.Although the relationship between Holden, Alyssa and friend Banky starts awkward and cringe-worthy (eg Banky's references to lesbian sex) - Holden gets a whole lot wiser and mature... before he discovers Alyssa's experimental past and he loses it.Chasing Amy is funny and very pop-culture referential... just like Kevin Smith's other two films - but this one has a lot of soul and emotion. The chemistry between the two leads is all there.... the tension between best friends Banky and Holden is not without big sparks.The references to other movies are terrific - love that Jaws war-story scene! Hooper X is so funny yet absurd. Jay and Silent Bob's appearance is a highlight.Definitely recommended for those fans of Kevin Smith! "},{"Title":"Proof that Affleck isn't all bad..","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For a decent character actor like Ben Affleck to go from dramatic and acclaimed stuff like Good Will Hunting and Chasing Amy to Pearl Harbo'u'r and Gigli is a real shame. He really must have been corrupted by Bruckheimer, J-Lo and all those strippers that he's so often caught with.. For those people who look at these posts and particularly ones for Kevin Smith films, most will be very familiar with the subject of the film so i'll leave out a lame synopsis; however, it is worth checking out the DVD if you only have the video or saw it at the cinema. The commentary with Smith, Affleck, Mewes, Mosier, a guy from Miramax and some fanboy is really funny. That bit about Charlie Sheen doing Major League 14, all high where's the w**res? I guess that's on the Mallrats or Jay and Bob track.. Loads of deleted scenes with introductions and some other interesting stuff that goes on for ages. Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams and even Affleck are are all excellent in this movie while delivering powerful, dramatic, often lengthy and usually hysterical dialogue, the whole convention scene at the start being a particular favourite. "},{"Title":"The most honest movie I've ever seen","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since I sometimes suck at elaborating in some situations, I'll just leave it as that it's the most honest movie I've ever seen. Smith puts his life out for display and even criticism (or ridicule) and he did it unflinchingly. Chasing Amy is why my first film and my next one strive to be honest (but not imitations of Smith).There are small things that bug me a little, but the truthfulness, performances, direction and more far outweigh those criticisms. Even watching a few minutes of the film still gives me goosebumps. Literally. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I used to be a massive fan of Kevin Smith, you know. Like the guy's who always post on the fantastic www.viewaskew.com/ every week I'd have watched at least 2 of his then 4 films.Then I stopped idolising the guy so much. I think I matured or something... I can't honestly explain why... I do have all of his films and do still like them! But there comes a time where you stop and move on!Chasing Amy is Smith's second best effort without a shadow of doubt. When I first viewed the film I was knocked out by it... I thought it was incredible. But I think I had such a strong bias towards the films of Smith that I failed to see it's flaws ... and it does have them.But the partnership of Ben Affleck and Jason Lee was brilliant. Maybe the key to Affleck wanting critical acclaim is teaming up with Lee again?I do think Adams was poor in a very challenging role. Maybe a better actress could have nailed that part better? We'll never know.A great film which won't be for everyone but well worth watching all the same!  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My first thought of this movie was ..WOW this is the best dialoge interaction. The characters make you feel like they are almost people you know. Kevin Smith definitely hit a home run with this one, he should of had a chance to thank the academy for this picture. Affleck does a great job and Jason Lee is the man, they put him in some weird roles but anything he does for Smith is always a terrific role. What's A nubian?? Shut the f*** up!!!.. LOL Love it all the way through it gets a 10/10 even with the little cigarette burn in the scene where Bankey is drawing the picture for Holden of the easter bunny santa and the two kinds of lesbians.  "},{"Title":"Now THAT, my friend, is a shared moment.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To say that this is an amazing film would be an understatement. Writer/Director Kevin Smith brilliantly spins this love story for our generation. With perfection from his actors, a solid story, and enough humor to make even the most dramatic smile, Smith takes us a journey with two of our favorite men, Holden and Banky (Affleck and Lee).Together they write comics while discussing life, love, and &#133; as always &#133; the pursuit of more women. Holden wants love more than anything, and finds it with a woman named Alyssa. Little does Holden know that Alyssa is not the average 'girl-next-door' and embarks on a journey that will test his mind, his emotions, and even his longtime friendship with Banky.This is a story that dives deep into the idea of friendship and the foolish acts that the emotion of love will make you do. Throughout this film, Holden has to decide between the guiding words of his friend Banky and the message that is spoken through his heart. It is a instance that we all have faced at least one time in our lives. That is what I really enjoyed about this film, it spoke to the audiences. While it is a 'love story', there are so many other elements surrounding it that make it more than just about love. One could argue that this is a story about friendship, while another could argue that it is a story about the truths within all of us.Whatever this film says to you, it is nonetheless a powerful ending to the Kevin Smith trilogy that needs to be included in everyone's film collection and watched at least once a week (twice a week is reserved for Clerks). Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"captivating","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very UNIQUE MOVIE My dedicated poetry. prose of love Missing you. I will always will. Waiting for you. I will always will.Think about you. I always do.Loving you. I still do. Remains. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie not only showed me that Affleck could be convinceable but also showed me my insecurities about different lifestyles.  And it also included Jay and his hetro life partner Silent Bob again.  I loved it. But really...Mallrats did suck a little.  Thats O.K. though.  Look back at history and see what movies that other directors have done that they are trying to sweep under the carpet. But I don't mean to keep ripping Mallrats,  Chasing Amy showed a softer side to Kevin Smith and this was when I really believed that he had a real future making movies.  More to come about this next movie... "},{"Title":"Just wonderful motion picture","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *spoilers*It is not very often that I will know that I really love the movie before I watch it for first time. I have read screenplay and read reviews based on Chasing Amy yet I'm very eager to see this movie. I just can't think of any movie that come closer to my personal life than this one. I seldom very enjoy modern film and Chasing Amy is one of them. It is very well written film and central on its themes very well.The story central on Ben Affleck's character Holden, whose is comic book writer, fell in love with Joey Lauren Adam's character Alyssa, whose is also comic book writer. But one problem with that is that Alyssa herself is lesbian. So it's pretty very interesting how their relationship is working out, often with serious and hilarious results. Another signficant person play in this story is Jason Lee's character Banky Edwards. Banky somehow play conscience of Holden, although they are best friends for long time. But turning point in the movie is when Kevin Smith's character Silent Bob show up and he gave whole explanation why the movie is called Chasing Amy.Affleck delivered probably one of the all time of my favorite monologue in truck to Adams. It is very heartfelt speech and I'm kind of sad that this film didn't get recognized by Academy Awards. But this film garnered lot of good reviews and was hit at box office. It is very rarely that modern film rank so highly on my top 100 where it sit comfortably at #9 on my list. I recommend it to you.****/**** "}{"Title":"Wow","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy was the first Kevin Smith film I ever saw and in relation to its release I saw it very late, only last year when it happened to be on TV. Before I had seen it I had heard that Kevin Smith was a good director if you wanted good laughs so I can safely say that the roller coaster of brilliance which is chasing Amy isn't what I was expecting. The opening had me in stitches and the end had me in tears. To be able to make a film thoroughly amusing and at the same time really thought provoking is the sign of a truly brilliant director and it goes with out saying that Jay and Silent Bob are comical gods, so the brains behind them must be equally as godly. After Chasing Amy i have been hooked on Kevin Smith films as they are simply some of the best out there with Amy leading the way quite easily. "},{"Title":"Relationships are","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has brought us another brilliant film. The strength's of Smith's previous films are present in Chasing Amy. The real characters, realistic dialogue and witty humour give a very real to life portrayal of the world of these characters.The movie looks at what issues people have to look at when coming into a new relationship or when something threatens an old one. It leaves you looking at the decisions you've made in a totally different light.Ben Affleck is beautifully stupid. He cannot see where his decisions are going to take him, Banky, and Alyssa.The movie interrogates who we are and why some relationships work some don't and you get another instalment of Jay and Silent Bob, what could be better. "},{"Title":"Second viewing much meaningful.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first watched this film when I was 14.  I found it dull and boring. That was before I knew Kevin Smith made this film.My second viewing was just recently (i'm 18 now) and it's made more sence and it's such a really great film.  It has great dialogue, good story, good acting, good directing, and like all Smith films, great references to his other films.This is my favourite Jay & Silent Bob film (even though they're only on the screen for about 10-15 minutes).  This is one of the best romantic films, pulling away from the obscure American Pie type genre films with all the sex-crazed chaos.  This is a mature outlook on what love really is. "},{"Title":"So what's your sexual hangup?","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy is a story about Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) who falls for Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams), a woman with a risque sexual past. It's a battle between his stereotypes and her experience.Although this film is high on the list for director/writer Kevin Smith fans, personally I found it a bit preachy. It starts off excellent, with some very funny bits between Holden and Alyssa and their friends Banky Edwards (Jason Lee at his best) and Hooper LaMont (a hysterical Dwight Ewell), and then turns into this somewhat interesting romance. But towards the end when Holden wonders what he's gotten himself into, Smith dives into lecturing the audience with unrealistic, over-the-top dialogue.I consider Chasing Amy a learning experience for Kevin Smith, much deeper than Clerks or Mallrats but still flawed. Dogma is a much, much better film. "},{"Title":"only the best","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The very first time that I sat down to watch this movie, I was told that everything in life could be explained by a Kevin Smith movie.I asked (a)What's a Kevin Smith? (2)How's that gonna work? Long to short It did work & now I am one of Kevin's biggest fans, thanks to this movie.  It explains love so well!  Plus, Mewes is a hottie. 3 Gen "},{"Title":"Funny, but...","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As far as pure hilarity, this movie ranks right up there with Clerks as one of Kevin Smith's finest efforts.  The whole nubian/darth vader scene has me rolling each time i see it.   However...the ending on this one was just too contrived, and really destroyed what i thought was a perfectly good movie.  I'm not sure what kind of statement Smith was trying to make with the ending, but it seems like he could have found a better way to wrap the story up.I would have given this an 8 or 9, but the ending forces me to drop it down to a 6. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's new installment- a touching and often funny film","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Powerful and effective Dramedy romance flick about an artist who falls for a woman, and when he finds out she is a lesbian, he tries to make their relationship grow. Kevin Smith adds much to this movie, and it ends up being almost as good as Clerks. The best scene in the movie is when Silent Bob tells Holden that he's Chasing Amy. Great acting from Affleck, Adams, and Lee. Good cameos from Scott Mosier, Ethan Suplee, Matt Damon, and of course, Brian O'Halloran.4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The coolest movie ever.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy came out in 1997, and it is the third in Kevin Smith's New Jersey trilogy. Kevin Smith's movies are non-linear, which everyone usually has a love/hate relationship with. This one is more linear than Mallrats or Clerks, Smith's earlier works, but it still holds true to his stylistic directing capability. Let me start off by saying if you're sensitive to MINOR spoilers, don't read this comment. Although, it really isn't revealing.The movie starts off with Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck) falling in love with Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams), basically. When Holden finds out that Alyssa is a lesbian, he thinks he can change her lifestyle. Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) tries to stop Holden from trying to make a fool of himself in front of Alyssa, but after Alyssa and Holden fall in love with each other, his homophobic mindset settles down, and he can't deal with the fact his best friend can't spend as much time with him. Soon, however, Holden finds out Alyssa's pure homosexual past isn't what he wanted it to be.This film is the coolest movie ever. It's though provoking, ironically funny, and casual. Every movie should be like this. "},{"Title":"The greatest Kevin Smith movie ever...","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? I saw this movie the first time during a periode of my life when all was living hell... It made me realize that crazy and depressing love-stuff happens to all of us, and that one should take it as a sign of being able to feel love, in stead of a sign of me being a total screw-up!! So see this film, it may not be what you expect, but it is nonetheless a great piece of work which makes you just a little more wiser in the ways of love... Go Kevin. "},{"Title":"best kevin smith movie","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Kevin Smith's best movie. It had the most depth of any of his movies. It wasn't just a comedy, it was a romance, too. It also had great performances. Jay and Silent Bob were well used and understated. Ben Affleck had probably his best role in this film, and it appropriatly launched his career. Joey Lauren Adams was very convincing in her role as a lesbian, and later as an ostracized straight person. And Finally, Jason Lee as possibly one of the greatest characters ever portrayed on the big screen, or at least one of the most memorable. **** out of **** "}{"Title":"A realistic story about love and friendship. Great!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought Kevin Smith can only make comedies with strange humour. I was wrong. With this film he proves he can make MOVIE. This film is about an ordinary man who fall in love with an extraordinary girl. Can we forget about our girlfriend's past? How deep should be our love? And what is the love really? And what is past in the love? This is the questions which are asked after somebody saw this film. Not a regular romantic story with i-do-everything-for-you love and with a big happy end. It's exatly about real emotions and real reactions. I can recommend it everyone. Trust me! It's worth seeing it at least once. "},{"Title":"Finally a love story without kitsch","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While most love stories do involve some sort of sentementality Kevin Smith manages to do without it. Although the symbolism he employs is  sometimes just on the verge of becoming pathetic- check out the thunder and the scene at the hockey game- ,his art prevents him of going over the edge. Maybe it takes a real artist to use such strong images for showing his characters' inner emotions without overdoing it.There is some fine acting on behalf of Jason Lee,Dwight Ewell and yes Ben Affleck. It is surely destined to become one of my all-time favourites!! (10/10)   "},{"Title":"Terrific romantic comedy","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very impressed with Chasing Amy. The dialogue was sharply written and the acting was first rate. The characters were all eccentric yet completely believeable as real. There are many hilarious scenes and also many moving scenes. A terrific exploration of the complexity of human relationships both sexual and platonic. Highly recommended, 9/10.  "},{"Title":"See...Kevin Smith CAN write a movie with depth!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We all know that Kevin Smith likes to use big words in his movies, and so many wrote it off as trying to present an air of intelligence to cloak the otherwise juvenile humor that is so typical in his movies. But with Chasing Amy, Smith proves that he really is an intelligent writer. The characters have depth, and the story is not bad either. As you watch this movie, you will know exactly where the story is heading, but you'll cringe, because you don't really want it to go there. The general mood of this film is bittersweet. Most of the relationships will fail before the credits roll, but you know that it was probably for the best. If this is any indication of the work that Smith is capable of, I'm thinking that Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back was just an act of indulgence before he tries something again with more substance. "},{"Title":"A Must-See for anyone with a taste for intelligent comedy","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I cannot be lumped into the movie-going public,  I am an avid viewer of motion pictures.  I prefer to view them in my private screening (living) room.  Kevin Smith has never failed to keep me laughing throughout his films.When I first saw Chasing Amy (on DVD), I felt that a movie maker had finally taken the gamble at targeting an intelligent audience.  I have sat with various audiences (different personal friends, that is) and have noticed that less than 20% of them got it.  It is rare to find a film that is directed at the higher eschelon on the inteligence scale that can still entertain the masses.  Bravo Mr. Smith.  Keep up the great work.I aspire to someday do the same to my audiences.  All I need now is to find my talent! "},{"Title":"What an emotional movie!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike other movies, this one didn't have the same sappy ending.  However, the characters learned more about themselves, and so can we.  more emotional then those that came from his pen before this.  There is much more passion involved in this movie, and an actual discourse from the great Silent Bob himself. "},{"Title":"delicious dose of reality","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smiths movies almost always portray people talking about things that people ACTUALLY talk about, but these types of conversation are never put in movies.  The characters don't quite talk how normal people do, however, they talk how regular people WISH they could talk.  Although this particular Kevin Smith film falls mildly short of being as funny as his others, it is by far the closest he's come to reality, and definitely provides a fine dose of drama.As done in most successful comedy romances, most of the characters are serious and realistic, but a supporting cast member (in this case Jason Lee) is present to give this movie its comic edge.  He provides wonderful entertainment, chiming in little jokes and funny lines whenever the conversation calls for it.Since not everyone likes Kevin Smith, some of his other movies probably aren't the best choice, but this movie doesn't follow his usual trend, and I therefore recomend it to just about everyone.  The only ones who would dislike this movie as those tasteless enough only to appreciate the work of people like Tom Green.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"One Word FANTASTIC","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ...This as a individual film is Kevin Smith's best film so far (but it isn't my favorite) because the writing, directing and acting in this film is great.This is Smith's best script so far and is a travesty to life in general that Kevin Smith didn't get an academy nod for best original screenplay for this movie... very sad that was.the acting was excellent, mainly thanks to Ben Affleck and Jason Lee's great chemistry.A film which starts as a full on comedy develops into a twisted black comedy that shocked my sheltered life when I first saw it!7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...After the flop that was Mallrats, Kevin Smith's career must have been up in the air... He was given a low budget to make Chasing Amy and he delivered the goods in epic style! ...Chasing Amy begins as a full out comedy with (sir) Jason Lee delivering the usual brilliance. ...But as the movie progresses Ben Affleck's main character Holden comes to shine as his life changes. ...The saddest thing to come out of this production was that Kevin Smith wasn't nominated for BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY at the Academy Awards in 1998... It deserved it a nomination at the very least! Shame it didn't though.8/10 "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now before I start, may I point out that I am a Kevin Smith fan, so this is likely to be overly complementary, but try to get something out of it, please.I love this film, in my eyes it is the best of all the ViewAskew films, which is saying something. Being a Kevin Smith film, it of course has large monologues and stacks of quote-able lines for those of us who are sad enough to memorise and recite at parties, but moreso than any other film he has done it has a coherent storyline and a good message. It deals with some good issues and, except the end, the story progresses believably.And the performances of the main 3 actors are really good, even touching at times. Jason Lee in particular is brilliant as a man desperately trying to keep his best friend as his. And it had Jay and Silent Bob, which is enough for anyone to see the film surely?Brilliant. See it. Buy it. See it again. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"A Spark That Lit The Fuse","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Something happened in the 1990's that brought the homosexual community to the fore of the medium of cinema.  I can't fully explain how it happened or where it started but a powder keg eventually exploded and many same-sex oriented parts were to be found.  I theorize that Chasing Amy had something to do with that revolution but if it didn't help spark it, it sure helped it along. Off that tangent, I found Chasing Amy to be the most unexpectedly deep film to come from such an oddball director.  It was such films as Dogma and Clerks that turned me into a die-hard Kevin Smith fan but his probably the film that he toiled the most on was Chasing Amy. Something told me that this was much more than your regular romantic comedy. To date, I haven't seen a film about romantic relationships and dating this deep and complex with the exception of The Tao Of Steve.Here are my reasons (spoilers contained within) (1) I will forever be a Kevin Smith fan regardless how bad or how good his work will be from on. I leave the reader to decide if that is a stupid reason or not. (2) Of all movies I have seen, this is the best comedy of errors that I have ever seen. The scenes at the bar where Holden finds out where Alyssa is a lesbian is a perfect example. (3) Ben Affleck and Jason Lee showed their chops before they were really famous.  Ben Affleck was good as the supposedly hindered leading man (how can he be hindered if he draws comic book characters that use weed to become superheroes?).  Jason Lee was excellent as the angry best friend (and I don't think he is sexually repressed either). (4) The dialogue regardless of lacking of depth one might think it is, it is written sharply and cleanly. I believe that took some time and toil on Smith's part to perfect. (5) The first fight scene between Holden and Banky was phenomenal. I like the part where Banky draws the four-way road to prove a point. (6) Like all Kevin Smith movies, it is loaded with quotes and lines that are quoteworthy. (7) As much as I like Jay and Silent Bob, the scarcity of them was refreshing. (8) Lunchbox (Silent Bob) also got to talk (GASP!)at length about his misfortunes in love. (9) This film shatters the conception that an odd plot with odd characters in an odd setting (the world of comics) cannot ever give a fulfilling movie experience. (10) A lot of shots are taken at popular culture of the time.  Chasing Amy is a time capsule for the late nineties.  Ten reasons give a score of 10!Overall, this is a triumphant tale of love, loss, missed signals, mixed emotions, errors and comic books.  Kevin Smith's rather warped but almost realistic view of relationships is a minty fresh breath in the still stagnant field of romantic comedies.  The moral of the story is do not judge, lest ye be judged and Smith hits it out of the park.  Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"Too Boring","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the exception of the opening scene this movie is a real snoozer.  The dialog is entirely unrealistic, it feels like the actors are reading a short story rather than talking to each other.  The characters are pretty poorly developed and the acting is flat enough to match them.  The story must have been one of the writer's adolescent fantasies and is about as entertaining as one for any adult.  Avoid this film unless you have insomnia. "},{"Title":"One of the few truly successful comedy / dramas","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most films that are billed as a 'comedy / drama' are a comedy with a single dramatic sequence or a drama with one or two wry one-liners.This movie succeeds incredibly at walking the line between uproarious laughter and emotional drama, often almost simultaneously.Keven Smith manages to craft a tale that many 20-somethings can completely identify with - dating the woman who makes you feel inadequate.  Ignore the advertising about 'dating a lesbian' - this movie is about insecurity and relationships.With Ben Affleck in his career-best performance, the always wonderful Jason Lee and the (squeaky-voiced) Joey Lauren Adams. the true star of this movie is the script and direction by Kevin Smith.Other points of note  the wonderful music (never released as a commercial soundtrack), the fantastic supporting role played by Dwight Ewell, the fantastic ending, and above all, the mesmerising monologue by Kevin Smith / Silent Bob that lays the whole foundation for the movie, and provides its most memorable moment.Highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"Parental advisory romantic content","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides being a typical Kevin Smith film, considering the amount of profanity and talk about sex, this film soon develops into a 'serious' romantic film. The great thing about this film, except the good acting and directing, is that it shows the viewer how difficult it is to be oneself and be accepted in our so called tolerant society and though this film may seem brainless to some people, there is a deeper meaning behind the dirty talk and the profanity.7 out of 10P.s. Contrary to my remark concerning this film in my Jay and Silent Bob strike back comment, this film is not as 'bad' as Jay and Silent Bob strike back.P.p.s Did I ever mention that Jason Lee rules, well JASON LEE RULES!!! "},{"Title":"Chasing Amazing!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been a while since I've seen this movie, and I liked it a lot the first time I saw it.But today, in nothing to watch I hadn't seen, I decided to tune in to a half-over movie.Slowly played out in front of our eyes, the most realistic love story - complete with comedy, drama - the good and the bad, Chasing Amy really has it all.This comment doesn't need a scene-by-scene analysis - they are all impressive.  But, one stands out.  When Holden reveals his feelings to her in the car..  just simply amazing..   Ben Affleck has been awesome in many movies, but he is truly looked over for this role.  In the car, so realistic, so true - you can feel him..This movie is truly..   Chasing Amazing. "},{"Title":"A Different Love Story","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only recently discovered the director, when I saw 'Dogma'. My son told me that if I liked it, I must see 'Chasing Amy'. Here I am.It was better than 'Dogma'.'Like' is tought to say about this film. It is not necessarily made to be likeable - several taboos are being broken here (or intended to be broken). The notion of 'normal' is played with and gets some interesting turns. The language is that dirty, that I guess this movie can get the all times Oscar for using the f... word. However, it is after all a love story, and a beautiful, credible and moving one - just told in different ways.I happen to know where Red Bank is, and the location really gives power to the environment, and continuity through the series. Yes, it is worth taking the DVD from the shelves, or planning to watch this film on the cable. (I do not think it is any longer in the theaters, and I doubt main stream TV is rip to distribute it.) Just expect a different experience.  "},{"Title":"All love stories should be like this","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion Chasing Amy is the most beautiful love story ever committed to celluloid, mainly because its so honest and real. (its kinda based on writer/director Kevin Smiths relationship with main actress Joey Lauren Adams). The friendship between Banky (Jason Lee- incidentally my fave actor) and Holden is so sweet, but it also has very realistic imperfections. Everyone in the film performs so well (I tell every Ben Affleck doubter to watch this film) and its fantastically written. I just love it. ooohhh, yanni!! "},{"Title":"Funny, romantic, and real!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After the disappointing 1995 movie Mallrats, writer/director Kevin Smith took different turn on a different comedy and added romance to it.  Add those two together and we get another hit from Kevin Smith.This movie is about Banky Edwards (Jason Lee) and Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck), the creators of the popular Bluntman & Chronic, based on the lives of Jay & Silent Bob, minus the superstuff.  During a comic book convention meeting, Holden meets a lovely girl named Alyssa Jones (Joey Lauren Adams) and immediately falls in love with her.  The next night, Alyssa invites Holden and Banky to a club called The Meow Mix.  What Holden soon finds out is that Alyssa is a LESBIAN!!!  And that surprises Holden and when Banky sees Alyssa kissing a girl, he calls that A shared moment.  But, Holden can't hide the truth and must tell Alyssa that he's in love with her.  So, as soon as they're together, Banky thinks that Holden's spending too much time with Alyssa and not concentrating on their friendship and that there's gonna be a T.V. show based on the comic book.There's alot of surprises and it gets really good.  Now, there's just one thing about this movie that I didn't like.  Now, taking that Kevin Smith adds Jay & Silent Bob in all of his films, these guys were only in one scene, and that's near the end of the movie in the restaurant when they're talking to Holden about the comic book, Alyssa, and Silent Bob telling his Amy story.  Now, I like Jay & Silent Bob, but they should've been in the movie longer.  That's the only thing I was mad about.  But, other than that, I loved this movie.  If you hated Mallrats (I didn't), then Chasing Amy will bring your faith back to Kevin Smith.A 12/13 *****1/2 (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best movie about falling in love and finding out she's a lesbian ever! Kevin Smith is my favorite director, and this is my favorite one of his movies. The ending is highly emotional and made me cry the first time. Funny one minute, romantic the next, and then all coming together in one of the most satisfying and realistic movie ending I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies I've seen","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. I like the way the story handled the effect of our high school experience. Do we have sex to experiment,or just to have sex? Holden takes it out on Alyssa when Banky tells him that her nickname in high school was 'finger-cuffs'. Since high school Alyssa has re-evaluated her sexuality. Hmmm..How does Holden feel about his crush now? It takes a toll on his ego. He feels now that he is not experienced enough for her,so he has a plan. He feels he should have a threesome with her and Banky. So he could feel comfortable about his sexuality, especially since he found out he wasn't the only man that Alyssa had slept with. She declines, because he would end up resenting her and probably Banky. She says she loves him for him, and not for his experiences.  "}{"Title":"The rare romance flick that actually gets it right","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing AmyThe Romance is a type of film that is quite frequently overlooked by cinema snobs and the self-proclaimed intelligentsia. And often with good reason. Film doesn't get much worse than the poorly made overly sentimental formulaic cliched piece of crap romantic dramedy. However (and this is a big however), what said intelligentsia fail to realize is how great and powerful a truly good romance (one that is well done and avoids the aforementioned crappy romance movie recipe) can really be. Chasing Amy is the rare romance that actually gets it right.Amy is the third film in director Kevin Smith's New Jersey Trilogy, following the indie-gem Clerks and the studio schlock-fest Mallrats. It is also considered by the standards of many Smith's most personal, mature, and finest film. Amy tells the story of two hip young gen-xers named Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards. They are the creative team behind the hit comic book Bluntman and Chronic (clever title, no?). They share snappy diatribes and dialogue, and spend most of their waking hours dissecting their station in life and wondering to themselves (like so many comic book creators before or since) whether or not they are truly artists. Its a fun, if somewhat jaded life, which is suddenly brought to a grinding halt when Holden meets Ms. Alyssa Jones. Alyssa is a squeaky little blonde who is also in the comic business. Holden senses an immediate chemistry between her and himself and quickly attempts to act on it. But oh wait (here's that kooky plot twist), she just happens to be gay.But not too gay. More like Hollywood, Anne Heche-style gay. The kind of gay that can quickly be dissolved by a romantic walk through the park with the right guy. Who just happens by our goateed leading man, Mr. McNeil. He gives her a flash of his smile, and she's off on her way to a happy life with a clergy-approved sexual preference!Now, were this a one of the formulaic romantic films mentioned at the start of this article, it would end here, with Alyssa and Holden living happily ever after. It wouldn't be such a typical romance, as the director did choose to throw in that whole lesbian thing, but it would be a bit unrealistic, and just not all that good. However, this is a good movie, written by a talented writer who knows that real relationships don't work like that and that nothing is that cut and dry in life. And thus, the movie continues, and ends (unlike most romance films) on what many may consider not the happiest of notes.And that's what's so great about it. Chasing Amy's charm lies in the fact that it is such a real movie. Smith relishes in celebrating the anarchy of love and relationships, while most directors do everything in their power to make it seem nonexistent in the lives of the characters they have created. Amy explores the not so pretty territory that most romance movies fail to touch.Smith's down to earth film style fits extremely well with the sincerity of Amy. This is a movie designed to realistically showcase life and that's what it does. Smith is often accused of having lackluster visuals in his films, and that may be so. It even may have hurt some of his other films (Dogma). But in this case, it doesn't matter. Because that's not what this movie is about. Smith's film is about the story he is trying to tell and the characters involved. Where other movies rest on their visuals, his soars on his sharp dialogue, which is consistently the perfect blend of humor, drama, and romance; never does it take itself too seriously but never is it overly silly. Smith would always rather show us a bunch of guys sitting around talking than anything else, and he shows it to us better than almost anyone else could.Of course, brilliantly written dialogue can come out quite poorly without the right actors. Fortunately, Smith (like many of his director peers) has an excellent set of actors, each of whom has appeared in almost all of his films. It is obvious that they all love Smith and his scripts very dearly. The two leads in Amy, Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams, each deliver both a comedic and dramatic performance to be matched. Jason Lee's Banky provides some of the most hysterically perfect deliveries I have ever heard in a film. If there's any flaw, it's that every once in a while, one of the actors (usually Affleck, not surprising if you remember Forces of Nature, ugghhh) will deliver one of their long speeches a bit too rote, and it will sound like, well, like a scripted movie. But it's a minor quibble, and more than made up for by the excellent monologue by the director himself (as the in this case not so Silent Bob) towards the end of the film.Returning to what I stated at the start of this review, Chasing Amy is the rare romance flick that gets it right. It boasts fun and witty dialogue, great performances, and what ends up being a really fascinating view on modern relationships. Final Rating 9.0/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's masterpiece..","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for Clerks, there is no other movie than Chasing Amy I would rank among his best work to this day. Maybe a different lane for Smith after creating the brilliant Clerks (independent classic) and the puberescal Mallrats, but you know what they say three times' a charm. The third one, Chasing Amy is Smith's most mature work Chasing Amy is about a man and a woman and his and hers past that haunts them. Holden is a comicbook artist and meets another artist named Alyssa. They start hangin' out together and eventually become a couple. Everything's kool, until he finds out her past she has quite some sexual experience and he's afraid he won't do her any good as he's not that kinda experienced.Even though Holden's fallen in love with Alyssa, he's thwarted by her sexuality, his own misgivings about himself and the disdain of his best friend Banky, a brilliant role of Jason Lee. The lead actors Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams and Jason Lee give such excellent performances, I can see why Jason and Ben are in demand now. Joey Lauren Adams is very underrated, she needs a part in a movie the way it helped Renee Zellweger become an A-list actress.Chasing Amy is completely in the hands of the three lead actors, but it wouldn't be a Kevin Smith movie if there weren't the obvious co-stars Jay and Silent Bob, of course in every Kevin Smith movie. Hooper X, a black militant homosexual, a great role of actor Dwight Ewell. The way he puts Star Wars in a racist context is so unique, I bet no one looks at a Star Wars movie again, after seeing his scene.The title Chasing Amy refers to a story Silent Bob tells to Holden about a girl he used to have a relationship with, Amy. Great scene, respect to Kevin Smith in his role as Silent Bob.All in all Clerks and Chasing Amy, the Best of Kevin Smith. In my opinion, I see Mallrats, Dogma and Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back as supplemental material next to beforementioned classics. I hope Kevin Smith returns with a movie of such quality as Chasing Amy, because trust me it's a great film.. "},{"Title":"a sappy tail of saphic love","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of Smith's best movies, but not as funny as the others (yeah i know that was the poit).  I really like this movie, it's a really great story, well written, and probably the best acting of all the View Askew films (Clerks and Mallrats seemed a little stiff and forced).  If you're looking for the comedy of Clerks, Mallrats, or J&SBSB then don't look here, and don't look for Dogma's clever satire here either, but if you want a good love story with great writing and comic books then Chasing Amy is the movie for you.  I think this could be concidered Kevin Smith's chick-flick.  If you've never seen a Kevin Smith film before, Chasing Amy is probably not the one to start with (Mallrats or Clerks are good starting points) but definately see it. "},{"Title":"Wow, Ben Affleck can act!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is, or has been, a cute little filmmaker. He's made some overrated and mediocre films (Clerks, Dogma) and a couple of films that are both bad and funny at the same time (Mallrats and Jay and Silent Bob). OK, Jay and Silent Bob was HILARIOUS. All (except Dogma) take place in the twisted universe of Kevin Smith's imagination, and if it weren't for all the funny actors that have spoken Smith's written word over the years, that imagination would be pretty forgettable. However, sandwiched inbetween those four forgettable films, Kevin Smith somehow made a brilliant and insightful romantic comedy.Every romantic comedy, of course, has a twist, this one being that the female is a lesbian. A tough obstacle to overcome, to be sure. But due partly to Smith actually using his Red Bank Universe to move the plot along for once, that obstacle is plowed through. Bad news for Ben Affleck In this film, you've reached the high point of your acting career. You're never going to deliver a performance like you do in this film, and no one's ever again going to hand you a script as good as this one. So cherish it, buddy! I believe Howard Hawks said for a movie to be good, it had to have three great scenes, and this one does. The first is Holden (Affleck) telling Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams) his true feelings. The second is their fight after the hockey game. And the third is the pivotal scene at the end where Holden proposes his twisted solution to Alyssa and Banky (Jason Lee). That's two great scenes that I give much credit to Affleck, and the only two I can think of in his career up to this point. Particularly his facial expressions of disbelief when Alyssa rejects his proposal. Even Silent Bob, that old softy, gets into the act with a really good story that is the meaning behind Chasing Amy.Smith's insightful writing into relationships is remarkable in this film. The first two of the aforementioned three scenes are so well written, they're almost painful to watch. What probably needed a little more work was how Holden and Alyssa fell for eachother, particularly Alyssa for Holden. Smith has a couple of lightweight scenes, then the invariable spending time together and falling in love montage that romantic comedies usually fall back on. One of the films only weaknesses.When Chasing Amy isn't being romantic and insightful, it's freaking hilarious. And that hilarity is usually provided by Jason Lee. That girl could be a bigger germ farm than that monkey in Outbreak is one of the funniest lines I've ever heard in a movie. The Hooper X character provides a lot of laughs too. I'm not sure how most of the gay community feels about all the lightweight gay bashing in this film, but I can't imagine anyone being offended, since we're laughing with, not at, the characters.I'm willing to bet that the pivotal scene near the end with Holden, Alyssa and Banky looked really bad in the script to anyone who read it for the first time. This is the scene that makes or breaks the film, in my opinion, and it easily could have broken it. I would imagine that there is almost no one out there, gay or straight, that could conceive of saying yes to the proposal that Holden makes. The proposal, and the entire situation, are so ridiculous that it's a wonder they pulled it off. A lot of the credit goes to Smith, for writing the buildup to that scene throughout the whole film. But, again, I give most of the credit for this scene, and therefore the film overall, to Ben Affleck. It doesn't matter that the words that are coming out of his mouth are ridiculous and absurd. What matters is that he believes them. It's obvious that he's put a lot of thought into what he's saying, and right or wrong, he sincerely thinks he's got it all figured out. As important as all that is his stunned reaction of sheer disbelief when Alyssa tells him no. He just simply cannot believe Alyssa wouldn't go for his brilliant plan! Fantastic acting by Affleck, most of it nonverbal, that makes the whole movie work.Another great thing about this film is the ending. Not the traditional happy ending, but the happy ending with hope. No, the film doesn't end with the couple living happily ever after, but simply gives the audience hope that maybe...This is an ending that suits a film like this, that is realistic in many senses, and one that people can actually relate to. High Fidelity, another really realistic look at relationships, has a similar ending, though a little more upbeat. A romcom like While You Were Sleeping can work with the traditional happy ending, because it's an absurd premise that no one is going to relate to anyway. Change the type of ending on any of these films, and they just won't work. But I digress.Kevin Smith has had a nice little run with his quintet of Red Bank films (quartet, if you don't count Dogma). He has said that he's done making films with these characters, which is good to hear. While we've seen nothing from Smith so far (including Chasing Amy) that shows he has great directing talent, he has shown he can be a hell of a writer, and hopefully we'll see more insightful work like this from him in the future.And dammit, I like Joey Lauren Adams' voice!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie on all Levels.","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has an excellent resume. All of his movies have proven to be impressive. Clerks has the razor-sharp wit and brilliant writing. Mallrats has the nostalgic 80's comedy sense, plus Jason Lee in one of the funniest roles I've ever seen. Dogma had the thought-provoking storyline and the hilarious comedy (which is guaranteed in all Kevin Smith movies by now). Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was outrageous and hilarious, plus it wrapped up the New Jersey Chronicles brilliantly. But none of his movies could compare to Chasing Amy, Smith's third movie in his View Askeniverse, a world where all of his films connect in one way or another.Chasing Amy had the witty writing from Clerks, Jason Lee from Mallrats (in an even better role than Brodie in 'Rats), the thought-provoking elements from Dogma, and the outrageous edge from Jay and Silent Bob (making us never look at a pair of Chinese fingercuffs the same way again).Definitely the most serious and personal of his films, Chasing Amy is a delight for anyone that likes original storytelling and smart comedy. Ben Affleck shows that he has more range than what he showed in that Forces of Nature, Pearl Harbor, Bounce crap, Joey Lauren Adams is great as Alyssa Jones, and Lee is absolutely exceptional as Banky, the homophobic, hot-tempered inker, or tracer, of the comic book he and Holden (Affleck) created.If for anything else, see the movie for the Star Wars discussion at the Comic-Con, a scene which is one of my all-time favorite comedy scenes I've ever seen. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After Mallrats, I wasn't expecting much from Kevin Smith this time around. But after I saw this, I knew that Mallrats was just a stand alone terrible movie. I thought this was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a very long time. Jason Lee's Banky just takes the picture and runs with it. He is uproarious. Joey Lauren Adams brings a funny and a touching performance in this picture. While Ben Affleck brings a little bit of everything to it. And who can forget Jay and Silent Bob. It's not a good movie if they don't make an appearance.But this is Jason Lee's  movie even though he does play third fiddle to Adams and Affleck. And I don't want to take away from them. They have great chemistry together. Their chemistry, along with Jason Lee's hilarious performance, makes it one of the best films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Humdrum","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy is a humdrum comedy. It follows some humdrum celebrities into circumstances that people like to think are funny when they happen, but really aren't funny when they happen.The writing here doesn't seem to be the major problem, though. It is a dry comedy, and event he in your face confrontations are subdued, in an effort to make this more actor based than comedy based.While making a movie actor based makes it easy for the performers, it makes it a humdrum yawn for the audience. Here, we have a case of the viewer politely smiling along, because nothing in the movie is bad or insulting, and it just moves along without disruption, because all the disruption is subdued.Which brings us to the major problem of the movie. Like so many other movies, this looks like a platform for acting students to perform for their mothers and aunts. These are not naturally funny people. Their comic talent is as nil as Adam Sandler's. In fact, they make Adam Sandler look like Miker Myers in comparison.The fact that the movie is inundated with what looks to be acting students without natural comic talent, makes one think the director did this on purpose, so I will grant that as a feeble excuse. Still, it makes for a dull ride for the audience member who is not part of their family.There's nothing annoying about the movie, but it'll have you looking at the clock. "},{"Title":"Funny and Encouraged but doesn't go far enough","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, this movie is funny and strange. I loved that parts about it... but it also tries to go farther and cross some borders about homosexuality and sexuality generally. It succeeds in some parts but fails in others. It shows people who are not afraid of homosexuality or who simply try to handle it. But still The only lesbian at whom we take a closer look is one that's only lesbian because she doesn't want to limit herself to 50% of the population, but not because she really only likes girls. At hurray, we only need to say we are in love with here and she will be ours. And then there are only friendships between one man and the other, but not between a man and a woman. As if this is impossible and only men could really understand other men, with the exception of the one girl that's in love with you. And then there we are again, in the old fashioned Man and Woman partnership that's praised the only good one many times, because that's all the two want isn't it? And of course, how could I forget? All her doings in the past were mistakes! So, we can imagine ourselves gangbang and whatever else, but they are all wrong and aren't allowed in a good old fashioned relationship right? So what about all the swinging people in real life then? Are those all freaky people? Just because homosexuality has become accepted now but swinging hasn't. A man and a woman, that is the holy grail, that's what she and we searched for our whole life... isn't that what's the meaning of this movie? This is not a film that's trying to change society, it's just the new mainstream, that's all... because MTV tells us Homosexuality is great, but don't do gangbangs or swinging or whatever... and don't forget kids It's still all about a man and a woman.5 out of 10. And those 5 are just because it's really funny and strange at some points... so it has its good sides. "},{"Title":"By far Smith, Lee and Affleck's best work","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every single month I have to watch this movie. Without a doubt I feel Kevin Smith wrote the and directed his masterpiece. Jason Lee is nothing short of brilliant and even the annoying, I'm so in love with myself Ben Affleck, shows that when he's not posing and trying to be a movie star, he can in fact actually act. Joey Lauren Adams sexy and daring performance as the girl who tears a life long friendship apart is terrific. Of course a Smith movie could not be complete without the classic duo of Jay and Silent Bob and they do not let you down. Smith's writing is very simple yet when the actors read the lines it seems like you are thrown into the middle of some complex scenario until the ever so famous Smith cursing takes over. I put Chasing Amy in my top three movies of all time. I am just a junkie for films that are based strictly on good simple dialogue. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's worst movie ever.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers) Jason Lee was, by far, the funniest guy in this movie (followed VERY closely by the small part with Silent Bob and especially Jay), as was the case in Mallrats and would have been the case in Clerks, had he been in that movie. Unfortunately, his comedic potential was muted and replaced by intense (although also fairly amusing, at times) anger. His high volume obnoxiousness in public places is just as amusing as ever, but the numbing profanity that dominates the majority of his conversations with Holden, his partner in comic book making, is not only not funny but also overly excessive.While the film as a whole is a disappointment (despite the ending, which almost saved it), there were some interesting things in it. Just after Banky (Lee) and Holden (Ben Affleck) discover Alyssa's sexual orientation, there is a hilarious scene in a bar in which Banky asks Alyssa questions about lesbianism, how two girls can f*ck, for example. Ben Affleck plays the part of the typical male, who wants to immediately cut off contact with her because he is upset about the fact that she is a lesbian.Nevertheless, he ends up falling in love with her, and while the ensuing love triangle was interesting enough, there was just too much stuff in this movie that was horribly aggravating. And by `horribly aggravating,' of course, I mean three things - Joey, Lauren, and Adams. Her nasally performance as the confused Alyssa was mildly annoying at first, as she goofily grinned her way through the first part of the film. This part of the film, which contained the mildly annoying part of her performance, was topped off when she uttered the cheesiest line in the entire movie - `I'm so in love!' Maybe it was just the stupid way that she said it that made it sound so ridiculous. Then, of course, we have the screaming scenes. Hearing Alyssa scream at Holden at the top of her lungs was beyond annoying - this grated on the nerves like a thousand fingers on a thousand chalkboards. And not only was it almost painful to listen to her yell like that, but it just seemed to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on.Ben Affleck spends the majority of the film pi**ed off, and Jason Lee's comedy skills are tragically under-used because he spends the majority of the film pi**ed off at Holden for even caring about Alyssa, who he calls a `man hating dyke.' Fortunately, he often can't help being funny, but Chasing Amy is barely a comedy. This is a twisted romance that is punctuated with explicit profanity and dozens of sexual innuendos, which had a lot of star power but ended up inconclusive anyway. Thank God Jay and Silent Bob showed up, because it's really not until that point in the movie that you really sit up and care about what's about to happen.To make matters worse, Alyssa is constantly spouting pseudo-philosophical nonsense about life - why she's gay, why she chose to make an exception for Holden, etc. While some of it makes sense, trying to find the right person, no matter what their sex, this kind of stuff, especially utilized to such an extent, just doesn't belong in what could have been a great comedy. One thing in Chasing Amy that was fairly interesting (probably as a result of such a lack of interesting content), is its allusions to other films. At east I hope that it's alluding to other films, because if not, then there is some blatant plagiarism here. Of course, there are references to previous Kevin Smith films, both in the comic strip opening sequence as well as at the end when Jay and Silent Bob show up (`What took you guys so long, were you at the mall again?'), but I'm talking about at least one stolen line, and from Jaws, of all places. There is a scene where Banky and Alyssa are comparing cunnilingus scars, and besides the fact that the entire scene can be found in the exact same form in numerous films - such as Lethal Weapon III and, of course, Jaws - there is a point where Alyssa says (of the scar that Banky had just shown her) `I got that beat. I got that beat.' You remember this as the exact same line spoken by Richard Dreyfuss to Quint, as they were also comparing scars on that boat while they waited for the shark to show up.Needless to say, the quick cameo from Jay and silent Bob was the best part of this movie, and also watch for Matt Damon in an extremely small part. Despite the more well known actors, Chasing Amy doesn't even live up to the modest standards of the two Kevin Smith films that preceded it, both of which were hilarious but plagued with horrendously awful acting. If you're a huge Kevin Smith fan, you may want to watch Chasing Amy, but if not, you may want to steer clear. Either way, though, you're probably headed for bitter disappointment. "}{"Title":"Flat and not funny","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This review is only for the first 45 minutes.  I turned it off at that point because I had no interest in watching these characters any further.  I could imagine where good writing could salvage some humor from these ideas (e.g. tracing, Star Wars as a race war, Archie) but this movie fails to deliver.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing movie.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very disappointing movie from director of Clerks. Interesting storyline, too bad main characters are boring (bad casting, bad screenplay) as are most conversations. Somehow nothing really comes alive, despite attempts to make some sharp talk. This could have been much more interesting and clever and fun. "},{"Title":"Nothing to Chasing Amy for 1/2*","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the good performance by Ms. Adams, this is a woefully bad picture.Adams does shine as the foul-mouthed heroine here, but the entire concept of the film is miserable at best, and the writing leaves a lot to be desired. That four letter word is used like water and after a while, you become entirely disgusted with the entire situation.There is a funny performance by a black gentleman who is gay; they should have left his character further develop.These films showcasing gay and lesbian people are already too much. The movie is really down as it proves that such people can't adjust to the conventional life-style that society demands. What the Ben Affleck character wants to do at the end is ridiculous at best.While it's true that there are problems in this world, I'm really sick and tired of the alternate life-style being portrayed on the big-screen. Enough already. "},{"Title":"Just a waste of time","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hope for this film, as a huge fan of K.S. ,but it didn't deliver. The script was so ordinary and dull! It was like listening to friends or co-workers ramble on. It was something to do, but not worth paying for. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith starts to grow up","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chasing Amy represents Kevin Smith attempting to grow up.  He stays with the same humour that has served him so well, links his characters to happenings in other films, has Jay & Silent Bob and is rude.  However all these are toned down for a love-story complicated by the couple's sexual past.Affleck plays a comic book writer who falls for lesbian Alyssa Jones (Adams).  As this deepens and he starts to win her over he begins to struggle with the fact that she has had all sorts of relations with other people.  It's a serious issue and a difficult one to handle.  Smith doesn't quite pull off the drama of this relationship and some of it falls flat, it's almost like Smith doesn't really know what should happen and the conclusion is a little unsatisfying.The strongest point of this film is again the humour and the exaggerated characters in this story.  Jason Lee is again the high point for me, even though he has a small role, be it swapping giving-head stories, explaining his love for porn or getting into a fight at a comic book convention he carries himself with the same madness that he gave to Brodie in Mallrats.Affleck is better than he was in Mallrats and brings an element of maturity to the proceedings but Adams is only so-so as his lover, although maybe it's her squeaky voice that causes me problems.  Jay & Silent Bob are poor - it's good to keep them running as a theme, but it felt like he had forced them into the story and their scene is out of pace with the rest of the film. Also they are usually exaggerated and in adventures, here they are limited to a cameo in a coffee shop.If you like Smith's humour you'll like this but may struggle with the grown-up story.  If you don't like his humour then you'll be too annoyed to enjoy the story.Overall, the film is a bit of a step in the direction of mature film-making without leaving behind his comedy roots.  One thing - everyone should watch Dwight Ewell's scene near the start where he explains to a comic book convention why Star Wars is a piece of racist propaganda against the black man - classic! "},{"Title":"Flawed premise","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are many reasons why this film doesn't work for me, but first and foremost, it's because it's badly cast.  In trying to do his friend (and girlfriend of the time) a favour by casting them as leads, Kevin Smith just demonstrated the limits of their acting ability.Joey Adams - who isn't nearly as attractive as the heavily doctored publicity stills fake her out to be - is simply annoying.  I don't know a single woman who hasn't commented on how irritating her baby-girl voice is, how it ruins any attempt to empathise with her, and how it wrecks her credibility in the serious scenes.  Even as a red blooded male who enjoys lipstick-lesbian content as much as the next guy, I found myself wishing that Kevin had managed to resist the urge to skip the casting couch and just cast his squeeze of the moment.Ben Affleck brings another problem to the party, and here I can quote writer/director Kevin Smith's own words (from Mallrats) he looks like a date rapist.  Really, he looks - and acts - arrogant and aggressive in every scene, even when he's supposed to be opening up.  It's simply not believable that a man-shy woman would give him the time of day, let alone allow him to befriend her.All that makes the core relationship between the protagonists farcical. Holden is scripted and acted as an ass, and Alyssa as acted (specifically, voiced) so much like a ditz that it's _irrelevant_ how she's scripted. Both of them are deceitful, spiteful and selfish, and it's hard to know whether to root for them to split up, or to root for them to get together purely to save two decent people from having relationships with them.The only ray of sunshine is the ever reliable Jason Lee as Brodie... sorry, Banky Edwards.  Perhaps it's deliberate irony that Banky is accused of dishonesty about his feeling when Banky is the only protagonist not lying for his own selfish ends, but I'm guessing not.Chasing Amy is a self indulgent folly.  That actually describes all of Kevin Smith's films, but most of them turn out being enjoyable anyway (yes, even Mallrats).  This one doesn't, and it's a worrying indicator of the what we can expect from Jersey Girl, where Kevin Smith's own reports from the set demonstrate that he's more concerned with having fun with the actors than watching what their characters are doing on screen. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie because it briefly appeared here on the Internet Movie Database Top 250 list and because it was a somewhat new film, which is my preference. I made it about half way through before throwing in the towel. The early scene with the funny Star Wars race analogy was the only scene worth anything. This film is a profane, boring, uninsightful piece of garbage. I found myself watching an extra 10 minutes just to try to figure who Amy was. Given the high rating here and my inability to determine who Amy was, I thought for a minute that I had rented the wrong movie from Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"people who don't like this film are missing the big picture","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Upon reading a negative comment on this movie I felt it necessary to add my two cents as well. This movie in my opinion is pure genius and anyone who thinks otherwise is missing the bigger meaning of the film.Nay-sayers see the film as quote one big gay/lesbian joke, which is far from the true. The movie is Kevin Smith's perception on relationships and the mishaps that always ensue. But instead of using the typical plot line the usually goes something like boy meets girl, boy likes girl - girl likes boy,girl and/or boy have some deep dark cliché skeleton in their closet that isn't leaked out till the last 45 minutes of the film so then boy and girl break up , boy and girl whine and pout till the last 10 minutes where boy and girl reunite ,resolve conflict and live happily ever after(cue sappy love song).He used sexual confusion which lets face it is a highly touchy issue with most people so when viewers realized Holden was chasing after a lesbian thats all the film became known as.These viewers will watch every single love-lorn drama where it's the same story different characters and call it poetic genius ,but the minute some real live and in your face relationship issues are discussed and also are poked fun at they can't hack it.So to these people my advice is to watch the movie again and instead of dwelling on the gay/lesbian innuendos , try to view it as a romantic comedy with dramatic undertones of self-doubt and people's perceptions and how they alter relationships and people's lives. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is ludicrous. As if lesbians are sitting around waiting for the right straight man to come along and sweep them off their feet. The comment made by a supposed lesbian in the film another one bites the dust just adds to that moronic idea. This film is a straight man's fantasy complete with stereotypes. Gay people are not converted to being straight any more than straight people are converted to being gay.This movie is crap and couldn't be further from reality. "},{"Title":"Just what is it about Ben Affleck and lesbians?","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just what is it about Ben Affleck and lesbians? In the notorious Gigli he plays a character who meets a lesbian who instantly falls in love with him. And now it turns out that in Chasing Amy from six years earlier he also plays a character who meets a lesbian who instantly falls in love with him. Perhaps someone should point out to him that lesbian is not a synonym for bisexual or for straight woman who hasn't met the right man yet. And certainly not for straight woman who hasn't met Ben Affleck yet.Holden McNeil is a comic book artist who meets a young woman named Alyssa at a comic book convention. (There is, incidentally, no character named Amy in the film. The titular Amy, who never appears, is the ex-girlfriend of a minor character). Holden is attracted to Alyssa, and the two become friends, but as Alyssa is a lesbian there appears to be no hope of their relationship going any deeper. Eventually, Holden confesses his love to Alyssa. Most romantic comedies place seemingly insuperable obstacles in the way of true love, only for those obstacles to be overcome by the end of the movie, and so it proves here. Except that we don't have to wait until the end of the movie. After some token resistance from Alyssa, she and Holden are in bed together within a few minutes.Holden is initially overjoyed that he has converted a lesbian, but Alyssa may not be all she seems. He is desperate to believe that he is the first man she has ever slept with, but evidence soon comes to light suggesting that Alyssa has not only been bisexual all along but has also been extremely promiscuous with both men and women ever since her high school days, and these revelations put a great strain on their relationship. (At least the revelations about Alyssa's heterosexual affairs do- Holden seems blithely unconcerned about all the women she has, on her own admission, slept with).Another important strand in the plot concerns Holden's relationship with his close friend and writing partner Banky. Holden believes that the outwardly heterosexual Banky may secretly be in love with him, and seizes upon Banky's refusal to admit this as evidence that he is in denial. Holden may be on to something- Banky certainly seems resentful and jealous of the Holden/Alyssa relationship- although an alternative explanation may be that Holden is himself bisexual and so self-obsessed that he believes himself irresistible to everyone- man or woman, gay or straight.The film is too unrealistic to qualify as a serious look at human relationships, and has more in common with romantic comedies, although with a good deal more adult humour than most exemplars of that genre. Unlike most rom-coms (Prime being another, more recent, exception to the general rule) it does not have the standard happy ending, although it is difficult to see how it could have done. Holden and Alyssa are both so unlikeable that an ending in which they ended up married to one another could not possibly have been described as happy. Except, perhaps, in the sense of happy for the divorce lawyers. Romantic comedies, even adult ones, generally only work when the audience can identify with the partner of their own sex and understand his or her attraction to the partner of the opposite sex. Unfortunately, Joey Lauren Adams' Alyssa, with her shrill voice, flippant personality and lack of frankness about her sexuality, and sexual history, is one of the least appealing romantic comedy heroines ever. As for Holden, a man whose preferred solution to difficulties in a relationship is to suggest a threesome with his best friend hardly qualifies as love's young dream. About the only time I found myself warming to Alyssa was when she indignantly rejected this tacky suggestion. The film ends up as a romantic comedy which achieves the difficult double of being neither comic nor romantic. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Guy becomes obsessed with lesbian, contemplates psychological sex change, decides to dump lesbian instead","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whoops, I just told you the whole story. God, I suck! But in case you didn't read my summary here it is again in an expanded literary format for those who truly enjoy redundancy. A guy, played by Ben Afflick, sees a girl and falls in love with her only to find out she's a lesbian. He chases after her anyway, hence Chasing Amy (do you get it? No really, do you get it? No you don't liar!), and eventually turns her onto the man meat to which all women are destined, no matter what they say, to worship and grovel at like whimpering dogs lusting after a sacred bone (just ask Bill Clinton, my favorite president). Then some really boring relationship crap ensues about feelings and thoughts and identity and blah-f**king-blah...Am I at ten lines yet? The guy ends up apologizing to the lesbian for reasons unknown after Silent Bob relates a soliloquy about his own failed gay quest for hetero love. Seriously, I think the whole point of the movie is that the guy is actually a fag and the woman is just a slut and never the tween shall meet or something like that, all done in that Kevin Smith way whose films are really the funniest when he decides to take himself too seriously like when Woody Allen tries to be Ingmar Bergman. It's like watching a shadow farting, right? "},{"Title":"Drawing Power","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Bluntman & Chronic comic book artists Ben Affleck (as Holden McNeil) and Jason Lee (as Banky Edwards) meet attractive Joey Lauren Adams (as Alyssa Jones) at a Manhattan comic-con and Mr. Affleck feels a love connection growing for Ms. Adams. However, their potential for intimacy isn't helped by Adams' sexual preference for other woman. She's a Lesbian. Further complicating matters is Mr. Lee's meddling in his childhood pal's potential love affair - perhaps Lee has a latent homosexual interest in his friend...Considering the language and situations, you could say, Blunt, man to writer/director Kevin Smith. As a title, Chasing Amy is explained via an extended, dumb, smoke-filled director-induced cameo - until then, you're wondering if Amy will turn up on screen - the distracting wait takes away from Adams, before you realize she is the co-star in question. You could also say the film sneaks up on you. There is every indication Chasing Amy is going to be sophomoric trash, then it isn't...It's all talk and no action - but the talk turns out to be interesting, realistic and educational; for example, the swing set scene teaches us what girls do on special occasions. Did not know that. There are real nuggets herein, about the intricacy of attractions. Affleck, Adams and Lee are all involved. They perform quite believably. The One Year Later coda is a perfect. Dwight Ewell (as Hooper-X) gives great support, although he has Archie and Jughead in the wrong positions...******* Chasing Amy (1/23/97) Kevin Smith ~ Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Jason Lee, Dwight Ewell "},{"Title":"jealously....makes you do crazy things!!","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Chasing Amy, it's a typical Kevin Smith film with crude language, humor, and a lot of intellectual thinking. He will never win director of the year but his films are overall classics just like the one I'm about to discuss Chasing Amy.So let's begin, this is an odd romantic comedy that involves two friends named Holden McNeil (Affleck) and Banky (Jason Lee) who are comic book writers and fairly successful with it. The comic book they write is titled Bluntman and Chronic with is based on characters on other Kevin Smith films and they are Jay and Silent Bob. While at a book signing Holden and Banky meet a girl named Alyssa (Lauren Adams). Immediately Holden and Lauren grow this strong attraction for each other to only find out a couple of surprises which are not really morally accepted. Banky doesn't approve of her and feels she will ruin the comic book production they have together, so he sets out to dig some dirt. I gave this film a 9/10 because of the very good story line and excellent acting. Just a tip you have to watch all of Kevin Smith's films in order to understand some of the jokes.I feel the central theme of the movie is one man trying to get over the worst thing that haunts a man&#x85;.jealously! It something he tries to deal with himself but needs help with it and doesn't know how to go about it. He's searching for answers so comes up with an idea that he feels would solve his jealously but ends up smacking him in the face. This film is a direct reference to Clerks (another Kevin Smith film) in a way because it's a man who can't figure out how to deal with his own problems. When Holden comes up with his master plan it either ends his friendship with Banky and the women he truly loves or makes it stronger than ever, watch the film and find out! Think one technique is the angle that he uses for the film; he doesn't hide anything to where it would be a mystery he just lays it out there with stuff happening in every scene. The humor is so rich and sometimes beyond my intellectual capacity and I love that about the movie it really makes you think. Another technique is universality which is the lasting interest in the film because the ending is something that every guy wants or fantasizes about in the world. I feel that this theme is perfect because like I said it haunts every guy and usually ends with drastic measures that's either good or bad. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy directed by Kevin Smith","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Having seen Clerks., which was a strong debut for Kevin Smith and then Mallrats, which was nothing to write home about, I was slightly apprehensive for Chasing Amy. In 1998, when I first saw Chasing Amy I had really enjoyed it, but I too had thought Mallrats was a better film than it actually was. So now, watching it again after all these years I see that although my memories of Mallrats have been tainted, Chasing Amy's have been solidified. The best things from both Clerks. and Mallrats were present in Chasing Amy, and the things that brought down both films were missing.The problems I had with Clerks. dealt with the production value and directing by Smith. It was lackluster and brought down the film to a certain degree, but the writing was so good that it more than made up for it. Mallrats was funny, but it had a lame story line and again wasn't terrible well directed. Jay and Silent Bob, who were in both films, were good and the great dialogue that Smith wrote was present but the only real redeeming factor for Mallrats was Jason Lee. He was the movie. He made the movie. He is the only reason to watch the movie.Chasing Amy had Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams in the leads. It was funny; it was original; it was daring; it was romantic; it was scathingly funny; it was adult. Jason Lee, was fantastic again, and the rest of the cast was great too, with no weak links any where to be found. Affleck was excellent and shared great chemistry with Adams. And everyone was funny. Jay and Silent Bob even make a brief but memorable appearance.And man was it funny. Smith's writing was crude and daring yet laugh out loud funny, but unlike Mallrats it was much more adult, dealing with homophobia, gays and sex openly and often. And you'll laugh often and hard and from the very first scene. There is a well rounded love story that plays through the movie that makes this the first Kevin Smith film to actually feel like a real, professional, adult film. And the first Kevin Smith film to have a well written story around his well written dialogue.The production values are quite good, looking as good if not better than Mallrats, but was filmed at a fraction of the cost. The sets feel real, the rooms worn in and costumes like real clothes on characters that look like real people. And there is more movement within the compositions. Smith has a style that is rather static, with no real movement within the frame or with the camera. Just point the camera, shoot the scene, move on. It made for a rather distant experience from the characters you were watching. But these are nicely composed shots with nice tracking shots and and an assemblance of fluidity that wasn't there before. It's minimalistic, but it's suited perfectly to the material and to Smith's writing.Smith's directing has matured and blossomed, and although I was beginning to think that he was a much better writer than director he has proved me wrong with Chasing Amy. This is the film I was expecting after watching Clerks. not Mallrats. It unleashes the potential that was first glimpsed three features ago. He has written a better, more structured script that maintained the great and hysterical dialogue from his past films but added a great story around it. He pulled out solid performances from his entire cast and an even better production design than Mallrats, considering it cost considerably less. And he brought you more into the film and closer to the characters, by using more than just his script to tell the story. He used the camera and placements and movements of the camera to bring us into film, to feel along side the characters, rather than keeping us at a considerably distant distance from them.Chasing Amy is a great film. One that is fully realized by its creator, is highly original, and at times is outright hysterical. If you like your comedy's crude and crass then this film is not to be missed.Film Rating 86%Breakdown (How Chasing Amy scored 86%)Production Design 9 out of 10 Cinematography 7 out of 10 Re-playability 9 out of 10 Originality 9 out of 10 Costumes 9 out of 10 Directing 8 out of 10 Editing 8 out of 10 Script 10 out of 10 Acting 9 out of 10 Music 8 out of 10Read all my reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy Provides Intelligent Script And Raunchy Humor","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer-director Kevin Smith makes a huge leap in sophistication with this strong story about a comic-book artist who falls in love with a lesbian and actually gets his wish that she love him as well in this movie,Chasing Amy.This romantic comedy stars Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams together with Jason Lee,Dwight Ewell,Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith.The central tension revolves around sexuality, sexual history, and evolving friendships.Holden McNeil,a New Jersey comic book writer, is roommates with his best friend and professional partner, artist Banky Edwards. Into Holden's life comes Alyssa Jones, a lesbian and fellow comic book creator who quickly becomes a close friend, although Holden is powerfully attracted to her. Eventually, Alyssa realizes that she is attracted to Holden as well and they begin a physical relationship, much to the consternation of Banky, whose ire over losing his best friend to a lesbian seems to border on romantic jealousy. After he learns something about Alyssa's sexual past, however, Holden's immature response to his new knowledge destroys both his romance with Alyssa and his friendship with Banky.The film offers a thoughtful, funny look at how perceptions alter lives, and how obsession and self-doubt skew reality.Also,this intelligent script moves beyond Smith's customary cataloging of male adolescent ignorance and idiocy to offer sharp insights into the romanticism and pragmatism, pride and double standards that define the tangled threesome.Overall,it is a great and entertaining film that explores gender roles, sexual mores, and the limits of friendship with a mixture of sensitivity, raw honesty mixed with raunchy humor. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's last good movie","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, The storyline is about a guy that falls in love with a lesbian and tries to convince her to join his team. Great story, lots of laughs, and really a top notch comedy from Kevin Smith, following the success of Mall Rats, and Clerks, too bad almost everything else he makes seriously sucks now.Ben Affleck is the star but Jason Lee (Of My Name is Earl fame) steals every scene he is in. Joey Lauren Adams plays the object of Afflecks affections, and this is probably the only decent movie she ever made, and definitely the best she looked in a movie ( She really changed her look in a negative way when she did Big Daddy). Affleck was OK, So-so, but still better than almost any other movies he has done. Kevin Smith used to be known for his hip, fun, comedies, especially when he made this movie. Too bad that today his best work has been as the fat guy that had to buy an extra seat on an airplane and going on rants about it. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy is a fun romantic comedy.","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Chasing Amy is a comical look at a different type of romance. Holden (Ben Affleck), is an up and coming comic book artist that meets what he believes to be the woman of his dreams (Joey Lauren Adams). All seems to go as planned in his plot to hook up with Alyssa until he finds out that she is in fact a lesbian. From here we go on a romantic comedy roller-coaster that involves his friend Banky (Jason Lee) and we are halted with a the ultimate decision in whether a woman or a friend is more important or is it possible to have them both coincide with each other. This movie has a strong theme of the values of friendships and the questions of sexuality. We the viewers are able to view into a reality that has probably hit us all at some point in regards to close friends and our significant others. We also get to see into the eyes of Alyssa that is questioning her own sexuality. The theme reverberates throughout the film from start to finish. We see Holden and Banky as close friends that have known each other since childhood and how the friendship is tested after Holden meets Alyssa. One of my favorite scenes in the film that displays this roller-coaster of emotions of all parties is when Holden goes with Banky to meet Alyssa at a nightclub. Holden is very excited when he is there and Banky stands idle nearby as to show us that he is very angry about his friend looking for friendship from somebody else. During this time is when Holden realizes that Alyssa is in fact a lesbian. The emotions switch instantly. Holden is down and angry that the girl he is interested in is gay and Banky becomes ecstatic that he will not be losing a friend, a fantastic scene that shows how powerful the theme of friendship values are strained in this film. This film closely follows the same themes and comedy styles of Kevin Smith films. The theme of this film can be similarly viewed in some of his other films but the one recent film that could be compared to this would be Zack and Miri Make a Porno. That film follows the same theme of the bonds of friendships and relationships and how strong the bonds really are. The film does not make use of any type of special effects at all and almost gives you the feel of watching a documentary about these characters. By utilizing natural lighting and on-point camera angles, every conversation in this film feel as we are part of the conversation. This reality feel to the film is one that makes many of Kevin Smith's films so fun to watch. We get to feel like we know the characters and that they could just live down the street from us. This film will have you laughing and feeling awkward in many moments of it. That is what makes a film like this so fun to watch. The theme of friendships that hits close to many of us just makes us want to see what disaster is going to happen next even more and more. This is a movie with its own style that differs from others and is one to remember. "},{"Title":"As perceptive of human socializing as films can get.","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Within the Kevin Smith universe, perhaps no other film is as well- received and to this day appreciated as Chasing Amy. Clerks will always be the one that set the standard and Dogma gave Smith new-found status as a serious satirical filmmaker. However, Chasing Amy is his most personal story as well as the one which perhaps best explores notions of human contact and desire. The fact that he wrote the screenplay based on his relationship with ex-girlfriend Joey Lauren Adams who plays Alyssa in this film only adds to the rich irony and blurs the line between reality and fiction. Despite all this, or perhaps because of it, this makes the experience of watching Chasing Amy all the more enjoyable.Of course, the best part of any Kevin Smith movie is the dialogue which here is absolutely realistic both to its characters and the themes it is trying to explore. Though crude and explicit, it does capture the atmosphere these characters inhabit as well as exposes their own fears, desires and understanding about relationships. Some may criticize this film for being to hard on the characters and not giving them enough opportunity to justify their feelings but that seems to be part of the point. Life does not always allow you to share everything you feel, leaving you with simply memories and wishes of what could have been. This is at heart of this film, they type I wish Smith made more of. There's still time; he just needs something personal to say. "},{"Title":"A very thought provoking and well crafted movie","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have been told that this movie is similar to Object of My Affection. I have not seen the movie and as such cannot comment on it. I would like to see it though so as to compare and contrast. My gut feeling is that Object of My Affection cannot even think of surpassing the brilliance and raw power that Chasing Amy is.This is Kevin Smith's third film, a director who dropped out of film school and then stunned the world with Clerks, a movie he made by selling his comic book collection and going deep into debt. It was worth it because Clerks became an instant hit and even won an award at the Cannes Film Festival. His second offering, Mallrats, was quite funny, but was basically a crude boy chases girl comedy where the boy gets the girl in the end.Chasing Amy, in my honest opinion, is the best film that he has made so far. It has all of the hallmarks of a typical Kevin Smith film, and there is an amateurish feel about it, but beyond that Chasing Amy left me stunned. It is a film in which the characters are real and react in a real way. The characters have depth, relate to each other on a real level, and Kevin Smith is not afraid to use shock tactics to drive the theme of the film home.The movie is about Holden, a comic book writer who is quite successful. While at a comic book convention he meets a young woman, Allissa, who is becomes attracted to. The next day she invites him to a nightclub, which turns out to be a lesbian night club and she turns out to be a lesbian. Holden is shocked at this and leaves soon after, but Allissa is not willing to let him go and worms her way into his life to the point where he is letting his work slip, and his best friend, who is also his inker, is becoming jealous, though this is not all that apparent.I expected that this movie was about how Holden chases Allissa and could not get her because she is a lesbian, but this is not the case. This is about the rise and fall of their relationship. How Allissa comes to terms with her own self and how she is searching for the perfect partner, believing it to be a woman only to discover it is a man; how Holden is confronting his relationship with Allissa and his perception of how she feels about him and his desire to live up to his expectations. Finally there is his best friend who simply hates Allissa, and it is revealed that it is because he is in love with Holden. It is interesting that Kevin Smith puts this into the movie because this can happen without any hint of homosexual love, yet the whole impact probably wouldn't have been as great if this was not the case. His friend is not a homosexual, in fact he is called homophobic quite frequently during the movie - but this is not the case. He may have homosexual leanings, but it is not something he is willing to go all the way through.It makes an interesting love triangle, but the impact of the movie for me came more with the relationship between Allissa and Holden. Allissa loved Holden, and it was a love in which she was not going to hold anything against Holden; it was a love in which she knew would not go away yet she knew that Holden is struggling with a lot of things. Allissa had not have any role models as her parents were never home, and never cared about her. As such she did a lot of things while finding out about life - things that Holden never did because of his upbringing. The mistake that Holden made was that Allissa liked that lifestyle when she did not she was looking for her sole-mate and this was Holden, but Holden did not understand that. He thought that because of her background, this is what she wanted. She did not want this, she wanted to be with Holden - she would have done almost anything for him, yet she knew where the line was to be drawn and would not step across it. Holden believed that he had the answer to his problem but this was not the case, Allissa knew that it wouldn't work.This movie does not have a conclusive ending. The problems were created and there was no straight answer or simple solution. As such this raised the movie above that of the simple stuff that are churned out of Hollywood. Chasing Amy is a superb movie and there is little way I can see that anything could even consider surpassing it. Mallrats was good, Clerks was very funny, but Chasing Amy was real - it had a new dimension to it that sets it apart from many other movies that I see. "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy - A personal review.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I became a fan of Kevin Smith's work a year ago. And I of course dug up every film he ever made. And this was the last one I found. It took me a while to find it. I had heard from some obscure sources that it was the worst of all of Kevin Smith's films. Now that I have seen it it becomes clear to me that the people who said that was probably teenagers who's never been in love. In this one Kevin shows his true skills as a writer. No scene is taken lightly, no line delivered wrong. It's a more serious movie. I mean the same basic humor is still there, Jay is loud mouthed as usual in the one scene they were in and Banky is rude to everyone. But it was the one scene with Jay and Silent Bob which moved me the most. When Bob tells his story about chasing Amy I found that I could really relate to the movie.My first girlfriend, or at least she was on my part, who's name I will not mention here out of respect for her. I'll call her Janine. I am probably exactly like you. I like Tarantino, I'm in to pop culture, I watch way to many movies. People like us are lead to believe that there are no girls like that. We're wrong. I first came in contact with Janine in connection with Tarantino's unfinished My Best Friend's Birthday. She wanted to see it and I helped her with getting it. We fell in love over a small period of time. She was, by definition, the dream girl. She was good looking, she was sweet and easy to get along with and she was a Tarantino fan. And as time went along I found out that she was bi-sexual. I was 15 when I met her. She was 15 to. And as I got to know her I got to know a bit to much. In Chasing Amy Alyssa was a lot more experienced than Holden...sexually. So was Janine. The two has basically the same personality. And almost the same background. Janine had been around, she had had experience. I hadn't. I had no experience. It's basically the same situation with Holden except he had had some experience but not as much as her. It's basically the same thing.So I started to feel a bit guilty that I didn't have any experience and started to feel like i wasn't worthy of her or something. I felt small in a way. I knew i had lacked experience and I was worried that I would never be on her level like I wouldn't be enough for her or something. I also started to feel like I was a bit disgusted by her. Thinking about the people she had been with before. But this film made me realize that I wasn't disgusted by her. I was afraid. But I later found out that I shouldn't compare myself to the one I'm with like that and just enjoy the time we had together. Regretfully I realized that to late. Ending it with her was hard because even after we broke up I still loved her. And I knew that she still loved me. She taught me an important thing Tolerance. I no longer look down on gays or lesbians or people different from me. Frankly I don't think I ever did but at least I'm aware of it now. She taught me to be open minded to other and different things. And if you asked me if I could go back and not meet Janine because I knew that it wouldn't work. You know what I'd say? I'd say I wouldn't give up the two months we had together for one single minute of talking face to face with Quentin Tarantino. I couldn't stop thinking about her during this entire movie. And I think that this is something Kevin Smith was trying to do. He was trying to make us identify with the story. And I sure did. "}{"Title":"Silent Bob speaks, and the earth shakes!!!","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Silent Bob speaks, and the earth shakes!!!  Well, not really.  But I thought Silent Bob was supposed to be silent???  Still, his character is even MORE likeable, by him quoting a parable, then shutting back up----what does Ben Franklin say about overstaying neighbors???  Just hearing him speak gives the audience a sense of profundity. How?, I just don't know..... but the feeling was there.And Ben Affleck sporting a goatee---which makes him look more like a real person, not a model for GQ magazine, which acutally makes him even more goodlooking (quite goodlooking, actually).  Seeing him kiss another man was cool (I wonder if even straight people feel this way?).Anyway, now about the movie.I try to stay away from Hollywood.  And gimmicks like Jay and Silent Bob. But this movie was actually, pretty good.  Appealing to what I call a something thirties crowd, it was simple, and heartfelt, and realistic (as Hollywood could get), and dealt with modern issues, such as should I participate in this three-way?, and can I have sex with her, even though she is a lesbian? questions we all deal with.Affleck lends real meaningfulness to this movie, with what is touted as a star acting performance, as a love-sick victim, spurned in one moment, getting the love of his life in the next, and then, trying to untangle a mess in the only solution he can figure out.... be it ridiculous, or a proper fix, much of this movie could be a vignette from real life, and this is a great great semi-tearjerker movie to rent and see, with your significant other. "},{"Title":"I liked clerks much better.","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ahh-another Kevin Smith movie. Well I am a great fan of Clerks, I in fact am a clerks head (meaning I think Clerks is absolutely and positively INCREDIBLE!!) So I watched Chasing Amy. And I'm somewhat surprised actually that I didn't enjoy this more because Clerks is one of my all time favorites AND because I'm a generation xer and we generation xers seem to like this movie.I actually first watched this movie at a friend's house and my friend had been involved in a situation like this. She had REALLY wanted me to see this film and after viewing it I had to say it left me cold. It had an interesting premise but it played out in a way that didn't click with me to anywhere near the degree that Clerks did. It was Just rather slow moving, a bit dull and as mentioned the premise was good but I didn't really take to this movie.Maybe it was the pace. It really moved quite slowly or just that I never really got that involved with these characters, they were nowhere near as compelling as the ones from Clerks, so I really had no desire to follow the story. As for the plot-I REALLY thought it was a good plot before I sat down to watch the movie but it enfolded so slowly and nothing seemed to happen a lot of the time. It was moderately interesting but not, for me, good in a classic sense. One or two of the performers seemed miscast and it just didn't hook me in the way other movies have (though it was far from dreadful. I'm not sure, with Smith involved it COULD have been dreadful.) Sometimes there isn't a reason not to like a movie, you just don't. I really was disappointed that I didn't get into this but my mind started wandering from the beginning and I never got into the movie the way others seem to. Not the worst I've seen but far from the best. "},{"Title":"Moments of Brilliance Not Very Well Held Together","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all the camera work in this movie is nauseating and annoying. Unlike Richard Linklater's Tape the jarring hand-held sequences do not created a sense of voyeurism and intrusion, its just plain annoying in Chasing Amy.While the direction is excellent, this is about the only really good acting I have seen out of Ben Affleck, some of the major characters are unrealistic and Kevin Smith relies on stereotypical character to gloss over a lack of character development.While many of the scenes are brilliant, the permanent injuries scene is classic, they really do not seem to flow together and the instance of continuation from his other films seems contrived and distracts from the rhythm of the film. Why Allysa falls for Holden is weak and too much time is spent on Dwight Ewell's character of Hooper LaMont. While Hopper is one of the great characters and more interesting points of this film he is not really necessary and seems more real and developed then Jason Lee's Banky Edwards. While Jason Lee's character is the funniest and more interesting characters, his role in the film never rises above comedic relief of the tense scenes between Joey Lauren Adam and Ben Affleck.In addition, entering the film as the quasi-narrator who explains the issue/theme the film is trying to explore is not the place of the director. The characters of the film are supposed to explore the issue/theme and that I was directly told what I should think about this film was insulting and contrived.So on the whole, excellent if not great dialogue, the most mature work of Kevin Smith, it is a movie I would love to like but something always holds me back. The potential that this movie shows is dazzling and leads me to wonder if Kevin Smith hasn't fallen victim to one of the minor themes of Chasing Amy and sold out with profitable but silly movies like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. "},{"Title":"Love Kevin but hated Amy","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I regret saying this because I generally loved Clerks, which was so fresh that I was hanging on every scene. Genius. But from the first scenes of Amy, I felt hammered by a continuous stream of obscenity that just distracted me from the movie. Amy remains the only movie I have ever walked out of in my entire long life. It was not so much that I was disgusted or outraged, as I just felt completely oppressed by how juvenile it was.Frankly, the premise itself was a tremendously worthy one, and KS deserves credit for attempting it. But unfortunately it ends up being an unfunny pile of nonsense. BA is probably one of the least funny actors ever to be placed in a romantic comedy.A romantic comedy should provide you with a sense of connection between your own experiences and those of the star-crossed lovers. Despite the fact that I have dated bisexual women, I felt no connection at all to the characters! They did not seem to be having--in any way, shape, or form--a real relationship. A group of unlikeable characters in pursuit of sex with other unlikeable characters. It's a bit like German pornography.That said, KS is still tops in my book for making technically good looking movies on a shoestring. This one is no exception.This movie hit big with the under-twenty-five crowd, perhaps because at that age they are just learning about deep relationships and discovering what is real in them. KS manages to sell the message without making you believe it. "},{"Title":"if you think this is a better movie than Clerks...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really think you should just stop watching movies altogether. Seriously.Clerks was hilarious, orginal, brilliant, truly the best independant film I've seen and one of the best movies period.So what the hell happened? Did Smith suffer a brain injury? What a waste of talent ever since he blew his load on 'Clerks. The smarmy, self-indulgent just plain unfunny stuff in this movie seems like someone making a crude parody of the Smith who made Clerks. from the absolutely horriblely unfunny gay black character on in, it plays like a three's company episode, and not even a good one. All the humanity and honesty of clerks seems to have gone totally out the window in favor of self-refernces, unfunny jokes, and a just plain weak and borderline nonsensical plot. Why did they fall in love- there's no good reason why the characters like each other so much, and no reason for us to care about them or like them either.Some people seem to have trouble with the difference Clerks used crude comic devices, like sex with a dead guy, but it was a GREAT story. You can make a real, human story as either a serious drama or a crude comedy, as long as the characters have humanity and the writer does the work to tell a real story that is relatable to people outside of himself and his immediate circle of friends.Chasing Amy is not only unfunny, it rings totally false there's just nothing there. "},{"Title":"Booooring","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I watched Dogma, I thought it was the worst of Kevin Smith's films, but after that I went and watched Chasing Amy.... It was AWFUL!, it is the worst one by far.  I must admit the first part is funny, but it quickly degenerated into some boring and uninteresting love story.  "},{"Title":"what a bunch of crap","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am sorry but, i just cant help it. I see this movie and i feel that I have wasted 2 hrs of my life. I see it again to make more sense of it, now its 4 hrs I do some serious thinking about the movie and its meaning in everyday life and the more i think about it, i feel i am getting more confused After wasting about 5 hrs of my life watching, thinking (including writing this review), i come to the conclusion that this is absolute garbage and although other people might have given it good reviews, i am gonna say that this movie is B*** S*** I am the kind of person who loves comics and watches movies to relax the head a bit. I wanted to see a comedy which does not make you feel pathetic once you've seen it. Don't get me wrong, I love movies which make you think about them once you've seen them, they make you watch them over and over. The more you watch them the more you appreciate the meaning and the logic of it all. But this movie, i just don't get it. WHat were they thinking, what kind of crack were they smoking ? "},{"Title":"Does the past matter?","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems to me the theme of this movie was whether or not a woman's past matters at all. The guy who loves her goes through torturous feelings and digs into her past and finds it is more than he can comfortably handle. My question Why not just move on? There are plenty of fish in the sea. Silent Bob gives a diatribe near the end of the movie, basically preaching that he made the mistake of caring about a woman's past once, and hurt her and scared her off. So, now he is eternally chasing her. Same question Why not just move on? I would think it would be a relief that the next woman would very likely have a purer past. As to young people who think their actions won't matter Guess what? They matter. "},{"Title":"baaah","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie, after the first 20 min. i simply just fell a sleep, this movie is so boring, it has absolutely no meaning, or message, other then just being dump, and rood attitude. I must say that something is very funny (Jay and silent bob). But ben affleck CANNOT be funny, he takes this comedy as serious as a drama, i wouldn't recommend you buying this movie, but maybe rent it, if it cost like 1$ !! I will give this about 3-4 on the scale. I usually love comedy's, but this one is just lame. I has something to do with clerks, the basic things are the same things, and some of the same people are in it. + it has a connection to Mallrats, don't know if the is the sequel or what it is. But is BAD I am out! "},{"Title":"More Crap From Kevin Smith","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Kevin Smith and starring Ben Affleck so right away I had a very prejudiced view point of this movie but I try not to let prejudice overwhelm me and gave it the benefit of the doubt The film starts at a comic book convention and could perhaps be a metaphor for any type of convention be it STAR TREK , DOCTOR WHO or one of those right wing conventions where assault rifles and Zyklon B is sold over the counter but it becomes obvious that the script doesn't have much wit to it as characters get into fights about inking/tracing and one character steals Richard Pryors act as to where all the black dudes have got to in STAR WARS and LOGANS RUN . The screenplay becomes even more tiresome as the characters then discuss human sexuality in a very crude manner . This isn't so much a bad taste comedy in the vein of THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY , this is just a bad comedy full stop as the characters try to out do each other in who got the worst injury while performing oral sex . Yeah it's pretty pathetic but what'd you expect from a movie directed by Kevin Smith and starring Ben  Name a decent movie I've been in  Affleck "}]