[{"Title":"Inventive And Real-Looking","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When this first came out, almost a decade ago, I thought it was the best job I had seen of making miniature people look real. This showed how far technology had come in films and now, of course, we see a lot more amazing special effects.It was fun to view how these borrowers moved about, using ordinary household items to propel themselves around a normal-sized house. It's all pretty ingenious.John Goodman plays a cartoon-like role, a role that is generally funny to watch. The cast has a mixture of American and English actors, with a setting of 1940s Britain. I first saw this on VHS and then later on DVD, which was improvement not only video-wise, but audio, too, as it somehow went from mono to surround sound. This might be considered a kids movie but a lot of the humor is more adult-oriented. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I honestly don't understand all the bad reviews this show has gotten.  I think it's a great flick.  Their sets and props were amusing (i.e., using birthday cake candles for torches and credit cards for doors), and it was interesting to see the world from a little person's point of view.  The plot was very good, as was the acting, and the Borrowers' accents just added to their charm.  You really should give this film a try. "},{"Title":"A very fun film with a great look","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was charmed by this movie and cannot understand the venom unleashed upon it by some of the other reviews.  I don't have any kids, nor do I spend a whole lot of time watching movies geared towards them, but most kiddie fare seems so saccharine and preachy, with screeching soundtracks and day-glo color schemes all designed to work as commercials for happy meals and action figures that this one stands out because it's just plain fun. The production design and special effects are unique -- and purposefully so. Some reviews have complained that the film is not set in a readily identifiable time or place, but that's the charm; set in a kind of timeless anywhere that is both familiar and foreign, with the kind of hazy details and warm glow that suggest a fond childhood memory/fantasy.  If you expect some Dizneefied, pre-fabbed, pre-digested offering that hits all of the right beats at the right moments with such predictability that you can set your watch to them, skip this.  (Or watch South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut, because it sure mimics the form while subverting the content.)  If you want something fun and imaginative, different from the usual, give this a try.  And if the kids complain that it's boring, send them to bed and watch it yourself.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as others make out.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I, for one, very much enjoyed this movie, so much so, that I even purchased it on DVD.  Of course, I'm a big fan of British Comedy and Sci-Fi, and always enjoy any opportunity to see the work of Hugh Laurie and Mark Williams.  This was the first time I'd seen anything with Jim Broadbent, but went on to watch some of his other work, and have grown to appreciate him, as well.  Ruby Wax was charming, and I'd like to see more of Flora Newbigin, however, it appears she isn't doing much in the industry, except for an appearance in one episode Holby City.I find this movie charming in it's escapism.  Sure, it mixes times and cities, making it impossible to identify where and when it takes place, but does it even have to be anywhere on Earth?  It's fantasy, and I found it entertaining. "},{"Title":"i loved it","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i adore this movie. it gives an entirely new perspective about the world. much the same effect as honey i shrunk the kids had only more every day life. tables, chairs, beds, clothes. it's great. what I love is the cast. I just keep recognizing people. he was in jumanji! he was in stuart little! he is in the harry potter movies! he was in moulin rouge! i loved it. actually, this movie is worth watching just for the hair styles! ^_^ "},{"Title":"Good Fun with great effects.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to be honest, I was not looking forward to this movie.  I never heard of it nor know anything about those in it, except for John Goodman. However, this selection was for my daughter and did not want to see a repeat of another cartoon-type movie.  My wife and I found the movie to be good clean fun with some mild but acceptable violence and virtually no language. A good combo for a family film and for a child.  My daughter said it was good and my wife and I thought it was cute.  In this day and age, it can be hard to find good movies around.  While this movie may not be a keeper in your own collection, it is worth renting.  The behind-the-scenes on the DVD was good and the DVD also contained both letterboxed and Pan-and-scan versions. "},{"Title":"Not just good special effects but superb ones!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Reading some of the other reviews you get the impression that the Special Effects in the Borrowers are somewhat mediocre, well I feel I must stand up for them. The effects in this film are on the whole superb. The problem is that some of them are so good you just don't notice them unless they are pointed out to you. In my opinion the effects in the Borrowers are vastly superior to things like say Titanic, which rather unbelievably won an Oscar. Any effect which you're inclined to say That's a good effect too, is not a good effect, it is a poor one because you can tell it's an effect. The best effects go unnoticed, not only by the movie going public but also by the Academy it seems. "},{"Title":"Nice adaptation, well worth watching","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved the Borrowers books when I was a kid, and the movie is a quite good adaptation of the concept. There were a few minor bafflements such as what time period the movie was supposed to be in, and where it was set, but those aren't major. Overall, quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Okay but not nearly as good as the BBC TV series","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Borrowers movie is quirky, fun, and an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon with kids but it lacks the overall charm the books did. This was much better, and more accurately, captured by the 1992 BBC TV series than by this movie.The plot of this story is okay but it only takes bear elements from the books, inventing new characters and altering the setting - I'm not sure why but I have to admit as a fan of the books I did feel somewhat alienated by this. I understand that books often don't match their on-screen adaptions exactly but this felt to me so drastically different that it was far more jarring than the excellent Harry Potter and Narnia adaptions.Where did Peagreen come from? Arietty is not supposed to have a brother, let alone a one as whiny as Peagreen. Why to all the humans (save one or two) have American accents and all the Borrowers British? Why was this set in some werid quasi-'50s/'90s alternate reality rather than simply setting it in the original time of the books? (Although I admit there was some appeal in the quirkiness of this setting I did feel confused by it).I did enjoy this movie but it isn't fantastic, it isn't horrible but I look to the BBC series as much more charming adaption. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not good","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've been interested in seeing this adaptation of Mary Norton's novels ever since I saw the Studio Ghibli adaptation, The Secret World of Arrietty, last February. As I expected, this is more of a comic adventure film, a pretty typical children's film for the time, as opposed to the serious and beautiful Ghibli version. I have no idea which is closer to the source material (I'd actually bet the 1997 version is; the other one is way too Ghibli-esque not to have been heavily changed). As it is, the 1997 version is a halfway decent children's films. Not good, not bad. If I were a kid, I think I'd enjoy it. It stars John Goodman and Jim Broadbent, so it at least has something going for it. The family is pretty similar to the Ghibli version, except for they also have a son (Tom Felton). Felton and Flora Newbigin (who plays Arrietty) get separated from their parents (Broadbent and Celia Imrie) when the house they live in is set to be bulldozed by evil land developer (is there any other kind?) John Goodman. There's no seriousness here. It's all just loud adventure type stuff as the borrower children outsmart Goodman at every turn (he could probably very easily defeat his nemeses here if he would just avoid those comic pauses every time they're about to get him). I'm surprised Newbigin didn't go onto anything better. She's a pretty good juvenile actress. I don't think this film was very successful. I don't ever remember it existing (I was in college at the time, so I wouldn't have had any interest). The special effects aren't too bad. The story was adapted just five years previous with Ian Holm starring in the Jim Broadbent role. "}{"Title":"Borrowing into Clichés.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Borrowers (1997) Dir Peter Hewitt / Cast John Goodman, Jim Broadbent, Bradley Pierce, Mark Williams, Hugh Laurie Recycled story (The Indian in the Cupboard, Honey, I Shrunk the Kids) about little people who live beneath the floor boards of a house. They do not steal but borrow (hence the title). The plot is a series of cat and mouse games where the villain attempts to vanquish them so that he may take possession of a will that was left at the house. He wishes to destroy the house and build apartment buildings in its place but he must burn the will that states ownership of the family living there. Thrilling visual effects include being showered with ice cubes, encountering pigeons, and being trapped in a milk bottle. Unfortunately the film is pure crap that borrows from other films of its kind. Formula story directed by Peter Hewitt whose terrible Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey actually looks good in comparison to this. John Goodman as the villain plays off the slapstick well but the role is cardboard. Jim Broadbent plays the head borrower. Bradley Pierce plays the boy who befriends them so that's pretty much straight forward. Mark Williams plays an exterminator in what is pretty standard for a film such as this. Hugh Laurie plays an idiot cop who should have arrested the people who suggested this film get made. Entertaining visuals within a rather dull story that steals from everything. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A travesty","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I consider myself a fan of THE BORROWERS after watching the BBC children's TV series in the early 1990s. Recently I read the original novel for the first time and enjoyed it; I also saw the fine Japanese animated adaptation of the story, ARRIETTY. So I was interested, if not a little wary, to see how this American version of the story would held up. It's worth noting that I'd never seen it before.Simply put, this is a travesty of a film and a huge disappointment for a true BORROWERS fan. Other than the central characters, the entire storyline has been jettisoned in favour of a bombastic, action-packed chase narrative in which the little people must team up to battle evil property tycoon John Goodman. This is about as far from the small-scale (pun intended) origins of the original Mary Norton story as it gets.There are a few lights twinkling away amid the garbage; I'll be the first to admit that Jim Broadbent makes for an effective Pod, and Tom Felton shines in an early role. Celia Imrie isn't bad as Homily, but she's no match for Penelope Wilton. The special effects aren't too bad for the year, and few of them scream 'obvious CGI' like so many Hollywood films today.So where did it go wrong? Well, the attempts to update the story for a modern American audience is a good start. The setting is some ridiculous 'netherworld' which mixes modern-day technology with 1950s-era Britain and America. It's ludicrous. Goodman's villain is poorly shoe-horned into the storyline and the subject of numerous fat jokes. Really? Is it right for a film to be teaching kids to constantly insult people due to their weight? The characters are badly written, the dumb humour consists of farting dogs and the like, and the whole thing has been dumbed down massively and lost the magic of the original. In the end it's just another soulless Hollywood effects piece. "},{"Title":"Loved the books; this movie is barely related","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was so excited to learn that someone had adapted the Borrowers series that I had loved so much, but I found myself instantly disappointed. With the exception of Pod, Homily, and Arrietty, this movie has pretty much nothing in common with its source material. I'm 99% certain that the character of Peagreen was added to bring more boys into the theater. Though I like many of the actors featured, and the special effects were good, the plot was terrible, and the lovely story in the books was turned into one long Three Stooges with Tiny People gag. If you're looking for a faithful adaptation of the original source material, watch Studio Ghibli's The Secret Life of Arrietty. Barring a few minor changes, the story and tone match the books perfectly. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking special effects","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This 90's adaptation of Mary Norton's The Borrowers books may not have much in connection with its much more benign, British source material, but it's still a rollicking blast of fun with jaw dropping special effects and a playfully wacky bunch of set pieces. The titular borrowers are tiny, 4 to 5 inch tall humans that live amongst us, often in our house walls and floors, borrowing bits and pieces of standard household items to make their homes, tools and clothes with. They're discreet, shy and industrious, and extremely distrustful of us humans. When Arietty gets spotted by a human boy, he captures her out of curiosity and learns about her species, much to the dismay of her wary father Pod (Jim Broadbent is great). The boy notifies her that their house is set for rezoning and demolition by order of a greedy fat ass developer named Ocious P. Potter (John Goodman hamming it up splendidly). This sets off a chain of high adventure, as the borrowers must try to relocate and must accept help from the human. The sets, props and costumes are all lovingly made and all seem to be set in an off kilter, Tim Burton or Dr. Seuss esque universe where everything is just slightly off, but amazing to look at. The chase through a milk bottle assembly line is a highlight. House himself Hugh Laurie shows up for a hilarious police officer role, and Mr. Weasley, Mark Williams is great as a goofy exterminator. It's a reunion of somewhat for the two, as they played the bumbling thugs in 101 Dalmatians. Goodman livens up every scene with his cartoonist belligerence, and the whole film has an energetic tone of revelry. Just don't look too closely for similarities to the books;) "},{"Title":"Odd but delightful; fun for the whole family","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is an enjoyable and engaging rendition of the 1953 book, suitable for young and old. It has some odd inconsistencies for the more critical viewer - mainly the fact that it is an unequivocally British story, set in an unequivocally British town, yet some of the main characters (and some other aspects) are clearly and inexplicably American - but those quirks needn't detract from the excellent script and characterization. It's a good film to re-watch with the finger on the pause button of the video remote control - the details of the Borrowers' home and equipment are fun to spot. (Don't do that the first time, though.) It's also notable for the first teaming of Mark Williams, Jim Broadbent, and Tom Felton, all leading characters here as well as in certain later and distinctly better-known films. "},{"Title":"Good fun in general","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Clock family are Borrowers - small people living in hiding and borrowing full size human stuff for their homes. Dad Pod Clock has kept his family at home, so daughter Arietty and son Peagreen have no idea of a wider world, they only know that the first rule of being a Borrower is not to be seen by the big people. But Arietty is not only seen but captured by young Pete Lender, which coincides with the lenders being forcibly (and illegally) evicted by wicked property developer Potter so that he can demolish their home.This film has an air about it of using the original idea (I have not read the source material, so I don't know) and then doing its own thing with it if so, it's not bad. The story fairly whizzes along, with John Goodman's Potter a suitably cartoon villain (just as well, given the Wile E. Coyote-type retributions he suffers for his wickedness). Production design is intriguing the Borrowers world is nicely realised, and the larger world is based on 1950s Britain, but with many stylistic weirdnesses heavy urban industrialisation, driving on the right, everybody in Morris Minors, mobile phones and monochrome TVs, and a colour palette comprising saturated secondary colours.The cast is good, and it is interesting to see a very young Tom Felton, unrecognisable under corkscrew ginger wig and huge false gap teeth. Only Flora Newbigin as Arietty disappoints, with some line readings which ring false. "},{"Title":"Awesome, funny and Cool to see the Little People","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is awesome because it's really funny and cool to see the little people living in the house with the big people. This movie is all about a kid named Pete Lender who is determined to find out why all the stuff in their house keeps disappearing. He eventually finds Arrietty who is a Borrower and she explains what Borrowers do. The Lenders have to move out of their house because a mean man named Ocious Potter wants to build an apartment building in its place. The Borrowers try to go with the Lenders but the kids fall out of the truck and have to travel through the city to find the new house that is by the old church. Some of the main characters in the movie are Pete Lender, Arrietty Clock, Ocious P. Potter, and Exterminator Jeff. My favorite character is Pete Lender because he really cares about the Borrowers and is really funny. Exterminator Jeff is on Ocious P. Potter's team at first but then wants to help Pete and the Borrowers. My favorite part in the movie is when Peagreen Clock fell out of the truck and landed in dog poop. I like that part because it was really funny and I think that a lot of people would think that was funny too. Another part I really like is when Ocious P. Potter got squirt with cheese. The Borrowers pushed the lever to squirt the cheese because he was after them. It worked and the Borrowers got away! I would recommend this movie for all ages 3 and up because there are a couple of scary parts but not too many and it is a really good movie. Reviewed by Anthony Aranda, age 9, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic "},{"Title":"An enjoyable fantasy, unless you hate slapstick.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I haven't come to the film through the book, and so have no memories to spoil. Purely on its own terms I and my family greatly enjoyed this piece of family entertainment. Personally I rather liked the vaguely mid-Altantic fantasy universe which strangely encompasses the whole of the 20th century, a rather dowdy place where the policemen look Edwardian but people might wear 1930's clothing while speaking on their mobile phones, yet drive 1960's Morris Minor cars on the right despite road markings on the left. Yes, mainly slapstick with flimsy screenplay (and occasionally flimsy acting too, though it's rarely awful as some suggest). In no sense is it deep, but none the worse for that. It's entertainment pure and simple, and on that level it succeeds. "},{"Title":"World of dwarfs!! Superb effects!! Worth watching!!","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When i saw the first sense of The Borrowers, i was impressed by some dwarfs!! At the end of this film, it was plenty of dwarfs!! So impressive!! I mean they're beautifully cute!! The film- producer are really good when they could make the effects superbly!! I think that's why The Borrowers could win some side effects of award!!It was hilarious sometimes, touched sometimes but the main is it made audiences wanted to know the upshot ALL THE TIME!!! This film was suitable for a happy cluster night!! Maybe it ain't as perfect as a Hollywood film but it's worth watching!! Enjoy and have fun with The Borrowers!! ^^ "},{"Title":"a good movie and an unforgettable adventure","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A movie is set in England. It about friendship between the borrowers - the Clock family and the lenders. At first, they don't know about each other, but then, because of the curiosity of Arriety - Pod's daughter, Arriety and Pete become good friends. After that, Arriety and her brother - Peagreen - accidentally take part in an adventure when they fall out of the lorry while they are moving with the lenders to the lender's new house. Arriety and Peagreen save the house from being demolished by an evil lawyer named Peter. At the end, the Clock family and the lenders become close-friends and they live happily together. A movie has special effects and a good cast...it's a great movie for your weekend with your family. "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First, I need to say that I have high standards. I think kids movies SHOULD be meaningful and intelligent. Our kids are learning about how the world works, after all, and the stuff they are exposed to helps them formulate their view of the world. This movie is just another little people beat up big people movie, giving our kids the idea that that's how the world is - good guys/bad guys, just plain mean for no reason, and you win when you beat up the bad guy. Sigh. The actual book has texture, color, charm, and a real story line none of which have anything to do with this movie. I am looking forward to finding a version of this charming book which focuses on the STORY, not the battle. "},{"Title":"Charming and fun movie, with great special effects","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you forgive the fact that there are slow moments in the plot, this is a truly delightful family film. There are some genuinely funny and heart warming moments in the script, the costumes are colourful and the sets and scenery are quite elaborate. The part with Ocious and the Exterminator trying to demolish the house is one of many hilarious parts of the movie. Of course though it is indeed the special effects that steal the show, highly imaginative and clever. The film is directed by Peter Hewitt who also directed Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey, and is fairly solid. As for the acting it was great. While there is a hilarious supporting turn from Mark Williams as the Exterminator, and fine support from British thespians Hugh Laurie, an adorable Tom Felton and Celia Imrie, two casting members stood out. One was Jim Broadbent, while he has been better, he is in good form as the father of the tiny Clocks. The other, and the more obvious one, is a perfectly cast John Goodman as the unscrupulous lawyer Ocious P. Potter. The music is great as well.All in all, a pretty darn good family film. Not perfect, but well worth the watch. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Borrowers","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It was a good film but I feel it does not compare to any of the Disney movies or any Harry Potter movie. The story line was great but the cinematography wasn't very good. The best part of the whole movie was the little Tom Felton. He is an amazing actor and that is why I say it is a good film to see, but there are definitely better ones out there. Especially if you want to see more of Tom Felton, I would recommend the Harry Potter films. The funny thing is, he doesn't even think he wants acting for a career. He is more of a fisherman. Go figure. Anyway, The Borrowers is an older movie now and the Special Effects really don't stand up to other movies now. Unfortunately it was a good movie when it came out but now I may think otherwise. I give The Borrowers 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Remember it's for kids!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I get really irritated by reviewers intellectualising kids' movies. Not for one second do I think children should be patronised by being offered crap (such as TV rubbish designed to suck out their brains, eg the Cow and Chicken cartoons). However, I do think we adults should be a little more understanding that films made for children not only don't need to be deep and meaningful - but they must not be deep and meaningful. By definition! This movie is silly, and fun, and clever, and it has several important messages about tolerance. How much more deep and meaningful do you need a movie to be?! "},{"Title":"DON'T WATCH IT!!!!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Faithless adaptation of excellent books. Hardly worthy of the title or the actors. If you are interested in the story watch the BBC mini-serii that were made in 1993. FAR superior with outstanding special effects and good casting. Don't go in for dross. "},{"Title":"A great fun Family Film","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great family film which I highly recommend. The story is based on a family of borrowers which are small people living in a normal sized house somewhere in the depths of the English countryside. A good fun family film. "},{"Title":"Dull as dishwater","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Even when children's movies contain no actors I like, or the story does not seem particularly compelling, I usually find them at least moderately entertaining. This was not the case with The Borrowers. By the end of the first scene, I became pretty bored with the run-of-the-mill, slapsticky plot twists. Characters do things like run around, screech, burp, fall for no apparent reason, tie people up, and pretty much what they do in almost every other movie aimed at kids. The characters are also pretty dimwitted, racous, grating, and even The Borrower family failed to capture my sympathy. The lady was scary, the man was wooden, and the kids were brats. John Goodman has a very slapsticky role, and I have pretty much forgetten everybody else in the film. "},{"Title":"didn't like the looks","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pete Lender (Bradley Pierce) is sure that someone is causing things to disappear from his home. His parents dismiss him. In fact, a family of borrowers are living in the house. Pod (Jim Broadbent) and Homily Clock (Celia Imrie) are the parents to Arrietty (Flora Newbigin) and Peagreen (Tom Felton). The unscrupulous lawyer Ocious P. Potter (John Goodman) tells Mrs. Lender that without her aunt's will, the Lenders have to move. Potter is planning to demolish the house for new condominiums. Pete catches Arrietty and befriends the Clocks. He takes them along to the new home. However Arrietty and Peagreen fall off of the truck and they return back to the house. Potter comes over and finds the will in a hidden safe in the house. Arrietty and Peagreen manage to steal the will away from Potter.I don't like how this movie looks. It looks ugly. I don't like the reddish brown hue on everything. Their house looks ugly. The giant brand name products don't intrigue me. The Clocks don't enchant me. I don't find Pete adorable. Everything just irked me. The look is so unappealing that it distracts me from the story which is not that compelling anyways. "},{"Title":"THE BORROWERS (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Normally I am not the kind of guy who is into familymovies as they all rely a bit too much on the silly parts of the human brains so I watched it as there was nothing else on telly, not expecting one good thing from it. But I was utterly charmed by it... Not that it are little people as I saw that trick too many times (Honey I shrunk the kids, Willow or even in the fourties there was Tom Thumb) but just because of the great decors! This movie takes place in the fifties and everything is made with a huge nostalgia sense (from the cars to the food the Borrowers are borrowing). In some house a boy discovers that there are little creatures living under the floor, once the family is out they borrow stuff to keep their household going on and it's like Indiana Jones filmed in Disneystyle (just watch the scene in where the daughter is stuck in the refrigerator). Sadly enough the little family Clock or played by redheads who all talk in a very Irish way and they play in such an arrogant Robin Hoodway that you wanna put your feet on them the moment they catch your eyes, just like John Goodman who in slapstickstyle who plays the role of a corrupt advocate who'd stolen the testament of the family so he can build his building complex (where have we heard this before?). The big family Lender and the Borrowers join hands to rescue the house and during 90 minutes the sole option that is left for director Peter Hewitt (who is now directing Garfield) is the chase for The Borrowers in where Goodman gets the help of some funny guy whose job is exterminating insects or little creatures. This is the kind of movie that can end up like The Flinstones or Scooby Doo but director Hewitt saves it all thanks to the impressive decors, the very nice special effects and a godlike performance from Goodman (who is just doing his usual thing). Not outstanding but it feels like this movie is over in 15 minutes just because of its charming slapstickstyle. Not a monument at all but a perfect movie to relive the child in you even if most of the kids won't be happy by the childish approach (the kids of today aren't living in the fifties you know...) "},{"Title":"Let's Not Over-analyze Folks!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, this film has gotten so many negative reviews that I felt compelled to write one in its defense. It is without doubt my favorite kids film of all time, if not my favorite film period. I thought the children playing Arietty and Peagreen were fabulous, considering that they have basically no acting experience. However, I was most drawn to the character of Spiller. There was something about that young guy (called Raymond Pickard, I believe) that was just absolutely magnetic. I couldn't take my eyes off of him.Anyhow, this is a wonderful film in my opinion. Completely original, I thought. That Disney garbage is so predictable and pointless, filled with mind-numbing songs. The Borrowers is a nice, refreshing breath of air for the family film genre. I'd actually recommend it over the Harry Potter films, to be honest. The acting was tons better in The Borrowers, and the lessons taught were much more relevant and valuable.Loved it!! "}{"Title":"The Borrowers","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I like many adventure films, and also the idea of big and small being good and bad, depending on which you are. You've seen how some great filmmakers created a giant world in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, well this is exactly the same good creation. Basically the Lenders, mother Victoria (Doon Mackichan) and father Joe (Aden Gillett) have been lied to by mean lawyer Ocious P. Potter (John Goodman) that there is no will to keep their house, so that he can build apartments. Meanwhile, in their house also live tiny people that they (and many others in the world) never knew about, The Borrowers. They are the Clock family, father Pod (Jim Broadbent), mother Homily (Celia Imrie) and the kids Arietty (Flora Newbigin) and Peagreen (Harry Potter's Malfoy, Tom Felton). Being caught by the Lender son Pete 'Petey' (Jumanji's Bradley Pierce), he is kind enough to help them travel secretly to the new house, but they are split up even before they set off. Arietty and Peagreen are now trying to find their parents, and vice versa, while Potter has found this will he said didn't exist. Of course he realises an infestation in the house, and with the help of Exterminator Jeff (The Fast Show's Mark Williams) he is trying to catch and kill these pests, and along the way, Arietty discovers she and her family are not the only Borrowers in existence. Also starring Hugh Laurie as Police Officer Steady, Raymond Pickard as Spud Spiller and Ruby Wax as Town Hall Clerk. It was nominated the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Special Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"passes the time quite nicely","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Having read the mary Norton novels I was expecting a little morefrom the film.  What i got was entertaining enough, it could havebeen better though.  It seemed to be a mismatch between HomeAlone and Honey I Shrunk the Kids, and was pretty much on thesame par as these two films.  The acting was o.k, and the visualeffects were quite good but i thought it could have benefited frommore substance.  Still it was not a total waste of time, it had somegood parts.  The 10 year old boy was quite annoying though, andwould benefit from a few more years acting lessons beforeinflicting us with his talentless efforts.    That said the largelyBritish cast did their best. "},{"Title":"A Feast of Fun for Fans of the Morris Minor","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great production design and good effects won't mollify Mary Norton fans, I suspect.BTW, it's set in Leighton Buzzard, which is a market town about 40 miles north of London, as a freeze on the will reveals. "},{"Title":"A let down","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not a very good adaption of the book. It reminded me of Home Alone with the bad guy chasing the Borrowers around the house with slapstick comedy results, while the parents rush to the rescue. The special effects were interesting.   "},{"Title":"step on them!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is an over rated, exaggerated, annoying movie. I am writing this comment to warn you, stay away! Little people with stupid hair styles, a kill-me-right-now accent, what is that accent? Borrower? what kind of name is that? We borrow, we don't steal my a.. Cheap and not funny, kids might even hate it. Step on them already! "},{"Title":"I would rather chew my toe-nails off, than watch this again","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  School holidays can be desperate times. While it's nice to get out of school, you're often left wondering exactly how to occupy your time, and it can lead you to do some extreme things. Like going to the cinema, and watching this.I'm sure there was a plot, but it was so poor and insignificant that I've forgotten just what it was. Whatever, the outcome was John Goodman chasing around these..... things, these small people, Borrowers. I think there was something about a house being knocked down as well, but it was an excuse for slap-stick rubbish. I think Death Wish fared better under plot.Then the characters themselves. John Goodman is okay at best, but how exactly did they choose the rest of the cast? Put all the world's worst actors (Hugh Laurie excepted) on strips of paper and draw them out of a hat? It's impossible to choose between Pod and Arrietty Clock, but one of them takes first and the other takes runner up, as to who exactly the most annoying character in the history of the universe is. I was seething in my seat every time either of them spoke.The only way to justify ever actually owning this is to make it a free giveaway with every packet of Skittles. Certainly never spend money on watching it. You could just as easily give that money to charity, and you would feel better about it than you would after watching this tragic mess.1/10 - the people who made this made have to be terrorists, to unleash it upon the rest of us.  "},{"Title":"Amusing - typical kids flick","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This one has some amusing moments, but, by and large, falls a little short of the mark.In general, the acting is less than stellar, though the special effects are particularly good in spots (although not so good in others).  The plot is beyond predictable.  All that said, this is your typical kids flick.  It follows a formula of fun, and is the sort of thing your kids would watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Driving?","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film, as did most reviews read. Never failing to suspend disbelief, one thing puzzles me The film was shot in England, and all the cars were Morrises, but they were mostly left-hand drive and traffic was US style, on the right.  "},{"Title":"Decent effects cannot save a poor plot...","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While this movie had very interesting (according to my wife) special effects for all the scenes with the Borrowers, it could not overcome a plot that was a best merely a vehicle to show the little people.  In the end, we just did not care about the characters at all.  This movie would be good for kids though.  There is nothing objectionable as far as material goes.  "}]