[{"Title":"One of Allen's Best","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just as I've found a newfound appreciation for Elvis Costello, I've likewise opened my heart to Woody Allen (my New Year's resolution be nicer to nerdy art-types).  I even saw Deconstructing Harry twice, (after which I read a Woody Allen collection of short pieces and rented both Bananas and Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex).  Hey, what can I say &#150; I thought The Purple Rose Of Cairo might've been a fluke, but I guess I'm just a Woody Allen fan now.Deconstructing Harry is laugh-out-loud funny, tracing the steps of Harry Block, a neurotic, foul-mouthed, Jewish, self-hating, pill-popping, womanizing alcoholic (three wives and six therapists later) that oddly enough, resembles Woody Allen and his own life (give or take a few things).  Block has (giggle) writer's block, and can't write about his life.  As a result, he becomes `unfocused,' entangling himself in fact and fiction (i.e. he interacts with his own characters).  `You expect the world to adjust to the distortion you've become,' Harry's analyst tells him.  What follows is a series of skits that interact with the past and present and the real and imagined &#150; it's kind of like watching a Kurt Vonnegut story edited by Quentin Tarentino.  The all-star cast is phenomenal Robin Williams is hilarious, Kirstie Alley is hysterically funny, Julia Louis-Dreyfus is super-sexy and  Elizabeth Shue is as sweet as sugar.  Billy Crystal even pulls off a good role as the Devil.  But other than the characterization, Woody's new flick is witty, cold-hearted, extremely vulgar, often tasteless and perfectly profane with enough catch-lines to keep film buffs cracking for years (`I always keep a little hooker money around').  Hannah And Her Sisters this ain't!  "},{"Title":"Allen at his best","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Regardless of what Woody Allen may do in real life, he surely shines through his films. Just like the main character in this film who can't seem to get personal matters resolved, Allen faces the same predicament each day. He lets his films do the talking and stays away from the limelight. Deconstructing Harry does him justice in a few sequences as to what he feels and how the media treats him.This film showcases some of Allen's better quirks when it comes to storywriting and directing. The much used jump cut effect helps to create a world that is disjointed from all else. When things are going fine, there are no jump cuts. However when things are less than opportune jump cuts add confusion to the scene and are used more often as the tension increases. The out of focus effect is the first of its kind and is very funny. The Robin Williams cameo didn't have much meaning, but his scene was one of the funniest due to him losing his touch. The same effect is used on Allen himself later in the film in another hillarious scene.The storyline has many layers and isn't at all confusing (as others may have you believe) to the viewer. The use of actors portraying actors in this film is pure Allen genius and is another way that this film differs itself from the crowd. It is not so much that one follows along to see what happens to Harry, but rather to see what is going to happen next. When Allen needs an entourage to go to his alma mater honouring, he ends up taking a very unlikely group. The humour is at times crude and pokes fun at his usual groups (ie - ultraorthodox jews, hookers, WASP's and just about everyone else).Allen uses his interesting techniques and smart plot to make this such a good film. One can only wonder how he always gets the foxes. At least he got Billy Crystal to play the devil. How fitting.8/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Allen's most underrated film","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It isn't as lovable as Annie Hall or Hannah and Her Sisters, and it's not as overtly philosophical as Crimes and Misdemeanors. And that's probably why Deconstructing Harry is underrated by film/Allen fans. Still, it ranks among the Top 5 Allen films. Woody plays a Philip Roth-like fiction writer who is lecherous, unlikable, and disloyal; in dropping his cute loser shtick, the performance rings with more honesty than he's had in years. In a nod to Bergman's Wild Strawberries, Allen's character has a chance to reflect on his life as he travels to a university for an honor. Memories mix with scenes this writer's fiction, providing opportunities for the large and excellent ensemble cast. Many of Allen's later films seem tired, but the neurotic jumpiness he brings to Deconstructing Harry reinjects energy into his work. If you loved Husbands and Wives, try this. I rate it 9.  "},{"Title":"Vulgar, funny, honest, sad, a little bizarre","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody bares his soul--again--and if the introspective vision of the sad clown (growing old) isn't what you're expecting, the film is likely to be a disappointment.  The film is funny, of course, and vulgar (as most Allen movies are), but it's also bitter and cynical, and rather sad.The jerky jump-cuts might be a stylized editing cover-up for jumping from take to take to utilise the best performances of a pantheon of actors, or they might be planned...I don't know.  I had to see a few of them before I settled into accepting them as the style, but I decided they work in this film.Other user comments complain about Woody and the sexy young women.  That bothers me in some films, but not here.  Here it's part of Harry's character--part of Woody's character--and is clearly part of his problem.I think this is an honest film, a sad and revealing film about one of the most clever and creative writers in America.  It's funny, it's witty, and it's also depressing. It has moments of pure, laugh-out-loud humour (eg. the elevator going down to the bottom floor of hell; Harry arriving at the honouring ceremony with a dead body, a prostitute, and his kidnapped son in the car), but underneath it's the story of a man who cannot function happily in real life, only in the fictions he creates.  Although fantasy plays a major role in the story, the story is not a fantasy.  The parallels between Allen himself and the character and plot he's created here are obvious.I enjoyed watching this video, and would recommend it-- selectively--to friends.  If you like the Allen sense of humour, want to see a fairly unusual editing style used effectively, want to see some superb acting cameos by some very talented actors, or have an interest in the torments of a neurotic middle-aged genius and how they might be revealed on film, then you'll like this movie. If this doesn't sound like your kind of thing, watch something else.  "},{"Title":"One of his better movies, where you can see the possibilities of true cinema","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sure some people wouldn't agree with me, but this movie is a great piece of art on film. Like Hitchcock, Coppola, and others, Woody Allen is a real cinema artist. He makes great use of the possibilities of cinema without losing himself in expensive special effects.Of course cinema is a medium to create a near-perfect realism on a fictional story. But it can also be an artistic medium. Playing with the possibilities. An example in this film is Robin Williams. A men who is 'out of focus'. The story is, like most films, not very original. A character that struggles with his personality and social life. But unlike most movies, you can see an artist made this film. It's a Woody Allen creation. His own style, his own characters, his own humor. Not a collection of an expensive scriptwriter with an expensive director, an expensive special effects team , an expensive director of photography etc. to make a total non-personal creation for the big public. Of course the whole crew did a perfect job, but it is surely a Woody Allen film!A great movie with a nice plot. Some nice switching in timeline and fiction / reality (for the story that is) makes it more interesting then the story really is. Also the jumpcuts, the camera movement, the cast and the humor are making this film a must see! Even if you are not a Woody Allen fan you will like this movie. If you are a fan of big blockbuster movies (standard Hollywood confention movies) this movie is a must see as well! Not only to see the real art of cinema (something different then perfect special effects) but also just for a nice evening and some good humor.  "},{"Title":"One Of Woody's Best","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In a string of films that recapitulate familiar themes, this one stands out as perhaps the loudest cry of anguish and self-loathing, and it's a comedy.Where Woody Allen has paid serious hommages to other artists' bleak heaviosity (his word) and inevitably come up short, here he does a blistering comic riff on two of the greatest films of the 20th century, Bergman's Wild Strawberries and Fellini's 8½. The parallels to the Bergman film are obvious and much discussed. The bits of Fellini are less often recognized, including the complaining wife, the impossible mistress, other people's demands creating a totally chaotic existence, closing with a yearning fantasy of getting everybody in his life together in one place and time to create harmony and wholeness. In Woody's version, we even have a double for Mia in the reunion, as if some kind of healing reconciliation were possible.So Woody hits the wall, looks at his life, can't stand any of it and rips the bark off his own skin. What can seem like self-indulgence in other films is not forgiven here. He writes scathing, vituperative attacks on himself for other character's mouths and the viewer can only gape.Lots of fun, but not for the whole family.The only mystery is why, at the time I write this, Imdb singles out such a lame misfire of a slam for the first page of this movie's entry. Just about anybody else who has posted has a better understanding of the film. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing Woody Allen","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny, very coarse, very Woody Allen. This movie  not only has autobiographical elements, Harry Block to a large extent is Woody Allen himself. I think never a director exposed the weaknesses of his own ego as mercilessly as Woody did in this film, descending into the deepest layers of the id, into the very depths of hell (literally, with all the molten lava and sulfur smoke that go with it)! But Woody Allen covers this merciless exercise of psychoanalysis with a thick cover of humor. It is also a very funny movie! "},{"Title":"A Tour De Force","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is Woody Allen's masterpiece. The editing is unlike anything else Allen has done, full of little cuts which give the movie a level of abstraction that raises you above the narrative thread. It was instantly my favorite Allen film and has remained so ever since. Praised when it came out for its unflinching honesty, it eschews the self-glorifying cuteness of his other quasi-autobiographical movies such as Stardust Memories and Annie Hall and even Manhattan.The main conceit of this movie is that Allen's character, writer Harry Block (get it?), meets his alter egos and other characters from his writing as though in real life. Block's characters have been modeled with almost no attempt to disguise them on his relatives and ex-relationships, which infuriates and sometimes devastates them. You have to follow very carefully to distinguish the real life relatives from the alter egos who spring to life from the pages of his books.Block has many very seamy weaknesses and peccadilloes which he readily admits and indulges without remorse. His real life relatives and exes submit him to scathing criticism and resentment, while their fictional counterparts contribute a more dispassionate and omniscient commentary on Block's misdeeds and poor judgment. The cast is among Allen's most star-studded and uniformly brilliant. It's always fun to watch actors appearing in their only Allen film, and there are many here. My favorite is Billy Crystal, who plays a friend of Block's who stole his lover--and also appears as the devil giving Block the cook's tour of the tenth circle of Hell.To maintain this complexity of voices requires brilliant writing, and Allen does not disappoint. My favorite quote isDoris Your whole life, it's nihilism, it's cynicism, it's sarcasm and orgasm. Block You know, in France, I could run on that slogan and win.If I were one for condescendingly dogmatic assertions, and I'm not, but if I were, I would tell you that if you do not love this movie, you are watching Woody Allen movies for the wrong reasons.For the record, rounding out my top five Allen movies are Mighty Aphrodite, Bullets Over Broadway, Small Time Crooks, and Stardust Memories, with honorable mention to Shadows and Fog. "},{"Title":"Profane Woody","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a shame that so much negative criticism focuses on Deconstructing Harry's bad language, because this is one of Allen's funniest, smartest and most perceptive films. In fact, it may actually be his best film full stop &#150; only Manhattan and Crimes and Misdemeanours can challenge Harry. But although the bad language and crudity may affect some people's enjoyment of the film, for me, as someone who loves bad taste, it's a major benefit, especially as it's a side of Allen we rarely see. I mean, we're used to the romantic Allen and the neurotic Allen, and we've even had serious Allen, but here you have Allen almost becoming Philip Roth. It's very enjoyable to watch.In this film, Allen's alter ego is Harry Block, a writer in the mould of Philip Roth who, in the words of one his exes, turns everyone else's suffering into literary gold. And this assertion is corroborated by the opening scene, a section from one his books where a man and a woman who are having an affair, during a barbecue, decide to have sex in a bathroom while their spouses are eating in the garden. It's a very funny scene, especially as an attempted blow-job is interrupted by a false alarm (the woman grinds her teeth when the man spots his wife) and as some doggy-style sex is interrupted by the woman's blind grandmother coming into the room (when asked what's happening, the woman tells her grandmother that she's making Martinis while they continue banging away). But while the scene is absolutely hilarious, it does also have a point. This is a scene from Harry's life. He's using it in his work. Therefore his ex isn't too happy to find this episode in his book. Of course, Harry tries to explain that it was 'loosely based' (the grandmother was an embellishment), but that doesn't cut much ice with his ex, who's having all of the sordid details of her affair revealed to friends and family. So the film touches on ideas of a writer's responsibility. What's exploitation and what's inspiration?One of the most revealing sections of the film is when Harry talks to his therapist. He discusses his attitude to women. I'm always thinking of f****** every woman I meet&#133; I see a woman on a bus. I think what she looks like naked. Is it possible I might f*** her? Essentially Harry is a man who has never grown up. He can't commit and he can't sustain a relationship with a woman, a fact backed up by his string of exes and his affection for prostitutes. Indeed, for him, whores are perfect. You don't have to woo them, they don't nag you and they do whatever you want; all you've got to do is pay them. And in the film, Harry takes Cookie, a black prostitute (Do you know what a black hole is? Harry asks her. Yeah, that's how I make my living.) with him to an honouring ceremony at his old school.Harry also takes a friend along with him and his young son &#150; well, he actually 'kidnaps' his son. And the whole journey, the whole act of going back to remember the past, brings back memories of stories he wrote, stories that are thinly veiled versions of actual events. One of the funniest is a story of a man who married his therapist. At first everything is great, the woman understands the man like no other woman in the world. But once they have a child she becomes Jewish with a vengeance. No longer is she smart and funny and sexy; all of a sudden she's a dowdy nag who's rediscovered her religion. And in one hilarious moment she even prays before administering a blow-job. Again it's highly amusing, but again it has a point; Harry wants everything to remain perfect. He can't understand why people have to change. I mean, even having a child doesn't change him. He talks to his son about naming his penis. He may be getting on, but he's still really just a kid.Harry's whole life philosophy is neatly summed up by his half-sister You have no values. With you it's all nihilism, cynicism, sarcasm and orgasm. To which Harry quips, Hey, in France I could run for office with that slogan, and win! But although Harry may be deemed to be juvenile, he's entirely correct about religion. He tells his devout sister that they're clubs and that their function is to exclude people. And then he asks her whether it bothers her more when a Jew gets killed or a gentile. She says a Jew death bothers her more &#150; They're my people. They're all our people, he replies. I'm with Harry. Religions are nothing but divisive. Plus they encourage people to prove how devout they are &#150; as if you can be more Jewish than someone else, or more Catholic etc. It all becomes a competition.But amongst all this, the only thing that Harry can do to remain sane is to write. Somehow life doesn't make any sense but fiction does. I guess it's a problem most writers have. To able to write you have to observe, but the more you observe the less you understand why people behave the way they do. Plus the more you observe the more you actually remove yourself from life. However, self-examination does allow Harry to become more perceptive as regards himself. In fact, his characters help him out a lot, as they offer insights that he couldn't possibly come up with alone. So although the film's coarse, it ends up being quite optimistic. Salvation lies within. "},{"Title":"The culmination of Woody's comeback in the 1990's","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow! Who would have thought Woody Allen would have ever produced this kind of movie? Extending the returning winning streak of great films he began with in 1993 after spending the late 80's and early 90's mired in morose drama, Deconstructing Harry is both a swipe at his detractors as well as himself. This is NOT your average Woody Allen film. It is profane, obscene and vulgar in its content and dialogue. As the main character, Woody is unlikable, selfish and morally bankrupt. However, it boasts an all-star cast put to great use. There is a unique editing and narrative method employed, great one-liners, and it is executed with Woody's usual comfortable confidence. Overall, it is an absolutely hilarious journey.Woody portrays Harry Block, an alcoholic, pill-popping, whore-frequenting writer whose thinly-veiled books that account the lives of his family & friends provide for successful stories but leave him at great odds with nearly everybody in his life. Harry soon learns that the college that once expelled him (for giving the Dean's wife an enema, it seems) is now honoring him for his literary contributions to the world. Harry brings along a sympathetic hooker, an ailing friend, and his son, whom he has half-heartedly kidnapped from school. Upon driving to the university, Harry begins to evaluate his life. Communicated in flashback, Harry reflects on the numerous relationships he's wrecked with his gluttonous ways and how he shamelessly incorporated those experiences into his novels, at the expense of others (the film showcases how these events happened in his own life, or how they appeared in the book - with different actors playing the fictional equivalents of his friends & relatives. It is a fantastic device, and Allen utilizes it to frenetic effect).Only the truest of Woody Allen fans will recognize this as one of his best films. Supposed fanatics clamoring for the sophisticated insights of Manhattan and Hannah & Her Sisters may be disappointed here. This is Woody Allen in a raw, unpolished form (which may account for the jerky, quick-cut editing). This is a battle-weary Woody emerging from the wreck that was his personal life in the early 1990's to give a big middle finger to his interrogators. The stellar cast does wonders, especially Woody regulars Caroline Aaron and the always-hysterical Judy Davis. Billy Crystal serves up his usual dry humor in a dual role as Harry's best friend as well as his fictional vision of the devil (You ever f**ked a blind girl? Ah, they're so grateful.) Allen does a great job of examining a man who is a failure at life but a success in his art. We'll never truly know how much of this is autobiographical, but it is a rare, fierce achievement for Woody Allen. Proceed with caution! "}{"Title":"Simultaneously narcissistic & self-critical, pretentious & profound","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's vainly revealing, yet mostly unflattering self-portrait-film succeeds by remaining increasingly challenging, surprising and offensive throughout its 1.5 hour runtime. With a large all-star cast of A-listers entertaining in supporting roles, Allen deftly blurs the lines between his real-life self and his on-screen character, between reality and fiction, between confabulation and recollection. His charming artistic talents and disturbing character flaws are on full display with equal transparency, finished off with a touch of his trademark cynicism. Allen's concluding self- assessment is both poignant and relevant for those of us privileged enough to live in the developed world.Not to be overlooked is the sometimes shocking black and blue comedy a mixture of tasteless sight gags, crude language and hyperbole that culminates in a perfectly outlandish final sequence that may or may not take place outside of our universe. The original and disoriented editing reinforces the dream-like quality of the picture and also charges viewers to confront the ways in which we voluntarily distort our own perceptions of reality. It is this insight that separates Deconstructing Harry from Allen's other pictures, which are generally shallow (albeit entertaining), self-serving examinations of love, lust and the meaning of life. Those who say that this film is mainly recycled material or that this is just an unapologetic attempt by Allen to repair his image have sadly missed the point. "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings...","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have been looking forward to seeing this film for quite a while, and when I finally had a chance I was pretty quick to take it up. As I started it, I regretted it immediately, I was bored and annoyed. Towards the end, it began to grow on me, but a lot just didn't do it for me.What I liked I absolutely love the concept and the story. I have not seen any like it. What I like most is that while there is an actual plot and external events, it's more of a character study. They take an unlikable character and give him plenty of depth and sympathy to make up for his brash decisions and opinions. I love Woody Allen as a writer. I also liked the short stories; how they were narrated, the actual relevance they had to Harry's problems and friends, and how they were somewhat diverse. It wasn't just about the message. I both liked and disliked the scenes where they would cut to the same shot. It is very reminiscent of Jean- Loc Goddard's Breathless, which at times gave it a very relaxed, more realistic feel, considering that you could interpret that there were probably moments of silence between conversation, like something that happens in real conversation. However, when you cut in mid-sentence or make too many quick cuts, it's distracting and annoying to try and listen.What I hated While I love that film is about Harry Block, I hated him. His guts, his obsession with sex, and the fact that he is so damn awkward. I hate Woody Allen as an actor. I appreciate when people stutter, pause, mix up words, or ramble in movies because that's what people do in real life. However, Woody Allen takes it and makes it absolutely obnoxious. His arms flail around, he never makes eye contact (or keeps his eyes on the road while driving).Overall, the word I would use to describe this movie is 'inconsistent,' with some scene being very funny and entertaining, while others made me want to scratch my DVD apart. "},{"Title":"Outline for a Masterpiece","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In a universe where things ran properly, Woody Allen would go back and remake DECONSTRUCTING HARRY and have a chance to set right the things that went wrong with it, and emphasize its many strong points.Unlike his later Hollywood ENDING, which was a total disaster, and ANYTHING ELSE, which was only slightly better, this film has a lot of intelligent things to say. As a bonus, it includes a small army of actresses- Caroline Aaron, Kirstie Alley, Judy Davis, Mariel Hemingway, Amy Irving, Julie Kavner, Demi Moore, Elizabeth Shue- who should be superstars and working all the time, but Hollywood just doesn't utilize them enough.Unfortunately, the film hits an awful lot of false notes. The editing is often jumpy, cutting forward in the middle of a sentence. Maybe this is supposed to duplicate a bored viewer using the fast forward on the remote. While I'm certainly not a prude, I found the constant profanity irritating. Cole Porter was right Writers who once knew much better words/Now only use four letter words/Writing prose/Anything goes.Allen may think that he's being hip and with it using this language. Unfortunately, he sounds like a senior citizen using affected speech. There are plenty of hacks writing direct to video teen comedies who can use these words.Worse yet, in this film Allen finally includes two non-white characters. One is Asian, the other Black. Sadly, they're both prostitutes.Woody was 62 when this came out. He surrounds himself with young, beautiful women. Hey, the guy's only going through life once. Give him a break. "},{"Title":"The alienated artist revisited.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen neve ceases to amaze me. I have seen pretty much all of his films now, and I must say that not one of them has disappointed me; Deconstructing Harry is no exception. In fact, this just may be his best since The Purple Rose of Cairo, a film that is thematically quite similar. Both films work with the theme of illusion vs. reality. There is the recurring amusement park with the ferris wheel.Anyway, despite the obvious Woody Allen elements, Deconstructing Harry marks a bit of a departure from his usual style. This film is much more vulgar, and bleak than many of his earlier achievements. However, this is not to say that it is not a funny film. Quite to the contrary, this film is hilarious, but I think you have to have the Woody Allen sense of humor to appreciate it.Deconstructing Harry is about a writer, Harry Block who feels alienated and isolated in the real world. The only place that he can function is in the world of fiction, where he would prefer to spend most of his time. His real world is a mess. He has been to six psychiatrists; he's been married three times, he has an addiction to prostitutes; he's a pill popper and an alcoholic. In fact, Harry represents the way a great number of creative artists and achievers feel in the real world. They are so consumed by their creativity, that the only way they know how to function is in their world of fiction or art.At the end of the film, Harry realizes that he is a character who can't function in life, but only in art. This is so true, and we realize it throughout the entire film. This is emphasized by the chaotic nature of his real life experiences, that I will not give away. One of the greatest aspects of the film is the editing style. Allen adopts the use of a recurring jump cut in all of the reality scenes to illustrate Harry's confusion and inability to cope with life. In a scene where he is speaking with a therapist, jump cuts are used to show his interrupted thought processes. Even when his life is going fairly normal, which isn't too often, a jump cut is inserted to constantly remind us of his distorted, alienated life, a life where illusion seems to be his reality, or at least his preferred reality. "},{"Title":"An American Classic!","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's Deconstructing Harry is a great movie. It is a Classic. The script is inspired and the Camera is assured. The performances and Direction are faultless. If we are all intelligent people then the swearing should count for nought.There is nothing to compare to a Woody Allen film. He is unique and should be regarded as one of America's great living film Directors but he is not. I find it incredible yet unsurprising that right now he is having to make films in Europe because the American Studio's won't produce him. It is not that his films are expensive long drawn out super-productions like those of the late David Lean or Ridley Scott. His productions are tight small affairs with a minimal crew and a cast that usually work for a lot less than their normal fee. I honestly feel that the American film going public is sourly losing out. Because of Allen's prodigious output the Dollar obsessed studios have tapped at their calculators and realised that his films do not make enough money. Art they might be but who wants art? The American general public just don't go and see his films. In England, Allen's last Movie Scoop was not even given Cinematic release! That is because all the English language distribution companies are American. What we watch in Europe is dictated by the American Studios and that accounts for the poor quality and lack of diversity that is offered in our charmless multiplex factories.It seems that American Movies are becoming less and less intelligent. They even seem to peddle a political agenda. Live Free or Die Hard for example. The title says it all. Films with unrelenting action, minimal script, pounding percussive scores and appalling Camera work, such as The Bourne Ultimatum are what the public want. The Bourne Ultimatum is currently at #81 according to the Internet Movie Data Base Top 250 films. The Jewish lobby in America has never really liked Allen's films and it is easy to see why. He is the only American Director that seriously questions faith and the purpose of religion in his films. What is worse is that his jibes are funny.I don't see what is wrong with films that allow the audience to think freely. They can still be exciting and violent, as Films by Takashi Miike or Zhang Yimou have proved. Woody Allen's Films always leave you with something to ponder. His films might not all be Classics but he has made his fair share of those and that is the mark of a great Director. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at his most personal and daring","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By all means, Deconstructing Harry will divide, and has divided, viewers, people may be put off by the odd cuts, the (deliberately) fragmented story and the crass language(which will be a shock even for Woody Allen fans). Personally though Deconstructing Harry was a great film and among the best of Allen's 90s output and among his best overall as well. True, the pacing is too erratic in places but compared to how truly brilliant everything else that made no difference to me. The film may not be as visually beautiful as, say, Manhattan and Purple Rose of Cairo(but it was never was meant to be, it's not that kind of film), but while the photography may be deemed odd by some with the jump cuts it was really interesting and fitted perfectly with the subject matter. The scenery and such are lovely and authentic as usual. The soundtrack again, as is true of Allen, is very well chosen and catchy and never feels misplaced. The humour and script are very, very crass and scathing which was a shock to me on first viewing and for other people as well seeing as Allen has never been more bitter, but is so cleverly written and hilarious with a tinge of sadness the approach works wonders. Allen has plenty to say here and he doesn't hold anything back and presents it bluntly, it seems that he was having troubles personally(like Stardust Memories where he showed frustration at his critics except that was done much more subtly) at the same and there is that sense here. The story is unusually structured and very ambitious, almost fragmented, but never to the state of incoherence, and there are some really effective and hilarious scenes like the explicit sex scene and the one in hell. The character relationships are beautifully and insightfully done and the characters are written scathingly but not to the point of completely hating them(the mistake that Anything Else did). The acting is great from everyone, Kirstie Alley is cute and funny, Elizabeth Shue is sweet while not being too sugary, Robin Williams is just hilarious and Billy Crystal is devilishly good, pun intended. But Allen is the one who deserves a lot of the credit here, Deconstructing Harry has some of his most unique direction, perhaps a very close second to Zelig, and one of his best performances too. Overall, personal, daring, blistering and hilarious, one of Woody Allen's better films but one of his most divisive and (to me and quite a lot of other fans) under-valued. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing HarryDeconstructing Harry is a comedy by Woody Allen, starring him as Harry Block. We follow him and his thoughts, while heading to his old school, where he will be honoured for his work as a writer.The cast is very large to mention it all, there is Robin Williams, Demi Moore, Julia Louis- Dreyfous and many more. Everyone of them plays his part very well.Woody Allen, steals the show as the unstable writer, who is unable to love so he cheats to every women he is with. That leads to a bad attitude from everyone to him. We are shown the inner self of Harry, moments of his life that shaped his character and beliefs and also inspired his stories.The fascinating thing about this film is the way it presents those moments. We actually see them as Harry has portrayed them in his mind and stories, that means we see other faces, who are the distiguised versions of him and the people around him.The humorous moments in the film are plenty. I laughed so much at the scene, when the blind grandma. I also liked the scene, where Harry tries to convince Larry (Billy Crystal), who is now the devil, that he is a bigger sinner than him.I almost felt sorry for him, when he learned about his ex girlfriend's and his ex best friend's marriage. It looks like she was the only woman he really loved and cared about.I think this film portrays perfectly the way people become cynical and the way the face problems and other situations these days.One thing I didn't like was the odd cuts in many scenes. I thought maybe it served a purpose, but it still looked bad to me. However, it is a minor thing.To sum it up, it was a really good movie, with plenty of humor. It was fun to watch, so I recommend it. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing the indestructible","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Harry Block (Woody Allen) is a neurotic, jittery, pill-popping author, condemned by those who known him well, and hailed by those who don't know him at all. Block has written lengthy, verbose novels that are thinly-disguised to hide the real relationships in his life, and for that reason, he has successfully alienated himself from all of his formers friends and family members. He often spends his days lonely, drinking, and hanging out with prostitutes, who he pays ample amounts of money to in order to get a quick-fix.The current silver-lining in Block's sad, dreary existence is that he will soon be recognized in a forthcoming ceremony by the university that kicked him out. He desperately wants company when he embarks on this trip, but because his novels have made it impossible for people to sympathize or like him on any level, he is left with quite a challenge. Even his ex-wife forbids him to spend the day with his young son so he can see his father may not be such a loser after all.Woody Allen's Deconstructing Harry is many things, but one of the most notable is it exists as an ode to the films of acclaimed Swedish director Ingmar Bergman. The film's plot alone mirrors that of Wild Strawberries, one of the man's most loved, which centered on a man and his pregnant daughter-in-law driving through the country so he could be granted with an award. The film made the tricky but probable analysis that a man can be loved by those who don't know him and simultaneously be hated by those who know him all too well. It was a tremendous achievement in foreign cinema and, in my opinion based on what I've seen thus far, Bergman's best film.Furthermore, this is one of Allen's darkest efforts to date. Not only is the film's protagonist almost remorseless in his treatment of others, but the way certain scenes are written and executed truly question how we're exactly supposed to respond. Take for example the scene when Block's panic attacks get the best of him and he needs to be consoled by a hooker he invited over the night before. While the relationship is nice - and without a doubt deeper than most prostitute/client relationships - it definitely shows just how depressing and almost broken Block's life is to the point where he needs to be reassured and comforted by a prostitute.The nihilism and cynicism of Allen's work shockingly doesn't become the detraction in the film, whereas the choppy narrative does and questionable ending does. The narrative, which continues to bounce between the current events in Block's life and the past events/relationships he held, is a bit too erratic and jumbled, quickly switching back and forth between the past and present with only a moderate amount of continuity. Not to mention the ending feels a bit put-on and unbelievable considering all that Block has put up with during the course of the film.Returning to the thought that the film is one giant homage to the works of Bergman, consider Allen's comically potent portrayal of the Devil here. Bergman made the Devil a living, breathing character in his film The Seventh Seal and made the film very existential and thought-provoking. Allen pays close attention-to-detail in terms of character relations and how one person after another is presented here. He animates the Devil character (played by Billy Crystal) terrifically here, using the right amount of black humor and comic-timing.Deconstructing Harry is a cynical delight of a film making exceptional use of Allen's writing/directing talents, but also the immensity and diversity of the cast at hand. Each star, whether it be Kirstie Alley, Julia Louise-Dreyfus, Tobey Maguire, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crystal, or Robin Williams, gets their own time to shine in the picture and all of them feel welcome and completely in-place in Allen's darkly funny world. It's once again apparent that Allen can make deeply personal, intriguing pictures, yet still be so foreign to his audience as a whole.Starring Woody Allen, Caroline Aaron, Kirstie Alley, Bob Balaban, Richard Benjamin, Eric Bogosian, Billy Crystal, Judy Davis, Hazelle Goodman, Mariel Hemingway, Amy Irving, Julie Kavner, Eric Lloyd, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Tobey Maguire, Demi Moore, Elisabeth Shue, Stanley Tucci, and Robin Williams. Directed by Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"It's me thinly disguised&#x85; in fact, I don't even think I should disguise it any more &#x96; it's me.","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is probably Woody Allen's most interesting and controversial film from his troubled 90s period.Coming at the height of turmoil in his personal life, the same year that Deconstructing Harry was released, Allen married Soon Yi Previn and the world was given an insight into their relationship in the rewarding documentary Wild Man Blues (6). Deconstructing Harry sees him slam reality and fiction together, giving (except for one exception) an expletive-free and free-flowing series of fantasy vignettes with jump- cut, foul-mouthed bites of reality. For this reason more than any other it's a film that could upset Allen purists, as his attempt to capture real life sees multiple uses of the word f*** and even the c word coming from Woody's lips on two occasions.Is the film misogynist? Possibly. Woody certainly appears to have anger towards women here, and while the ladies of the night so romantically depicted in the likable-but-bland Mighty Aphrodite (6) are here whores and hookers, there's also more than an element of racial patronage. The adjoinder from an African American prostitute over whether she knows what a black hole is (Yeah... that's how I make my living) is probably the most repellent line in an Allen film, bar none.Even today Woody is still capable of making watchable films, but they're rarely essential and tend towards the reactionary. Little of his later period has come close to matching the vibrancy and sheer anxiety-based energy of Deconstructing Harry. This is Woody venting his spleen for the masses, and seeming to toy with the playing himself questions. It may not be pleasant to watch, but it's never dull.Again, his Jewish fixations can be offensive, though the scenes with his sister and brother-in-law are amongst the funniest in this not quite laugh-a-minute vehicle. I loved the bit where he tells his sister's husband I think you're the opposite of paranoid. I think you go around with the insane delusion that people like you. Yeah, most of the jokes at this stage in his career are recycled, but they're given a new take by the level of unsettling acidity contained in this picture. Annie Hall this isn't.The 1990s won't be remembered as a golden age for Allen's work, a period where he was getting more laughs voicing a cartoon ant than in his own movies. Altogether he wrote and directed ten new films, as well as a grating TV movie of his 60s play/film Don't Drink The Water (4). Films like Alice (5), Manhattan Murder Mystery (6) or Shadows and Fog (5) are watchable yet forgettable, the first decade for Allen where the so-so outnumbered the good. Yet there's still some first rate work in his 90s period, with Husbands and Wives (7) treading familiar ground but in subtle new ways. Sweet and Lowdown (7), a biopic of a fictitious jazz musician, brims with invention... though his first musical, Everyone Says I Love You (q.v.) sadly does not.Perhaps most notable in the 90s is the casting of actors to play the Woody Allen role, as he was entering his 60s and perhaps straining even his own much-tested formula of young girl falls for older intellectual. In this regard then Kenneth Brannagh surprisingly does a better job than John Cusack, playing a substitute in the rewarding Celebrity (7), as opposed to Cusack's turn in the jarring Bullets Over Broadway (5). Which brings us back to Deconstructing Harry, as Allen originally had no wish to star in the lead.Deconstructing Harry isn't a pleasant film to watch by any means. It's crass, foul-mouthed and even obnoxious on occasion. But the fragmented, sketchy nature of events and inventive sequences make it an easier viewing experience than an extended narrative. Not only that, but in watching something which appears to be such a personal statement, then it may not be Allen's most likable or accomplished film, but it remains one of the most intriguing. "},{"Title":"Harry is a writer, Block.","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another all-star cast, another central role played by writer-director Woody Allen and another look at a character full of flaws and neuroses, we're in very familiar territory this time around.Allen plays Harry Block, a writer who is struggling for the first time in his life with writer's block and who is also tense about an upcoming honour he is to receive from his old school. As he tries to iron out the many wrinkles in his life and deal with his worries he finds himself encountering many of his literary creations (both fictional and in the form of the real, living people he based them upon) and getting advice from them along the way.The notion of the artist confronted by his creations and the consequences of his work is a good one and the weaving of the fantasy strands through the reality of the piece allows for a lot of fun (especially when comparing a fictional character to the real person they were based on) but this film, overall, just somehow misses the mark.The script isn't quite sharp enough, none of the performers get enough time to make a good impression and nothing feels as if it's actually moving a narrative along from start to finish. With a cast including Bob Balaban, Judy Davis, Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Richard Benjamin, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Eric Bogosian, Kirstie Alley, Julie Kavner, Tobey Maguire, Stanley Tucci, Tony Sirico, Demi Moore and Elisabeth Shue it's a real shame that nobody gets a chance to shine. Billy Crystal gets to have the most fun but Robin Williams stars in the most enjoyable fantasy sequence as an actor who one day suddenly goes out of focus.As others have said, this is worth seeing as a companion piece to Stardust Memories (with that being about the director and this being about the writer) but I just found myself watching long sections of the film without actually, properly enjoying it. "}{"Title":"'re-make' of Wild Strawberries!!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** Did anybody notice that this film is loosely inspired by Bergman's 'Wild Strawberries'? That film which is the first 'road movie' that I know of, and is also about an old man who hits the road on his way to accept an award at a university, who fills the car with an odd assortment of people and flashes-back incessantly on his life and oeuvre while going through a major life-crisis; the parts where Woody is allowed to look on at his sister as she talks about him is taken directly from the Bergman film. And, whereas in Strawberries, it is revealed that the protagonist was in love with the girl (Bibi Anderson) who eventually married his brother, in Woody's film, it's the protagonist who dumps his n'th wife (Amy Irving) and is sleeping with her sister - though actually, in this case, he dumps her too and ends up with Elizabeth Shue... Allen out-philanders Bergman... Anyway, both are great films and it's not surprising that Woody uses his all-time hero Ingemar as a model.  But personally, I'd take make-me-wanna-cry gorgeous blond Ingrid Thulin over the nevertheless-cute blond Elizabeth Shue any day!! "},{"Title":"To be alive is to be happy","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No synopsis can begin to do justice to the plot of this, Allen's most satisfying and complex picture. The main characters come in two versions the real ones (within the context of the film) and Harry's fictionalised versions. You have to see the film twice just to sort out which characters are real and which are fictional. In addition we see several of Harry's short stories in a case of mistaken identity, Death comes to call on Harvey Stern as he is impersonating a rich friend and entertaining a Chinese hooker; Robin Williams plays a film actor who is out of focus in real life until his family put on special spectacles; a Jewish woman discovers that her husband murdered his first wife and their children and then ate them, he upbraids her for her censoriousness saying 'some bury, some burn, I ate'.Allen departs from his usual lovable nerd screen persona to portray a foul-mouthed philandering, pill-popping, hard-drinking, whore-chasing b*****d. There are the usual obsessions psychoanalysis, Jewishness, young women and older men, Chinese women, whores and also a new obsession with blowjobs.Allen is more than usually critical of the Jewish religion in this film. Harry attacks it for its exclusivity when arguing with his sister, suggesting that to be pro-Jewish is to be anti-human being. He writes the particularly vicious story about the wife-eating Jew and says, on the subject of the holocaust 'Not only do I believe that we lost six million but the scary thing is that records are made to be broken'.The film contains two female tours de force. In the first, Judy Davis as his wife's sister, bursts into his flat and hurls a tirade of obscene abuse on Harry before trying to shoot him because he has written about their affair in his latest novel. In the second, Kirstie Alley, his psychotherapist wife, alternates calm professionalism with a terrified patient on the couch with insane rage at Harry over his cheating.I found Allen's latest alienation device quite unsettling. He uses rough editing to make the action jump. The first couple of times it happened I thought there was something wrong with my video-recorder until I realised that it was deliberate. On the whole though, his directing technique is increasing in subtlety. There are no reaction shots to tell you when to laugh. Some of the jokes you only notice on a second viewing and they are all the funnier for that.The cast contains many Allen veterans plus the usual cameos from such as Richard Benjamin, Billy Crystal, Mariel Hemingway, Amy Irving, Elisabeth Shue and Stanley Tucci. The music is as gorgeous as ever. In a film where you want to listen to every word I sometimes found myself listening to the music instead. Highlights include Django Reinhart and Coleman Hawkins playing Out of Nowhere, Ben Webster and Errol Garner playing All the Things You Are, Benny Goodman playing Sing, Sing, Sing and Annie Ross singing Twisted.Finally, perhaps the bitterest line in the whole film. Harry is sitting in jail when his friend, who has just died of a heart attack, appears to him. 'I just want to be happy', complains Harry. His friend replies 'To be alive is to be happy &#150; take it from me'. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this film...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen used to be one of my heroes. I love many of his earlier films, Annie Hall, Radio Days, Hannah and Her Sisters, among others. But lately he seems to be stuck in a caricature of himself. I found this film almost painful to watch. It's like Woody is trying to exorcise his real-life demons on screen, but the humour and brilliance of the earlier films is lacking here. He surrounds himself with beautiful, young women in a pathetic attempt to convince us that he is still virile and attractive. But it's not believable anymore. It's time to make films about a 62 year old man, Woody. Time to grow up. "},{"Title":"Another Allen film that's grown on me","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently re-watched this on DVD and was surprised to find I liked it much more than on seeing it in the theater on it's initial release. (Something that's happened to me with a number of more recent Woody Allen films).I recalled it as misogynistic and self serving. While it still has moments of those qualities, it feels like Allen is toughest of all on himself. But is he tough enough? This is certainly the worst, most abrasive and selfish Allen has ever let himself look on screen, but there was still a feeling of pulling his self-aimed punches just a bit. Sort of an All That Jazz lite. The film has a good number of very funny lines, and creative ideas (Robin Williams as an out- of-focus actor is a brilliant concept), and its fun to see a filmmaker Allen's age pushing his style limits, with jump cuts and multi-layered construction. Still, it starts to repeat its own ideas after a while, both literally and thematically, and the ending feels a bit wimpy. While far from Allen's best, its still a dense, funny, thoughtful film, something increasingly rare in American cinema. "},{"Title":"Harry Block Six shrinks later, three wives down the line, and I still can't get my life together.","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry (1996) is Woody Allen's angriest, busiest, most neurotic, most complex, most personal with the funniest one-liners film that effortlessly moves from past to present, from reality to the world of imagination, and from funny bits to contemplation on serious and personal subjects so rapidly that you have to watch closely in order not to get lost in all these worlds. Allen plays Harry Block, a famous writer suffering from the writer's block and also from inability to survive in real world, to be happy and to make the people in his life happy, Six shrinks later, three wives down the line, and I still can't get my life together. Harry can't get his life together but he can write and he has put himself and all people he knows including his wives, friends, girl-friends, and his sister into his last novel. His art imitated life so closely that real people recognized themselves in the fictional characters very easily and now Harry lives through the nightmare of confronting near everybody he has ever known as well as the fictional characters, offended, infuriated, and insulted, who all rush in anger to face him You have no values. With you it's all nihilism, cynicism, sarcasm, and orgasm. By its structure,Deconstructing Harry reminds the earlier film by one of Allen's favorite directors, Ingmar Bergman, Wild Strawberries. As Professor Borg, Harry Block travels by car to upstate New York, where his college that expelled him as an undergraduate now wants to honor him as a world renowned belletrist. He travels by car with three unlikely companions, a hooker, a friend with bad heart, and his 9-years-old son whom he had kidnapped from school. As in Wild Strawberries, Allen's film provides sincere, intelligent, and emotional contemplations of life's disappointment, regrets, and losses but at the same time, it is hilarious as only Allen's films can be. One of the best scenes of the film is Harry's descent on the elevator to air-conditioned Hell where in the ninth circle he meets the Devil who looks very much like Billy Crystal. Another wonderful scene concerns a married couple where after thirty years of happy uneventful marriage a wife learns some interesting eating habits from her husband's previous life. I can go on for long time. As often in the case of Allen's movies, with the modest running time of 96 minutes, Deconstructing Harry is expertly shot, boasts an amazing cast (Billy Crystal, Judy Davis, Bob Balaban, Elisabeth Shue, Demi Moore, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Tobey Maguire, and Stanley Tucci just to name a few), and is in my opinion one of the most interesting and personal Allen's films. "},{"Title":"A great film from woody allen","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While suffering from writer's block and eagerly waiting to receive an award, Harry Block remembers events from his past and scenes from his best-selling book come back to haunt him. This was a great Woody Allen film, for any fan of Allen, this film is a must. But personally, it wasn't among the very best Allen films in my eyes, and i rate Woody Allen very high (hes one of my top 5 directors), thats not to say this film is not good, i liked it a lot, but i have seen even better from Allen (purple rose of cairo, annie hall and more recently melinda & melinda or Celebrity). The performances are very good in this film, but its Allen's witty screenplay which makes it all work, and his directorial hand is also not bad here, keeping it interesting throughout. Robin Williams' performance is very good, he should do more work with Woody Allen--- IMDb Rating 7.1, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"A true Woody Allen!","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm going to be honest with you guys. I'm not his biggest fan, but I like his movies. I don't love them in a way I watch them over and over again but I do like them. Woody Allen managed to create his own style in such a way they don't fit in to any other particular genre. He has created his own genre.This was only the second Woody Allen that I saw. I've seen Husbands and Wives as well. I liked Deconstructing Harry, but I liked Husbands and Wives just a little bit more. How should I describe this movie? Like I already said, it's a true Woody Allen. That should say enough! The story is kind of a mess, more precisely it has a lot of subplots and many, many characters. There is a lot of talking as well in this movie, but hey, that's Woody Allen. What's also typical is that we are dealing with real characters, although that 'real' could be tending to what we would call in English 'head cases'.Overall a good and enjoyable Woody Allen. Furthermore I'm really looking forward to seeing his magnus opus Annie Hall. Meanwhile this was a nice Woody Allen as well.7/10 "},{"Title":"Still better than most Hollywood garbage","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie a view times. I would agree that this is not the best of his movies. However, it is still superior to most Hollywood garbage. The kind of honest writing that this movie has that seems down to earth and not full of cheap tactics to grab the audience's attention is an example of why I still love Woody Allen movies. I have very few complaints about his work although my favorite films are definitely over 10 to 15 years old. I would still recommend it to Woody Allen fans.The film making is thought provoking. the film's characters' life is hectic, disorganized and falling apart at the seams, Meanwhile his creative works are organized and stable. If you watch closely you will notice that the camera work is jumpy, chaotic and unstable during the scenes that depict his personal life. The camera work in The scenes that are depicting the stories written by the main character are steady, organized and calm. I thought it was still pretty rare to find something this thoughtful in a movie.I think that Allen may be getting progressively self-indulgent. I think it is a little painful to see him pairing himself with gorgeous blonds and other young model types (curse of the Jade Scorpion and Hollywood ending are great examples). For the simple reason that one of his best qualities in his comedy was his self-deprecating style that seemed to differentiate himself from the run of the mill movie star films. This being said, this movie is not a good example of his increasing self-indulgence.It actually shows Woody loose the girl to a younger (Crystal who really isn't that young) more hip man-of-the-world. In this film, you see the character having to face reality, which pains him because he can only functionally exist in a world of fantasy. This is interesting content.Part of the problem is there are such great expectations with such an all star cast (Williams and Crystal for example). I would say this is far from his ground-breaking work. The jokes aren't that hilarious and the acting is just OK ,with the exception of the more relaxed/sincere scenes with Bob Balaban. It is still 10 times more intelligent than the average movie. Movies that has to use buckets of blood and flashes of naked bodies just to keep you awake.I would not recommend this movie for anyone with a short attention span. In fact I wouldn't recommend this film unless you have seen Woody's earlier films first (like Bananas, Annie Hall etc). However, I am a fan of Woody's writing and film making and I still enjoyed it quite a bit. "},{"Title":"Fantastic! Full of laughs and energy!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was hoping for a good Woody Allen movie and it was far better than I had hoped for. Plenty of clever dialogue and funny situations and lots of energy. The energy level reminded me of Husbands and Wives while parts of the fantasy world reminded me of Stardust Memories. And the main character (not to mention the presence of Richard Benjamin) made me think of Philip Roth. "},{"Title":"no place but up","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody has sunk to a new low. Rampant mscogyny, non stop narcissism and no plot to get in the way. Add to it the jerky documentary style cuts and you have the longest movie experience in recent history.To put it into one word, Stink-a-roo! "}{"Title":"It's more than a comedy","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think after Anie Hall it's the second masterpiece of Woody Allen .Allen showed that after years passed he is still fresh and full of new ideas.back and forth between real world and the fictional world really reminded the Anie Hall.the structure of the film is deconstructing and experimentalnarrative form of the movie is suspended between past and present,full of flash back and forwards,fast rhythm and jump-cuts.it is a new form of storytelling that is nicely done in the movie.The subject and the main story of the film is as the same as the other Allen's worksagain we focus on an artist's life,his relations with women,meaning of God,love and then.but this time Woody Allen is on the top making a great combination of comedy and deep meanings.comedy that we see it at the fictional part of the movie and the tragic moments that we see them at the real part made a comedy that has something more than funny scenes.it's a story about a writer that apparently is successful but when look at him deeply we see he has lots of failures in his personal life.in fact the main idea of the film isan artist only can live in his world of imaginations and not in the real world. the last sequence of the movie is a wonderful happy ending,encounter of despair and hope,an unusual happy ending that is smartly out of cliché.it's a scene in which we can understand the whole meaning of the film. as you know the film is conflicted with a lot of important subjects like the meaning of God,actual love,the meaning of guilt and death.these are very serious subjects that at the first sight look very indigestible for a comedy but the secret of success is the fact that beside the comic scenes,in depth all these serious subjects are answered.I think this deconstructing Harry is the best combination of comedy and deep meanings in a film. "},{"Title":"Overly shrill and redundant","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am not a die-hard Woody fan by any means, but he has given us numerous gems over the years. I consider Deconstructing Harry very minor Woody Allen fare. He's been down this road before, and more effectively and with less gratuitous profanity. Certainly there are numerous laugh-out-loud moments, and there's the added creativity of the real characters vs. fictional characters interacting. I loved Bob Balaban's deadpan expressions, the huge and diverse cast, and the beauty of Elisabeth Shue. I was turned off by the constant shrillness of too many of the characters (Kirstie Alley was especially annoying), and the redundancy and overkill of the dialog. I'll leave it to others to decide if the overabundance of profanity makes for clever or lazy screen writing. I would recommend any number of other Woody films ahead of this one.... Annie Hall, Manhattan, Sleeper, Radio Days, Husbands and Wives, or Broadway Danny Rose, just to mention a few. "},{"Title":"Lacks coherence","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about the life of a writer and the characters he created.This film tests new techniques. The scenes are not smoothly presented, but jump from one second to the next like fast forwarding. I applaud Woddy Allen for trying new techniques, but I think the effect of such a technique is that it annoys viewers.Woody Allen's character is paranoid as usual, but not to the comic level as seen in Anything Else. Jokes are there and they are funny, especially the scene with Demi Moore turning red then white. However, I feel that the film lacks coherence and the scenes do not flow from one to the next. "},{"Title":"Really funny, but also really bitter and full of apparent self-loathing","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Harry Block is a writer who tends to thinly veil his won life in his art.  His tendency to mock his friends and family through similar characters in his work has left him with three ex-wives and a huge number of people who hate him.  He lives a lonely life and has a penchant for pills and whore (prostitution being pure and totally free of BS).  When his college plans to honour him he finds he has no-one who wants to go with him, so he &#145;kidnaps' his son, a black whore and an old friend with him.  As the characters from his work come and go around him, he finds that he struggles to make amends with those around him and decides than he can only be happy in his work.This is a fantastic Woody Allen film, and his only film to be rated 18 in the UK.  The story seems to be a very clear, very personal attack on himself.  It's like Allen is using a fictional story (going to be honoured by his college) to lay himself bare.  Certainly Block's habit for using his own life in his work seems to echo accusations towards Allen in real life.  At times this makes the film really hard to watch, some scenes are so full of apparent self-loathing and bile that it's hard to laugh.  Happily the film is hilarious all the way through - this is not one of Allen's arty, serious films.  It should be said that Allen denies that this is as personal as it appears but it is easy to see why it is seen as a personal attack on himself.The film's main story is littered with scenes from Block's work that demonstrate how he has used his characters to mock others and to portray himself - Robin Williams is the best as the artist that literally lacks focus and Crystal is hellishly good.  The story's moral about art and life is not as clear or as clever as it thinks it is, but it's very, very funny and the level of bile Allen appears to be spitting at himself is very interesting to observe.Allen is great in the central role, but you do occasionally feel like you should look away at times because he appears to be giving himself a real kicking.  The rest of the cast is really good and is full of famous faces ranging from big stars (Moore, Crystal, Alley, Williams) to familiar faces (Maguire, Bogosian, Louis-Dreyfus, Shue, Tucci).  As a director Allen does some new tricks to make this feel even more different from his other films, but the jump cuts etc are a little tiresome.  The most important character to me is Cookie.  She is significant because Allen has not really ever created a good black character (even if she is a prostitute).Overall this is a really funny film.  The degree of vitriol that Allen appears to aim towards himself makes this a little less enjoyable but overall it is a great film. "},{"Title":"Honest Woody Allen","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of Allen's most personal and honest films as it seems to touch on his private life and expose it for the painful and raw persona it can be to many people. Here he portrays a writer who is not any,person's idea of a role model but rather a selfish, drug and whore abusing self centered writer who has the balls to admit that this exactly who and what he is.The narrative is propelled through the family friends he is forced to interact with on a specific day that goes every way wrong can go involving his ex and bitter wife who he used as a thinly veiled plot device in his recent novel, his son who brings along with a hooker to a school awards ceremony.The film meanders between the classic get a laugh Allen and the ponder existence Allen both notable and always worth a watch. "},{"Title":"The Vulgar, Angry Side of Woody Allen","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen has had his way with so many women here it's hard to keep track (of them.) Judy Davis, Elizabeth Shue and Kirstie Alley are just a few of them. What's even more bizarre is keeping up with actors who enacting scenes from his books who represent him and his exes. The actors themselves are as usual very good in his films, especially Judy Davis. I won't begin to discuss the comparison to his personal life as other reviewers have, but I won't try to hide the fact I just didn't get the real point of this. I was disappointed in its obvious use of expletives of not only the f word but the c word women don't like. It's very hard to take, especially the anger of the women yelling at him (psychiatrist Kirstie during a session with a patient on the couch having to endure such hostility) and Woody cussing a blue streak, calling his exes those words. This is a very angry movie, and I was surprised to see it was nominated for original screenplay. The craftsmanship or outline of plot and characters and some Citizen Kane-like attributes may make this a little more interesting to some, but if you are used to Hannah' and the like, you may find this to be too offensive. I admit lead characters are not always likable in movies, but it detracts from the enjoyment factor even if the film has other merits. This was definitely from his low point in the 1990s, and one, that honestly, despite the fact I thought I remembered liking this, has gotten not worth my time to watch, with better Woody Allen films to see. "},{"Title":"love the idea at first but tired of the character","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Harry Block (Woody Allen) has angered his former sister-in-law Lucy (Judy Davis) with his latest semi-autobiographical novel. In it, her fictionalized character is having an affair with him while he's still married to her sister. She almost kills him for using the truth. He's quite successful but is having writer's block. He wants to take his son to an award ceremony but his ex-wife Joan (Kirstie Alley) won't allow it. His young girlfriend Fay (Elisabeth Shue) is getting married to his former best friend Larry (Billy Crystal). As Harry talks about his books, different actors play the fictionalized version of the people in his life.I love the meta of this movie. I'm not saying Woody Allen is actually this character in real life but he has played versions of this self-absorbed neurotic character. He's sex-obsessed, ugly and selfish. I also love the little vignettes depicting his novels. However, it does get overwhelming and tiring. Eventually I got sick of this character. Although I'm sure that's part of the point for Woody. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing Allen.","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry (1997) Dir Woody Allen / Cast Woody Allen, Kirstie Alley, Billy Crystal, Elisabeth Shue, Judy Davis Unique, funny and sometimes offensive comedy about self analysis. Harry Block is played by Woody Allen and he wrote a novel regarding his sex life and certain women are furious. You told our whole story! shrieks one victim. It chronicles Harry's hunger for sex weaving in short stories of past relationships. Kirstie Alley plays his shrink and ex-wife who objects to their son accompanying him to a university where he is to be honored. Detailed with great visual aid including a dream sequence set in Hell that is questionable at best. Allen uses wit and cutting-edge humour to create realism and satire as he used in Annie Hall and Hannah and Her Sisters. Harry has a great relationship with Elisabeth Shue but fears of losing her to best friend Billy Crystal, who has a scene where he is seen as Satan. Alley displays frustration and anger particularly when Harry disobeys her and takes their son on a forbidden road trip. Judy Davis arrives brandishing a gun cursing Harry's references to her in his book, as well as her association with him. Terrific ensemble cast that enter throughout within pivotal moments within Harry's troubled existence. Portrait of someone who cannot function in life but rather within the world he creates through his work. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Couldn't get the humour! 3/10","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Review I tried my best to get into this movie, but I ended up falling asleep. It's not that I didn't understand the whole writers block theme, but I just didn't find it interesting or entertaining. I'm still struggling to get into Woody Allen's writing and direction, which requires a warped sense of humour. There are some great stars in the movie, like Robin Williams and Demi Moore, but the movie is based around Woody Allen who is struggling to write his next book and finds it hard to hold down a relationship. The concept wasn't bad, but I couldn't keep up with the script which relies on words more than actions. Anyway, if your a Woody Allen fan then this movie isn't that bad, but I'm still trying to find out why he is so well respected in the movie world. Disappointing!Round-Up After watching a documentary about Woody Allen, I've decided to try out a few of his movies, but this wasn't the best one to start with. All of the actor's give there all, like in most Woody Allen movies, but I'm still a bit sceptical about his writing. Judging by the amount of money that the movie lost, I'm not alone by thinking that this movie wasn't that good, but he still gets all of the big name actors/actresses wanting to star in his movies. Maybe his earlier work is better than his later work. Budget $20million Worldwide Gross $10.5millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a struggling writer who uses his own personal life to come up with ideas for his next book. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Refreshingly Harsh But Also Rather Unengaging","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is one of Woody Allen's most caustic movies, but it's also the most episodic film he had created since the goofy skit-comedy movies he directed in the early 1970s. Therefore, while I admired Deconstructing Harry for going places Allen hadn't really gone before, I also found it to be somewhat unengaging, since everything takes place at an abstract level.The film has a dynamite conceit Allen plays a writer who meets all of the alter egos and loosely fictionalized characters his imagination has brought to life, many of them with not very nice things to say to him. The movie has the confessional feel you might expect given the film's title, but it's broken into so many fragments that you never become involved in the narrative. The criticism is almost a compliment -- Allen recreates the feeling of spending time inside someone's (read, his) fractured psyche too well.Grade B "}{"Title":"Raw Woody","Date":"23 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen stars in Deconstructing Harry, a film of his own invention, of course, written and directed by him, with an all-star cast including Demi Moore, Judy Davis, Richard Benjamin, Julia Louis-Dreyfuss, Billy Crystal, Elisabeth Shue, Bob Balaban, Robin Williams, Amy Irving, Mariel Hemingway, Stanley Tucci and Kirstie Alley. Woody plays Harry, an author who has turned the situations of those around him into thinly-disguised stories and novels. Many of these incidents, involving wives and girlfriends, he relives throughout the film, with other people playing Harry and the other people involved. For instance, Julia Louis-Dreyfus plays Leslie in the memory scenes, with the role in the present being played by Judy Davis. Now suffering from writer's block, Harry is being honored by the college that expelled him, and he wants someone to go along with him, preferably his son. His ex-wife (Kirstie Alley) is inflexible about changing visiting days, so instead, he invites a hooker to go with him, along with a friend who the day before thought he was dying but received a clean bill of health from the doctor. On their way, they stop and kidnap Harry's son as an outraged mother (Hemingway) screams for the police.Allen touches on a few of the serious points that have appeared in his films from time to time religion, the role of art and psychiatry. Harry believes that religion is by definition exclusionary - each religion feels that they have the direct route to God. He really lets the Jews have it in this one with an enacted very nonreverential story that he's reminded of by his deeply religious sister. Harry's art is his life; he goes from woman to woman, unable to make a commitment, and lives through his characters.There were many funny scenes in Deconstructing Harry, but two absolutely top of the line ones The first one is in the beginning, when Leslie (Davis) comes to his apartment with his latest novel and threatens him with a gun. The scene is priceless - some feel that Judy Davis can be over the top, but she is absolutely hilarious as a woman who recognizes herself in his book. The second takes place in his home, when his psychiatrist wife finds out that he was having sex with one of her patients, and despite her rage, attempts to conduct a therapy session with one Mr. Goldfarb. However, she keeps excusing herself so that she can leave the room and scream her guts out at Harry. Finally, she just starts screaming at him while she's sitting in the office, with Goldfarb on the couch. Fantastic.I remember that this film got ghastly reviews, and from reading the first comment here, it appears the language and sexual situations were the problem. I admit I could have done without some of it, but Allen has been writing and making films for many years - if he wants to do something a little different, why not. At any rate, it did not take away from my enjoyment of much of this film. It's a little uneven but totally worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Enough Laughs to Get You Through the Ones that Fail","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE PLOT A writer (Allen) examines how he likes to take his real life situations and put them into his books much to the chagrin of his friends and lovers.THE NEGATIVE Although this is a definite improvement over most of Allen's later day work there are still some attempts at comedy that are extremely odd and just don't work. The segment featuring Robin Williams as an actor who is always out of focus is really flat. Some of the fights and arguments that Allen has with his ex-lovers seem endless and redundant. Also the rapid editing used within the scenes is distracting and adds nothing to the viewing experience.THE POSITIVE Some of the bits are indeed funny and show Allen to be almost back to his old form. The best one is at the beginning where a old blind lady walks in on a couple while they are having sex. Allen's trip to hell and an old Jewish woman who finds out about her husband's deep, dark secret are also hilarious. People who write for a living or enjoy writing should find some of the problems that are brought up that a writer goes to be very relatable. This is also a nice chance to see some performers that don't seem to do much work in front of the camera anymore, which includes Benjamin, Kavner, Irving, and Hemingway.THE LOWDOWN This is a good, but not great Allen product. He seems to be making a very honest assessment of himself as well as giving you enough good laughs to make up for the ones that fail.THE RATING 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"His most recent conceptual movie","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched that one yesterday for the first time and i was delighted! Meet Harry Block and his friends in a completely hilarious journey into his deepest innerself! The plot is not an easy one to describe but is sure to be one of Woody's most complex and conceptual work since Husbands And Wives. The way the story is told is completely original and sure to keep you alert. It looks at time like this film could have been done in the early eighties (right after Stardust Memories?) If you are a Woody Allen fan this one's for you. If you are not a fan,i doubt that you will become one after viewing that one... ****out of 5 "},{"Title":"foul mouthed and hilarious","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Definitely Allen's most obscenity laced film is, as well, one of his most hysterical. Check out the great scene where Kirsty Alley rifles off a litany of swear words after finding out Woody cheated on her with one of her patients. (She's a shrink). She tells him off in the middle of a therapy session. Highly amusing, laugh out loud stuff. Yes, this might be hard to take for certain sensitive folks, but I saw this as neither depressing nor a slap in the face to his fans. I must be used to Allen's style by now. Art inside life inside art. That's basically the story. The played out fiction is some of Woody's best material in years. Choppy editing is reminiscent of the French new wave, particularly Goddard. Check out the original Breathless - you will see abrupt edits in that one even more than you do here. Technique once again flows beside insightful writing. But don't attempt to watch this for your first Allen piece; you might be in for a shock. (The actor who plays Paulie on the Sopranos has a bit part as a cop outside the jail cell.)Overall another great cast surrounding Allen's exaggerated neurotic lead. Personally, seeing which young actress he will kiss next has become an Allen trademark. It's part of the inside joke. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The way time and space is constructed, the way we move and jolt our way through the travesties of Harry Blocks life is always inspirational. This is the film that made me want to make films more strongly than ever before. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What do you say about a movie like this. Well I guess first thing youd say is its not very good. It is very confusing and it seems like the story wasnt told right. Don't get me wrong I love Woody, and most of his films. But I dont think that he really got what he wanted out of this. I also don't understand the choppy edditing. Theres these scenes where Woody or one of his charecters are talking, and the movie will like skip part of the converstaions and just almost fastforward. Also it's at some times unbearably boring and uninteresting. FInnally the only reason why this movie got the grade it did, is because of the acting Billy, Kirstie and all the supporting actors are really great. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted and entertaining film.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Deconstructing Harry is a beautifully crafted and entertaining film by Woody Allen, who wrote, directed, and starred in the film. Although the film may not be as innovative as Mighty Aphrodite, nor quite as charming, it is certainly one of Woody's best films. Deconstructing Harry does allow the pain and anguish-as well as the comedy and absurdity-of the guilt-ridden, self-absorbed, but basically good-guy Harry Block to bubble and percolate, and it often erupts to the surface in scenes of wincing pain or comic and dramatic sequences that are powerful and moving.Because Harry Block (played by Woody Allen) is afraid of life, he lives vicariously through the books he writes. These books are all thinly veiled autobiography (a fact that enrages his family, friends, and acquaintances). Harry's ex-wife Joan (Kirstie Alley) in one early scene verbally runs Harry through for his exposure of their private lives in his latest novel. (Harry, like Kenneth Starr, reveals too much.)Harry's fictional works have an order and logic that his real life lacks. Like the poet Wallace Steven's jar in Tennessee, Harry uses his fiction as an ordering principle-or perhaps, like Robert Frost's definition of a poem as a momentary stay against confusion, Harry's novels are an attempt to create a world in which he may live without fear. Harry's fictional world is essentially an attempt to make sense of a world without a faith in God or the comfort of religion, which sounds like (and is) one of Ingmar Bergman's major themes. (Woody's respect and admiration for the Swedish director has been well-documented in essays and interviews.)Harry's inability to sustain relationships and his need to confess the intimate details of his life and those around him are symptoms of his desperation. He seeks to use his art as a surgeon does a lancet. Through his art, he seeks to erect a foundation, a kind of stillpoint in a universe filled with awesome and terrifying change. He desperately seeks balance in a world of Heracleitean change, and, because he relies almost solely on physical gratification and sensual pleasures-as evinced by his many affairs-he is bound to be disappointed.Harry is too much the controller, as when he tells his doting young girlfriend Fay (Elizabeth Shue), Don't love me, I'll only hurt you. In fairness to Harry, it is certainly true that he is aware of his own shortcomings. He is, however, powerless to act, and this makes him a somewhat comical figure, like T. S. Eliot's Prufrock. And yet Harry is aware of this ridiculous aspect of his persona. He knows that a part of him is the buffoon, the clown, the fool. In fact, Harry takes full advantage of this side of his personality to make jokes that are often quite cogent and barbed. From Sleeper onward, many of Woody Allen's best jokes come from an awareness of the absurdities in the protagonist's life, combined with a comic self-deprecation. "},{"Title":"Nihilism, Cynicism, Sarcasm and Orgasm","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, what a great line that is.  In this film, Woody Allen again creates a character not entirely dissimilar to himself, and surrounds him with characters to hate him.  Some have suggested that this film is a grand, public mea culpa.  Others that it's a middle finger in the face of his critics.  As for me..., well, I just don't give a damn. Deducing facts about a man's life from his movies is a bizarre kind of modern anthropology that doesn't interest me much.  I'll leave that to the biographers.  What interests me is merely the film.  I don't care about Woody Allen at all.  I only care about Harry Block.  The extent to which Harry and Woody are similar.... I just don't care.  What Woody's fashioned here is an acerbic, acidic, vitriolic powerhouse of a film.  He creates the most odious, wretched, hateful anti-hero I've ever encountered.  But, in a brilliant move, Woody gives the sharpest, harshest criticisms of the character to the character himself.  When he is attacked by one of the many people he has hurt, betrayed, alienated, or simply used, he offers no defense, or a defense so feeble that we know even he is not convinced by it.  He agrees with every criticism levelled against him, and takes it another step.  Ultimately, in the films hilarious climax, he takes on the Devil himself, proclaiming himself more powerful by virtue of the fact that he's even more despicably evil than Lucifer. How could a movie this dark be so damn funny?  That's what I can't understand.  But it is.  The technique of blending the line between Harry's reality and Harry's fiction is the freshest, most effective of Woody's directorial flourishes since The Purple Rose of Cairo.  Even the editing, much maligned here on IMDB, is an integral part of the character.  It's so rare to see a flashy, attention-grabbing editorial technique actually used for a legitimate artistic purpose.  Woody even gives it to us on a silver-platter in the last scene, yet so many seem to miss the point.   The script rambles along in an anarchic jumble.  One minute we're seeing the present, then a flashback, then a fiction.  Then, fictional characters begin appearing in the present and the lines of demarcation are warped, twisted, blended, and eventually discarded entirely.  If it weren't for the fact that this film is so good on its own merits, I'd be tempted to call it a Woody Allen Best of film.  There are so many nods to previous films.  No Woody Allen fan can see Muriel Hemingway without thinking of Manhattan.  The sister-switch, of course, brings up memories of Hannah and Her Sisters.  We have another take on the Wild Strawberries scenario first plummed in Stardust Memories.  We have another famous writer warning a star-struck fan not to fall in love, only to fall in love himself and lose her.  The irreverent blending of realities can't help but conjure images of Annie Hall.  It's almost a distillation of all of the quirks and eccentricities that define the public Woody Allen persona.  I consider this film a bookend in Woody's career.  His films since Deconstructing Harry seem to be moving in a slightly different direction.  In a sense, you can see many of his classic films from the late 70s through the early 90s as a grand, gradual build up of pressure, which finally burst forth in this bitter, brutal, vulgar, ugly, distasteful, childish tantrum of a film.  It's brilliant.  And hilariously funny.   "},{"Title":"High Octane Annie Hall","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is nothing really new about this Woody Allen movie; nevertheless, it comes across as everything he wanted to say in Annie Hall. However, due to the norm of the movie going public in 1977, they would not have been able to stomach Deconstructing Harry. I do not know if this means that today's movie watchers are a bit more vulgar in their tastes, or that Woody has simply grown a tad more seedy as the years go by (perhaps both), but it really does not matter The movie stands as a reality movie What people want, feel, and cannot get enough of Watching fearless Woody's neurotic mind tic and toc, all the while reminding us that our lives are not so bad after all. I would even venture to say (without giving away the ending) that hope is not far out of reach--even for the hopeless.  Never before, in any other Woody Allen movie, did I think I had finally seen a glimps of the real Woody Allen...And he looks a lot like us. Deconstruct yourself! "},{"Title":"Allen still has it","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Thirty years after his debut, Woody is still as good as ever.  Deconstructing Harry was a funny, intelligent, interesting comedy, with great acting. I was surprised cause I didnt know going into the movie, that all these stars, like Robin williams, Demi Moore, Julia-Louis, and Crystal, had cameos     Allen, himself, was fantastic. He seems funnier, as an old man, complaining all the time, rather than when he was young.  The writing was very good, and the plot, as a whole, was very clever and interesting, an author's characters come to life, and he meets them along the way.  The part with Robin Williams was so silly, that I can't get it out of my head.  It was my favorite part of the whole movie. He's outta focus. "}{"Title":"Deconstructing Woody","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's often been said there's a thin line between the comedian and tragedian. And there's no better example of this than the life and work of Woody Allen.Just underneath his completely fictious characters and situations may lie Allen himself.  As one watches his wildly fluctuating work, there's more than a tinge of sadness which emerges.Just the idea of a now mature adult who seemingly hasn't progressed beyond his inital youthful psychiatrist sessions, is more than a bit disturbing.Here we have the same phobias, questionings, confusions, and maladjustments of nearly forty years ago, still being spewed forth by this now-aging artist--with the gloomy cloud of press coverage from his real-life morals trial hanging over his later work.At the same time, Allen can write and deliver some of the most hilarious lines of anyone in the business, and his Sleeper for me remains one of his most successful.  In Deconstructing Harry, there's a kind of melancholia permuating the enactment, while the script ranges from brilliantly funny to depressingly gloomy.Guess I stand about midway between loving and not liking this creative performer.  While not being a fan, I certainly recognize his genius for utilizing his personal shortcomings in an artistic forum.  Sure, it may be self-therapy in which the audience becomes part of his search for fulfillment.  But the prolific results is more than a merely competant body of work.Allen cannot be easily dismissed; he's a master comedian and film maker who has fashioned some very memorable creations. Thanks to his having a very funny face and sense of wit, he's gotten us to laugh a good deal.  So, gratefully, we take the best, leave the rest and, well, wish him well during his fourth act.  "},{"Title":"Seek and Destroy","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody shoots down all the foundations of the American Dream, makes fun of public opinion, education, sex, social relations and politically correctness. The deep, bitter clown jumps up again and gives you good laughter with his sarcasm, but he makes you wonder too, by undressing naked this society so absurd and self-contradicting. I loved the interaction with his own characters, like in many older movies. Not his best, but probably the best among his latest movies. and he's always a great GENIUS and will always be. "},{"Title":"A must for Allen cultists; everyone else can skip it.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I keep hearing about what a genius Woody Allen is, but you can't tell it from this film. Not that it is a really bad film, but it's nothing to write home about. Allen's direction is acceptable, although there were some jarring cuts throughout the movie. The actors were all very good with their parts. And there were a few erudite references here and there that probably zoom over the heads of most movie-goers. But it just doesn't add up to a good movie. I'll be taping over this one. Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Vicious Allen","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the meanest, nastiest, most vicious we've seen Woody Allen.  And so much of it is directed towards himself.  We certaily all know that Allen's films are very much about himself and his persona, but this one is filled with a heavy dose of self-loathing.  It also has very little good to say about anyone else, particularly women.  It's just a bit frightening how much vitriol Allen has.  His character only seems to like his son and a prostitute.But as the movie progresses, he gets little telling glimpses of the effect he has on others, and how this has helped make him so unhappy.  Will he change...doubtful. But at the end, we feel like maybe we've gotten a fairly unsugarcoated look at how Woody Allen really feels about himself, his art and the women in his life.The movie is really, really funny.  It's extremely foul-mouthed  (do not let kids near it...it makes Mira Sorvino in MIGHTY APHRODITE seem quite tame).  You also get to see some familiar actors doing some pretty down and dirty things...Julia Louis Dreyfuss in a rather explicit scene with Richard Benjamin...that alone is an eye-brow raiser.  The normally sweet Tobey Maguire is a sex-crazed younger version of Allen...to comic effect.  Judy Davis (one of the best actresses anywhere, period) is funny as a pistol-wielding former lover of Allen's, spouting intelligent (and extremely obscene) insults at him, while slowly coming unglued.We see a number of Allen's character's short stories acted out, and those are often amusing little ditties, although the one with the old Jewish couple is just silly.One excellent scene has Allen surprising his sister with a visit while he's on a drive to upstate New York to get an award.  She's married to a very conservative Jewish man, and has really turned her life over to a life some might call zealot-like (certainly Allen does).  The pain of Allen's and his sister's relationship is palpable...there's real pain on both sides...and real love.  Something we don't see often in Allen's glib, cynical world.The cast is unformly great (with one exception...in a moment).  Allen, Davis, Dreyfuss, etc.  Robin Williams makes a brief, amusing appearance, along with Julie Kavner.  Imagine those two married!!  Demi Moore, in a tiny part, is tolerable, and Billy Crystal is amusing as the Devil (yep, Allen's character goes to hell towards the end, and the conception of hell is pretty funny and pretty elaborate for a Woody Allen movie).  The exception to all the praise is Elizabeth Shue.  I'm sorry, but she seemed to have spent all her talent with LEAVING LAS VEGAS.  She is simply terrible in this film (and others, like THE HOLLOW MAN & COUSIN BETTE), playing the part of Allen's current love interest.  Although seeing Allen with all these young beautiful women is always hard...they usually come across as intelligent and perhaps it is the shared intelligence that Allen and this young beauties share.  Shue, on the other hand, comes across as vacuous.  She almost looks like she's reading cue cards.  The few scenes she is in totally grind the movie to a halt.But, that flaw aside, see this movie if you like Woody Allen, and frankly, maybe if you don't like him.  He might agree with you! "},{"Title":"If I tell you why I did it, do you promise not to nooj me?","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen flips the Bird to all his self-described fans. He's been wanting to do this a long time. At least since Stardust Memories, he's been directly dealing with the fact that he fears and often dislikes his own audience for their power to pigeonhole him. In SM, we got to see the audience depicted as bloated, bizarre, self-congratulatory goofballs, constantly asking for more funny ones. In Deconstructing Harry Allen lambasts his core audience at every turn with his pre-emptive self-attacks. Is the film autobiographical? I'd say about as much as any heartfelt film is for its director. Was Apocalypse Now autobiographical for Coppolla? Damn straight!I see a film like this as a challenge, something not for no-brainer consumption. If you were offended by this film, you should be. It's offensive and pretty thorough at it too. But it's also catharsis for Allen, who has lived much of his life half on and half off the screen. If you can bear to watch, it's amazing. If not, he'll tell ya he never wanted ya in the first place. A testament to the level of creativity that can be born from sheer defensivenes. I doubt he'll make another movie as vital.I'm reminded of a line from Barton Fink, voiced by WP Mayheu Breach my levee at your peril! "},{"Title":"an autobiographical experience by a genius","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen is probably the most neurotical and (at the same time) delighful director/screenwriter that has ever lived and this motion picture is no exception to his flawless career. Yes, I know he's had some minor movies but they were still above average. See this one and you will learn about the way this man feels about his life because I believe this is his most intimate, autobiographical experience yet. "},{"Title":"Well pretty weird if you ask me","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a Woody Allen movie like I've never seen one (I've actually only seen one of his before and that was Manhattan Murder Mystery and I liked it). But this one was different this is a comedy about a writer who is a neurotic a..hole and who makes his so called friends and relatives lives miserable. We see how he got so far and what he messed up in his life and so far it's pretty normal. But then characters from his books appear during what I presume were hallucinations of his and at the end he even sees dead people (no this ain't a Sixth Sense parody). He also visits hell and when someone is out of focus he REALLY IS (I don't know what that was supposed to mean though). This is a weird, comedy / drama which I didn't dislike, although I'd say I've seen better, the only thing I really didn't like that much was the editing (had the editor been drinking?), but I guess that was to make the lead character (Allen) more fuzzy and weird.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Indescribable insight of Woody Allen","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Years ago I read that Woody Allen was directing a movie called `Desconstructing Harry'. I thought it would be a crazy comedy about a guy who starts to disappear. It's nothing like that. Yeah, it's a crazy comedy, but it's different from every comedy ever made, so I don't think we can call it comedy. It's definitely crazy, but what is something crazy, anyway? Ok, I guess you all understood what I wanted to say with `indescribable'.Its cast is replete of stars Robin Williams, Demi Moore, Billy Cristal, Kirst Allen, just to name some of them. The plot is incredible a writer in the middle of a crisis can't write anything and the people who were inspiration to his book characters are indignant of being described vulgarly. It's just the begging of the most creative movie of the year.The non-linear sequel of facts is spectacular. It were already used by a Brazilian book writer named `Machado de Assis' and recently Woody Allen said that what Machado did in the literature he wanted to do for a long time in the cinema. Isn't that great?   "},{"Title":"Art imitates life, life imitates art","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Deconstructing Harry is a gift for Woody Allen fans. Because of some mischances I was not able to see it on the movies and watched it on video last Friday. And because of other mischances, this film was released in Brazil one year and a half after its US release. Those sad things are happening with all Woody Allen's movies after Everyone Says I Love You, and frankly I don't know why. There's a plenty of Woody Allen fans here in Brazil, and we can't wait any long to see Celebrity, Sweet and Lowdown and now Small Time Crooks. It's a shame!Many people complain that Allen is not the same anymore, but I don't agree with them. As I'm just 15 years old (16 next October), I'm still beginning to watch the classics and I rent them when possible. So pity me because I haven't seen Annie Hall, Manhattan, Zelig, Husbands and Wives, Another Woman yet. Nor Bananas, Alice, Stardust Memories and many others. But for what I've seen from Allen's filmography (The Purple Rose of Cairo, Hannah and Her Sisters, Radio Days, Crimes and Misdemeanors, the 3rd segment of New York Stories, Shadows and Fog, Manhattan Murder Mystery, Bulletts Over Broadway, Mighty Aphrodite, Everyone Says I Love You, Deconstructing Harry), it's obvious that he is a genius. Mighty Aphrodite, criticized by many (specially because of the Greek chorus), is a small masterpiece for me. The same I can say about Shadows and Fog and Deconstructing Harry. This is one of the most honest, sarcastic, bitter films of Allen's career, and comes to prove that he is a master of film making. Art imitates life. Life imitates art-- Deconstructing Harry proves this with a quite bizarre story, with mixes of drama and surreality. Harry Block is having all the problems possible. While he suffers from writer's block, his many ex-wives, relatives and lovers accuse him of putting their lives into his books, changing only their names but keeping the situations as they happened (or raising the level of irony and sarcasm). At the same time, he knows that he is going to be honored at the University that turned him out years before, and that one of his ex-girlfriends is going to marry with a friend of his. There's no higher level of desperation, but he tries to stay calm by calling a prostitute and kidnapping his son. Oh! And even his characters are there to haunt him. Well... An auto-biography of Woody Allen? Who knows?I compare Woody Allen with Robert Altman for a reason they always do the same thing in a different way. Let me explain Altman always criticizes the American society using a high number of characters, but each of his films has some peculiar thing. Watch Nashville, Short Cuts, The Player to see what I'm talking about. And Woody does the same thing he always puts a neurotic or unusual character in the middle and tells various stories with relations to each other. It's not different in Deconstructing Harry he is the same Woody, but comes with something new. He had already used surreality in many of his films the actor jumping out of the screen in The Purple Rose of Cairo, the strange ending of Shadows and Fog, the giant mother in the third segment of New York Stories, an intrusive Greek chorus in Mighty Aphrodite. But the image of Woody Allen arriving on the hell was one of the funniest things I've ever seen in my whole life. And have you ever noticed the naturality that Allen has in the most unusual and unexpected situations? In the beginning, when Julia Louis-Dreyfus is doing a blow-job on her brother-in-law (in fact Judy Davis and Allen), it seems that Allen is filming a flower in the garden. When he is on the road and stops at a gas station, his son asks him to buy a Coke. Okay, but the cashier is Demi Moore, a character created by him to represent one of his ex-wives (Kirstie Alley). Everything taken naturally, as an ordinary thing, instead of showing Allen's expression, focusing on Demi's face, while a mystery song plays on the background. This guy is a genius!Deconstructing Harry makes me want to watch Annie Hall and Manhattan more than ever. Harry has its small flaws, but it's difficult to imagine an Allen movie without its wrong steps. He is no perfeccionist, no Kubrick. But thanks God he exists and makes one film every year. I just hope Celebrity, Sweet and Lowdown and Small Time Crooks arrive soon in Brazil.9/10 "},{"Title":"A film to show the Woody you didn't know ...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... And might not want to know.  This film was engrossing, but strong stuff for those that expect a more light-hearted evening. The scene between Ms. C. Alley and Woody - a husband and wife squabble in her place of work - was striking. Only one well schooled in manipulation of people could pull off a scene where the audience feels sharply the pointy reality of the moment.I believe it painful for some fans to see the tortured soul of their beloved Woody. However, I cannot recall a film that gave such a deep view into the nature of one character ... In a way, the film is a confessional and a notice to Woody's fans ... he's not kind nor likeable.I recommend this film. Illuminating and well-done. "}{"Title":"a funny and bitter comedy","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen seems to average about a film a year, and 1998 saw the release of Deconstructing Harry. A riff on a self-loathing author Harry Block(played by Allen) who is feeling empty spiritually. He has cheated on all his wives, and can never seem to stay with any women for too long. But Harry really starts to lose it when he takes a road trip to recieve an award from his college, and his fictional characters start to pick him apart... This film is so well written, and edited, that it feels like a whole different director at work. I am a huge fan of Allen's, and one of his most astonishing qualities is his knack for changing his tune a little with every film. But this is more than just changing a tune. With Deconstructing..., Allen has made a movie that helps define where our own country is at this time of history, bankrupt and sex-obsessed(if you watch enough television, you know what I mean). Harry Block hates himself, but he also despises most of the people around him. A lack of respect for the human race that Harry only seems to redeem in his fiction. Let me not forget to mention how funny this film is. The humor mostly borders on the scatalogical and shocking, but Allen is a true humor craftsmen, and never offends without making you laugh first. Watch the film twice, first as a comedy, and then as a purely intellectual piece. It works both ways.  "},{"Title":"Another Perspective","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems important to at least state for the record that I ran across a very different approach to this film in an article in New York magazine some time back, wherein the writer challenged the notion central to virtually all criticism of Deconstructing Harry--namely, that the film is autobiographical.  I forget who wrote the piece now, but he made a very persuasive case for the notion that Harry is not Woody Allen at all, but rather is a stand-in for Jewish novelist Philip Roth.  The tendency to assume that Woody is playing himself--again--is natural, as he seems to have done so time and time again over the years...but what if he's not here?  It would certainly deflect the focus of nearly every comment about this movie and cast it in a whole new light.  This approach would certainly also explain the shocking differences between Harry and Woody's other characters.  To be sure, there are certainly similarities, but the much-commented-on vulgarity is hardly a familiar Allen trait.  Observe, also, Harry's acerbic anti-Semitism and proclivity for abusing drugs.  Allen has always embraced and tapped the proud history of Jewish humor, and is certainly not known as a pill-popper, so there is at least some credence to be given to the interpretation that Harry is not Woody at all, and that perhaps we are all premature in rushing to assume that he is.  By the same token, maybe we have been premature in assuming that Woody has EVER played himself onscreen.  Perhaps, in the vein of Andy Kaufman, Allen has been playing US all along--toying with our tendency to confuse the actor with the character he portrays, and deliberately blurring that line until, just when we feel we know the man behind the mask, we suddenly are shocked into the realization that we don't know him at all.  Thoughts to weigh, certainly... "},{"Title":"Brilliant, searing -- and uproariously funny","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brilliant, searing social satire and moral examination.  Inventive story-telling mechanism, weaving in and out of short stories paralleling life of agitated, angst-ridden writer -- Woody, naturally, with ample parallels to his own life.  The most complex, rich film of his since Crimes and Misdemeanors with tremendous insights such as religion-as-group-exclusion, and the resulting moral bankruptcy it evokes.  Twisted echoes of Wild Strawberries as Harry faces his inner- demons during a road trip to accept an academic award, capped by a hilarious Orpheus sequence that sends-up vast swathes of post-modern, pop culture overload.  Harry finds redemption through his writing, even as it mirrors the life that he is no good at living.An jarringly imaginative film, brimming with ideas, insights, biting social commentary, and uproarious humor.  "},{"Title":"Don't be misled by the big stars...","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...and see the movie anyway.That is, don't do like I did I generally like Woody Allen's works (sometimes a lot), but when this one was released, commercials were throwing at my face all the time this impressive list of box-office hitters that starred in the movie! So I got put off and said to myself The story must be lame, if he needs to attract the crowds this way. Plus it wasn't Allen's style--at the time, at least.But recently I happened to rent the movie and I really liked it. I mean, don't expect suspense or action. It's a Woody Allen film! And the story is more or less the same as in most of his other films. But this is what people love or hate about this director.So, if you like him, this movie has all the ingredients for a pleasant time wit, (self-)irony, paranoia, New York, a prostitute, and lots of deep queries about life. And the big stars make it for good acting, after all. "},{"Title":"Classic Woody Allen","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Deconstructing Harry is the best Woody Allen movie since Bullets Over Broadway. Here we are treated to Allen the actor in fine form, his neurotic, self centered, unfulfilled self. The film presents some powerful contrasts between the world and the Allen character Harry Block; life as it is and the inner life of the imagination and the contrast between middle class morality versus someone who plays by his own moral rules. The great supporting cast is outraged at Harry Block's behavior. But Harry weaves a web of excuses, sly twists of logic and outright lies that are so impressive and dense that no one can reach him except himself. Considering Allen's age, I wonder how long he will be able to play these parts. Yet, who else could do it as well? After seeing Kenneth Branagh's whinny Allen impression in Celebrity, all I can say is that a replacement has not been found. Woody is simply great at hammering home this warped vision of the world. Allen once admitted in an earlier film (Manhattan I believe) that he was a bigot but for the left. In Deconstructing Harry we have very sharp portraits of Jewish life and an African American character. They add interest to the film but they are far from kind. Crimes and Misdemeanors is a more mature exploration of morality, selfish interest and Judaism. However, the prostitute, Cookie, played by Hazelle Goodman, while a bit of a variation of the Mira Sorvino character from Mighty Aphrodite is still a negative stereotype. One can only hope that Allen will yet create an in depth African American character.There is a bit of a resemblance between this film and the Fellini masterpiece 8 1/2 but it is superficial. This is classic Woody Allen on a roll. I can only hope that he can pull it off again.  "},{"Title":"One of the most funny films I ever saw!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny! The scene of the Jewish husband who confesses to his wife that he has murdered and eaten a former wife, is really hilarious! If Woody Allen had not exaggerated somewhat with the explicit sex scenes, I would have given the film 10 points, now I keep it at 9. "},{"Title":"food for thought","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is difficult to describe this film without getting a few trite words out of the way, so here goes honest, insightful, depressing, uplifting and transplendent (see annie hall). The use of eliptical editing, especially in the scene where Harry is talking to his psychiatrist, conveys that sense of whining to his shrink that Woody talks about in many of his movies. It is refreshing to see a director use filmic technique to express feelings and ideas.But this movie wasn't just some technical thing, it speaks to the viewer in a very profound way. It's like that line in Manhattan when Yale says, art is a way of working through your problems. This movie is effective in doing this for the attentive viewer. When Billy Crystal, as satan, says you're up, you're down, but in the end, the house always wins. That doesn't mean you didn't have fun. We all know we're going to die, but this movie helps us come to terms with issues like that.We all know the same truths, our lives consist of how we choose to distort them. This line comes at almost the very end of the film, in a scene actually quite similar to the one at the end of Manhattan when Woody is talking into his microrecorder, and seems to be his way of speaking directly to his audience. This line is very representative of the film in that it is not trying to be preachy or didactic, rather, it is giving the audience food for thought. I guess many movies try to do this at some point, Woody just happens to give us filet mignon while too many other filmmakers give us instant noodles. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen, as good as always","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is among Allen's masterpieces, such as Hannah and her Sisters, Another Woman, Zelig and Husbands & Wives. The cast, full of stars, does not bother, as I expected. It's a shame we had to wait so long (almost two years) to see this film in brazilian theaters. When are we going to see Celebrity? "},{"Title":"Criticism Just too many people","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. There are lots of good things in this movie. But the major downfall crushes them all. There are just too many people in this film! At times, three famous actors play a single character in varying stages of his/her life and are viewed in many confusing flashbacks. Keep up with all of 'em and you win a medal! Also, the black hole comment was just a tad racist. "},{"Title":"absolutely filthy, absolutely wonderful","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the dirtiest, most foul mouthed movies I have ever seen, but that is all to the good.  Doubtless this is why it arouses such a strong negative reaction among some people.  However, those who love raunchy satire in the tradition of Rabelais, Boccaccio, and Swift need look no further. Those writers have also tended to provoke certain readers.  Not for the tame. "}{"Title":"An average film with moments of greatness","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am by no means a big Woody Allen fan, but this film had enough funny moments for me to actually give this a marginal recommendation.  In general, it was only moderately entertaining, but just when things seemed to be slowing down, a wonderful comic moment would make a smile return to my face. In particular, the Robin Williams segment was brilliant, but there were a number of more conventional scenes that worked as well.  To be fair, this really isn't a very good movie...it's more like a so-so movie that has several great moments.  But, I think that it was worth sitting through an average film so that I could see a few fabulous comedic segments. "},{"Title":"to know Allen is to love his movies","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is humourous to read about moviegoers who dislike Woody Allen's films with a vengeance. Nevertheless, it is safe to dismiss such (usually) short & droll paragraphs as failure to understand Allen's art.Deconstructing Harry is probably Allen's best film since Crimes & Misdemeanors. These two movies, plus Annie Hall and Manhattan are films that boldly scrutinize some flawed character(s) while observing aspects of life with scathing humour and profound honesty. Deconstructing Harry plays like an allegory towards a final revelation of truths about the protagonist, a well-known writer.The habitual Woody Allen humour and wit are all over this film. Moreover, there is an original treat this time around in the form of a literally out-of-focus man in one of his episodes in this film. I found the first 20 minutes of the film more bizarre and vulgar than any of his earlier work, but it eventually worked and became a necessity.Allen is one of the most important American filmmakers still working today. He belongs in Stanley Kubrick's list of non-artistic opportunist, which includes Fellini, Bergman, and De sica. His ubiquitous pale-skinned, neurotic alter ego proves this point.   "},{"Title":"Woody himself - pure and simple...","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen has created a rather large, hilarious anxiety attack with DECONSTRUCTING HARRY, his most personal and best film since MANHATTAN.  I know most of his films, especially in the '90s, are extremely auto-biographical, however, he hits the brink with this one.  It is a riot from start to finish, as Allen writes fiction using real-life subjects wives, wives' sisters, ex-wives, wives' patients, etc...all as objects of sex, of which Woody is an addict.  HARRY, or Woody I should say, even goes to hell, with Billy Crystal playing the devil. (Do you smell sulfer, I smell sulfer, quips Harry everytime Crystal is around.)  The all-star cast are all outstanding, each playing either real-life partners and friends, or their fictional counterparts.  This is a very clever device that shows a great contrast in each of the actors.My favorite scenes were of Robin Williams, who plays an actor in one of Harry Block's short stories.  He's just plain 'out of focus'.  Not even the doctor can help.  Also, Kirstie Alley, whom I am not a big fan of, steals the picture with her part as Harry's therapist wife.  I have not seen many scenes as funny as her furious outburst at Allen for sleeping with one of her patients.  This scene alone is worth the price of rental.Woody plays Woody again, just as Chaplin played the 'little tramp' over and over.  Would we have it any other way?  Some viewers may have to acquire a taste for Allen's films.  I certainly did.  Once you do, you put aside the morally corrupt geek that he is in real life, and realize his genius as a master of comedic filmmaking.  Harry Block discovers himself finally, just as Allen finds himself with each new film.  "},{"Title":"One of the last truly smart movies.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Unlike many films today, Deconstructing Harry is a truly smart film, one that simply nudges the viewer toward what it is truly about instead of screaming it in his face. While I am not suprised that many don't like it, I am suprised at the reasons why. For the record1) A large amount of the film's action is within the stories that the main character is trying to write. Watch for the transitions, or you won't get the point.2) Yes, he sleeps with lots of beautiful women. Yes he treats them horribly. He also gets about what a real guy in his situation would get; plenty of s***, but less than he deserves. And, most importantly, it makes sense in the movie.3) There is a point. You do have to think to get it. Sorry.This film owes a lot to Vonnegut's Breakfast of Champions, and Woody Allen probably knows it.  If you like one, you will like the other, but if the unconventional style and requirement for thought of one bugs you, you will not like the other. "},{"Title":"All you need to see is Kirstie Alley as a shrink","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen movies in recent years have not been up to the 70s and 80s, but my wife and I know there are always at least a few good lines. On a cabin-fever northern January night we tried Deconstructing Harry for a few good lines.It has MANY good lines, but if you don't have time to wade through the bizarre storyline or accept Woody Allen writing himself into his movies as lover to young babes.....just go in about an hour and watch Kirstie Alley rant and rave as his wife. You don't have to watch anything else, and you'll NEVER forget her five minutes of shrill vituperation. Screamingly funny! "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's talent is unlimitied!!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented Deconstructing Harry and I thought I was going to be disappointed and I was wrong.  This is probably one Woody Allen's top five movies.  This movie has so many hilarious moments and some excellent acting Judy Davis is always wonderful as Lucy the angst-ridden mistress but I was surprised by Kirstie Alley was so awesome as Joan the ex-wife and I'm sure she had probably the most satisfying scene so she told Harry (Woody Allen) off.The script was wonderful and was so well thought of it wasn't the best from Woody Allen but probably his best since Husbands and Wives (featuring Judy Davis also!!).  Woody Allen is a wonderful director and a good actor as well he played probably the second biggest jerk of 1997 (Jack Nicholson played the biggest in As Good As It Gets see my review for that also!!).Woody Allen is wonderful and even though I don't like him as person however I enjoy his work and I'll continue to watch his work as well although Celebrity was just a little disappointing Deconstructing Harry was still a wonderful movie and I enjoyed the separation of fantasy and reality a lot. It's kind of like what I said earlier I don't like him as person but I enjoy the Characters and his movies and we should just enjoy the movie and worry about his real  life because we all have this about us that other don't like and people have things that we don't like.  On that note I give this out of a 10 I give it an 8!!    "},{"Title":"Could girls get into this?","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey not a great movie, but not a bad one either.The thing that really got to me was how badly Harry treated women. And then the fact that he didn't mind talking about it to other women as well...sure this was funny to us guys, but I think there'd be more than a few ladies out there who would have found this film nothing but pointless filth, full of vulgarities aimed to get a cheap laugh or bit of titillation.I, personally, liked it but Elizabeth Shue could have been in it more! "},{"Title":"Good,enjoyable Woody Allen fare.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I enjoyed our viewing of this film even more on video than we did on large screen in a theater.The premise of life imitating art and vice versa was hilariously successful as another framework for Allen's filmmaking genius.This was a good antidote for the discomfort engendered by the tedious Wild Man Blues. "},{"Title":"A new, angry Woody gives us a new angle on his angst","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For some reason, even many Woody Allen fans did not appreciate this film. Well, I can understand. After all, our lovable, satiric, angst- ridden Woody has fallen prey to excessive cursing, depression and an outright stinging parody of himself. However, one needs to remember that Woody makes films from WOODY's heart, and if his heart is as dark and disgruntled as Deconstructing Harry, then that is what I expect to see from him. Even for those of you who disliked it, I think you would have been more disappointed if he had attempted to recreate Annie Hall. After all, since he obviously is NOT as happy as he was once was, he would be forced to RE- create such an atmosphere, rather than create it like the first go round. I enjoyed the new film immensely, and thought it was his best film  of the 1990's. His allusions to Wild Strawberries and the Seventh Seal were extremely amusing and appropriate, and the out- of -focus idea was fun. Hey, he's 60+ years old and he's getting grumpy. So let's suck it up and appreciate a grumpy genius instead of longing for the light- hearted one. He's gone. "},{"Title":"Disjointed & disappointing!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This flick cannot hold a light to some of Allen's earlier movies.  The dialogue is sloppy - depending on vulgarity and repetition for impact.  The cuts detract from the continuity.  The plot is rather pathetic and unbelievable.  It almost got funny when the blind granny caught the couple having sex.  Worst of all, I kept getting sleepy! "}{"Title":"Thinly Disguised Woody","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie is really a mixed bag. On the one hand, there is the evergreen Woody Allen wit and humor with the help of an ensemble cast. And yet on the other hand, it is the same old predictably confused Woody playing himself through his character. Nevertheless, I think you need to watch the movie for yourself and find out if you are amused or bemused or both. "},{"Title":"A movie for English Majors and everyone else","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is what one has grown to expect from the cinematic genius of Woody Allen.  The use of the silver-screen to give an example of Deconstructive criticism is witty and amusing, yet still more important thought provoking. "},{"Title":"If you think you don't like Allen, watch this.","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you think you don't like Woody Allen films, then give this a try.It's definitely my favourite Allen - and I've seen most of 'em.A warning for the faint-hearted It's got more swearing than all of Allen's films put together (I'm pretty sure that must be statistically true).It also starts with a crude scene of two characters bonking (*Do people still say 'bonking'?*) in front of the blind grandmother who has no idea what's going on.Vulgar with an amazing script.It's bitter, nasty, sarcastic and hilarious, and makes me laugh out loud at a different point every time I re-watch it.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing Harry, understanding Woody ... and ourselves ...","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry stands, in my opinion, as one of Woody Allen's best, probably his last masterpiece although it doesn't have the 'masterpiece' vibe. It looks like a typical Woody Allen movie but watch it closely and you'll get more insights about the director, the artist, ultimately the man. If you're not interested in, enjoy the gags and forget about it &#x85; if you can.I am more and more confident that Woody Allen is never as inspired and &#x96;of course- hilarious as when his movies work as media to expresses his personal fears, angst and frustrations. And being capable to distort life, facts and reality to produce insights based on his own living, and in the intellectual and emotional process, to enable us to question ourselves, is in my opinion the work of a true artist. The film might feel 'minor' compared to other Allen's films but for some reason, it touched me, not immediately, but the ending was one of Allen's most triumphal achievements. Don't let yourself guided by your first feelings, this is not Allen wrapped up in his own ego, the film works on higher levels, and use Allen's own demons to tunnel us into ours, to use our empathy as a lightning torch to find truth in our personal darkness.Woody Allen is the titular Harry, Block is his last name, a fitting one as the writer he plays seems to suffer from mental block, the nightmare of every writer. But this block is justified by the series of incidents that undermined his inspiration. Deconstructing Harry is set during the aftermath of Harry's best-seller's success, a novel where he unveiled his most intimate secrets involving his friends, ex-wives, sister, family and acquaintances. It is one thing to reveal one's intimate secrets but we tend to forget that our secrets involve our personal circle. As a writer, Harry doesn't embarrass with such dilemmas, inspiration commands the writing and the others' anger is only a collateral damage he can afford but still must deal with. He tries to hide the names, to use lamentable pseudonyms, but behind every character, there's Harry. The film, like Radio Days is a succession of little vignettes, all reflecting a part of Harry's life, this is what the whole deconstruction process is about, in a masterstroke of writing.Whether it's a writer whose wife rediscovered her Jewish faith after the birth of her son, an old man indulging himself to cannibalism, a man cheating on his wife in front of an old blind parent, it's all about Harry, his friends are not fooled, neither are we. Is there a message behind that? Yes, every single piece of work of an artist is autobiographical. I'm tired of the whole Woody Allen always plays the same character argument, because rather than a criticism, this is the best homage he can receive. But I would specify it a little bit, he doesn't play the same character, but within his whole oeuvre, there is one and only one Woody Allen. To understand the personality, one has to follow his evolution step by step, film by film. In Interiors, the artist put his own inspiration into perspective, in Stardust Memories, his comical talent or in Zelig, his capability to please to be part of the mood..In Deconstructing Harry, it seems like the constantly self-deprecating Woody Allen is finally over with his own demons, because he comes to one realization, this is the best thing he can do, this is the only talent he truly has, and he's only exploiting it for the best. One of his friends, played by Billy Crystal, stole his girlfriend, but he acknowledges he doesn't have his talent. And yes, Allen is the best screenwriter. At the film's apotheosis, when all the characters he created applauded him, you can see the overwhelming effect on his eyes, and for one second, we imagine Woody Allen being applauded by Annie Hall, Virgil, Hannah and her Sisters thanking him for having graced the silver screen and pleased a generation of movie goers, for more than 20 years. Almost 20 years later, Woody Allen is still prolific but you could feel a relief after Deconstructing Harry, when he could finally get to more fictional stuff, and telling stories again.I didn't speak much of the film because it's typically Allenian with a great cast, a deliberately disjointed editing, sometimes confusing but I guess it's a benign artistic license in order to convey the chaotic aspect of Harry's life as a sort of story he tries to rewrite inside himself, with the same process of writing, erasing, rewriting, copy-pasting etc. But what rises above the whole chaos, is the self-reflexive approach of Allen to his own work, he did it with Interiors and Stardust Memories, but the films were inspired by Bergman and Fellini's works. I guess it took the revival of his comical genius in the 80's and the early 90's so he could understand that the best one to talk about Woody and to deconstruct Woody, is still Woody.And from someone who wishes to become a writer and can't function in the cold and average normality of life, I realize that I'm more inclined to bloom during writing, and stop being so out-of-focus, I should be the one to give people the right glasses to see what I'm worth. This out-of-focus metaphor is a strike of comical genius, and it touched a very sensitive chord. I loved Deconstructing Harry in a very deep and personal level and as I get older, I feel a very strong connection to the artistic and even neurotic personality of Woody Allen.To deconstruct Harry is to understand Woody, and ... a certain part of ourselves, imprisoned in a life of futile conventions and begging for expression, no matter how hard, and painful or shameful they are. I guess we should all learn to deconstruct ourselves to be over with our inner demons. "},{"Title":"The love between writer and character.","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is, in my opinion, one of Woody Allen's most underrated films. Often overlooked by a careers' worth of other more well known work, this late 90's Drama plays out a relationship seldom looked at; the relationship between a writer and their intellectual property. The characters in this film act as friends and loved ones, or rather memories of friends and loved ones. It's a look inside the mind of a neurotic writer, a writer whose life is both hitting a professional peak, while simultaneously hitting a personal low. Harry Block (Woody Allen), is dealing with past demons as well as present hurdles, all while preparing to receive a major award. To help deal with this accumulation of problems, characters from his fictional stories seep into his reality. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's best.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen's Deconstructing Harry is a rare film that takes it's title in the most literal ways, both in structure and in storytelling. The plot centers around Harry Block (played as only Allen himself could), a man suffering from writer's block as he prepares to accept an award from his old university, but this is only a loose strain to give the story a narrative though. What it's really focused on is Harry himself, his mind and his characters.In the traditional Allen sense, we get some external monologuing as he explores the mind of this neurotic, stuck and seemingly hopeless man, but he does it in a way that I've never seen him work before. The style of comedy is of course that Allen allure that no one could imitate, but there's also a vulgarity to it that I've never seen him go for before. There are words that I never thought I'd see in a Woody Allen film and the jokes are incredibly graphic, but it gives it this sense of brutal honesty that I haven't experienced from him up to this point. It's absolutely hilarious and quite true, it felt comically in the same sense of Louis C.K.'s work; vulgar and borderline offensive, but totally true to the point where it makes it's audience take a long look in the mirror.As we explore Harry, his few friends and his many exes, we are treated to short vignettes taken from his previous written work. Allen explores the mind of a writer so thoroughly it's mesmerizing, giving us looks into how true the you write what you know expression is, with characters that are directly based on his past lovers and himself. Each short story is hilarious in it's own right, but also sheds more light into the character himself, which is the ultimate draw of the film. I've never liked a performance from the writer/director more than I have here. He's got the neurosis and cynicism that he is a master at, but there's also an authenticity and darkness to him that I felt was more exposed than I've seen him before.His editing work is a masterstroke as well as he depicts Harry's real life as fractured, making quick cuts in scenes so that nothing seems to be fluid but it gives it this stream-of-consciousness touch that becomes fluid in itself, in detailing what he wants to accomplish. When we see his work displayed, there's no fragmentation, no awkward cuts, everything runs smoothly. The final scene of the film states the themes a little too strongly, as he practically spoonfeeds them to the audience, but it's a brilliant display of how a writer can become so broken and fractured in his own life that the only way he can achieve any clarity is through his work. A dark, touching, hilarious film with a strong message. Plus, it opens with Julia Louis-Dreyfus getting bent over and plowed in front of a blind woman, and you don't get much funnier than that. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing Harry (1997)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Allen's homage to (and send-up of) WILD STRAWBERRIES has its pluses and minuses. It's interesting, and in a way refreshing, to see him being so blatantly crass. It's one of his darkest movies, and maybe his most cynical comedy. Some of it is riotously funny, like the confrontation with Kirstie Alley in the middle of a patient's therapy session, or his version of Hell (with Billy Crystal in one of his most enjoyable roles). But with all the little sub-stories going on, it comes off like a clearinghouse for unfinished ideas. Also, the fragmented, jerky editing (because he's being deconstructed, get it?) is an annoying quirk that adds little. Still, there's a lots of laughs to be had and it's an interesting bit of self-deprecation combined with self-admiration. "},{"Title":"Very good Woody Allen","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Harry Block is a successful writer who gets inspiration from people he knows.Everybody doesn't like that.And he has his flaws, like pills and whores.Now his old university is honoring him.Harry wants to take his son Hilly to the ceremony, but his ex-wife Joan says no.But Harry takes him there anyway, as he does take a prostitute named Cookie and a friend called Richard.What a day to remember that will be! Deconstructing Harry is a Woody Allen film from 1997.Woody Allen gives a really great performance in this movie.Luckily he cast himself.No complaints about the rest of the cast either.Kirstie Alley plays the part of Joan, Harry's ex-wife.Billy Crystal, who gets to do next year's Oscars again, plays Larry/The Devil.Lucy Davis is Lucy.Bob Balaban plays Richard.Elisabeth Shue plays Fay.Paul Giamatti is Prof. Abbott.Philip Bosco is Prof. Clark.Mariel Hemingway, who was also in Allen's Manhattan, plays Beth Kramer.Hazelle Goodman is Cookie.Amy Irving is Jane.Eric Lloyd plays Hilly.Now 90-year old Gene Saks plays Harry's Father.Tony Sirico is Policeman at Jail.Then there are some characters that are of Harry's creation.Richard Benjamin plays Ken.Julia Louis-Dreyfus is Leslie.Tobey Maguire plays Harvey Stern.Jennifer Garner is Woman in Elevator.Stanley Tucci is Paul Epstein.Demi Moore plays Helen.Robin Williams is Mel.Julie Kavner is Grace.This is a very fine Woody Allen movie of the 90's.It's often funny.You find yourself most amused, when they're driving with the hooker and doing some car singing.Also out of focus Robin Williams is hilarious.I get seasick just by looking at him. "},{"Title":"Digging to the core; leave no stone unturned.","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If Mighty Aphrodite is a nice Woody Allen, then Deconstructing Harry is certainly the pinnacle of his nasty side. Indeed, for non-Woody Allen fans, it would seem difficult to understand how two vastly different films could come from the same mind. Yet, the genius of Allen lays primarily in his writing, able to create and expound upon a brilliant idea of the story of a man who is unable to cope the negative and horrible lifestyle he abides with the successful and insightful writing and art he creates fictionally.This is a difficult film to review as it unfolds itself in a very bipolar manner cinematically it works on the highest scale with terrific acting, direction, editing and one of Woody's best scripts. Yet, on the other hand, it is quite possibly his meanest and most cynical portrait of humanity. The character of Harry Block (whom no one was willing to play until Allen finally took it himself) is incredibly neurotic, egotistical, nihilistic and narcissistic and Allen takes him to the very end of his rope, almost encouraging us to not feel any sympathy towards him at all. Certainly no one else does; his entire family hates him for the way he vaguely portrays them in his books as cheap stereotypes of their personalities and beliefs. Still, there may be the slightest bit of humanity within this ball of neuroses if only because Woody Allen gives one of his very best performances here.Again, I must praise the large and star-studded cast for carrying much of the heavy material, especially in scenes that would feel out of place in other hands. In particular, Judy Davis, Elisabeth Shue and Bob Balaban are very good. I must also give praise to Billy Crystal who personifies the devil himself in Harry's mind and is evilly funny.I guess this should be recommended but only for serious Woody Allen fans. It convincingly gives an argument for why and how Allen is able to rationalize all the crazy events he has gone through in his life. Personally, I cannot say that I always agree with his worldview. But, he always does have something interesting to say and if he can continue to say it through films like this, then I feel I will be able to sit through them. However, be warned this is a side of Woody Allen never seen prior and hardly seen since. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen is at his best....","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen is a legend, his work goes down as remarkable efforts in Cinema. 'Deconstructing Harry' is a yet another classic from this person I love, it's such a riveting, hilarious and happening journey.Woody Allen is a highly confident person, his love for saying stories pack in tremendous confidence. 'Deconstructing Harry' is amongst his well-done works, mainly because Allen uses his characters and does justice to them. A set of highly talented actors are used in brief roles, but each has something to do, each contributes in the goings-on. The culmination is the main stay of the film, it's fantastic and wonderfully executed.Allen's writing and direction are perfect, as always. Carlo Di Palma's Camera-Work, in my opinion, is fantastic. In acting, Allen is the show stealer. Kirstie Alley is incredible. Robin Williams is invisible. Stanley Tucci is superb. Billy Crystal is good. Demi Moore is very good, she stands out. Tobey Maguire does a fine cameo. Julia Louis-Dreyfus gets a hilarious scene to her kitty and she does full justice to it. Judy Davis is alright.'Deconstructing Harry' is truly a yet another classic from this film legend. Must Watch! Two Thumbs Up! "}{"Title":"Deconstructing Harry","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" one of his most formally interesting films, one which addresses all of the dominant themes in Allen's work (infidelity, sexual kinks and issues, Jewish identity, social incompatibility,etc), a film which plays like the autobiography of an all too self-aware nutter. The cast play their roles perfectly, the film contains some of Allen's very best bits of humor, and while the very ending is somewhat weaker than what leads to it, the film is still good enough to be one of his best works. As a screenplay, it is one of his more complex films, trading some of the more subtle, low-key drama Allen is capable of for a flashy narrative which switches from present to past, from reality to fiction, and taking a broader view than many of Allen's other films. The comedy wins out here though, almost revealing the weaknesses inherent in the dramatic aspects simply by being so good. This includes everything from trademark hyper-highbrow gags to hooker jokes. He does it all, and you gotta love it. A modern genius at work. "},{"Title":"Deconstructed Harry and enjoyed every bit of it","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me be honest here, this was the first Woody Allen movie i saw and i loved it. I hear about other users (critics?) here about how this is not Allen's best work but heck i don't care. The thing with Allen.. or rather Allen's character in this movie is just about as honest as it can get with any obnoxious, self-hating, annoying albeit a literary genius. And that my friends is the most charming part of the movie. Without giving away any spoilers let me say that Harry (Allen) being hated by everyone in his life for the things he did, does find comfort in the things he did ironically. But the story apart it has some weird editing work that I've seen in a movie for it's kind but hey it works. The film also has a touch of satirical comedy which the discernible audience will identify and love. I for one totally enjoyed this quirky li'l masterpiece and i don't see why i wouldn't recommend this to anyone who wants to watch a movie so unassuming as this one and yet so entertaining. I plan to watch more of Woody Allen's classics for sure now. "},{"Title":"My second favorite Woody Allen movie","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If I don't include his very early comedies, Deconstructing Harry would be my second favorite Woody Allen movie. My first? That would be Annie Hall. Okay, so shoot me for being a schmaltzy romantic, but I'm standing by that.This is the second Woody Allen movie I'm reviewing. In Deconstructing Harry exposes his soul (even though he doesn't believe in one) and inner thoughts more than in any other movie. He shows us some areas that are not pleasant or cool, but they really are, because of his honesty and artistry.It must be so very difficult to have these strong thoughts and feelings, and then to be able to write them down in a screenplay format, and then to shoot them and have them work on the screen to a mass audience.I feel that writer-director Allen accomplished that.His whole cast was wonderful, as is the case in all of his movies. "},{"Title":"Well done, Allen writing more unique....","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the past decade or so, Allen seems to address the same issues, it seemed after Hannah and Her Sisters was a hit he became a bit complacent, his comedy is always so on the mark, but really his writing here proves his talent and depth as a dramatic author, not just for comedic drama.The characters in this film are indelible and true, i.e. his sister Doris; ex-girlfriends well-portrayed by Elisabeth Shue and Judy Davis. Also an incident with a fictive actor, blurred in focus (well done by Robin Williams who is also notable here). Cameoes with Richard Benjamin as yet another alter ego of Allen, a troubled man in self-analysis.The scenes of the inferno, and with Billy Crystal as Satan himself are comedic yet not over the top. (Floor 5 of the Dante's inferno is reserved for the media and book critics). It looks like a real dream one may have had. Kirstie Alley and Demi Moore are believable as ex-wives, and their issues.Overall, Allen proves his talent here as a writer worth reading, and not just viewing his directing and visuals. He explores male and female psyche with equal depth (not limited, say like a director Nicole Holofcener, who can direct chick flicks, but has yet to invent a real male character). Highly recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Almost my favorite Woody Allen film","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is probably my second favorite Woody Allen Film. I like most of his movies. But I found this one to be the most honest, revealing and courageous. Allen wrote and directed this with a superb touch. Like most of his work, Allen seduces us with the comedic aspects, most of which always have a strong truth underlying, then involves us with the more deeper dramatic themes.As with most of his movies, the cast is filled with name actors. So I can only say that all of his actors are just wonderful and perfect in their roles.This time around, Allen plays a more serious role, in the sense that he reveals much more of himself. I found that to be very interesting to watch. Instead of just making fun of his analysts, he also pours his real feelings out and it works.The cinematography, the set design and all of the music work wonderfully together.I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"One of Woody's Greatest Films","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry is one of Woody Allen's funniest, most well-made, and most potent films. Woody explores the hilarity in cruelty and profanity as a successful writer who, like every writer, draws inspiration from friends, girlfriends, and himself, and from events that happened to him. However, his characterizations and portrayals of embarrassing situations, betrayals, and personal information draws a line too thin between fact and fiction, causing nearly everyone in his life to be infuriated with him.The main thread has Woody driving to a university from which he was once expelled in order to receive an ironic honorary degree. He has kidnapped his son from his already furious ex-wife and impulsively invited a black prostitute with whom he's spent the previous night to accompany his already invited friend, who is in poor health. However, there are many vignettes in the form of flashbacks, parts of his stories that are played out, and interactions with personifications of his characters all the sides of himself and the people in his life that he portrays through satire and allegory. Herein lies the innocence in for what Woody is antagonized. Of all the inconsiderate and consciously callous things his character is guilty of, he suffers the most guilt via the influence of those that have already had great influence upon his imagination and his successful career.Deconstructing Harry features some of the ripest of Woody's humor, including hilarious segments of his characters' work involving a misunderstanding with the Grim Reaper, an actor out of focus played with intense frustration by Robin Williams, and an adulterous sexual episode with unpredictable interruption. Woody's depiction of Hell is also beauitfully done, even if it's a little too easily expected. What makes the film one of his best is his hitting of the cruel exchange G-spot. There are several scenes of outrage, cursing, and controlled lack of taste masquerading as tastelessness that cause explosion of laughter. "},{"Title":"Re-emergence of classic Woody Allen","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Despite his use of more racy language, this film is a tribute to the witty dialog and plot development that really characterizes his career. Somewhat similar in ways to his earlier Stardust Memories, this film depicts all of his trademark qualities without being overly narcissistic. Unlike many writers and filmmakers who become self-absorbed and get carried away with pseudo-artistic self exploration, Allen seems to find the right balance between comedy and drama. He isn't trying so hard to be an intellectual that he bores you to death. He relates some simple and some deeply philosophical issues in the guise of comedy and good character development and this is what Allen does best. While not his best (then again he has so many good films to his credit), it is intelligent, witty, and entertaining. It is a must-see for his fans. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen by way of QT","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lot has been said about the vulgarity of Deconstructing Harry, but I have to mention it again, as a long-time Woody Allen fan.  It is by far his most profane film, with Woody himself spouting off profanities and mixtures of profanities that would make even Quentin Tarantino blush. If you can get past the nonstop cussing of most of the characters (Allen, as well as Kirstie Alley, Billy Crystal and Judy Davis, in her second of three hysterical characters in Woody films), you will find a lot to like here.  The story is inventive (the mixing of real characters and the ones invented by Harry/Woody in his books), the direction is definitely unique (the sudden and frequent edits), and there are lots of belly laughs (I especially liked the story about the old Jewish husband with the dark secret).  It's like watching Woody Allen in a porn film.  This is because most of his films contain little to no profanity, but Husbands & Wives in 1992 started somewhat of a trend, and Mighty Aphrodite continued it (although in the latter movie, the profanity was just a part of Mira Sorvino's character, and Woody didn't swear).  I realize I'm going off on a tangent with the profanity, but it will shock Woody fans and non-fans alike. This film seemed to exorcise some of his demons, but a few would haunt his next movie, in which Kenneth Branagh played the Woody type. These are not Woody masterpieces, but they are entertaining, in somewhat of a deranged way. "},{"Title":"you know, funny","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My boyfriend is always slamming Woody Allen's later movies, so he refused to rent this with me.  So, I rented it myself and watched it with a friend, and I thought it was *very funny.*  The ending kinda threw me off (a bit too postmodern) but it was still fine.  Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Demi Moore has a line that's worth the price of admission","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Deconstructing Harry'.  **1/2.  (1997, USA, R, 95 min. Directed, written by, and starring Woody Allen with Elisabeth Shue, Demi Moore, Billy Crystal and everyone else that's been in a Woody Allen movie plus some new ones).  Do you like the Woody Allen sense of humor?  If yes, you'll find something to like and something to hate in `Deconstructing Harry.'  This isn't the best of Woody Allen.  But I like Woody Allen movies because I can usually find some perverted joke or some commentary on religion, sex, women, life, or whatever to tickle my fantasy.  And in `Deconstructing Harry' Demi Moore has a line that's worth the price of admission.Harry Block (Allen) is having writer's block.  He's spent the advance from his publisher.  He's between wives/women.  He's divorced and his girlfriend (Shue) is about to run off and marry one of his best friends (Crystal).  One of his ex-wives won't let him take his son to an award ceremony.  (He's getting an honorary degree at the college from which he never graduated.)  Block, another friend and a $500/night hooker kidnap his 10 year old son and leave New York City (Are Woody Allen movies ever set anywhere else?) for upstate New York.  All the while this story is evolving, Block is thinking about his past and his past is played out as a series of flashbacks to `real' events with the `real' people.  Other times the flashbacks are from scenes in his books and short stories where the characters are thinly disguised portrayals of the `real' people in Block's life.  Clever?  Not really.  Amusing?  Yeah.Anyway back to Demi Moore.  She is a book character that's `really' one of his ex-wives.  After they are married for a while, she becomes very religious.  She has to bless everything and the blessings are all in Hebrew.  I'm assuming it is Hebrew.  She blesses the food before eating; she blesses the cup before drinking. But when she asks the blessing before performing fellatio and we hear this Hebrew pray with the vernacular for the one word I assume isn't Hebrew.  It's funny.`Deconstructing Harry' is so-so Woody Allen.  If you're a fan, rent it.  It's out on video.  You'll find something you like.  I did.  "}{"Title":"Vile.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I haven't got a soul Allen tells his psychiatrist somewhere in this film.I couldn't describe my feelings about Deconstructing Harry better myself. A lot of people seem to think that (in an Emperor's New Clothes sort of way) disliking this film automatically means that you are incapable of higher brain functions, that Allen's witty style goes above your head. I feel slightly guilty about this, as I have used the same argument many times before, but honestly - I loved Annie Hall and Manhattan and Play It Again Sam and Everyone Says I Love You. This I do not.The observations on life and relationships and everything so wonderfully Allenish are pitifully diluted here, and the unusual and unneeded sex and language are really rather distracting. While excessive obscenities seemed accurate in The Blair Witch Project or Withnail & I, it is rather.... disturbing to see normally mellow Allen (or whoever he is playing, they're all the same - not that I'm complaining!) cursing repeatedly. Woody, there *are* other ways to make an adult romantic comedy than shock tactics!But overall, this was a VERY poor effort from Allen. There's just nothing memorable here. "},{"Title":"The cynical life of an artist that works better in fiction than in real life","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A masterpiece of Woody Allen. If you like Allen's movies you will love this one.With a set of great actors (like Billy Cristal, Demi Moore, Robin Williams, and a long etc.) Woody show us how his work is a reflex of his own life. Maybe the most autobiographical movie, Deconstructing Harry appears when the scandal about the Allen-Farrow's divorce has passed and Woody Allen looks forward to tell the world his side of the story. Is not an apology, is just a narration.Above all is the Allen's cynicism. He doesn't go right with people because his acid ways with the others. People can't stand him but love his work exactly for the same reasons.Is the art reflecting life or is the life that reflects the art? "},{"Title":"Woody in black","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody's 26th film is a distinct shift in tone from 'Everyone says I love you',and even though at first glance I saw the names of Robin Williams,Demi Moore & Billy Crystal with a tad of cynicism they really perform well alongside the rest of the star studded cast.One of the things I particularly like about Woody is his choice of actors (In what other film would you see TV stars such as Julia Louise Dreyfus & Julie Kavner alongside Hollywood 'heavyweights' such Moore & Williams?)Put into context this has to be one of the bleakest films Woody has made (Up there with 'Interiors').It also succeeds on a comic level especially in the scene with Woody & Kirsty Alley as he tries to justifie his reasons for sleeping with one of her patients.Even actors such as Alley can shine when they are given such a good script to work with,Woody certainly deserved the Academy Award nomination (Although we know he doesn't care!).8/10 or 4/5 if you prefer. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen should get a life.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am sick to death of all these Woody Allen movies where he casts himself with beautiful women. Honestly, I just think he writes the script just to do love scenes with these people. How could Elizabeth Shue be interested in a neurotic nerd like Woody Allen? Besides that, I thought the movie was really funny, but only in the scenes where Woody didn't appear.  "},{"Title":"I was disappointed with this movie.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I started watching Woody Allen movies in the 1970s with such classics as Sleeper, Annie Hall, and Love & Death.  Deconstructing Harry was a challenge for me.  It was difficult to connect with this movie on many levels. There were no sympathetic characters; unnecessary vulgarities; and a less than enjoyable story.  I don't think this film's problems are from Woody Allen's age.  In recent years he still made great films such as Small Time Crooks (2000), Mighty Aphrodite (1995), and Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989).  I was so disappointed with this movie that I ended up fast forwarding the tape in an attempt to find something which seemed enjoyable.  My efforts were of no use.Recommendation  Only see it if you are trying to catch all of this generally great film maker's works. "},{"Title":"And it all comes crashing down!","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After Woody Allen's movie quality hit rock bottom with the worthless Everyone Says I Love You, he rebounded with the biting Deconstructing Harry. He plays writer Harry Block, whose memoir about his acquaintances brings out the nastiest in everyone. I really liked the appearances by Death, the Devil, and that part about a black hole. As for Robin Williams's character...well, let's just say that it's the sort of thing that one would expect from Gilligan's Island. Just as an FYI, this was Richard Benjamin's first starring role in sixteen years (he'd only been directing in between). All in all, a really funny movie. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's best film since Annie Hall","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Woody Allen comedy is often cited to be an acquired taste - and it is. Albeit one that I've almost acquired. Though I still find Woody Allen's comedy to be rather hit and miss, I've somewhat come round to his way of thinking. Annie Hall is an out and out masterpiece, and judging by the eighteen Allen films I've seen; this one is the best since then. Deconstructing Harry is basically a cross between Annie Hall and Ingmar Bergman's 'Wild Strawberries', although Allen seems to have had his tongue firmly in cheek regarding that last influence. The story follows Harry (Allen); a writer that is suffering with writers block. Harry has seen fit, therefore, to base his short stories on friends and relatives, much to their dismay. Harry has been honoured by the college that expelled him (Wild Strawberries), and he now also has to deal with all the people he has upset by his writing, leading us into a life-affirming piece of cinema for Woody Allen.Like most of Allen's oeuvre, this one is very personal. Allen made this film at a time when he was in the papers every day for various allegations, and at times it almost feels like Woody has been backed into a corner and he's trying desperately to get out of it. In this movie, Allen builds up a three dimensional portrait of his character though various events in the movie, which are intertwined with short stories that he has made up. The short stories themselves are generally imaginative and many would make a great movie in themselves (the one with Tobey Maguire being a particular highlight). The way that Allen combines these two elements of story telling is really skillful, and despite the huge area for cocking up; Allen doesn't fall into it, and the story flows smoothly throughout. The film features much of Allen's trademark witty dialogue, with some of the exchanges being truly memorable and absurdly funny. Deconstructing Harry is Allen at his neurotic, self-styled best and I rate it as his best since Annie Hall. "},{"Title":"One of the best, and funniest, films of 1997","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen's Deconstructing Harry is arguably his best film in my opinion.  True, there are his works in the 70's that are masterpieces, but this is definitely his best recent work.  His script is one of his funniest, because this is a movie wham-packed with Jewish humor (which coming from Allen is a blessing).The plot involves troubled writer Harry Block (played to the best of Allen acting) who along with writer's block, has trouble holding on to women, mentioning real life in his book, and meeting hookers who find the black hole to be their living.  It's not just him though, the other characters including Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Judy Davis, Julia Louis-Dreyfuss, Caroline Aaron and many others bring this film to a high pitched comedy.  And since, me being Jewish, I understood much of the humor and laughed through most of it.  Great entertainment.  A++ "},{"Title":"Woody, how could you?","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Woody Allen has created some excellent movies in his time, but I honestly believe that he misfired badly with this one.  As someone said, this movie is vulgar.  It leaves a very bad taste and gives me the impression that he was thinking of his relationship with Mia Farrow when he wrote it.  Woody Allen can do much better than this and has done so on many occasions.  The first time I saw ANOTHER WOMAN, I was disappointed.  But in the few times that I've seen it since, I've come to enjoy it much more.  I hope that that is the case with DECONSTRUCTING HARRY.  I just hated this. "},{"Title":"Low Point for Allen....","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Deconstructing Harry (1997) I had a lot of problems with this movie.Thought it very crude (along with Mighty Aphrodite, a very overrated Woody Allen movie) and misogynistic.Of course, this echoes Woody Allen's recent personal life, and since a good friend told me that's really what this movie is all about (i.e. Woody) then I suppose I'd have to say, it's right on the money. However, I'd rather spend my money elsewhere. After all, seeing Julia Louise Dreyfuss give Richard Benjamin fellatio is not my idea of entertainment.If you're into the nastier more cynical side of Woody, then I suppose you'd probably go for this film, but pardon the pun, it just left a bad taste in my mouth. "}{"Title":"The first of Allen I saw...","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" by Dane YoussefDeconstructing Harry is the movie that's mostly referred to as Woody's most venomous and mean-spirited movie. Which is true.So of course, it's one of the best. Of course, that's just one matter of opinion.Like just about every one of Woody's, it has wall-to-wall celebrity cameos from some of the biggest name stars Hollywood. Most of the Woodman's movies have consisted of old-time vaudeville, Jewish humor, the musings of Freud and stand-up. This is one of my favorites. Yes, it's one of Allen's more scatological films, as well as his nastiest. I'm saying that right now. F--k, some of the more low-brow humor is reminiscent of Monty Python And The Meaning Of Life. Remember the projective voluminous vomiting scene? Or the musical renditions of Every Sperm Is Sacred or Isn't It Nice To Have A Penis?Allen matches it with a blow-job and anal-sex scene, topped off with a joke about the blind. As well as his envisonment of the very bowels of hell. There's even a fun relationship with a hooker (Allen did good with this in an earlier film of his, Mighty Aphrodite. Sorvino took home the Oscar).While this one isn't as touching as many of Allen's others Annie Hall, Manhattan or The Purple Rose Of Cairo, it's certainly one of his funniest. Deconstrucing Harry is more of a throwback to his earlier works where Allen was all about laughs like Sleeper, What's New, Tiger Lily? or Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex. This one has some psychological digging and analysis into who Allen is. Hey, all his films do. But this one is really just about making you laugh. In fact, it's the first Woody Allen movie I've ever saw. It got a well-deserved Oscar nod for it's screenplay (Good ol' Woody gets one every year). But let's be honest, Good Will Hunting deserved it a lot more. It's only fair Ben and Matt won that year. Unlike a lot of Woody's movies, this one is a lot meaner and edgier than most. Oh, it's chock-full of jokes about masturbate, orgasm, blow job and penis jokes (that's Woody's John Hand-cock). But there's deeper issues underneath. Woody's obvious self-loathing... and how it lead to as his former lover put it... literary gold. I hurt myself laughing. So did my mother... although not without a healthy feeling of guilt. My sister was horrified. My father made me turn it off. I watched it later... when everybody else was asleep. I laughed even harder. A must-see.One of the funniest bits in the movie involves Woody going straight to hell and paying dearly for the many, many sins that he has acquired over his nearly 70 year run. To add insult to injury, the Jews don't believe in Hell. Is Hell like the bogeyman? If you don't believe in it, it won't hurt you? The Jews believe themselves that Hell, like Heaven, is place that exists on Earth.SPECIAL NOTE This is the first movie that Woody Allen developed with his now-recurring moral about the tortured man who can function in art, but certainly not in life. Woody's long run is nearing his end. Despite all his talent (and flaws), he is still a man. As mortal as any of God's creatures. He knows this better than anyone. Woody is obviously going to leave something special behind. Many of his movies have become cinematic landmarks. Will Woody's best movie be his last? I'm sure the French will gobble it up. And so will we... because it's last. Many will have nothing but good things to say about Woody when that eventual day comes (Woody has always been self-lacerating, but he wont be able to interject obviously....) Let's hope that his last is his most revealing... oh, and of course, best... I'm on board and my fingers are crossed.--For The Wood, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"DECONSTRUCTING DECONSTRUCTING HARRY","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Written and directed by Woody Allen. Running time 95 minutes. Classified R (for strong language and some sexuality).Deconstructing Harry is possibly Woody Allen's most personal film to date. Almost every picture this renowned writer/director made has had autobiographical underlinings, but none have reflected his personality so straightforwardly. This is a difficult film to address without disclosing its plot in depth, so if you have not seen it yet, I strongly encourage you to watch it before reading this review. Harry Block (the always punctual Allen) is a famous writer his work has been acknowledged and acclaimed (or is it just his fantasy? we'll never know), but his personal life has seen nothing but failure. After two unsuccessful marriages and six unsuccessful psychiatrists, he's suddenly been struck down with a case of writer's block and is squandering his money on prostitutes. And throughout the duration of the film we revisit his past and reenact his writings as he tries to figure out why he's so prone to ruining everything. Deconstructing Harry is an odd combination of two completely different genres the morality play and the gross-out comedy. It's a classic fable of the consequences of egotism and a profane farce of sex and death (the two things Allen has been known to accentuate in his films, having once said of them in his classic madcap comedy Sleeper, the two things that come once in a lifetime. But at least after death you aren't nauseous). Harry is a self-conscious egomaniac that recognizes his own faults but refuses to fix them. He's spent his whole life trying to satisfy his own desires and has never found true satisfaction, since he only desires the things he doesn't have. The film is composed of a series of vignettes, alternating between real time and cameo-filled visualizations of Harry's work. In an early sketch, a young man (played by a post-Ice Storm, pre-Spider-Man Tobey Maguire) tells his analyst that he wants to have sex with every woman he sees except for his own girlfriend. Similarly, whenever Harry becomes involved with a woman on a steady basis, he immediately seeks out someone else. It's almost as if he lives to destroy people. And this represents the morality aspect of the picture wherever he goes, Harry is either confronted by people he's wronged or haunted by a vision of what a confrontation with those people would be like. As for the gross-out side of the film, Deconstructing Harry is brimming with Farrelly-esque sex gags (including a scene in which an elderly blind woman catches Julia Louis-Dreyfus administering oral sex to Richard Benjamin and delivers a series of unintended double-entendres) and dark caricatures (Allen's burlesque perspective of hell is a sight to be seen, and his casting of Billy Crystal as satan is a stroke of genius. Allen was also on to something when he decided to have Bob Balaban depict a hypochondriac instead of assigning the role to himself). But if Deconstructing Harry is a gross-out comedy, it's certainly the most sophisticated gross-out comedy I've ever seen. The film features quick cuts (the opening sequence is viewed identically four times) and an overdose of irony (after all he's done, Harry is eventually imprisoned for allegedly kidnapping his own son), and it represents everything that is good in a Woody Allen film. It also poignantly represents Woody Allen. Just before the film comes to a close, Harry says of himself, I'm too neurotic to function in life, so I function through my art. The same can be said of this great film-maker.***1/2 - Excellent "},{"Title":"Dark, Very Dark","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've Seen This Movie Twice.  I Thought it was pretty funny but pretty dark. But At Least It's Not Alice, That Movie Sucked! Woody Allen is funny, but he has been draggin lately. This is The Best Of The NEW Woody Allen Movies. But Very Very Very Very Dark. But It's Funnier than the Darker film Bullets over Broadway Yeah, Yeah, This Is Darker Than Bullets Over Broadway, but at least it's funny. Bullets Over Broadway is very unfunny. "},{"Title":"Men as sexual beasts...women as harpies","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Writer-director-star Woody Allen on atheism, purposelessness, marriage-as-failure (or as a prelude to affairs), failed romances, and the Grim Reaper. Portraying a writer sorting out his life vis-à-vis his thinly-disguised fictional stories, Allen has become a despairing cynic as opposed to a funny one. In this dark-hued, angry, foul-mouthed comedy, Woody questions the world around him in much the same way he has done before--yet he's mocking himself this time, and the self-flagellation is enough to make one wince. The sarcastic cracks come fast and furious, but with Allen busy painting himself as a whore-loving no-goodnik who feels he has no responsibility to anyone, the laughs simply are not there. Woody Allen, the man who loved women, is unbelievably harsh on the female characters (the only one who isn't trampled by the script is a hooker, who apparently gets left behind in jail near the finale). The females are mostly all Jewish harpies hysterical, desperate, needy, sexually unfulfilled. No wonder they're unfulfilled; as the screenwriter, Allen redirects all the guilt and shame and regret and prowess back to himself. The question he seems to be asking as a filmmaker is will this character ever be redeemed? Perhaps that Mia Farrow lookalike near the finish can supply the answer. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Clever but inconsistent Woody Allen","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERSSome of Woody Allen's films have a certain genius about their stories. Deconstructing Harry is exactly this sort of film. At the same time though, this feature is far too inconsistent to go down as one of Woody's best.In this film, Woody plays Harry Block, obsessive writer and depressive life hater. Harry has spent his entire life writing as an attempt to escape from real life. When not writing, he is taking pills or sleeping with prostitutes. As a result Harry's friends and family have a habit of being angry with him, especially since his writing tends to be based on his life and his family.In this feature of Woody's, the problem is that it is just far too variable. Whilst at times Harry's stories are brilliant (his trip to Hell at the end is hilarious), at other times this film feels awkward and infuriating. As a supporting cast, Woody hasn't really gathered anyone amazing together this time to aid him. This is infuriating as the lack of amazing talent shows through.Aside from an awkward suporting cast and an inconsistent plot, this film really does have it's moments. Ultimately though, these scenes are far too few and far between. Woody has made better. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly disturbing","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although many people believe that Woody Allen plays basically the same character in all of his movies, this film proves that to be untrue; usually, Allen plays a soft-spoken, imperfect, frail, but basically good-hearted character who might do some things wrong but is still likable on most levels.  In Deconstructing Harry, he is much more dark, vulgar, and unlikable... for example, he swears quite a bit, which is unusual for a character played by Allen.  Somehow, I didn't like this - while I personally have no problem with profanity, somehow hearing Allen doing it bothers me. I guess it sort of ruins the image of him I have in my head, even though I know it's a fictional image.  The actual plot of this movie is quite clever, and there are a few great scenes, but many have found the film to be a bit disturbing in how it manipulates and darkens the classic Allen persona, and I have to agree. "},{"Title":"May be a little 'out of focus'!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dear Woody Allen... Your movies are always great but never that great!Deconstructing Harry is a movie I bought in a little place in sale for like 5 bucks! BIG DEAL!Like every Woody Allen's movie, this is one of a kind and you can't compare it to another movie in particular! Still, this one didn't amazed me THAT much!I give it a 7 on 10 because still I don't even think all the actors were super great in their role...-M- "},{"Title":"Not worth it!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yesterday was Video Night at our house and I rented, thankfully among others, Deconstructing Harry. Remembering the trailer fondly, I was looking very much forward to the Allen-experience. But boy... what a disappointment.  It's truly very different from other Allen movies.   As a Dane I wouldn't generally consider myself up-tight about vulgar language. But even for a liberal Dane there is a limit... I think of myself as a true movie buff. I always tell me friends that there are redeeming qualities in all movies. If the plot's a bit thin, look at the performance. If that's weak as well, how about those camera angles...But last night as my friends were looking at me with wonder, and I think one of them disgust, I just found myself speechless (You'll be happy to see I recovered quickly). I had to agree with them. Obviously I had lost my gift. I was painfully aware that I could no longer trust myself to pick the perfect movie. I have lost the respect of my friends and ruined a year-long perfect record. And for what? For what I ask you? A sad, depressing, not-even-close-to-being-funny and did-I-mention-vulgar, long-dragging movie, which only redeeming qualities could have been it's many stars had it not been for the fact that they all appeared in practically cameos. Let me say in no uncertain terms I am a Woody fan. The Jewish, guilt-ridden humor. The poor little guy with the big brown eyes begging for acceptance and love. I love all that! But were was it??? Where were Hannah and her sisters or Diane Keaton and Alan Alda when we needed them the most. And let me tell you...I could only pawn off this movie on my friends because they, as did I, loved Hannah and Her sisters, Radio Days, Manhattan Murder Mystery and Everyone Says I Love You. Oh Woody, nothing stings like the betrayal of someone you trusted! This is the second(!) movie in 15 long and happy years as a movie goer that I've failed to finish. The first one was due to sudden illness, and I practically had to be carried out of that one. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's life story???","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing this movie I have come to the conclusion that I do not need to see any more Woody Allen productions.  I saw this film as an excuse for Woody Allen to express his desires and under the guise of acting get to hold another woman in his little arms.  How sad.  I pity him, but no longer find him entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's Weakest Films","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Really embarrassing...  Easily Woody Allen's most self-indulgent, pompous film-- he's capable of greatness, but this was really terribly disappointing. "}{"Title":"Among the worst movies in ten years.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mr. Allen is floundering.  It appears Mr. Allen somehow thinks, in this pathetic movie, that by using extreme vulgarity he is hip or current or whatever.  Mr. Allen looks tired and worn out and gives the impression of a has been rather than someone of the now generation to which he apparently is desperately attempting to cling.  I have been a fan of Mr. Allen's for many years but sadly I feel it is time for him to quit if he can do no better than this. "},{"Title":"What and awful movie!","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really disliked this movie. I'll confess firstly to not being the biggest Woody Allen fan. However this movie was much worse than I expected.Woody Allen plays Harry Block, a self-absorbed, over-sexed, alcoholic writer who has had a series of failed marriages and relationships. The story centers on the way in which Harry writes novels which are so loosely autobiographical that all his family and friends immediately know that they are the inspiration for the characters in his books. This leads to a constant stream of anger and name calling being directed at Harry for having revealed confidences to the world at large.The most disturbing aspect of the movie is the bad language which is much worse than any other Woody Allen movie I can remember. For example, Judy Davis and Kirstie Alley both have extended scenes where they simply swear at Harry using every variation of the f word imaginable. Another distasteful scene is a conversation between Harry and his friend Larry (played by Billy Crystal) where they talk triumphantly about having sex with disabled girls.This is Woody Allen at his most pathetic. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing Harry","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recognised the title of this film, and then I learnt it was directed, written by and starring a great comedy genius, so how could I miss it! Oscar winning writer, director, and star Woody Allen focuses almost on his troubled private life with this bad taste and very funny comedy drama. Basically Harry Block (Allen) is the respected novelist who writes about his own experiences, but is recently suffering writer's block (see the surname!), but also with his unapologetic attitude he has to deal with the women he has had, whether ex-wives or whores. As his story continues, he is relating his continuing need for inspiration back to characters he has already created from his own image, all of which are displayed by great actors. These include Ken (Richard Benjamin), The Devil (Billy Crystal, also playing rival novelist Larry), Helen (Demi Moore), cleverly blurred Mel (Robin Williams), Grace (Julie Kavner), Leslie (Julia Louis-Dreyfus), Harvey Stern (Tobey Maguire), Paul Epstein (Stanley Tucci) and Death (Ralph Pope). But also, he is travelling with his son, and whoever else he can get to receive an honorary award. Also starring Caroline Aaron as Doris, Kirstie Alley as Joan, Bob Balaban as Richard, Eric Bogosian as Burt, Hazelle Goodman as Cookie, Judy Davis as Lucy, Beth Kramer Mariel Hemingway, Amy Irving as Jane, Elisabeth Shue as Fay and Paul Giamatti as Prof. Abbott. The bad language is great, the editing is intriguing, and the imagination of the director is very good. Woody Allen was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 80 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 14 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups. Good! "},{"Title":"Good, wouldn't say great!","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay movie, enjoyed it except for the fact that the most visible black female character was a call girl. It is important to note however that although she was a call girl, he still treated her with some respect. So I guess you can't say he was trying to dehumanize her which is better than of the other potrayals of black women in Hollywood to date.I found this a little offensive, but all in all good movie, minus the unnecessary use of foul language.It was as though he was trying to prove to the world that this was an R rated movie.Woody's acting however was definitely on point. I have to say that although I have never particularly been a fan of his movies, except for hannah and her sisters, this one definitely pushed him up a bit on my rate scale. "},{"Title":"Despite his neurotic behavior, I liked this Woody Allen movie","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I probably should be ashamed of myself, but as a guy who has seen many movies in recent times, who likes comedies and who calls himself a fan of cinema, I hadn't seen a Woody Allen movie before. The main reason for that is because I know several people who had walked out on a couple of his movies before and this of course made me believe that those movies wouldn't be something for me to watch either. But I gave it a try with this one and I must say that it certainly wasn't as bad as I feared, I even liked it.In Deconstructing Harry, Allen plays the role of Harry Block, a well-regarded novelist. But his tendency for using his own experiences in his work, for having an un-apologetic attitude and for having a weak spot for whores and pills have cost him three ex-wives who all hate him as much as they can. And while he will be honored for his work, by the college where he was once expelled, he has a few other major problems to deal with as well. He suffers from writer's block and the woman he was in love with, is about to marry one of his friends... While parts of his novels and stories come by, he'll have to face all the people whose lives he has once affected in different, but not always positive ways.Because I haven't seen any of his other movies, I can't tell whether this is one of his better or worst. Fact is that I liked it for what it was. Woody Allen clearly isn't scared of using his own experiences in this movie, but uses it all in a satirical way which I surely can appreciate. But there were plenty of other good things to notice as well. The acting for instance. Woody Allen clearly knows what actors he wants for his movies and I like the fact that he doesn't care about the fact if this or that actor/actress only plays in TV-series and movies (Kirstie Alley, Julia Louis-Dreyfus...), or is used to play in big productions (Robin Williams, Demi Moore, Elisabeth Shue...). He doesn't care about such conventions and that's what makes him so different and good. Another thing that I liked was the humor. He doesn't spare no-one and doesn't mind kicking against some people's shins.One thing that I had a bit bigger problem with was his neurotic behavior. Perhaps the fans don't even notice it anymore, because they are used to it and because it is a part of the man, but I couldn't help seeing it and yes, it sometimes bothered me. But all in all this is a good comedy that, despite his neurotic behavior in it, makes me look forward to other Woodey Allen movies. I hope they are at least as good as this one or perhaps even better. I give Deconstructing Harry a 7/10. "},{"Title":"a pointless mess","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm a great fan of Woody Allen.  This film, though, is a pointless mess.  I don't know where to begin, or where to end.  I can't say enough bad things about this film.  Who needs insights into a character with no depth and no redeeming qualities?  Why display the soul searching of a man who doesn't appear to have a soul to search?  The idea of the author's conversations with his characters holds promise, but Allen doesn't do enough with the idea to make the results worth watching. The only thing that works in the film is the out of focus gag. "},{"Title":"Self-flagellation as art, but it's funny","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I read one critic that said in this film, Allen was taking everything bad anyone had ever written about him and put it into this movie, and that's not far off the mark.  This is, in essence, STARDUST MEMORIES redux, and since that is by far my least favorite Allen film, I was hesitant towards this film.  In addition to the whiny tone of that film (Oh, I'm so successful, I have women throwing themselves at me, my life is so empty!), we get the self-flagellation of this film (not only is my life so empty, I'm such a bastard!).  What makes it watchable are three things; firstly, Allen at least seems to recognize the hypocrisy of whining, secondly, the film seamlessly weaves between fantasy and reality, between real life and fiction, and finally, it's often very funny.  It also contains the best work either Billy Crystal or Demi Moore have done in a while.  Not vintage Allen, but it'll make you laugh.  Just don't fall into the trap of thinking it has something important to say.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is even worse than September, which I walked out on! Everyone makes mistakes now and then. Just because Woody made this mistake, doesn't mean you have to see it.  "},{"Title":"Woody at his worst.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Film critics had a field day with Deconstructing Harry, a star studded mess of a movie with Allen casting himself in the title role as the usual neurotic, obsessive, slef-absorbed,  loquacious, ruminating New York Jew type, with the verdict eminently negative. There's little I can add to the background noise. Suffice it to say that DC comes off like vomit; a mess made up of pieces of what was once palatable. A regurgitation of Allen's better work as a numbing, unfunny, and seemingly endless drone of dialogue, DC is recommended for diehard Allen fans only. "},{"Title":"Loathsome and vile","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  People who have followed Woody for a quarter century or more may be curious to see him foul-mouthed, but a word to the wise don't bother.You've heard all these jokes before, only on those occasions they were funny.I did a rough count, and I was very surprised to find that I've seen 30 or so Woody Allen films. I actually didn't realize he had made quite so many. Yeah, and I've read some of the plays -- even the one about the light bulb -- and some of the collected humour books. And some of his old stand-up routines on LP are still funny too. I guess you can say I like Woody.Regardless, this movie is rock bottom. Maybe there's a dud mixed in with the handful I haven't seen. Otherwise, this is his absolute worst.On the optimistic side, Woody has always managed in the past to resurface after plumbing his depths of self-indulgence. He's likely to do it again. Let's hope it's soon.  "}]