[{"Title":"Dude, you need to calm down...","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"93 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After reading this last guy's review, I'd like to stick up for this movie and offer a BALANCED review. In my opinion, Dante's Peak does a good job of developing the characters (Dalton, R. Wando, the volcano as a character, even the townsfolk), giving convincing backstory as to how volcanos behave compared to scientists' expectations, making us care about the characters, building tension through conflict between Dreyfus and Dalton, and using effects to ramp up the intensity of the action scenes.Yes, there were things in the script and the story which seemed a little contrived and strained believability. The attitudes and behavior of the USGS team were a little too informal and hip to seem real. The driving-through-the-river and driving-through-the-lava scenes were really too far out to be believed. Ruth's selfishness and patent stubbornness were unbelievable but understandable. The scene where the pyroclastic cloud chases them into the mine is pure hollywood fluff but still livable, mainly because WE CARE ABOUT THE CHARACTERS. I found the character of Dr. Paul Dreyfuss to be right on. He explained the dilemma well during the city council meeting scene. All of the characters are believable at least, convincing at most.I think the chemistry between Dalton and Wando is believable  Here you have a scientist who is analytical and professional, but who is still in touch with the lives of laypeople, and has a tender side. He has loved and lost before and he senses that this new volcanic threat is akin to the last one which took his love away. This re-enforces the precept that THIS TIME, HE WON'T LET THE VOLCANO HURT THE ONES HE LOVES. Wando is the warm, slightly ditsy mayor of Dante's Peak who displays the identifiable traits and values of a northwesterner. She feels slightly overwhelmed by her mayoral duties, raising her kids properly, and running her coffeeshop. She's had a previous marriage to a deadbeat who left her at a vulnerable point. The arrival of Dalton is very catalytic in her life. She's met the only man who has the right answer about the volcano, likes her kids, likes her, is intriguing, and is everything her ex wasn't. THIS IS THE MAKINGS OF A ROMANCE...DUH.I'm really impressed that the filmmakers were able to pack this much character development, backstory, romance, suspense, personal conflict, with an intense end-sequence in under 1 1/2 hours! Volcano is a film with a similar premise that,IMHO, doesn't even come close to Dante's Peak. While this film is not deserving of an Oscar, IT IS A SOLID FILM, HAVING BEEN WELL-CONCEIVED, WELL-DIRECTED, FAIRLY WELL-ACTED, AND AS SUCH IS SUBSEQUENTLY WELL-DESERVING OF SOME CRITICAL ACCLAIM rather than getting a baseless pummeling from reviewers who obviously expect to see a 5-star gem everytime they go to the movies.  "},{"Title":"Good Effects  Make It Fun To Watch","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"58 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This disaster film had some of the best special effects of its day (almost 10 years ago). I have to say of its day because technology has made CGI become dated quickly these days. This film is all about a volcano, a la Mt. St. Helen's, erupting and killing people and destroying a small town below it. Some of the scenes were just jaw- dropping and, at least for the first-time viewer, a lot of suspense over whether the main characters of the story will survive it.Of course, there are some credibility gaps in here, things that just could not happen such as little boy drive van up a mountain (when his feet wouldn't reach the foot pedals!) but you just go along for the ride and enjoy the tension and special effects even if the story gets a little hokey.It might not be the most intelligent film, but it's very entertaining 109 minutes, and that's the name of the business. It's good escapist fare, and that's all. It's worth two looks. "},{"Title":"Great... really true to the facts","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"65 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK... after seeing all the bad comments that people have written about this, i would like to stand up for it. I have always been interested in volcanoes and geology, and i have just finished watching the movie for the somewhat like tenth time and also the 'making of' section on the DVD. I would like to tell all those people that think that it was really tacky with a weak storyline that it was incredibly true to the facts, way more than any of the other disaster movies that were released over 1998 and 1997(eg. Volcano (which was shocking), deep impact (even worse) and Armageddon (i haven't seen so i won't comment)).Yes, i will agree with you that some of the ideas were really outrageous (such as outrunning the pyroclastic flow into the mine), but come on guys, give the movie a break... its Hollywood for heaven's sake!I'd give this movie and eight point five out of ten... anyone who wants to see a mostly scientifically accurate disaster movie, watch this.  "},{"Title":"Volcano Plays Its Part Very Well","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, there are some cheesy, hollywoodish moments in this movie, but the actors bring enough charisma and presence to hold the story together. Pierce Brosnan makes a convincing scientist, whose passion and desire to protect the townspeople plays off nicely with Mayor Linda Hamilton's similar concerns.But what I most want to say is that the volcano itself was both believable and accurate. So I want to commend the filmmakers for having enough integrity to make an entertaining film within the boundaries of scientific accuracy. And face it, you don't go to a movie like Dante's Peak to see insightful drama, or peer deep into the human psyche. The people and the volcano play off each other very nicely. It's not often you get a film with both chemistry and physics. "},{"Title":"Just what we needed. Great movie.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"44 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love the way this film builds up tension by slowly developing the characters and inducing drama between them. All of this makes a film much better than VOLCANO. The list of fine actors/ actresses include Pierce Brosnan, Linda Hamilton, Charles Hallahan, Grant Heslov, Elizabeth Hoffman, Tzi Ma, Christopher Murray and more. This film shows how people might actually act and think in a volcano situation. The art direction was great as they showed the sky and ash beautifully. The scenery of the town is very nice and the whole town seems very quiet and peaceful. I would have wanted to live there. This is the best volcano movie ever. No volcano movie will ever surpass this one. The cinematography is great also. Roger Donaldson did a great job of direction and the score by James Newton Howard is beautiful. All of these elements create a film that is unforgettable. DANTE'S PEAK gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Enjoy the fireworks.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The 'old-fashioned' disaster movie scenario enjoyed a brief resurgence in the latter half of the 90s. After the success of Twister and ID4, films like Hard Rain, Titanic, Armageddon and Deep Impact followed in its wake. Like the two competing asteroid movies, Dante's Peak was in competition with the imaginatively named Volcano as THE Lava flow of 1997. Which one is better? Well, comparing the two is like comparing an atomic blast to a popping pimple.Pierce Brosnan is Harry Dalton, a Vulcanologist (or James Bond in disguise if you want) who predicts a major eruption in the quaint Pacific-Northwestern town of Dante's Peak. No one wants to listen to him since the town has just been named the 2nd most desirable place to live in America and is in the early stages of a thriving economy. It's the politics from Jaws all over again. Despite being shouted down by his superiors, Harry sticks around to keep his eye on the imposing mountain and woo Mayor Wando (Linda Hamilton), who is the only one who believes the 4000-year dormant volcano might blow its top.If you've seen one disaster movie, you've seen 'em all in terms of character importance. Yes, it's bloody obvious who is going to die, some of these people might as well have a death clock counting down stuck on their foreheads. And the panicking idiot mobs don't deserve anything less firey. When will nameless extras learn that following the crowd isn't the best way? I guess this is the weakest part of Dante's Peak, it never really distances itself from that single, eternal cliché of disaster films.But the film is really nothing but a showcase for special effects and it does them surprisingly well. Made before the extreme popularity of CGI, Dante's Peak has a lot of real-life destruction, in-camera effects and stunt-work. Yes, there is a fair bit of CGI and for a 10-year-old film they still hold up really well. All Volano (Zzzz...) had to offer was a very, very slight lava flow and an unintentionally hilarious scene with a melting man but with Dante's Peak we get earthquakes, boiled skinny dippers, lakes of acid, ash blizzards that create a unique atmosphere, thunder and lightning, red hot boulders raining down from the sky, mudslides, lava (of course), a massive pyroclastic cloud and lots of deep, deep bass sound effects.It's not a life-changing film by any means, but as disaster movies go it's one of the best, has an occasionally spooky score and entertains really well despite Brosnan taking it all so seriously. I would have given it a higher rating if they killed the dog (more original) and deleted the annoying Grant Heslov's utterly pointless character. "},{"Title":"Not a bad disaster movie","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I thought it quite good, especially the roller coaster ride of the last hour or so. I saw it again and thought it not very good at all and now having seen it recently, I not bad, but not great either. It's a well done disaster movie with one challenge after another to survive being thrown at the main characters. This roller coaster ride really pulled me in and even reminded me of the very well done remake of The Fugitive, starring Harrison Ford. I'll admit some of the situations are a little hard to believe, but at least they keep the film from being boring.The chemistry between Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton, while not incredible, is still there. Also enjoyable was how the film makes use of its small town setting, including in the casting characters you'd expect to find in a small town the female gossip, the gruff, but dedicated sheriff, and the more business-minded don't-rock-the-boat councilman. Finally, Harry (Brosnan) and Paul Dreyfus's band of colleagues also prevent the movie from being flat, but are a little too reminiscent of the characters from Twister to really leave their own mark.Also what impressed me was some of the camera work, which I think isn't given enough credit. There are a number of composite shots of the erupting volcano with the reflection (probably understood to be from a truck's window) of Rachel (Hamilton) looking back in horror that are quite well done. And the digital editing in of the volcano is also well done as well as some of the panoramas.A smaller problem I had with the movie is the development of Harry and Rachel's relationship. Initially their flirtations and the initial getting to know each other are quite cute. But I can't help but think why Rachel, who has been a small-town girl her whole life would be interested in someone like Harry who clearly states a that his job isn't exactly conducive to settling down. Sure Harry is everything her ex-husband isn't and it's obvious that the both of them are lonely to a degree, but it doesn't seem to me that a woman as sensible and who feels as great a responsibility as Rachel (to her kids, to the town, to her business) would find that to be enough. Also, Harry seems to get over the touchy subject of his dear departed Marianne to start making passes at Rachel in her kitchen quite quickly.My biggest problem with the movie is the writing, which is so bad in some places that it really brings down the parts in the movie where it is good. Harry's line about sex being like riding a bicycle because once you learn you never forget is laughable. Some of the Wando children's lines I found to be lacking in substance too and almost condescending to the viewer. But, as I said, not all the writing is bad an example is the excellent delivery of a reference to Pompei by one of Harry and Paul's colleagues and another's excitement over Rachel's regular coffee deliveries.In the end, when this movie is bad, it's bad, but in general it's good. "},{"Title":"Pierce & Linda  Gave a Great Performance","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Decided to view this picture only because Pierce Brosnan was starring in the film and greatly enjoyed his acting skills besides his appearing as James Bond. Pierce Brosnan,(Harry Dalton),The Matador,'05, has a bad experience with the death of his wife during a volcano eruption and stayed in his profession as a geologist. Harry discovers from his charts that their could very well be another volcano problem effecting a small popular town. Linda Hamilton,(Rachel Wando),The Kid & I ,'05 is the mayor and store owner of this town, who has a boy and a girl and is divorced. A romantic spark happens between Linda and Harry and the story develops into a monster of a tale. There is plenty of good action and it really keeps you on the edge of your seats. Pierce & Linda gave outstanding performances and the photography was great through out the entire picture. Very Entertaining "},{"Title":"Not bad as far as natural disaster movies go","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Saw this a video sale this week for a $1. Wifey was stoked as her favourite movie genre is natural disasters.The movie revolves around volcano expert Harry (Brosnan), who decides to go and take a look at a volcano in a small US town where there seems to be some minimal activity. He is expecting this just to be a routine check, but once he starts taking some PH tests, things don't look so good. Then he finds some dead bodies in a hot spring and things look decidedly worse. He warns the town Mayor (Hamilton) the old volcano looks like she's gonna blow and she should look at evacuating the town ASAP. Just before this is about to happen, Harry's boss rocks into town, playing the time-old boss who doesn't take heed of the advice of someone smarter than him. Will the evacuation be too late? Will Harry and the Mayor get romantically involved? Will Harry again be tormented by a volcano? Will Nanna survive? Will the end be predictable? See it and find out. "},{"Title":"This Movie Rocks","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Why the hell has this movie only gotten a 5.5 rating? It is one of the best action movies to come out of the 90's. Peirce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton are dead on in their roles. The movie has action, love, despair and redemption. I gave this movie a 10 and I'm sticking with it! Linda has been one of the most talented actresses around for a while. I was very upset that she did not get a golden globe or academy award nomination for T2Judgement Day. She know what to bring to her roles and how to use them. Mr. Prosnan is a excellent actor. But he is better in this film than in most of the Bond films he has been in. The special effects were awesome and inspiring. Can anyone outrun a paraclastic cloud in a beat up and burned pickup that just drove over red-hot lava? The answer is yes but just barely. Dedication means that you stay with the truck and the NASA signal device for at least 2 or 3 days until someone can drag you out and also get the family you were trying to save. Then you can go sea fishing after your compound fracture heals. This is a great movie. "}{"Title":"Highly superior underdog","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Excellent, creative use of the 104M budget here. This is the supreme example of Mother Nature when She has totally gone awry. Beautifully written, realistically executed, and professionally presented, this movie could not have delivered more bang for the buck.Released this same year, was Volcano. It featured a better known, more dynamic cast; more eye candy; and just a tiny bit smaller budget. However, if you're looking for realism, action, and fast-paced well written story, Dante's Peak is the movie for you! Linda Hamilton and Pierce Brosnan deliver excellent top row performances here. The scenery is beautiful, the effects are stunningly believable, the direction was astounding, and the whole production is even better than the sum of its parts.Dante's Peak is far better than the sum of its wonderful parts; it is a riveting visual experience and a compellingly executed premise.It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Very good thriller","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak (1997) is one of those movies that puts you at the edge of your seat from start to finish. The movie stars Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton. Brosnan plays a volcanologist who is sent to a small town in Washington State. He soon discovers that the dormant volcano for which the town was named after is a ticking time bomb waiting to explode. He then tells the town's mayor (Hamilton) that Dante's Peak is in harm's way if the volcano erupts. It is only a matter of time before hell beaks loose in the Cascades. The visual effects are excellent and the acting is pretty good. This movie deserves ********* stars out of a perfect 10!! "},{"Title":"Better Than Volcano.","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like this, not because I am a fan of Pierce Brosnan (GOD HE IS SOOOOOOOO CUTE!),or Linda Hamilton, but because it IS the better of the 2 volcano movies out at the time. ******SPOILER ALERT!!!!!******The best part of the film is when Hamilton's 2 damn kids decided to drive up to their Grandmother's house (She lives up in the mountains), when the volcano erupts. Of course, Brosnan and Hamilton have to go up to rescue the kids. They encounter lava, ash and water that had turn into acid. The later becomes a problem when they have to cross a river in a metal boat. When the volcano finally goes and they are racing the cloud,it is awesome! Part of you is screaming RUN!!!!8 OUT OF 10 STARS! I deducted 2 stars, because the kids just got on my ever loving nerves! "},{"Title":"Not A Bad Science Fact Movie For Hollywood","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Something for the Chicks and Dudes. )Yes, this is your typical Hollywood plot with Boy-Meets-Girl & Something-Terrible-Is-Going-To-Happen-But-No-One-Believe's-Me.But that said...the science is good, the romance is good, and the special effects are great. **For the Chicks..Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton look great together, and the chemistry is warm & fuzzy. The setting is a picture-postcard town in the Cascade Mountains with fresh air, kids, white-picket fences, breath-taking scenery, and town festivals. Sweet. Wholesome. Perfect.**For the Dudes..The science is cool, and the special effects are great. If you can grit your teeth through the romance and cutsy-wutsy little town..you get the satisfaction of some great special effects as the volcano totally kicks a** and obliterates the town and everything around it. "},{"Title":"This was an amazing movie.","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am studying vulcanology and this movie helped me understand it and made my work on volcanoes come alive. I liked the start and the end because it built up a lot of tension and introduced you to all the characters at the start, and I liked the end when the volcano erupted because there was a lot of action which made you keep your eyes on the screen. It was nice at the end when they all got out of the tunnel where Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) got jammed in his car with all the back rocks falling on top of him breaking his arm seeing the bone protruding. In the middle of the movie when the volcano erupted and the two children went up the mountain to get their granny, it was predictable and you just knew that they were going to be trapped at Dante's Peak. I think they could have made this part a little less obvious. I would recommend this to anyone 13 and above and not just to people studying vulcanology. "},{"Title":"At Its Peak","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I'm a sucker for disaster movies. Of course, for me to watch more than once they need at least the following decent acting, story, heart and definitely good special effects to make me believe not only that I am there, but that there's an imminent threat presented. Dante's Peak really fits the bill. Perfect? By all means, no, and I don't think Brosnan, Hamilton or Director Donaldson would disagree. They all set out to show a film of heart, with a backdrop of a natural disaster, in this case, an erupting volcano. Sure, it's not original; Dante's Peak solely takes from Twister and even Jaws. And it seems like, similar to Jurassic Park, they had the technology, why not create a definite volcano disaster flick. Giving the Brosnan volcanologist a bit of a background, he loses his girl in a separate volcano incident four years prior. And now he may be jumping the gun in the quiet, 2nd best town of Dante's Peak by saying their sleepy volcano's about to blow. Obviously, the story (and events that follow) is predictable, but that's the fun in going into a film like this. The first half of the film is filmed with gorgeous mountain scenes and a great looking town. The second half is what people bought tickets (or rented) for a roller coaster of action, suspense and touching moments, though mostly forced. Hamilton and Brosnan save the movie with their believable, though clichéd and predictable characters. And some scenes, you'll just have to suspend that disbelief seriously, not only is he going to attempt to drive over lava, but put everyone else and the leaping dog at risk? Still, it's enjoyable, the special effects are outstanding and with the lights out, it's a real fun (and hot) ride. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Disaster Flick","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I want to direct the first part of my review to the idiotic people giving this film poor reviews. I got exactly what I expected and then some. This is a disaster movie, and a good one at that. People who submitted a poor review must have been expecting an entirely different genre. I read reviews where people criticized it because the cast contained too many unknown actors. That is the biggest line of B.S. I've ever heard. You've got Pierce Brosnan who two years prior had played James Bond in Golden Eye (his best James Bond in my opinion), and Linda Hamilton (Sarah Connor). At the time these were two A list actors. Then I read people mentioning the acting was poor. It's a disaster movie! The acting was absolutely fine and even the children were strong in my opinion. The only negative I could see, which is present in almost every adventure/thriller/disaster/horror movie is when no one listens to warning or concern from the main character. But that's what makes these films. Just putting myself in the situation, I can imagine the frustration Pierce faced when he clearly sensed danger but no one took his word. However this is required to create suspense and allows a build up to the films climax. What I appreciated about the plot is how the grandmother essentially caused all the issues that led to putting the family in harms way then she sacrificed herself to save the lives of the others. I gave Dante's Peak a 7/10 as a general review. If I was rating strictly based on disaster movies I would rate this at an 8.5/10. Definitely worth a watch if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"special effects that hold up today","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There is a formula for disaster movies and books. An insightful scientist sees The Bad Thing is going to happen, various foils keep him from warning people (often with sillier motivation than in this film), we get to know a bunch of average Joe characters who survive or do not survive the disaster. Earthquake movies, movies about made-up natural disasters that cannot happen, asteroid movies, even some nuclear holocaust films (like The Day After, unique in how many survive). It's a hackneyed formula, but it also works, and nothing else really does work as well for disaster plots. It was followed here.The special effects were terrific in the day, and they still hold up very very well in 2012.For a Hollywood film, the science was pretty good. I actually cringed back at the shots of Hawaii type basalt floes (just...no), and the ashfall cleared up nicely whenever they wanted a wide shot, which anyone in Yakima could tell you it really doesn't do, and the boat and drive-over-lava scenes were silly, and if you paddle a boat (through acid or not) with one hand, it's not going to go straight, and our heroes didn't need to cover their mouths in ashfall (meaning, IRL, the ash would turn to concrete in their lungs and they'd suffocate). However, all that having been complained about, much else was very accurate what gets tested for by volcanologists, what monitoring stations of the day looked like, what some of the warning signs of a coming eruption might be. Most Hollywood film reviews by me on science-based movies are nothing but a list of what they did wrong, with no however of accurate bits to follow that list, so kudos for doing it more than half right.A pleasant diversion, very pretty to look at. "},{"Title":"Realistic yet nothing more than an f/x feast","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One has to ask the question Are special effects taking over action movies? Dante's Peak is most certainly full of very authentic, spectacular visuals.The special effects go wild in the last twenty minutes of this edge of your seat volcano thriller. It is just a shame that it takes the entire time before this to build up to such an exciting crescendo.The cast, though enjoyable, are really only there for the rocks to fall on. Pierce Brosnan, Linda Hamilton, Charles Hallahan, Jamie Renee Smith, Jeremy Foley, various other support cast and a smart effects team make you believe it is really happening.Sunday, January 25, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"watchable but formulaic disaster movie","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak is essentially a formulaic disaster movie.  However, several aspects to this movie at least make it watchable.  Most importantly, the two leads, Pierce Brosnan as the geologist and Linda Hamilton as the small town mayor, give good performances.  They are likable stars, which makes the viewer care about the fate of their characters.  Another good point is that the movie does not include the stereotypical sleazy government or corporate type that ignores the warnings of the disaster.  The objections Brosnan's boss raises to his alarm are reasonable.  Finally, the computer-generated effects are well done. Yet, I can not give the movie a passing grade.  At its heart, it is just a CGI update of a genre that died out in the 1970's.  Also, possibly because of the fictional setting and the complete dependence on CGI, the danger that the town will be destroyed is never compelling.  The viewer wishes that Brosnan and Hamilton (and the dog) are saved, and the movie gives you interesting visuals, but not much more.  Therefore, a 6/10 for Dante's Peak, worth a viewing if its on cable but not worth renting or buying.  "}{"Title":"There's more to Brosnan than Bond","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is fairly a straightforward adaptation of Ibsen's fine play Enemy Of The People, which sees one man trying to persuade the rest of his townsfolk that a disaster is pending. Jaws is a pretty good example of how one man is forced to put his principles on hold before something eventually proves him right; with Dante's Peak, it's Geologist Pierce Brosnan predicting the eruption of a long-dormant volcanoNow Brosnan, while unlikely to ever play Othello or King Lear, is a fine actor in my opinion. He does exactly what it says on the tin, and here he plays the man against the world very well. He's supported very nicely by Linda Terminator Hamilton and some pretty impressive child actors, but none of them can hold a candle to the special effects. I'm a sucker for authentic or well designed effects, and the earthquake and eruption scenes here are the best I've ever seen. It doesn't matter that the story is a pretty lame attempt to do for volcanoes what Twister did for tornados; the brooding shots of the mountain that cut into most of the scenes are enough to keep you trying to guess not if, but *when* the whole damn thing is going to explodeThere's a very surreal scene where Pierce and fellow escapees are caught in a powerless boat on a lake that has been made toxic by lava flow; singing Row Row Your Boat while floating on an acidic deathbed - a nicely observed momentWith a neat score by John Frizzel and solid direction by Roger Cocktail and Species Donaldson, you could do a hell of a lot worse than spend a couple of hours with Dante's Peak  "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects and good story line","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Don't let negative comments sway your judgement.  See this movie yourself to decide.  The Special effects are good...though sometimes outweighing the storyline a bit...but doesn't real life sometimes do that? Great Acting on Pierce Brosnan's part...he shows a real meatiness in this that he hasn't been able to really show in the 007 series.  The scene in the mine where he is struggling between life, death, fear is one of his best moments I think.Good movie and great special effects...and I lived through Mt Saint Helens in Washington in person...the ash scenes and darkness looked very realistic to me.Get out the popcorn and watch this one for some pretty good on the edge of your seat entertainment. "},{"Title":"A Disaster Movie with Realism","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak spends much of the opening half of the film building the characters and setting the scene for disaster, and it definitely helps you identify and care about the characters involved. The story concentrates mainly on Linda Hamilton who is the mayoress of Dante's Peak, along with her family; and of course on Pierce Brosnan who is sent to investigate the seismic activity in this quaint little town.The events build steadily in this movie, eventually reaching a fantastic climax that is very realistic to watch. Dante's Peak is very dramatic and has a mild dose of sentimentality that fits seamlessly into the story.Make no mistake, this movie is really well made and is very enjoyable to watch, but be warned; if you like your disaster movies done gung-ho style it may disappoint you.7/10 "},{"Title":"Disaster Film? Or Film Disaster?","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Near a picturesque little town in the American West, an inactive volcano decides to become hyper active. And, as you would expect for a disaster movie, chaos ensues.The film's first half acquaints viewers with the two main characters, played by Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton. We also get introduced to the town, and get a tour of its main attraction, the photogenic mountain that is about to wake up. The second half is the chaos.For people who like action films, Dante's Peak is a fairly good choice. The visuals, the sound, and the special effects are reasonably engaging. There's lots of exciting drama, and the film's second half is fast paced.But, if you are looking for a credible story, go elsewhere. The formulaic screenplay is bland and unimaginative; and, it is full of cinematic clichés. Of course, that is a problem with most films in the disaster genre. The stories and plot elements are basically the same, just different disaster tornado, burning skyscraper, sinking ship, earthquake, or (in this case) volcano. I would not say Dante's Peak is a film disaster. But, its screenplay is so cookie-cutter as to be a virtual clone of every disaster film that has gone before it. "},{"Title":"not good disaster movie","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Volcanologist Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) lost his partner in a volcano eruption in Columbia. Four years later, he's working at the US Geological Survey at the Cascades Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Washington. A report comes in and Harry is sent to Dante's Peak. The town is celebrating being voted the 2nd most desirable place to live. Mayor Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton) drives Harry around with her kids. They find a couple boiled to death in a hot springs. Along with other signs, Harry wants to place an alert but his politics-playing boss Dr. Paul Dreyfus overrules him.It seems like a more realistic volcano movie in the first half which may not actually make it a good disaster movie. A disaster movie needs to be fun more than being accurate. There are also some inconsistencies. At one moment, Harry is convinced of impending doom. The next moment, he's setting up a town meeting to discuss an evacuation many hours later. In a disaster movie, he should be pushing for an immediate evacuation while he battles resistance. The last half is more of an action-packed disaster movie. Why the mayor doesn't send her kids to safety right away is beyond me. It becomes a random series of close calls. "},{"Title":"Great But Has Moments Of SDD","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes, way better than the stink bomb Volcano, but it does feature a couple extremely bad SDD Science Deficit Disorder. The worst is when Harry has the truck drive through the 5000 degree Fahrenheit lava, do not try that or you will find out what I am talking about. It will be the last thing you discover before you are cooked like a chicken in the truck. The star of this movie is the volcano effects. There is competent acting with Brosnan and Hamilton, nothing to write home about. The grandmother will have you yelling at the screen,Gee, honey, the mountain is my friend, we take long afternoons together. Please, where is that hypo? Hamilton plays the mayor of this little town nestled beneath Dante's Peak. I love that geologist's line,Oh, look the town's right under the volcano just like Pompeii. The buildup to the eruption is handled well, the usual nobody believes Harry and the giant butt bureaucrat tells everybody, don't worry. My whole living room was applauding when he gets washed away, I am supposed to feel sorry for this guy? The photography, up on the mountain, is excellent. There really is no comparison to Volcano. Yes, it has Tommy Lee Jones but this has a script, great effects, suspense and is quite exciting.The kids may grate upon you a bit but they are paragons of behavior compared to the two brats in Stevie's War Of The Worlds. The grandmother together with the children is the one, two punch of painfully annoying. Luckily, she walks in the acid lake water, saving everybody, so we are rid of her the last half of the movie. The depiction of the eruption seemed quite geologically accurate, the Lahar, the ash clogging all the cars and machines; this was all well done. You will get to see why you do not take a helicopter out of an ash cloud. The other cringe worthy moment is when they outrun a pyroclastic flow. Please, they move at 130 MPH, you are not outrunning them. This is not as bad as driving over the molten lava but for anyone who had geology, it is silly. There is the requisite romance between Hamilton and Brosnan but it does not take up much screen time. The supporting cast is OK, a little weak in some areas, no Oscars here.This really is the paradox, Volcano cannot hold a candle to this movie in effects, writing or suspense; it has the best actor, Tommy Lee Jones but a little of Anne Heche goes a long way. Volcano is worth watching but this is the one to buy. The volcano effects are so stunning you will hardly notice anything else. A Good Movie "},{"Title":"Good For What It Is!","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a good, special-effects laden film even if it is a conventional disaster film. What I mean by that is that the film strictly adheres to the disaster film code, thus making the film extremely predictable. That being said, I couldn't help but enjoy myself for the most part. There is lots of action thanks to an erupting volcano and I actually felt for our main characters despite being somewhat one-dimensional.Roger Donaldson's film starts off when we see a volcanologist named Dr. Harry Dalton who loses his wife thanks to an erupting volcano in Colombia. Four years later, he is sent to a town named Dante's Peak where he is investigating possible volcanic activity with the help of the mayor, Rachel Wando. But as the movie progresses, we find that there is just more than volcanic activity....The actors here give their best shot in playing their characters. I felt for the characters as they faced the wrath of the volcano, but I couldn't buy into the eventual romance between Rachel and Harry. Pierce Brosnan was pretty good as Harry Dalton as the subdued man with a tragic past. Linda Hamilton was decent as Rachel, though she is a long way from her Terminator days.Overall, Dante's Peak is your average disaster film that is very formulaic, but still entertaining. I mean, who can't resist the molten ash and the pyro cloud causing destruction. There are some flat characters, but the action is superb. This is one of the films that brought back the disaster film craze in the late 90's. I couldn't help but like this film. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Disaster movie about an erupting volcano","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a volcano Mt St Helen's erupting killing people and destroying a small town (Dante's Peak) below it.The main characters are Pierce Brosnan the volcanologist and Linda Hamilton the Mayor of Dante's Peak.There is a good build up throughout the movie, getting to know all the characters and seeing their relationships develop before the disaster happens.The movie has many strengths. It appears to be scientifically accurate about the behavior of a volcano and how unpredictable it can be and the devastation it can cause. The scenery is stunning and the special effects are awesome. It keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole way through and you can believe every characters situation. It has a few weaknesses. A bit unbelievable that the young boy could drive a van up the mountain when his feet couldn't touch the pedals! Also trying to outrun the pyroclastic flow, I think you would be in pieces. Most unbelievable scene was driving the car through lava, very entertaining - lava can reach 2000 degrees, don't think there would have been any signs of the car left. Don't care about that I loved it. I would give the movie 8.5 out of 10. It really gave me an interest in volcano's and how they work. It showed how people might react against such a treat in their town and how the town's council would try and play it down hoping it wouldn't happen. I don't think they could have improved it, there was action, a love story, fantastic special effects and you learnt about volcano's as well. A bit soppy in places, but hey it's the movies. "},{"Title":"It looks like it's about to blow its top!","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Mount Saint. Helena like disaster movie involving Vulcanologist Harry Dalton, Pierce Brosnan, who's been obsessed with preventing volcanic eruptions from wiping out whole towns and cities since his fiancée the only woman he ever loved among the dozens or scores whom he dated Mariane, Walker Brandt,was killed in a massive volcanic explosion in Columbia four years ago. Checking out unusual seismic activities in and around the town of Dante's Peak voted to be the second most desirable place to live in the United State, you stop and wonder what the first was, Dalton gets very cozy with the town mayor as well as owner of it's popular coffee shop & bar restaurant Rachel Wando,Linda Hamilton, who's now in a desperate re-election campaign for mayor.Before the two Dalton & Rachel can get anything going romantically between them things start to cook up and look bad for the town of Dante's Peak with two young teenage backpackers found bear-a** naked floating in a nearby pound steamed or cooked to death! Dalton now certain that the doormat volcano outside town is about to blow its top he's in fact prevented from evacuating the townspeople in order not to create a panic as well as force, by the people checking out of town by the thousands, a disastrous drop in real estate prices! It's in fact Dalton's boss head Vulcanologist Paul Dreyfus, Charles Hallahan, who keeps him from doing his job in not wanting to offend the town fathers and causing them to, by showing how dangerous a place like Dante's Peak is, have their town taken off the #2 slot as the most desirable place to live in the entire United States!***SPOILERS*** As you would have expected in this disaster movie a deserter does happen in the last 45 or so minutes of the film and it's a real LuLu! Not only does the dormant volcano blow it's top it blows the entire town of Dante's Peak clear off the map! Together with hundreds of it's feeling, in trains planes helicopters and automobiles, inhabitants in boiling streams of hot lava and a deadly cloud of volcanic ash. As for Dalton's boss Paul Dreyfus he gets it and gets it good when he's swept away from off a bridge, that his SUV got stuck on, out to sea by a tidal wave that the exploding volcano created! It really the special effects that are the real star in the movie in some cases, especially at night,that give it an almost 3-D like look. As for Dalton he together with Rachel and her two kids Lauren & Graham, Jamie Renee smith & Jeremy Foley, and the family dog Roughy do survive the carnage. But it's Rachel's ex-mother-in-law Ruth, Elizabeth Hoffman, who doesn't. That by giving up her life in pushing the boat that Dalton Rachael & the kids and family dog were on to safety before it ended up sinking in the deadly acid polluted lake that was a result of the volcanic explosion. "},{"Title":"Exciting action adventure","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Vulcanologist Harry (Pierce Brosnan), having lost his girlfriend to an eruption, is inclined towards better safe than sorry when the volcano after which the town of Dante's Peak is named starts grumbling. The bad news is that everyone thinks he is over-reacting. The good news is that the town's Mayor is hot single mom Rachel (Linda Hamilton).After a lengthy set up (which is neither unreasonable nor uninteresting), the last hour is exciting and spectacular non-stop action. Somewhat improbable in terms of what our protagonists get up to as they try to survive the cataclysmic events, it is nonetheless the proverbial roller-coaster ride, with Brosnan's and Hamilton's screen presence and chemistry providing an excellent hook for audience identification to hang on.A very enjoyable movie. "}{"Title":"Great special effects + Average writing = Good movie.","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take Special effects and eminent destruction salvage the disposable writing.After the success of Jan De Bont's Big-budget disaster epic TWISTER, Universal green-lit its own disaster spectacular DANTE'S PEAK, which is practically the same movie that TWISTER was, only this time, it's a dormant volcano that goes berserk, and the people are not studying the tornadoes, they study volcanoes. Not much of a differences now isn't it? DANTE'S PEAK is what it is, a big-budget summer offering, where the money is heavily spent on special effects, and the script is either out of focus or uninteresting. DANTE'S PEAK could fall to the guilty pleasures list along with all those dated 70's disaster movies, but I did like it more than a guilty pleasure. It's still average at best for sure, but it's got some fun moments with its special effects, and that's pretty good enough to recommend.Let's run through the disaster movie checklist shall we? 1.) Is there the scientist who predicts the danger and ends up being neglected at first, but ends up being the ultimate hero in the end? Yes there is, and he's played by Pierce Brosnan. The character's Harry Dalton, a vulcanologist joining his crew studying the extinct volcano at Dante's Peak. Brosnan's a good actor and pulls off the role easily, but the character's not very interesting enough. At the end of the film, you'll end asking Who was he again... Harry who? 2.) Is there the guy who doubts the leads warnings? You betcha! He's Paul Dreyfus (Charles Hallahan), Dalton's boss, who thinks Harry's just nuts! Besides the fact that he does learn his mistake in the end, there's nothing more this character does. 3.) Are there the supporting characters including the leading lady, the annoying kid(s) and of course the dog? Why shouldn't there be? The movie's got two kids, and a dog. There's also the grandmother and experts. Linda Hamilton who gave women the ultimate credibility in TERMINATOR 2 plays a rather feeble character here as Mayor Rachel Wando, mayor and love interest, overall a disposable summer movie character.Oh lets face it! The writing here isn't very good, but it's still a lot of fun nonetheless. Even if we don't care about these cookie-cutter characters, those action scenes (including the one where they're chased by the cascading lava flows) are pretty exciting. It's forgettable summer fare, but it does it's job. Better enjoy it for what it is.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"got to remember what ya looking for","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i've always liked this film.. don't think it's crap at all.. well it's outdated when ya watching in year 2006, but you have to remember that this is a action/thriller film of the 90s era and you aren't required to bring your brains when you're watching such films. when i first watched this in 1997, i was very interested in volcanology and there were a lot of things inaccurate in the film, e.g. you never drive into a mine during a pyroclastic eruption because the rock around you actually heats up..then again, i think the criticism is unwarranted and really the critics don't know what they're looking for in this film.. are they looking for a documentary or an action/thriller? if you are one who really can't live without their facts, then you would think this film is a bit over-dramatic and totally inaccurate.. but sit back and shut your brain, and this film isn't too bad at all.. in fact it's pretty good with some of the best special effects seen in the 90s.. the ending is a bit nuff but then again there wasn't much in the film to work with..personally i think Dante's Peak is a bit better than Volcano because it's a lot more believable having the likes of Mount Rainier, Mount Baker, Mount St. Helens explode than the Tar Pits of Los Angeles!! "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There's a history of same themed films competing against each other the same year, these include computer animated bug movies A Bug's Life and Antz, and meteor movies Deep Impact and Armageddon, this is when the volcano movies went against each other in 1997, here against Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche in Volcano, from director Roger Donaldson (Species, The World's Fastest Indian). Basically vulcanologist Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) lost his girlfriend Marianne (Walker Brandt) four years ago during a volcano eruption in Columbia, and he is being called by boss Paul Dreyfus (Charles Hallahan) to investigate another one. The town of Dante's Peak, Washington is located next to a large mountain, that is a dormant volcano, and some unusual activity has been reported that needs looking. So while Harry and his team are investigating he meets and gets to know town mayor and food and drinks' store owner Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton) and her children, daughter Lauren (Jamie Renée Smith) and son Graham (Jeremy Foley). Noticeable events around the town that the volcano might be waking up include lake water heating dramatically and killing two people, and some minor earthquakes, but Paul doesn't think the town should be on alert. As soon as Harry presents evidence of the town's water supply containing sulphur this triggers the need to start an evacuation, but when this plan begins that is when the volcano finally erupts. Harry, Rachel and the children are now racing against time to get out of the town and avoid the blasts, the lava flows, the acid turned water, the rushes of water, and from the final blast the powerful Pyroclastic cloud. Also starring Elizabeth Hoffman as Ruth, True Lies' Grant Heslov as Greg, Kirk Trutner as Terry Furlong, Arabella Field as Nancy, Tzi Ma as Stan, Brian Reddy as Les Worrell, Lee Garlington as Dr. Jane Fox and Bill Bolender as Sheriff Turner. Brosnan, best known then as James Bond, gives a good performance as the only man sure the mountain will blow, and Hamilton is also good as the woman who joins him during the chaos, but of course the real star is the mountain blasting out all the explosions, fire and lava, a likable disaster action adventure. Good! "},{"Title":"Good destruction...bad models","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I always ask this to myself. The models should look that cheap? When the town blows up, I never believe it. The models are very detailed, but they are so noticeable. The railway that falls down (one piece) is a model too. So, when we notice the models, what do we have left? OK, we have a whole town going down to hell in the urgent way. We have a car crossing a lava river, while the four people inside it are close to get cooked. We have Pierce Brosnan playing an American (!!!!). And Linda Hamilton playing a mayor (!!!!!!!!!!!!). We have an acid lake, claustrophobic moments near the end in the derelict mine, a lethal cloud that destroys the models...I mean the town! and Riger Donalson building the paced rhythm in a too long prologue but that builds the tension and the suspense. If we can say that Volcanoes are back to disaster movies, this is the movie we must speak about. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action is Trade Mark of Pierce Brosnan !","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" No wonder, during the first half hour of the movie, the things remain calm and Dr. Dalton advises the audience during his city community gathering to remain calm and in senses.But soon, the people as well, Dr. Dalton loose their calm and panic grips the whole town. Then there is the volcano on one side and Mr. Brosnan on the other. One after the other all fatal obstacles are cleared and finally NASA's monitoring machine locates the trapped family under debris and rubble all due to the non-stop action and vigor displayed by Dr. Dalton and re-enacted by Mr. Brosnan.From, Remington Steele to James Bond to Dr. Dalton, Pierce Brosnan stands for non-stop, crazy and wild action. Nevertheless, this movie with its death defying suspense tosses the audience from their seats, many a times. "},{"Title":"silly but fun","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak is a disaster movie, and is saddled with just about every disaster movie cliché you can think of. Actors spend more time shouting and running than anything else; natural events tend to coincidentally happen right at the most dramatic possible moment; non-key characters are killed off so the stars have something to be sad about; and so on. It's even got what is, to me, a nearly fatal flaw absolutely awful, strident child actors.So it's definitely formulaic and occasionally irritating, but for all that it's still a very watchable and enjoyable film. The volcano effects are realistic and exciting; there's enough background science to keep things interesting; and if the acting isn't exactly stellar it's at least appropriate. Definitely worth watching if (like me) you find volcanoes inherently interesting. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Flick","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is suspenseful enough to keep your interest. The characters are good and the acting is good, though predictable. Different kind of disaster  movie; refreshing change from airplane crashes, fires, earthquakes. Has a great deal of geological science included in the storyline. Very interesting. Can't help but be drawn to Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton's efforts to make the romantic subplot enjoyable and believable. I think this is a good movie to get lost in for a couple of hours. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Expect the unexpected.","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Year 1997; Run time 1 hr 48 min; Rating PG-13; Director Roger DonaldsonDANTE'S PEAK - 3/5 starsPierce Brosnan; Linda Hamilton; Jamie Renée Smith; Jeremy Foley; Elizabeth Hoffman; Charles HallahanIn 1997, not one, but two volcano movies hit the big screen. This one, entitled Dante's Peak, is set in a fictional town in the pacific northwest. It has just been labeled the second most desirable place to live in the United States, but shortly after, a vacationing geologist (Brosnan) tries to warn city officials of a nearby volcano that could erupt at any minute. Dante's Peak is your typical disaster flick, but it does have good action and special effects, and decent performances from Brosnan and Hamilton help a lot. The other characters are well-developed as well. Too bad I can't say the same about the script and storyline, which are fairly predictable. That, however, doesn't keep Dante's Peak from being a non-stop action thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is based on the volcanic eruption of Mont St. Helens. Harry Dalton is a volcano expert who lost his girlfriend in a volcanic emergency. When he is sent to investigate unusual activity in the quiet Pacific North West community of Dante's Peak, he discovered people boiled to death in the local hot spring and plants and animals were dying near the town's supposedly dormant volcano.In many ways the eruption in Dante's Peak is realistic but not in all parts. For example it is not possible to drive across an active lava flow, even one that has partly solidified to form a thin crust. Having a very high temperature lava will quickly melt rubber tyres.Another aspect that is not realistic is when the U.S. Geological Survey used a robot with Spiderlegs to detect sulphur dioxide around the volcano. Robots are not actually used by the USGS to monitor volcanoes, they rely on observations and measurements made by experienced scientists and on critical data sent by radio or satellite.The features of the eruption I thought were fairly realistic. The eruption featured a black ash cloud and gas above the volcano. The volcano was gushing out pyroclastic bombs. The ash mixed with melting snow and ice causing a mud flow. the volcano caused an earthquake and a seismometer was used to detect it. Overall i think Dante's Peak was a very realistic movie with all the main features of a volcano included. "},{"Title":"Better then that other Volcano flick.","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Living in a geologically active area it's easy to see why Hollywood decided to make disaster flicks. Instead of earthquakes we get volcanoes. If any volcanologist would watch both Dante's Peak and Volcano starring Tommy Lee Jones, they would preferred the former than the latter. I also liked the fact that they did bother to explain a little bit about the science of volcanology in a manner that could be simple. I also approve of the location since the Cascade region does have a fair share of volcanoes. Pierce Brosnan is credible as Harry Dalton and Linda Hamilton is attractive as mayor Rachel Dando are ably supported by a good cast especially Charles Hallahan as Harry's boss Dr. Paul Dreyfuss and Elizabeth Hoffman as Ruth. The chaos during the eruption scenes was maybe a little too far fetched but that's Hollywood for you. Oh and yes it is possible to outrun a pyroclastic cloud though it depends on the distance and vicinity. It happened to a group of reporters during the Mt Pinatubo eruption it can happen in Dante's Peak. "}{"Title":"Good disaster movie.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this one more than Twister, which came out the year prior to this one even though Twister vastly out grossed this one at the box office.  This is the typical something bad is going to happen, someone tries to warn the people, and nobody believes till it is too late.  Still though it works really well hear as Pierce Bronson plays the guy who knows the mountain is going to blow at anytime and Linda Hamilton plays I think the mayor of the town, but I can't quite remember.  Two kids get fried in a spring, and this is what makes Bronson sure the mountain is ready to blow.  His team comes and they monitor the situation, but are not as convinced as Bronson.  They finally get the evidence, but by the time they do...BOOOOOOOOM!  Everybody goes berserk trying to get out of town and Bronson and Hamilton have to go after Hamilton's kids who just have to get their stubborn grandmother who refuses to leave.  More realistic than was Volcano, which was released the same year, it nonetheless has some flaws as well.  This volcano is the type Mount St Helens was and I don't believe these types spew lava, but this one does.  There is other stuff as well, but it isn't anything to detract from the movie.   "},{"Title":"Run For Your Lives!!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS      Geologist Harry Dalton and his partner Marianne helped to evacuate Colombia when a volcano erupted. Sadly, Marianne was killed. Four years later, Harry, still a geologist living in Vancouver, Washington, is told by his boss, Dr. Paul Dreyfus, that volcanic activity is detected near the town of Dante's Peak. Harry is sent up there to investigate. Now Dante's Peak has been voted the second most desirable place in America to live and it was a picture perfect town, but beside it was a dormant volcano. Many believed it was extinct, but it was actually dormant. Harry meets the mayor, Rachel Wando and her children Lauren and Graham. In the hot springs beside the mountain, two teens decide to go swimming naked. But suddenly there's a small earthquake and the water get's very, very hot causing the teens to burn to death. Rachel drops Graham and Lauren at their grandmother Ruth's place so she and Harry could explore the mountain more but Ruth wanted to take the kids swimming so they all go. Harry detects high acidicy in the water and they find the dead teens. Dr. Paul Dreyfus and his team Greg, Terry, Nancy, and Stan. Harry wanted to evacuate the town but Paul would have nothing of it. He took immediate control of the project and ordered Harry on a vacation, but Harry refused to leave.         Harry and Rachel soon become good friends and get quite close. Paul's team brought along a robot designed to walk inside mountain areas where it's dangerous for a human to go so Harry and Terry take the robot to the top of the volcanic mountain. The robot proved faulty so Terry went down to kick it when suddenly an earthquake caused a bunch of rocks to fall, destroying the robot and nearly killing Terry. Harry tried once again to convince Paul to evacuate the town. He refused and Nancy, Greg and Stan refused to take Harry's side. That evening, Harry discovered sulfur dioxide in the town's water supply. That finally convinced Paul. They called a town meeting where Rachel told everybody to evacuate. They tried calling Ruth and told her to get out of the mountain area. She refused so while Harry and Rachel were gone, Graham and Lauren actually drove Rachel's truck to go get Grandma. Soon the volcano began to erupt and it snowed ash heavily. People panicked like crazy. Many auto accidents occurred. Harry and Rachel race after the kids while Paul and his team try to solve the problem from where they were. Harry and Rachel soon meet up with Grandma and the kids just as lava flows down the volcano and destroys Grandma's house as well as Harry's truck so they climb into a motor boat and travel across the lake. Unfortunately, the volcanic activity turned the lake to acid which began to eat away at the boat. But they soon reach land but unfortunately, Ruth departed too soon and fell into the acid which badly burned her legs. She couldn't go much further and died, sadly. Harry, Rachel and the kids soon reach the ranger station and borrow the truck.         Paul, Nancy, Terry, Stan and Greg head up the mountain with a rescue crew. Paul drove alone in his van which got wiped out when the river turned into a tarrant and destroyed the bridge. All of a sudden, the volcano made the great big explosion which was a very thick cloud of smoke which completely destroyed everything in it's path so it completely destroyed the town of Dante's Peak! Back in the truck, Harry, Rachel and the kids reach a dead end but try to drive over the dried lava. It nearly fried their truck but they luckily make it and drive into a mine shaft and take shelter in Graham's hide out. Harry had brought along a NASA transmitter which he left in the truck. When going back to get it, rocks fell which nearly killed Harry. He got into the truck, but more rocks fell on the truck which nearly squashed him. Luckily, the transmitter worked and a rescue crew arrived in no time and rescue Harry, Rachel, Graham and Lauren who escape in triumph! They fly away in a helicopter over the rubble that was once Dante's Peak.        A good movie. Lot's of action and cool special effects! Pierce Brosnan (Mrs. Doubtfire) is here and he was good! So was Linda Hamilton (The Terminator)! The kids were good also. If you like movies about volcanoes then I also recommend Volcano! But anyway, I do recommend Dante's Peak! It's got all kinds of thrills and spills and devastating destruction. If you like disaster movies, Dante's Peak is for you!!-         "},{"Title":"Blowing the lid off this silly but entertaining movie","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Dante's Peak is entertaining; Watching it for the third time around, I had to laugh at some of the parts I hadn't picked up on or had forgotten from my two previous viewing experiences.  Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton, two action/adventure stars, do little to expand their acting abilities.  The rest of the cast doesn't give us much more than panicked looks, with the exception of Brosnan's boss, who does give a somewhat believable reasons to not take news of an impending volcano burst seriously.  The kids aren't impressive and the manipulative script wants us to worry about their fate.  The grandmother (Elizabeth Hoffman, mother of the Sisters TV clan) and her dog live up on a lake near the mountain, and it is her refusal to leave her home which causes the kids and the adult leads to stay behind while the rest of the town is escaping, most to no avail.There are genuine moments of suspense, such as watching the force of the massive earthquake which hits the town while the volcano in the background is showing off its smokey exterior.  Then, we get a massive volcano cloud which chases the two adults and the kids into a mine, supposedly part of the mountain range connected to Dante's Peak.  There is also an impressive raging river scene where Brosnan's crew attempt to escape.  One of the victims gives such a convincing look of knowing his fate that it is even more horrific than watching them go through it.  Seeing this film sadly made me think of those victims of 9/11 and the horror they faced, so at least the film had one memorable impact on me.  However, if Hollywood ever dares to make a 9/11 survival story, I hope we don't get the type of disaster epic they do here.  No forced romances, no over emotional kids to force the tears out, but just real people dealing with a horrific situation.  Had Dante's Peak not tried for 30's style pathos, it could have worked; Survival by itself is a gripping story that you don't need to add those cliches. The same year of Dante's Peak, we also got Volcano, which gave me unintentional chuckles in the theatre I saw it at (the Beverly Center) because that same shopping center was demolished in it, as were several local buildings I see almost every day.  While both films were silly in many ways, I enjoyed Dante's Peak more for its colorful country photography.  Hollywood has not had a great time doing volcano movies; The Last Days of Pompeii (1935) is a small budgeted epic which is fun because of the cliches of the time it was made; Krakatowa, East of Java (1969) is even sillier because it was obviously filmed backwards (according to Leonard Maltin, Krakatowa is actually WEST of Java!).  The all-time worst is When Time Ran Out (1980), Irwin Allen's final disaster epic in which the cast was as boring as the subplots they had to deal with, and even the volcano explosions were unmemorable.  My favorite volcano movie by far has to be The Devil at 6 O'Clock (1961)  with Spencer Tracy and Frank Sinatra.  While I haven't seen it in some time, I recall it with fondness, at least compared to the five other movies I have mentioned.  At least Dante's Peak has some laughs for the ridiculous twists which come throughout.  If you can look at it with tongue-in-cheek and not take it too seriously beyond the I'm-determined-to-survive plot, you may have a good time.  While I'm sure some folks did cry at the overly use of cymbols in the finale, I found myself crying, too---that is from too much unintentional laughter! "},{"Title":"Review of Dante's Peak","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hello there, I am reviewing the movie, Dante's Peak. I watched this movie in my year 10 Geography class. Before watching this movie in, I had watched this movie more than twice with my family. It was a long time ago so I cannot remember. Now on to the review. This is a personally one of my favourite movie. I thought Pierce Brosnan (Mamma Mia) and Linda Hamilton (Terminator) were brilliant!! At the start of the movie I thought it was sad. It is where Pierce's character's (Harry Dalton) girlfriend got hit by a pyroclast that had pierced through the car, and had died. I quite liked the part of the plot were Linda's character (Rachel Wando), who was the mayor and a coffee shop owner, came around to the motel where Harry and his team where staying, to give them coffee and Greg (Grant Heslov) came bounding out yelling ,Coffee, Coffee, Coffee, Cappuccino! I laughed so hard at that part. That saddest part of the movie was were Granny Ruth (Elizabeth Hoffman) died, trying to save Rachel, Harry and the kids from a lake that had turned into a giant pool of acid. They were travelling across the lake when the acid starts to eat the boat and it starts to sink, so Ruth jumps into the lake and pulls the boat to the side of the lake. The part of the movie where I thought it was unrealistic when they drove over the lave and the wheels of the truck ,they stole, burst into flames but I think the extreme heat from the lava would at least exploded the gas tank of the car resulting in the explosion of the car. I think the real star of the movie was the volcano because I caused the most mayhem. All together I really like this movie. I would watch this move about ten more times before I got sick of it. The rating for this movie would be 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"dantes peak","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently in class we were watching Dantés peek and I can say that it is a very good movie. It made a volcano look as realistic as harry is trying to find about the volcanoes and see if there is going to be another volcano at Dantés Peek.The characters where very good as Harry Grnesone as Piers Brosnon as he played it very well and it look very dramatic. Four years ago Harry was in Peru and he lost his wife by a phyroclast. He worked with Paul who was his boss and all of his crew including Barry and three others. Harry ends up going to Dantés peek to check the volcano levels. Harry tested the waters and they where proved to be acidic. Harry then seen two squirrels lying dead as the sulpher dioxide was killing them and the trees too as the birds were flying away. A man and women then got into the hot tub and they then boiled to death. Meanwhile Rachel was collecting was collecting an award for her town. Harry wanted the town to be alerted but Paul refused as the town could go bankrupt. Harry found out that the water had been contaminated and then went to the town's water supply to see it was discolored and poisoned. The volcano then erupted and the entire town became crazy. Harry and Rachel and the children rammed into the underground mine and got trapped but Harry got the Gadget ELF by NASA and sent a signal to his other workers and they found them and they got freed and took them home and kept them safe.I think this movie was very good because of the amount of gore in the movie and because it was very dramatic with so many cliff hangers. I think my favourite part of the movie was when they all got freed. I would recommend everyone to watch this move. Thank You!! "},{"Title":"Dantes peak review","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts of in Central America were a Volcanologist called Harry is with his girlfriend when she is killed by pyroclasts. Now in the present day Harry is sent to Dante's Peak where he investigates volcanic Activity in the area including dead squirrels, hot springs boiling and dying trees. After discovering minor earthquakes Harry wants to evacuate the town in case of an eruption. Harry's boss Paul shows up and cancels the evacuation because of tourism in the town losing money and doesn't want to cause a panic.Harry and the others travel to the crater of the volcano to see what was going on. Barry sends a robot into it but it brakes. Barry attempts to go in himself but later suffers a broken arm. After the crater incident a town meeting is held when an earthquake happens which leads to the eruption. The people of the town start to panic. Harry, Rachel and the kids go up the mountain to save the granny when the cabin is devastated by lava. They all try and escape on a boat when the acid in the lake eating up the propeller. The granny risks her life by pushing the boat to shore resulting in death for her. Harry and the others escape in a truck and drive over lava to get in a mine, the truck blocked the entrance and the E.L.F saved the town, the residents were evacuated afterwards. This movie is very good, but I think that some parts are unrealistic. Overall I would recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"An interesting take on how destructive volcanoes can be","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently in Geography class, we watched Dante's Peak following on our topic of volcanoes and earthquakes. The movie takes an unexpected turn at the start, when the main character (Harry) and his girlfriend who are volcanologists, explore and try to escape a small village that has been overrun by the eruption of a volcano. Unfortunately the girlfriend gets hit by a pyroclast and dies. Set 4 years later, the movie focuses on Harry, who has been sent to a town called Dante's Peak by his boss Paul, and fellow co-workers of the U.S.G.S to test out the activity of a volcano (which is based on Mt St. Helens), but when he gets to the town, he realises fast that the volcano is still active and could erupt at any moment. He makes friends with the mayor of the town, Rachel, and her kids who are also concerned about the volcanic activity and help Harry quickly try to warn the residents of the town of this discovery and save themselves in the process. In my opinion, I thought the movie was fine though it could've been more scary and realistic. I liked the hints to a possible relationship between Harry and Rachel and the things they have in common such as losing a love interest. My favourite scene was when they saved their pet dog and got trapped in the mines and tried to find their way out. I thought the scene was full of suspense. I was quite angered by the fact that Paul would not let the U.S.G.S alert the town sooner as it could've prevented some deaths and injuries and more time for the residents to get out/be prepared. It was sad when the grandmother, Ruth died but then again it could've been such an avoidable death in my eyes. Overall, I found the movie enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Review year10","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently in class we watched Dante's Peak as part of our year 10 topic, Earthquakes and Volcanoes. I really enjoyed this film, some parts were unrealistic and other parts were unrealistic. The main characters were- Pierce Brosnan as Harry and Linda Hamilton as Rachael. Harry worked as a vulcanologist and Rachael was the Mayor of the town and she owned a coffee shop. Rachael had two children called Graeme and Lauren. Four years earlier, Harry's girlfriend was killed by a pyroclast from an active volcano. Paul, who worked for the U.S.G.S. was Harry's boss and he sent him to Dante's peak as there was live activity. Harry found several signs such as squirrels and trees dying. They also found two dead bodies in boiling springs. He tested the water and it was acidic. Harry wanted the whole town alerted. The water supply for the town was contaminated and it had turned an orangy colour. A town meeting was called and during it &#x85; the volcano erupted. It was complete mayhem! They went to the kids' granny's cabin but the lava had destroyed it. Luckily granny had got out in time and so had the dog. There was a lake which they had to cross in a boat but the motor broke and they had to paddle across. The water was extremely acidic and very dangerous. I don't think this was realistic because it wouldn't contaminate as quickly as that. Granny jumped into the contaminated water to push the boat the rest of the way in order to save everyone. The bottom half of granny's body disintegrated and unfortunately she died. Harry and the others stole a truck and they drove over lava. I think this part was very unrealistic because the tyres would probably have melted. E.L.F. was in the back of the truck, which is a tracking device that can send signals to N.A.S.A. They then rammed the truck into a mine. The roof of the mine collapsed in but they all got out safely, even the dog Ruffy. I think the geography side of the film is quite realistic, especially the eruption with the pyroclast falling and the debris, ash and rock. They measured how much activity was happening with a seismometer which is what they use in real life. Overall I thought this movie was great and I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Review year 10","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Recently in class we have watched Dante's Peak. I thought that it had some great parts to it and some horrific parts. The good parts in the movie were the one's when Harry was right about the eruption,and the last scene in the movie , i thought was great, when Harry, Rachel and her children are saved from the mine that they were stuck in after the volcanic eruption. The worst parts to the movie, i think were when Harry's elbow broke and the bone was sticking out and when the two people in the hot springs got acidified from the sulphur dioxide that got into the water. I didn't like these parts as i thought they were too gruesome, and too disgusting. From a geographical point of view, i thought that most of the parts of the movie were unrealistic, for example when the granny jumped out of the boat and disintegrated, i thought that was unrealistic because the lake would not have acidified in the space of a couple of hours. Overall i thought the movie was good, but it could have been better by making it more realistic and less gruesome. "},{"Title":"Dantes Peak Review year 10","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Today in class we watched Dantѐ's peak. I thought this was a really good movie and this is my review. Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) is one of the most experienced geologists in the United States Geological Survey (USGS), and a 4 years bachelor after he lost his girlfriend, Marianne (Walker Brandt) to a volcanic eruption in Columbia. He receives a call from his boss, Paul Dryfus (Charles Hallahan) to check on unusual activity of a dormant volcano in the Cascades called Dante's Peak. While the town of the same name is celebrating their accomplishment to be number 2 on the most wanted place to live in the country, he meets Rachael Wando (Linda Hamilton), the town mayor and owner of a food and drinks' store. While Harry is checking on Dante's Peak he notices trees, animals and even people had died recently near the volcano, and he wants to put the city council on alert, but people are putting economical interests first and security second. Even Dryfus would not listen to Harry, invoking lack of real scientific evidence while actually being afraid of causing huge financial losses for the investors, and countermands Harry's alert. For a week, the volcano was not overly active, but then the activity began to increase. Just as the city council was put on alert, Dante's Peak erupts. Harry and Rachael must traverse through ash that falls like rain, lava, acid lakes and a pyroclastic cloud to escape from the volcano, and save Rachael's mother and her two children. Who will survive when day becomes night, air turns to fire, and solid ground melts beneath white-hot lava? "}{"Title":"Dantes peak review","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's peak movie review i am a year 10 pupil, in geography we recently watched the movie Dante's peak! the main characters are Harry played by Pierce Brosnan and Rachel played by Linda Hamilton. Harry was a Vulcanologist who lost his girlfriend 4 years before Dante's peak to a pyroclast in Centeral America. Personally i thought the scene when Harrys girlfriend dies from being hit in the head with a pyroclast was gruesome and gory but very interesting . Harry's boss Paul sends Harry to Dante's peak to investigate the volcano. Harry discovers that the river contains Sulphur dioxide that was being released from the volcano was acidic and that this was leading to the death of vegetation and wildlife around it. Although i found this un-realistic as the water should not have became contaminated as soon a sit did. When Harry learns that the volcano is active and not dormant, he wanted to put the town on alert, although Paul refused as it would effect the towns income and tourism and the volcano could be a false alarm. Eventually the volcano erupts and this is mayhem. Many of the events results in tragedy. The Mayor played by Linda Hamilton, looses her mother-in-law when they try to escape from the molten lava and extreme ash clouds. The Mayor, her kids and Harry escape the horror but get trapped in a collapsing mine.Help finally come to the rescue and save them. i really enjoyed the chaos and tragedy of the movie and i learnt a lot of geographical facts and I would definitely recommend it . "},{"Title":"A movie review of danté's peak","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My name is Alex Mchugh and I am a year 10 pupil and I have just finished watching Danté's peak. The main characters are Harry vulcanologist &#x96; Pieuce Brasnon, Rachel Mayer, coffee shop owner- Linda Hamilton and Graham and Lauren the kids. Members of the U.S.G.S Paul-boss, Barry broke his leg +3 others. There also was a dog named Rocky, Fluffy or Ruffy? The plot of the story went like this Harry was in Central America with his G.F when a volcano erupts and a pyroclast hit her on the head and she dies. It then skips forward 4 years and he is told to go to danté's peak. This is when he calls an town meeting and wants to put the town on alert because of the volcano, just when Paul (Harry's boss) arrives and tells the people at the town meeting to go home and tells Harry to go on a vacation. The water then gets polluted by the sulphur dioxide. The U.S.G.S calls a town meeting the ground then starts shaking and the people panic and run over each other. Shortly after that the volcano erupts, the kids drive a pickup truck up the volcano to get their Granny, Harry and Rachel then follow. The Granny's house gets destroyed by lava. They have to go in a boat over the lake but the lake has turned to acid (I did not like this as the lake would not just turn to acids that fast) and the boat starts to skin. The engine of the boat dies so the Granny jumps out of the boat and pulls it through the water. They get out drive down the volcano into a mine get stuck turn on the E.L.F to get help. In the end they all survive apart from Paul the boss. All in I thought it was a great movies, could have been more lifelike. I liked the plot good characters the ending was all right "},{"Title":"Dante's peak review year 10","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak Movie Review 16/10/15 Recently in class we watched Dante's Peak, it was a movie about our topic volcanoes and earthquakes, it was really enjoyable to watch and it was really educational. I thought that the movie was very good and bad because it was very exciting to watch this movie. It has helped me understand more about volcanoes and earthquakes. It was also bad because in my opinion it was way too gruesome. I thought the story line of the movie was very good because it started off with Harry's girlfriend being killed by a pyroclast, this was horrific but it started the movie off really well. After this he met a girl called Rachel who was the mayor, he had a bit of romance with her. She had 2 kids, Graham and Lauren they got on well with Harry. I loved all these characters but I didn't like the Granny, Ruth because she only thought of herself throughout the movie, she later died in the movie, from jumping in the acidic lake. My favourite part of the movie was when the dog, rocky jumped in the back of the pick-up truck, this saved the dog's life and I was really happy about this. This movie was geographically spot on besides the part of the movie when the lake went acidic in a number of days, this would usually take a couple of weeks. Overall I loved this movie, it was humorous and exciting to watch, and I would say that this movie is really intense. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak - A Movie Definite","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak Movie Review Recently, in class we watched Dante's Peak as part of our Volcanoes and Earthquakes topic. I went into class with low expectations that were quickly heightened when I watched this masterpiece of a movie. Drama, romance, action and horror in ONE movie! What more could you want? Both educational and exciting, this movie ticks all the boxes! For geography or science enthusiasts, you'll find Dante's Peak almost 100% accurate, give or take a few scenes. From PH tests to Sulphur Dioxide &#x96; this movie's informative, yet appealing to the naive eye. Although, I'm not sure a truck could survive driving through lava&#x85;. Not only does this movie feature amazingly talented actors and actresses but also a perfectly portrayed plot! Pierce Brosman stars as the lead role, Harry, a vulcanologist who becomes romantically involved with Rachel, the mayer and coffee shop owner, played by Linda Hamiliton who's famous for her appearance in the Terminator movies. Not everything's fun and games though! With a pyroclast killing Harry's previous girlfriend and now a supposedly dormant volcano threatening to wipe out an entire area of people! I'm definitely not a big fan of gore but even I agree they could have had more. What there was plenty of though, was explosive scenes that could easily have you cowering behind a pillow. My favourite moment was when the grandmother, known as Ruth sacrificed herself by sliding into acidic waters. Even though the scene was not truly accurate, it still reduced me to tears. She's a truly talented actress and my favourite character by far as she gave a heartfelt performance. I'd definitely recommend this movie to anybody (except young children) but hold on because this volcano will blow your socks off! "},{"Title":"This movies was unreal!!!!!","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a year 10 student, and we have recently watched Dante's Peak the movie and would defiantly recommend it to other people. The characters were good. The main characters was harry the valcaulogist (Pierce Branson) he was my favourite actor. The other actor were Rachel the major , owner of a coffee shop and mother of her 2 children Lauren and Graham. My second favourite character was granny Ruth, as she just seemed to be a legend and her wee dog Ruffy. It started of 4 years earlier when Harry was in central America with girlfriend a volcano explorer who got killed by a pyroclast killed her, it then came back to now, harry was sent to Dante's Peak to investigate. After investigating, Harry decided to put the town on alert. The boss said no and wouldn't put the town on alert&#x85;then the volcano erupted. Harry, Rachel the 2 kids and they dog all survived, Granny Ruth died jumping into boiling hot water to save all them! I loved this movie, it's one of the best movies I've watched. I LOVED IT!! "},{"Title":"Dante's peak review","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantes peak movie review I am a year 10 pupil at Dromore high school and in my geography class we recently watched Dantes peak. I thought it was a fantastic movie but is very gory in some scenes so if you didn't like that type of thing this movie isn't for you. The main characters are harry, the volcanologist played by Pierce brosan, then there is Rachel the mayor of the town and also own the local café played by Linda Hamilton. Rachel has 2 children, Lauren and graham there is also the U.S.G.S team, Paul the boss, harry, Barry and three others. The plot was that harry was sent to Dante's peak to see if there was any volcanic activity. Harry soon finds signs that the volcano is active for example dead squirrels, vegetation begin to die due sulphur dioxide and he found a couple that had been boiled up in hot springs. Harry wanted to send out an alert but Paul (the boss) wouldn't let him because it wasn't scientifically certain that it was going to erupt soon. Harry and Barry then go up to the volcano and send spider down to seen what was going on spider then stopped moving so Barry went down to fix the problem he unhooked himself from his harness and a minor earthquake occurs, rocks fall and harry breaks his leg. Later on in the film there is certain sign that the volcano is going to erupt and so they quickly call the town in to send an alert as they are in the middle of telling people what was about to happen an earthquake occurs soon the roof was falling in and the people panic and rush out the building in fear. The volcano erupts and Rachel Hs to get her kids who have drove up the mountain to save there grandma they then have to face many obstacles as there battle to get back down .when they finally make it down harry makes the decision to ram the car into this building as it was too dangerous to drive about the town ,he then gets Rachel and the kids to a safe spot and then rushes to the car to send a message to tell someone they are down there but rocks fall on top of him and he breaks his arm but pulls through and sends out the message and gets himself Rachel and her kids to safety, then him and Rachel fall in love and that's it. I did think it some parts it was unrealistic and exaggerated but was a good story, I really loved all of the gory parts and would totally recommended it if you aren't squeamish. I give Dante's peak a solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Review Year 10","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak I am a Year 10 student who recently watched Dante Peak ,I really enjoyed this movie as I found it was very adventurous ,I thought it was very gory in scenes which i didn't enjoy. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone. In one scene it thought it was quite unrealistic. The plot of the movie was very accurate and detailed. The movie started off with the main character Harry who studied Volcanoes with his girlfriend. They were in Central America, the town they were staying at was below a volcano unfortunately the volcano erupted and a pyroclast killed his girlfriend by hitting her on the head. Paul (Harry's Boss) sends him to Dante's Peak. He meets the Mayor of the town (Rachel) and her two children (Lauren and Graham). Rachel takes Harry and the children up the mountain to investigate if the volcano is active or not. While they are up in the mountains the children discover two dead squirrels, Harry then finds two dead trees beside a river. The children decide that they want to go see their Grandmother, and she decides to take them for a swim in a hot spring. As they arrive and get ready to jump in they discover two dead hikers that have been burned while swimming in the hot spring. Harry decides to put the town on alert but Paul (his boss) refuses as it may affect money and tourism. U.S.G.S go into the crater with a helicopter and a robotic spider while they are up in the crater with the spider a small tremor occurs and one of Harry's colleagues falls and breaks his leg. Harry then notices that the tap water has turned orange/brown colour. The next day he decides to call a town meeting, during the meeting an earthquakes hits and everyone panics, soon after the earthquake the volcano erupts and everyone tries to escape. MAYHEM! Graham and Lauren drive to their Grandmothers house and she refused to come down from the mountain. Rachel and Harry go to save the children and their grandmother. They find a boat to travel down the river in as it would be a lot quicker. The propeller gets eaten by the SO2 in the water so the grandmother gets out of the boat for the last few meters to push. The acid in the water disintegrates her legs and she dies. Harry, Rachel and her kids steal a truck, the then come across a path were the lava as spilled over and they need to get across it, they take a chance and drive over it. At the other side the dog Ruffy is sitting on a rock.They then get back to the town everyone has fled and collect the E.L.F. An ash cloud starts coming fast and start at them they then ram the ruck into a mine where graham used to play. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak Movie ReviewDante's Peak was released in 1997 and rated as a PG movie. It is 112 minutes long. The Genre is action, adventure, disaster, thriller. It was written by Leslie Boham and directed by Roger Donaldson. Dante's Peak is a gripping human drama starring Pierce Brosnan as Harry Dalton a volcanologist who arrives at a countryside town which was named Dante's Peak after a long dormant volcano. Dalton befriends the town's mayor Rachel Wando played by Linda Hamilton and ends up having a love affair with her. There is mounting alarm as the scientist discovers dead trees,dead squirrels, brown drinking water and other early warnings of volcanic doom, indicating that Dante's Peak may wake up at any moment. The movie has elaborate special effects with citizens fleeing the town while the mountain roars, ash falls from the sky, melting snow causes rivers to rage out of control, a dam bursts, bridges collapse and shock waves flatten forests etc. As a year ten student I really enjoyed the movie. As we are covering volcanoes as a topic in school I felt the movie was a good source of information showing the impact of a volcanic eruption. I thought it was realistic and accurate but I would have enjoyed it more if there had of been even more gore in it! I thought the plot was good with a few twists and turns. All in all &#x96; a great watch!! "},{"Title":"dates peak review","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As the opening credits of the movie come on the screen, Harry a vulcanologist is in the middle of a volcanic eruption in central America with his girlfriend but as they are trying to get out of the dangerous place the truck that Harry and his girlfriend are in, a pyroclast comes through the roof and kills his girlfriend. then four years later harry is sent to Dantes Peak because there has been some miner earthquakes.When Harry arrives in Dantes Peak he meets the mayor Rachel and her two kids Graham + Lauren and they have currently been awarded for the best small US town to live in with 20,000 people living there.The next day harry and Rachel and the kids go to check for any activity around the volcano they discover some dead squirrels that have been killed from sulphur dioxide, trees around the volcano are dying, Harry then uses an seismometer to check for minor earthquake tremors and finds some. Finally they come to the hot springs when they arrive the springs are letting of some steam so the kids want to go for a swim but when graham was about to jump in harry stops him because he has noticed to dead bodies in the water! After making these discoveries Harry wants to put the town on alert and evacuate but when Harry is going to give the the word Paul from the U.S.G.S (Harrys boss) comes in and stops everything, he doesn't want to worry or panic the town because of the tourism.They take a helicopter up to the crater of the volcano and send a robot (spider) down into the volcano and when the robot is walking around as it is doing this it stops working so Barry does down to try and fix it but there is a small earthquake and Barry leg gets broken when rocks fall on him. Harry then goes to Rachel's house and as he is getting a drink he notices that the water is polluted. Harry calls a town meeting during the meeting a big earthquake starts and the town goes into panic. Harry, Rachel and the kids go up the mountain to get Ruth then the lava destroys her cabin but they get into a boat on the lake but the lake is completely acid now so it is harmful to the skin the boat breaks down so Ruth gets out into the lake and brings them to safety but because of the burns on her body she dies. the rest of them escape in a truck and drive over some less dangerous lava as this is happening the volcano is about to blow so they drive into the mine and are trapped in it but they have the E.L.F that sends out a message saying they are alive and then they are saved.My opinion on the film was i thought it was very realistic and accurate but in some parts it wasn't completely true e.g. when the lake turned to acid i think it happened to quickly. overall i liked the film and would recommend it to people of my age group. "},{"Title":"jason kerr","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is about a volcanic eruption that has happened in a village. Harry the main character is a volcanologist, a few years ago his girlfriend died in a volcanic eruption while trying to get away.Harry works in the USGS with his boss Paul and the staff, Harry is sent into a nearby village to work on a volcano that they think might erupt. Harry goes with the major, Rachel, and her children to her mother in law, Ruth, for Harry to inspect the wild life around the volcano. Ruth offered to go swimming in the springs with the kids, when they get there they walk down the path and they spot squirrels and trees burnt down, later on they go for a swim and Harry notices the spring is boiling while the boy runs to jump in to the spring Harry jumps and catches the boy. When they go back to the village he tells the major to put the town on alert so they have a meeting to see what they should do, but Harry's boss comes and stops the commotion. The next day they go up the volcano and put a machine called a spider up for safety but the spider breaks and one of his colleagues go to try and fix it but when he was doing that an earth tremor breaks some rocks which fall on him and break his leg. A town meeting is announced and puts the town on alert, but when the meeting is still on an earthquake comes and everyone goes crazy. Harry and the major go and evacuate, but when they go to get the kids, they had already left to see her mother in law. When they get to the mother in laws house they try to escape but the road is blocked by lava so they drive through it. After they get through the lava they go on a boat across the lake to get away from the lava. When they were sailing the acid in the water burns the metal boat and the motor on the boat was also eaten away by the acid. So the mother in law gets out and pushes the boat to save them by getting them to the other side. As they walk through the ash, the mother in law stops and dies because of the wounds from the acid in the water. They find a car and drive back to the village and get a device called an elf, which is a transmitter. Harry runs back to the car and an ash cloud pushes towards them. They get into an abandoned mine shaft to get away from the ash cloud. As they walk deeper into the mine Harry goes back to get the elf as the elf is a transmitter which lets the USGS know they have survived. So they can be saved.I found the movie Dante's Peak interesting. The characters where well played and my favourite was Harry. I would give it a 5/5 "}{"Title":"Dante Never Peaks.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak (1997) Dir Roger Donaldson / Cast Pierce Brosnan, Linda Hamilton, Elizabeth Hoffman, Grant Heslov, Charles Hallahan Disaster film structured like others only with new faces and places. It stars Pierce Brosnan who fears volcanic activity and is met with the belief that it hasn't gotten out of hand. Linda Hamilton as the Mayor becomes his only listener. She just gave a speech on how Dante's Peak is slated as the second most desirable place to live. Oh how her statement is put to the test at just this time. Great lava flowing effects are mixed with lack of credibility such as the boy who drives up into the mountains to warn his stubborn grandmother. This film is just filled with people with the IQ of a rock. Directed by Roger Donaldson who previously made the miserable Species. He has a cast of actors who probably wish that their schedules were more occupied when the script came to their attention. Brosnan is the hero whom nobody listens to because everybody seems to know so bloody much. Hamilton reduced to cardboard as the Mayor. Perhaps the script called for a female so she showed up fitting the bill. The rest of the cast is given little to do except watch their careers become a bigger disaster than the one in the film. Filled with clichés including the lame apology by those who didn't listen. Technically well made but not a desirable place to live or watch for that matter. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that!","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For some odd reason we really got stuck with natural disaster movies in the late 90's didn't we? And while this film was released in 1997, at pretty much the exact same time Volcano was getting booted out as well. Out of the two though, this is by far the better movie, largely because it's a much more believable situation with believable characters and scenarios (for the most part, but I'll get to the jarring one's later).So what's the cabbage? Harry Dolton is a Volcanologist working for the US Geological Survey, and is sent to the small town of Dante's Peak in the Cascade Mountains after reports of strange anomalies regarding its local namesake mountain. Upon arrival, he meets with the town's Mayor and moonlighting coffee shop owner Rachel Wando. Although Harry is convinced that the dormant volcano is starting to reawaken, no one else believes him, and he has to try and convince the town and his superiors at the USGS that this mountain is big, bad and ready to blow!Now, the bad parts? This film really is too predictable for words. You know the mountain is going to blow at some point, and you know that the peaceful little town they try to show off as being all beautiful and lovely in the beginning is going to be wiped out. You know Pierce Brosnan is right and everyone else is wrong.Also there are a few very silly scenes that will make you scratch your head in confusion. Firstly, why did the three choose to drive their boat right across the middle of the acid lake rather than sticking to the shore? Why didn't Dreyfus get out of his car on the bridge rather than attempting the impossible? And, most obviously, you can't drive a pickup truck across molten lava and expect to come out okay! Nor can a pickup truck outrun a Pyroclastic Cloud travelling at 200mph! As someone who graduated in Geography, I may have a bit of an advantage, but I'm sure anyone will know that these things really don't happen! Also as a Geography student I was quick to point out the numerous flaws in the geographical accuracy of this eruption, but I won't bore you to death with that!As well as that, there's a few scenes which are simply played for action's sake. One example being in the wood cabin and the Lava bursts through the wall at our heroes. You can't seriously tell me that they didn't notice the fact that things were getting a little hot in there, especially since 1,000 degree lava is literally on the other side of a thin log wall!But there are many good points to this film as well. The story, although predictable, is still quite gripping. The buildup to the volcanic eruption is played quite well and suspenseful, even though you find the other characters stupid for not taking Harry up on his advice even though every single bit of evidence points to him being right!The CGI is also very impressive in places, though perhaps a little choppy in others. The practical effects are good though, especially with the destruction of the town and buildings crumbling. The acting is fairly robust, although many characters have confusing motivations and you wonder why they're thinking what they're thinking, none of the performances are awful per say.Overall, the film is quite gripping though predictable, and even a touch suspenseful in the first half, but doesn't really go down hill in the second half, so much as becomes the standard action movie of running away from the horrible danger with a crescendo of CGI and explosions to top it all off. Not the greatest film ever made and does indeed have many silly moments that do take you out of it somewhat, but it's fairly solid. For a rainy Saturday afternoon movie you can turn your brain off to, this is definitely a contender. "},{"Title":"A review on Dantes Peak","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am writing a review on Dante's Peak as I have recently watched it and found it very interesting. The main character is Harry. His girlfriend is called Rachael who was the town mayor. She has two children called Graham and Lauren. There was a little old granny called Ruth but she sadly died in acid water in a lake. There was also a man called Paul and he was the team leader.There was lots of equipment used in Dante's Peak. Some of them where the E. L. f from NASA, a robot spider with 8 legs, video camera, audio, heat sensor, gas detector and a buried seismometer which had vibrations.Some of the video had scenes which where more real than others. One of which was the volcano it was very real looking and so was the giant ash cloud. I personally didn't think that the truck on the lava was very life like because in a real situation you couldn't just drive over it. For example the wheels would burst. I also thought that the pyroclastic cloud was very well done as it looked so real as it came after the characters in the car.The film had loads of emotions the main ones where horror and happiness. Some other emotions through out the whole movie where words like sad, relieved, happy, scared, worried and they might of have felt guilty like when they left Ruth on her own when she died. Over all I really enjoyed watching this movie and I recommend it to anyone who wants to watch it. "},{"Title":"Dantes peak review","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a review of the movie Dante's Peak I recently watched. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and will now be writing a review on it. I will start with how real I felt the movie was to real life. I don't believe that any vehicle could drive over lava because it would obviously melt the tyres and burn a hole in the petrol tank and that would explode the whole truck but in the movie there was a scene where the truck drove over the lava and was stationary on the lava for at least ten seconds, I think that is defiantly enough time for the lava to melt the petrol tank and that would result in the whole truck exploding. Overall I think the movie is not that realistic. This movie is good for people around my age in third year because we learn a lot about volcanoes in geography and this movie explains what happens when volcanoes explode, how they explode and the damage and destruction caused by a volcano that erupts. The movie is very enjoyable and is an easy way to teach and learn about volcanoes. In this movie you don't just learn about volcanoes but also all the equipment used to tell whether the volcano is active and likely to explode. Overall I think the movie is very good and explains things in a more fun way than being taught by a teacher, I would give this movie a 4 out of 5 star rating. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am writing a review for Dante's Peak. Firstly I am going to introduce you to the characters. There is Harry who is the main man, Rachel-Mayor of Dante's Peak, her mum Ruth and her kids. Then lastly Paul who is the Geology team leader (U.S.G.S). The film starts off with Harry and his girlfriend in a jeep, driving speedily away from an erupting volcano. Sadly a volcanic bomb lands on top of the jeep and hits her on the head. Four years after the tragic event Harry is sent to Dante's Peak to check for an Eruption. This is when Harry first meets Rachel and the kids. When Harry first sees the volcano he is sure it is going to erupt very soon. However his boss Paul doesn't want a big panic over nothing and keeps calm as he thinks there is not going to be an eruption. Harry is right the volcano erupts and destroys the town and rips it to pieces and Harry, Rachel, the kids and Ruth are still very close to the volcano. As they try to save themselves form the volcano they come across a lot of challenges to escape the town of Dante's Peak. My opinion of this film is that it was very interesting to watch and sometimes very addictive form the very start. I would certainly recommend it to anyone that loves action films, as this film is very action packed and full of surprises. I would like to finish off by rating this film a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Dantes peak review","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A movie that i recently watched was Dantes Peak, my geography teacher showed the class as we are learing about volcanoes in our current topic. The Scientific information in this movie is relatively good for example the pyroclastic bombs, the ash and the acid lake. The equipment used in this movie is exrtremly good like the E.L.F from NASA and the seismometer that they dug into the ground to record vibrations from the volcano to predict when the volcano is about to blow.The plot is an interesting one with Harry's Gf getting killed at the start of the movie because of a pyroclastic bomb. Then he goes to work on Dantes' Peak and then it blows. Rcahels kids run away up the mountation to collect their Grandmother and then then her grandmothers dog runs away. The realism is quite good like the acid lake and the ash, but the tyres on the lava is not very real because the tyres would burn off.It was very interesting but i wouldn't watch it again. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Review","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am writing a review about Dante's Peak. This movie suited me because it is action packed, thrilling and exciting. The movie linked into the topic which I am doing in school.The plot of the film is that Harry (the main character) is a volcanologist and he is sent to Dante's Peak on holiday. When he sees and notices key fetchers like (e.g. hot springs bubbling, C2O rising and plants/ animals are died).The main characters are Harry (volcanologist), Rachel (Mother of Graim and Loran), Ruth (grandmother) and Paula good friends of Harry. He is also a volcanologist.The equipment in the movie includes seismometer which monitors vibrations, a robot called spider because it has 6 legs and a camera. There was a tracker which is called E.L.F. Which was given to Paul's team by N.A.S.A. In my opinion Dante's Peak is an excellent movie it is an amazing example of a volcano erupting. I feel not all of the movie was related to what would happen in some of the same of the situation which Harry and Rachel family got into e.g. car driving over lava. Over all a great movie. "},{"Title":"A very good, interesting movie","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched Dante's Peak. It was a good movie. A volcanologist called Harry and his girlfriend were trying to get away from a volcano. Suddenly a pyroclast hit her in the head and killed her. The movie then fasts forward a few years were Harry is going to Dante's Peak. It is a popular holiday destination. He finds the out the volcano could erupt any moment and tells the mayor (Rachel) to considerate a possible evacuation. She believes him but when he tells his boss Paul, he disagrees and tells him to keep quiet. Then it erupts. Most people make it out but Paul doesn't. When Harry, Rachel and her children find out there trapped, they drive flat out down the mines. The mine then collapses but everyone gets rescued. Also, the realism isn't rite. There is a scene were Harry drives over lava and makes it out?I rate this movie 9/10 as its very interesting but the realism isn't rite. ) "},{"Title":"Dantes Peak","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a review of the movie Dante's Peak I recently watched. Dante's Peak is a movie based on a volcano waiting to erupt. The equipment they used in the movie. For a start there is a Robotic Spider with 8 legs basically they use the robot to go into dangerous areas to test if there is anything dangerous like gas which will harm the people. The Robot has equipped to its inventory a video camera to record the footage that the Robot is seeing. It also has equipped to it Audio so that the people can hear what is going on around the Robot. I think the Robot is a good safe idea for the armed forces or any scientists to use. I am now going to talk about the scientific information which is used in this film. The people who study volcanoes and sees if it is dormant or active see when it is going to erupt is called a Volcanologist. The rocks which come flying out of the volcano are called Volcanic Bombs or the real name for them are called pyroclasts made up with Ash and Dust which clogs up aeroplane engines and car engines. The big cloud which comes out of the volcano is called a pyroclastic cloud which crushes everything in its way. The stuff which comes running down the side of the volcano is called lava which is thousands of degrees hot. Overall it is a really good fantastic movie. Its really educational for geography as my class in school watched it for the topic volcanoes and earthquakes. By Brandon Coburn "},{"Title":"Dante's peak was an exciting movie","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's peak review I have just watched Dante's peak in year 10 geography. The movie is about a volcano called Dante. Dante has signs of eruption and these people have to try and figure out when it will erupt and evacuate the area but it is too late to evacuate. The main characters in the movie are called henry, Rachel, Ruth, graham, Lauren and Paul. Henry is a geologist who's girlfriend died from pyroclast after a volcano erupted. Rachel is the mayor of the town who starts to date henry, Ruth is the granny, Kids are graham and Lauren who are Rachel's kids and Paul is the geology team leader. The realism in this movie is fake. Henry drives a truck through lava and the truck didn't blow up, Ruth jumped into an acid lake and lost her foot and she died, there were a couple of bathers who were boiled to death. My opinion of this movie is that I thought it was a good film because it shows us how dangerous volcanos can be but it was obvious to spot some fake parts. "}{"Title":"This movie is a blast to watch!","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rising from the ashes of the 1990s, comes a great underrated disaster movie call Dante's Peak. Directed by Roger Donaldson, Dante's Peak is a movie about a volcano set in the Pacific Northwest named, obviously, Dante's Peak that's ready to erupt. United States Geological Survey Vulcanologist Dr. Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) is sent to the area to check out the volcano; only to find that, the volcano will end up erupting sooner than later. With the Mayor Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton), he tries to send the town on alert, only to be shut down by his superior, because the town happens to be second place in the 'most desirable small town to live in the US' list, and they don't want any negative accusations to threaten the town economy. Like Harry predict, the volcano erupts, leaving everybody struggling to survive. Now Harry Dalton and Rachel must journey through ashes and lava to find their kids, and exit the town before it's become too late for them. In my opinion, this movie is a lot better than the similar movie that came out, the same year in Mick Jackson's Volcano. This movie didn't made ash of itself. A lot more realistic and scientifically accurate in tone, that makes this film even more frighten than the fake looking cartoony, Tommy Lee Jones's film. Although the makers of this film, did embellish a little on volcano type logic like having characters able to breath despite Volcanic ash falling on them and outrunning the 700 km/h pyroclastic flow for the sake of the action. You really have to suspension of disbelief to enjoy this movie. Others suspension of disbelief scenes, like the driving on hot lava-crossing sequence was really film with stunt men driving over real lava, based on the film commentary. Who knew, that was really possible! Some geologists say they enjoy this movie because they get to see volcanologists in the field and some factual science did go along with the explosions. The film still holds up, as the effects were fantastic at the time. You would think the movie had a lot of CGI, but it's only specifically used for the lava. Majority of the film's visual effects were done either practically, or with very large miniatures, such as the bridge sequence, the dam burst, and even the mountain was a model. The pyroclastic flow was particularly impressive. I love how they use real new footage of the erupting of Mount St. Helens of 1980, and use it for this film. The pacing in the film is great. Dante's had a ton of build up with the threat exposed in the last arc that never really felt like it paid off to me. I didn't like any of the characters from Dante's Peak, besides the Volcanologists crew and Pierce Brosnan. No town folks was worth caring about, not the greedy businessman, or the helicopter pilot as they did a lot of things that would win a Darwin award in stupidity. But the worst had to be Grandma Ruth (Elizabeth Hoffman) who does the most stupid things to get the plot going. Mostly, the whole Grandma heroic sacrifice and rescue was kinda was pointless when you think about it. Pierce Brosnan was great as the cliché main scientist protagonist. Still, it's hard not to think of him as James Bond in this film. He kinda plays it off that way in the action scenes. He's seem less like a scientist, and more like action star. I wish, maybe he could put more drive to separate himself from his James Bond counterpart. Linda Hamilton really get underplay as the person with the most lowbrow level of character development. Honestly, you could put anybody in this role. While, she was in the film, she doesn't stand out as the Mayor. For a mayor, she really doesn't have that much power in the film. She went from being a believable bad ass woman that beat all evil comers in 1991's Terminator 2 to near useless below par character that Pierce Brosnan's character has to save. It's so embarrassing. The children actors are alright. Yes, they can be annoying at times, but I didn't mind them as much as other children character in disaster movies. Overall It's the best Volcano movie that I saw, so far, so I lava this movie! It's an explosive treat, worth the time watching! "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Title Dante's PeakCondensed Storyline A volcanologist called Harry Dalton (Played by Pierce Brosnan) is sure that a volcano over looking the town of Dante will explode any minute so it is up to Harry to persuade his group and the town that it is. The whole movie is the scientist's boss won't believe the scientist cliché Notable Acting Two big name actors in this movie are Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton. That's right, the 5th James Bond and Sarah Conner. They are actors who if you like them you'll like this movie, but if you don't then you're out of luck as this movie pretty much revolves around them. Everyone else is either a secondary character or a supporting character, this means that they do not get much screen time and/or are ultimately boring/typical filler characters. Annoying child actors as usual and not much else to touch on in that area. Noticeable Camera work Birds tracking shot of getting out of the jeep, nicely done. Establishing shot of the lake and foot of the mountain. Tilting shot to show the sheer scale of Dante's Peak. Worms eye shot for when Terry goes down to fix the robot's leg. Framing of the shot where Harry has just hotwired a green pick up and comes towards the camera and smashed through the gate.Graphics The practical effects of the explosions are realistic an nicely done and they work in good contrast to the CGI lava/pyroclastic clouds Incorrect Science Volcanic activity can turn lakes surrounding the volcano acidic, but it can not melt metal anywhere as quickly as shown in the movie. The PH scale of volcanic tainted water would be around 3 to 5 on the scale. That is vinegar to black coffee, acidic and hot enough to cause damage to skin but not quick damage to metal. And before someone says vinegar doesn't damage skin, its not actual vinegar, it shares the same acidity as vinegar. The boat engine was cooled by a water intake system, seeing as the lake in this movie is PH 0, this would cause the interior of the engine to seize up and melt very quickly. Harry tries to drive a pick up truck over a thin crust of lava and comes out with 4 popped tire and a charred undercarriage, the science of lava shows that it is (1,366ºK/1,093ºC) this would melt the tires completely as well as melt the undercarriage along with igniting the fuel tank. There is a scene where they try and outrun a pyroclastic cloud in a truck with 4 melted tires. This is like a human trying to outrun a cheetah, it's not going to work. Pyroclastic clouds travel at 450 mph, you would need a Vesco Turbinator (Wheel-driven land speed holder) to outrun it. One correct piece of science is the helicopter scene, where the helicopter crashes because it is flying in the ash filed sky. Helicopters are similar to planes for the fact that they both have air intake systems for the engine, this can easily get clogged up by ash and cause the engine to stop. Overall Feel This is one of the best, and when I say best I mean most accurate volcano movies, the science of the volcano is mostly correct and/or scientifically plausible. It is a classic natural disaster B-list movie, with good effects accompanied by decent acting and storytelling in it. So fun movie regardless and is better than Volcano, hands down. With the main point being that Dante's Peak is much better at pacing its movie and teasing the villain (Volcano) until the end of the movie for an enjoyable climax. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best volcano disaster movie","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie and there are a few reasons for that 1. Great chemistry between Brosnan and Hamilton 2. Great Special FX without a minimum of CGI 3. Tight storyline 4. Realistic portrayal of a volcanic eruption 5. nice narrative tone Most people will disagree with me regarding the movie's plausibility, so let me elaborate on this quick 1. You can't outrun a pyroclastic flow Yes you can. Some move with almost sonic speed, but some are much, much slower. having said that, the real point is that they don't outrun the flow at all, they just happen to be close enough to the mine to get there before the flow does. 2. There wouldn't be red hot viscous lava I agree, and i wish they would have stuck to the facts here. I guess they figured people would feel tricked to see a volcano movie without that kind of stuff so they felt urged to put it in. Also, the lava was used as a plot device, but they surely would have found something else that would have done the trick just as well. 3. You can't drive across lava I'd say it is possible, it just depends on its temperature and thus on viscosity. Since they are first attacked by quite thin lava, i'd say the movie is simply inconsistent in this regard. They could have made the first lava less fluid as well. However, i don't think the attempt to cross this lava was silly because if they couldn't get away, the pyroclastic flow would kill them for sure. So the decision was okay, and then they had a bit of luck but otherwise we wouldn't have movie, right? 4. The lake can't become acidic that fast Why not? If there's a real large crack underneath it, gigantic masses of sulfur could be released. I think it's possible, though not very probable. But again, this is a movie. It tries to show the otherworldly hostility of nature in the event of a large eruption. And that it does quite well. All in all, i think it doesn't get much more realistic in a Hollywood near-blockbuster disaster-action movie. It's not a documentary. I like documentaries about volcanoes, but this is fiction and it tries to tell a story. I think the movie hits exactly the sweet spot between storytelling and plausibility. So many more things could have been done wrong The helicopter could have worked just fine, the volcano could be of the Hawaii-type with primarily thin lava to begin with. The ash and the falling rocks could have been neglected as a lethal force, not to forget the pyroclastic flow, which is not a common element in volcano depictions and might have disturbed some viewers because they just don't know what that is and what it does and that it's in fact so super dangerous. Okay, enough of this subject. Some quick words on those other cinematic qualities I think the romance is pulled off well by both actors. The whole drama aspect comes across very natural and is not artificially loaded with forced conflict. They understood very well that the threat is the volcano and the volcano alone. I mean, you got a volcano. That kind of eruption is the most deadly thing that can happen to you, so why bother with a villain? Yet many scriptwriters would not lay off the habit of writing a villain in, just because that's what they usually do. And about the effects It's mostly modeling work, and you can see it. But then, i can also see CGI (as long as the movie is not called Gravity). I see both, and if it can't be done totally unnoticeably, i'm preferring the more organic look of models. The most important point is, that the look is consistent and believable, and this is the case here. After all, it's a disaster movie, so the story obviously is nothing world changing, but it works well. I'd say if you don't like Brosnan's and Hamilton's faces, this movie is not for you. But if you don't have a problem with them, it's a very entertaining movie, and for those not very into geology and volcanology it even provides a fresh and almost informative depiction of a real volcano eruption. Good movie, a narrow 7 if i consider all aspects of cinematic craftsmanship but it actually feels better than that. "},{"Title":"Realistic and entertaining","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought Dante's Peak was very realistic as a lot of what we are learning in school about volcanoes and earthquakes was mentioned or shown. I thought it was exciting and fun to watch and sometimes scary and I liked this combination of genres. The special effects were really good and the scientific side was interesting when watching the explosions, pyroclastic clouds and bombs and the lava. The plot had a few nice twists and the characters were believable and easy to get to know. My favourite part of the movie was the suspenseful pyroclastic cloud as it was both realistic and exciting. I liked the movie overall and would recommend it to a friend because the science was there, the excitement was there , the good plot was there and lastly it was very believable. "},{"Title":"Dante's unleashed hell","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak was released a year after Independence Day which set new standards in destruction of buildings. Unfortunately, Disaster films became fashionable (Twister was released in 1996) and two were released in 1997 that had exploding volcanoes, this one regarded as the better of the two as it had James Bond in it.The film starts brightly enough. Brosnan plays a workaholic volcanologist, Harry Dalton who has trauma issues who is sent to a small town in Washington State. He soon discovers that a dormant volcano might be showing signs of coming to life. He has a warm relationship with the town's mayor (Linda Hamilton) that the town of Dante's Peak is in danger. However some of the townsfolk who seemed to have formerly resided in Amity Island 20 years earlier before a great white shark attacked as they do not want to scare off the tourists and Dalton's boss is all for this.However the volcano does erupt putting lives at risk and Dalton and the Mayor with her family must evade the oncoming lava.The set up is good but rather corny with Brosnan and Hamilton. Brosnan's work colleagues are a little bit too hip as they were in the film Twister as well. The special effects were the best part of the film when the volcano erupts and damages the town with very good miniature effects and CGI, although the CGI has aged over the years.The film itself is a little hokey, the script rather shaky and maybe needed another draft or two. The conclusion seemed rather rushed because some days have elapsed since the eruption and the film's ending. "},{"Title":"Disaster Movie YES!!!","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really despise Hollywood disaster flicks because they tend to forget about the basics of life and try to entertain moviegoers. Which usually makes a crappy movie. I thank the man who woke up one day and said I have an idea for a movie. It's called Dante's Peak. The movie consists of a geologist and his crew, a mayor of a town with her kids, and an sleeping volcano that awakes with a vengeance. The main character is basically trying to convince a mayor that the next door neighbor might be waking up soon and should take precautions to prevent fatalities if his predictions on the volcano erupting are correct. Eventually he is correct and the volcano blows up. The great thing about this movie is the amount of science used in the movie. The only thing that is off is that there is no possible way that a geologist can look as awesome as Pierce Brosnan. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of all time","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I usually like disaster films such as Earthquake, Asteroid, and Volcano, but this film is a turkey. I found the sound track to be loud, screeching, and annoying, making it difficult to hear the dialog without being overwhelmed by the volume of the sound. Pierce Brosnan as the lead actor is stiff and not believable. With his bumbling leadership in trying to lead a family to safety, this should have been billed as a comedy. The film proceeds from tense situation to tense situation, all of which are brought on by the stupidity of the people involved. At several points during the film, I wished that natural selection would proceed, and put me and the rest of the viewing audience out of our misery. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak, a Blast from the Past!","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a little unknown, very fine film. Pierce Brosnan is Dr. Harry Dalton, a volcanologist with the U.S. Geological Survey, who's sent to the small town in Washington within the Northern Cascades named Dante's Peak, the second most desirable place to live in the United States population under 20,000, to check on a long time dormant volcano that's about to erupt. Linda Hamilton is Rachel Wando, the mayor of Dante's Peak, who's taken with Dr. Dalton and keeps close by. Hamilton and Brosnan have very interesting, very authentic chemistry that makes Dante's Peak more than worth while. Brosnan and Hamilton is the movie's main sight, while the volcano of Dante's Peak is the movie's main attraction. The ever-present brewing volcano provides the ominous backdrop to the storyline implanting constant tension. There's no action or effects until the volcano erupts, but when it does, there's loads of it. Dante's Peak turns into an all out action-adventure with great set effects for large scale destruction. The presentation of the special effects is very well done. The movie is good before the volcano erupts still, by having a nice, hang around vibe and pace, good not to rush things. Dante's Peak's prolonged pace is difficult to achieve, but it is executed well. The film does a solid job of incorporating the characters onto the viewing. Dante's Peak has good camera direction from the start up and through to the action-packed finish that makes for an overall great visual experience. It's a well-framed story. I don't know what all else to say other than this is a really liked film without too many complaints. I give Dante's Peak a 6 for it being so greatly appealing and such fine, family fun. I can enjoy this movie dearly again and again every so many years. I like Volcano more, from the same year, but Dante's Peak is a better movie. "},{"Title":"Volcanos of awesomness!!!!","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I though this movie was really good! It was full of suspense at the start and end. There was some gory scenes like broken bones, blood etc. This was a bad point because my friends are squeamish. The best part of the movie was the end, when the volcano started erupting because I love action. There was a lot of people at risk during the eruption, pyroclastic clouds and the lava, there was also a dead couple floating in the Hot Spring. I think overall they could have added more action, less love and more humour otherwise this movie was brilliant! Pierce Brosnan as Harry Dalton and Linda Hamilton as Rachel Wando both developed a good bond throughout the movie and ended it with a romantic kiss. Harry Dalton is an expert vulcanologist that tries to persuade his work partners that there is something going on and the town has to be put on alert but Paul (boss) refuses to do so until there is more information and mother have a massive part in the movie although Ruth (mother) has her leg burnt off and she dies I would recommend this movie to teenagers and action movie lovers! "},{"Title":"Amaze-balls but unrealistic at times","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We watched this movie in our Geography class and it was certainly worth watching.The Strengths of the movie would be the special effects of the Pyroclastic cloud and lava, the plot was very tense at times making us want to watch on and the cast were very good.The weaknesses of the movie though was that it was unrealistic at times, like, it lava was coming through your house, you would pretty much die by the heat etc. The Love relationship between Harry and Rachel didn't really go anywhere.Overall i though it was a very good film and would recommend to anyone studying volcanoes. "}{"Title":"Brilliant story but parts of it are missing","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a brilliant movie that is good for any 14 and up who are studying volcano's as the special effects of a movie over 10 years old are very good. Although the movie is very good it has a bit to much romance for me. It is has bits of humor throughout the movie such as coffee,my favorite time of day. Some bits of the movie don't add up such as how the dog got over the lake when it was acid or how the grandmother didn't die instantly in the acid lake. Some of the ways I would improve the movie would be put some more action and be a bit more realistic. Some of the reasons this movie is good to go to if your are studying volcano's is because they're is plenty of volcanic words such as pyroctast which is a ash cloud. "},{"Title":"Impressive, but unrealistic.","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My friends had reviewed most of the movie up until he part i saw at the end. The last few scenes were very tense when the characters were trapped in the underground caverns and this made them really come together. The computer generated imaging was very impressive when th great Pierce Brosnan's elbow broke when he was nearly crushed by falling boulders. I found hat the special effects for the volcano were brilliant with the destructive with the destructive ash cloud and pyroclastic bombs hurtling down to earth. I found that the pickup truck driving over a 1000 degree lava flow with just the tyres bursting was kind of unrealistic, he whole car would have melted! When the dog had to make a jump to the car from the nearby rock it was sitting there like it was fine but the heat rising from the lava flow would have made it lose its hair and burn it, I found this unrealistic. I would recommend ti film to other year 10 pupils studying volcanology. I rate it 7 "},{"Title":"Interesting and enjoyable. Worth watching!","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed the tension in this movie, how at one point everything is fine, then something can happen to change the story. The special effects were very good and made the film seem very real. The CGI in this film was also very realistic. I do think the film became very gory when you see Harry Dalton's arm broke in half. I think it was a bit unrealistic in the scene where Harry drives the truck over hot lava and gets it stuck. Should a vulcanologist not have known that hot lava would set the tyres on fire? I also think it was a bit stretched how quick the acid melted the bottom of the boat and the propeller, in the scene where Ruth is being rescued from her house. Overall I think this is a good movie and would recommend it to anyone, but especially to someone studying volcanoes as it is very informative. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Review","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a typical movie with both strengths, weaknesses and a good plot. This movie has strengths when coming to the volcanic effects e.g. the pyroclastic cloud and the unique eruption of the volcano. These fiery effects are realistic and believable. The plot of this film was intriguing but also had its downsides. A rewarding part of Dante's Peak was the tension that was gradually progressing throughout the movie. This was just enough to keep the viewer engaged and want to see the ending.Things that let this movie down were, when Pierce Brosnan drove over the flow of lava which just about melted his tyres, but somehow was unable to set the fuel tank on fire. Another, is when their dog made it across the lava and acidic river which easily could of killed the dog both times,these were unbelievable parts and didn't help the movie in anyway. Throughout this movie parts were skipped and there wasn't much time to familiarise yourself with the characters and their background lives.If re-making this movie I would change the story line and make it more educational and humorous. For me this movie lacked in humor and they must of found it difficult to disguise what was going to happen as you could clearly tell the volcano was going to erupt with one glance at it releasing its smoke. Dante's Peak could have been better but the effects and realistic plot is what made this movie stand out on educational purposes. For me I believe that this movie is good to show in schools as it lets you see just how villages,towns etc. react when under pressure and close to a major volcanic eruption. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, but where is the rest?","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak was a really interesting and quite a good movie. I found this movie very interesting because I am learning all about volcanoes, and watching this movie helped me understand more about volcanoes.I really liked the whole plot and the tension that was built up and I just wanted to keep on watching the movie to see what happened.But despite the movie being quite good there were parts I thought that could have been much better like the special effects. The special effects didn't look like they were real and it sort of ruined the whole movie a little. I also didn't really like the way the movie jumped about so quickly from one thing to another and you were left wondering what happened during all those parts that the movie didn't show. And finally I would have also liked to see more of the volcano erupting because it only showed a little of the it erupting. But overall this movie was quite good but if it had better special effects and didn't jump about so much and you saw more of the volcano erupting then it would be a really, really good movie! But I would definitely say to you watch it because it is really interesting and if you are learning about volcanoes it really helps you understand more about them! "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable movie!","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed watching this movie, my class and I watched it last week in school as we were studying volcanoes. The movie had good special effects that looked realistic, and the volcano and ash cloud looked very good. It started off in the midst of an eruption of a volcano so it was tense and had you hooked from the start. I enjoyed the love story between the two main characters Harry(Pierce Brosnan) and Rachel(Linda Hamilton). I thought that it added a bit of life to it so it wasn't all a disaster movie. There were some moments that I found unrealistic such as the scene where the family are in the car during the eruption and they have to cross the lava flow, the temperature would have been at least 1000 degrees or possible more, the extreme heat would have done more than melt the tires, it would have lit the car on fire, and blown the fuel tank causing the car to explode! Also how did the dog survive through the eruption? It managed to find the family and was found perched on a rock surrounded by the lava flow. Being that close to it would have done damage to the dog and it being unharmed was slightly unrealistic. There was some sad moments in the film such as when the Grandma(Ruth) sacrificed herself to save the family. I thought it had a happy ending as well with Harry and Rachel becoming a couple and taking the kids to Florida to go fishing. I would definitely recommend this movie to people, it was also helpful if you are studying volcanoes. Overall a very enjoyable movie!!! ) "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak and my opinion of the film","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I liked Dante's Peak because it was in good detail and it showed me how they measure and record the activity happening in the Volcano. I am also a year 10 student and it has helped me understand clearly how you know if a volcano is going to erupt and what makes it erupt and the damage it causes. It was good and exciting when Pierce Brosnan took risks to get out of town alive. Although I think there were some unrealistic scenes like driving over the lava,when they were in the boat in the acidic lake and it started to melt away, I think it melted to quickly and the pyroclastic bomb at the start which hit the car I thought would have done more damaged .They could have made the movie better by adding some more drama with the volcano at the start of the film. This film should be watched by others as I recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Review of Dante's Peak.","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It was a very good movie. It was of use to me because I was learning about Plate Tectonics and Volcanology. The plot was good because of the tension and build up. I liked the special effects and how it was done. I liked the happy ending. I thought that it was a bit unrealistic because of when the car was driving over the lava the wheels would have burned and some of the car too. It was horrible when two people were found dead in the Hot Springs and when the Granny's legs were all blood from the acid in the lake. I would have liked to see if Harry done things with Rachael and the kids Lauren and Graham. However the movie didn't show anything after everything was OK. There was a little to much love story between Harry and Rachael. I would recommend this to other Year 10 students or people learning about Volcanoes as it is a useful movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Nothing special...","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie was a good movie, there was not much to it though. the story did focus a lot on the love of the two main characters and it should of been more focused on the volcanic activity and not interrupted the movie with an absurd love story during a volcanic eruption!!! to me it seams highly illogical. If you were consider viewing this particular film i would rent it and not buy it. The story of the film is based around a vulcanologist who goes to a small town and tests a volcano for activity and there appears there is activity and it could end up in a volcanic explosion... i will say no more as it is a massive spoiler if i do tell you anymore.this film was quite enjoyable and i would recommend it to a geology student and i would also say that it had good special effects in it for its time.7/10 volcanoes ) "},{"Title":"My Dantes Peak review for DHS","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The strengths of the movie The tension and Thrill in the plot was good. Had a lot of Cliffhangers. Good cast and some good acting. Educational to viewers who are learning about Volcanic Activity and Volcanos in general. Some of the effects in the movie are great for the time.The weaknesses of the movie To many characters to remember and not many have really much of a background story or really mentioned through out the movie. Only when they are seen on the screen. They also didn't explain fully the effects of volcanic eruptions. They just expected you to know everything. Also depending on the budget and the time the movie was made the CGI effects could have been better. Some parts of the movie were a bit rushed and skipped.Bloopers and My opinion It could have less characters . To many to remember for my liking. Be more educational instead of a love story.. Be more correct and realistic eg. The car tyres would have just melted by the heat of lava before even going on it.To others I would recommend it but not for educational purposes but the thrill of the plot and the volcano. This was Holly reviewing Dantes Peak. Bye. "}{"Title":"Good Movie but unrealistic at parts","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Good Movie with good effects for the time the movie was made. As soon as the movie starts you are already watching an erupting volcano as it destroys a village. Sadly Harry's(Pierce Brosnan) girlfriend gets killed by a pyroclastic bomb as it falls through the cars roof as they were getting away.The movies itself could be more realistic as when they drove the car through lava it would have melted and blown up as it was so hot. The movie also could have contained more humour as it was serious at most parts and it contained quite a bit of gore such as harry breaking his arm. They also survived when they really shouldn't have because they would have been blown up in the car and the pyroclastic flow would have killed them as it moved way too fast for them.I would recommend it to people wanting to see volcanoes but if you don't like gore it really isn't for you also there was a bit too much love story in the movie and most of the time there wasn't much volcano scenes. "},{"Title":"Great movie! Could be improved.","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I liked the movie because I enjoyed the effects and the build up to the eruption. The events leading up to the eruption were very dramatic as accidents happened that were disturbing. I also liked how there was a love story in the film to give it a twist. I didn't like the parts that involved really disturbing scenes that involved lots of blood etc. At times, I found it quite annoying how the love story interrupted some of the larger activities that were happening with the volcano and it's eruption. I was also uncomfortable during parts of the movie, this is because I felt I couldn't look at the screen due to some of the unrealistic events e.g. the boat melting and the dog making it through the eruption whilst the granny didn't. I think the movie could have been made better by making some scenes more realistic. I also think making the eruption more dramatic and not having such a happy ending would making it better. I think this because it is unrealistic for everyone except the granny to make it out alive. I recommend this film to those with a strong stomach for the special effects. Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed the film. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining movie-)","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My class and I watched this last week as we are in the middle of learning about volcanoes so I thought this movie was very entertaining and helpful with teaching me and out volcanoes-) some strengths that made the movie good were the technology and the graphics that they used good because it made them seem more realistic. I also thought the love story was good. Some weaknesses of the movie are when they are in he truck and he has to drive over the lava, it is quite unrealistic because the lave would have been 1000c so the tires wouldn't have just went on fire they would have completely melted.it also could have had a bit more humor in it as it was a bit too lovey dovey for me. I think at the end they should have ended it better by showing you the children and Harry and Rachel all going fishing like he promised them in the cave or even they could have ended it by showing you Harry and Rachel getting married which they probably will in the future. I would definitely recommend this movie to others especially anyone who is learning about volcanoes as it shows good images and describes the eruption of a volcano very well-) Good movie to watch!x "},{"Title":"Strengths, weakness and overall review","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was good in some areas. these areas were the special effects like when the volcano go's of. The movie was also very accurate in terms of the volcano's but it wasn't very accurate with realism for example when they drove through the lava near the end was very unrealistic because the lava would have been 1000+ degrees so the car would have melted and the fuel tank would have went up in flames and blew the car up. the story line it's self was good and very original and i have never seen a movie like it. The movie is very griping from the start there is action and it makes you want to keep watching.The things i didn't like about it was there wasn,t enough emotion in the movie i always felt like they were going to make it out alive. Another thing that i noticed was that at the start a pyroclstic bomb came down on Harry's girlfriend and the bomb would have drove the car straight into the ground taking harry with it.One thing i would have changed was one of the children getting killed to make it a bit more sad. so at the end about a year later they could have been putting flowers on the child's crave so it wasn't such a happy ending.I would recommend this to students aged 12~14 that is interested in Geography but overall i would say it is a good movie but not the most realistic. "},{"Title":"the special effects are good , the dialog and acting are not","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i remember seeing this movie in theaters and lately its been on ION. the special effects are good with nature in all her fury destroying a town and lava all over the place. Now for what kills it.The whole family in peril, the stupid kids who always put themselves in danger and also worry about a pet that runs off when a volcano is blowing up and lava is all over the place. Some of the worst acting and dialog with people acting stupid and doing stupid things. the old stupid woman who wont leave her house when ash is in the air and the volcano about to erupt. i don't know what this thing is with I've lived a full life crap and I'm not leaving and the clingy whiny grandkids. They never shut up and when in danger simply scream and make it worse. Why do they have kids do this. Do what your mom says and shut up. This movie could have been so much better if written better. 6/10 "},{"Title":"James Bond from GoldenEye and Sarah Connor from Terminator team up and to stop a gigantic volcano","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Okay,tell me, that just by reading that brief summary, that you INSTANTLY want to see that movie. I know I did. It all started when I saw The Poseidon Adventure. Then I saw the Towering Inferno. On that disc was a copy of Volcano. I watched it and thought it was fantastic. Tommy Lee Jones was cool and the special effects were pretty great. So, I bought this used for half off and it completely blew (ha ha ha) Volcano out of the water. Here's why. First off, Dante's Peak skillfully builds up tension and interest by slowly introducing the characters. Dante's Peak has been criticized for being too slow, although there is a volcanic eruption in the first scene.Basically, there's this geologist (Pierce Brosnan) who travels to fictional Dante's Peak, Washington to oversee the local dormant volcano. The mayor (Linda Hamilton) is happy since the town has recently been named one of the most desirable places to live in America. This hot spring is turned into acid because of the volano (No joke, that's possible) and the geologist saves the mayor's kid. The mayor is grateful, and the geologist slowly bonds with the family. However, when the geolosist realizes that the mountain is giving off sulfur dioxide and that it is a ticking bomb, ready to explode. The geologist and the mayor both order an evacuation, but not everyone's exactly too eager to leave, as there is no proof that the volano is ready to blow. But it does, and it creates lahars (mudslides), tephra (airborne rocks the size of semi trucks), pyroclastic flows (gigantic clouds of heavy, superheated, pressurized gases), and ash (little shards of glass). Can they escape Dante's Peak, before the volcano buries them all? Okay, there are a few pros about this film. One, the special effects are awesome. There isn't too much lava, so it looks completely realistic, the tephra looks like it is coming at me, and the pyroclastic flows actually look like they are leaping off the screen. The acting is superb, not over-done, not under-done. Pierce Brosnan gets the perfect amount of root, sympathy, and depth. Hamilton gets the same. The problem is the kids. They are so whiny, stupid, and idiotic that they make me laugh. But other than that, the acting is superb. The plot is something we've all seen before, the unexpected romance, but this film, unlike Twister or Speed, actually makes it work. They actually build up to it, they seem perfect together, and they are pretty realistic characters.Okay, sure it may not be everyone's cup of tea, but I loved it.Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"My criteria was met by this movie I was entertained! Spoiler Alert.","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert I guess my major criteria for any movie is ''was I entertained? and my answer when it comes to Dante's Peak is Yes.I do have some issues with some of the details of this film but not enough to spoil the fun in watching it and the actors did a great job with this film, including the two kids.Spoiler begins here I think my major problem happens near the end of the film when Harry has been trapped in the crushed truck for up to two days with a compound (bone sticking out of arm) fracture of his left forearm and the paramedic gets him out and he's standing up! First of all after two days with no water he'd be dehydrated and on top of that he'd have suffered considerable blood loss from the compound fracture and be in severe pain. He would also be in shock. One of the first things a paramedic would most likely have gotten started before trying to remove him from the truck would be an IV line with saline to replace some of the lost fluids and treat shock. He would probably also have a fever from infection from an open wound being exposed to the dirty environment of that mine further contributing to shock. He would not have been vertical for very long but been loaded onto a stretcher very quickly. But of course the drama of the scene where they are all reunited would have been lost if our hero was on a stretcher. Okay so I'm nit picking but it's a pretty big nit.All that being said, I do own the DVD of this film and have watched it several times because it does meet my criteria - I am entertained by this film and I happen to like Pierce Brosnan's and Linda Hamilton's performances as well as the performances of Jamie Renée Smith as Lauren and Jeremy Foley as Graham "},{"Title":"Goldeneye meets Thunderball.","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If VOLCANO was the fun fun fun volcano movie of 1997, DANTE'S PEAK was its serious big brother. That doesn't stop it being unintentionally funny.Geological mystery abounds on whether the mountain shadowing bucolic tourist town Dante's Peak will erupt or not. Yuh think? Yet Pierce Brosnan wastes his overqualified suaveté as geologist Harry Dalton, sniffing for sulphur and prospective explosions, whilst himself trying to sniff and explode in the man-pants of ugly town mayor Linda Hamilton. (Is it just me or did her muscles in TERMINATOR 2 alleviate the weird face?) Pre-empting VOLCANO by a mere two months, there is more science, more drama, more romance here than in Tommy Lee Jones's bombastic vehicle. And in place of the leathered shoe-face of Jones, more Pierce - yes please! Of COURSE the mountain explodes (did I ruin it for anyone?), and all boredom breaks loose. Running and Screaming with the usual tropes the grandmother who won't leave her mountain home, then ends up sacrificing herself for her grandkids (when she hops out of a boat into supposedly boiling water to help steer it to shore, yet looks like she's just stepped into a pool that's not heated quite right at the old folks home); Harry's geologist boss (Charles Hallahan) who disagrees with him, who is proved wrong and dies, his crew watching his van being swept away like they're watching a physics lecture; there's even a dog leaping to safety. I hate that. I hate that so much.And don't forget the spindly, delicate robot surveyor that can't even walk steadily on flat ground, sent down the 60-degree slope of the caldera, which it descends at a rate of We'll-Be-Here-Till-Christmas. Of COURSE it malfunctions halfway down, precipitating a decidedly reckless doughy geologist going ill-advisedly off-rope to fix the useless piece of crap. Of COURSE he breaks his leg during a tremor that rattles everyone's eruption nerves except their boss's, who promptly doesn't put the town on alert.His death in the van is pretty humorous, but Grandma wins the Funniest Death award here. "},{"Title":"Who's hotter? Dante's Peak or Pierce Brosnan?!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Probably this was the time when Pierce Brosnan was looking the hottest in his career. Dante's Peak is all about the smoldering hot volcano and the even more hotter former Mr. Bond )The special effects were really good and the constant terror holds our attention till the end of the movie.The talented Linda Hamilton was wasted here. Her character could have been given more active participation than just looking scared or running away from the lava.Although this movie is good, I felt more action(either from the volcano or Brosnan's end) could have spiced up things much, much more.Verdict Watch if simply for Pierce Brosnan. "},{"Title":"The greatest volcano movie ever","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was better than volcano. It had good acting. Good actors Linda Hamiltan, Peirce Bronsman They both played there parts very wellThe earthquakes sequences were realistictAnd good special effects. While it sometimes unrealistic such as well .Driving through lava in a truck. Outrunning a giant cloud . And a Kid driving a car.But it's a great film with a love story. This the greatest volcano movie ever made with a love story.Dante's Peak 10/10 "}{"Title":"sleeping mountain explodes","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" an exciting story, a disaster movie about powerful force of volcano. The film stars 007 Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton 'Terminator'. *may contain spoilers* The film seem well cast, the kids and the supporting cast and good script. It has a good humour element, Pierce Brosnan brings gentle charm. He plays volcano scientist who escapes narrowly from eruption in film's harrowing opening. There are many warnings from Dante mountain warning of eruption. The town is stunning and sunny weather but set next to volcano. A volcano that is coming back to life and in big way. Nobody except Harry Dalton(Brosnan) takes volcano warnings seriously. Then, rush against time. A gradual destruction unfolds with situation getting worse. There is some tragedy and survival at stake. Harry Dalton(Brosnan) uses knowhow to help Hamilton family survive. "},{"Title":"Excellent Disaster Flick","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie again about 6 months ago after having seen it at the movie theater when it first came out. Firstly, the effects are superb. Even with the development of cgi and other fx techniques in the last decade this movie holds up. If this was made this year I would still have been impressed. The plot was pretty standard but once the action started it didn't stop - really a roller coaster ride. Brosnan and Hamilton were fine in their roles though plot and character development took a backseat to the thrill ride. I was thoroughly entertained on a small screen and so was my wife (12 years after being thoroughly entertained at the movies). More please.... "},{"Title":"Hell hath no fury...","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If Dante's Peak demonstrates anything, it is that a very simple idea CAN be done well if it is done right. Everything you needed to know about this movie is in the trailers and that is briefly summed up in the following a volcano next to a small town erupts. Then in seeing the film you can see that the promise of destruction is fulfilled as the volcano does, in fact, erupt. All the usual clichés are here the lead scientist has had a loss in life, is driven by it to insist on the volcano erupting, people in his team doubt him, there is slowly mounting tension and ominous evidence, etc... but in the end he ends up being more than right as the volcano erupts and, oh boy, does it ever! The result is some of the most enjoyable scenes of sheer terror and destruction to ever rampage across a movie screen.The movie takes place in one town yet the production must have been massive as the 100 million dollar plus budget suggests. Since everything is pretty much destroyed via glorious classic practical effects; buildings, cars, helicopters, trucks, bridges... in fact the volcano unleashes such a hellish fury that it's name, Dante's Peak, is very appropriate and much more thoughtful than say, Volcano.The thing that usually kills a movie like this is the overdoing of effects and overdoing of plot. Depsite harrowing catastrophic destruction the effects are just enough for a movie like this, meaning when it's over no one will be disappointed or asking for seconds too quickly. Then the acting is too pretty much just right and straight to the point. Corny subplots are left out and the film, though ridiculously simple, is very focused on what it sets out to do. That is what makes it enjoyable. --- 8/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- terror/violence "},{"Title":"Almost Got Them Again","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan & Linda Hamilton make an appealing leading couple. Somehow this movie uncouples though. From the director of other bombs like Cocktail, this film is more in the disaster film genre than anything else.The trouble is, it is much too cliché in this genre. Having our top stars escaping from one narrow miss after another gets just too trite to believe. There are some major problems with continuity in some stretches in particular with a freeway which suddenly appears in the town area when the volcano erupts.There are some other points where the likelihood of occurrences seems really stretched. Dante's Peak proves that the disaster film genre has gotten too old & tired. This exercise is only for those fans of Brosnan & Hamilton. Others would be advised to stay away from this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best of an admittedly lame genre.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best of an admittedly lame genre, Dante's Peak manages to overcome the unfortunate requirements placed upon it by the movie-going public's expectations of a film in which the main point in watching is to see things distroyed.  This is accomplished by placing the disaster at the very end of the movie.  The majority of the film is used to develop the characters and advance the love story.  The poignancy of the love story is intensified against a background of impending doom and the hero's demon-haunted earlier tragic love affair.  There are also some interesting sidelights in that much of the structure of the action is taken directly from Dante's Inferno.  For example, the lake of fire and the main character's ultimate escape by plunging more deeply into the heart of the inferno are from the book.  A certain amount of thought went into this one. "},{"Title":"Great action-thriller Movie","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  BOOOOOOOOOOM! Explosions. Chaos. Blood. Good Movie. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat look at what a volcano can really do","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A small mountain town learns that their volcano means business.  When a geologist shows up to check on a volcano he believes there is cause for concern.  His warnings are thwarted by an over cautious boss, but his concerns turn out to be true.  The town and the central characters must battle all the terrors of a real volcano.  This film was well researched and is very realistic.  You will feel as if you really have experienced a volcanic erruption.  It will keep you on the edge of your seat until the very last moment. "},{"Title":"A fun and exciting romp that just doesn't seem comfortable on the silver screen.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  - 3/5 STARS -Dante's Peak is the sleepy little town of 7,000 people which becomes rocked by a volcano.  Pierce Brosnan plays the role of the vulcanologist who tries to sound the alarm, and Linda Hamilton is the single mom and mayor who takes notice of the good doctor's warnings.There's a magical cinematic quality whereby the whole of a good movie is greater than the sum of its parts. In the case of Dante's Peak, however, the whole is about equal the sum of its parts.  Despite very strong (and expensive) special effects, Dante's Peak feels more like a TV movie.The movie begins with every cliché in the book.  There's the lone scientist who predicts a disaster, and the boss who silences him to avoid a panic. There's a tourist town whose livelihood is threatened by just the talk of volcanic activity.  And there's even the children who disobey orders and head into danger to save a loved one, only to have to be rescued themselves.After the movie gets started, however, the cliches do take new '90s twists. The mayor of the town is actually the first to listen to the scientist, and she even calls a town meeting where she distributes an `emergency plan.' Our strong lead is a sensitive gent who lost his love to a volcano four years prior, and the mayor is a divorced mom with a mother-in-law who won't come down from the mountain.  Unfortunately, the original cliches don't hold up very well when resolved with a modern temperament-instead, they come off as bland and unexciting.The biggest weakness with this movie lies in the creation and development of the characters.  Pierce Brosnan is not a very convincing scientist, and his British accent does little to toughen up a role which needs rougher edges anyway.  If he's trying to be the strong, silent type, he comes off more bookish than anything else.  And when he loses his temper, he might as well be arguing a call at a tennis match.  Across the board, stock characters and a weak script really hurt, such as in the final scene where Brosnan calms the children by promising to take them on a fishing trip, of all things.The audience simply doesn't care about these people very much, so when the characters wind up in danger, there's little reaction to be had.  Where's the depth of these people?  For example, where is the mayor's inner conflict when she must decide whether to believe a lone vulcanoligist or protect the interests of a town she has been nurturing for nearly a decade?  The movie uses romance between our two leads to dodge these kinds of questions, and that sort of character development wouldn't be missed-as long as it was replaced by some other opportunities for depth.  It isn't.Special effects are first-rate in execution, and they are almost too good. They're a bit too clean and smack of CGI (Computer Graphics Imaging). Often times I found myself thinking, that's a CGI, that's not a CGI, etc.  The purpose of digital film enhancement is to fool the audience into not recognizing the enhancement at all, but Dante's Peak fails here.Dante's Peak romps around the countryside and offers colorful situations of all kinds.  And it wins bonus points because it really is fun to watch, particularly for the gee-whiz special effects.  But Dante's Peak could've been a lot more than what it is.  It's fun, but it doesn't feel `big.' The last half of the movie felt like a string of small action sequences glued together to create the impression of one big action sequence.  And in terms of character development, if the producers had simply stuck with the cliches that they started with, the movie might've been a lot better. "},{"Title":"much better than volcano","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This disaster movie had the ability to make me cry. something that the movie volcano could not do for me. The scene where they are traveling across the acid lake is one of most erie and suspenseful i have ever seen. the only real hole in the script is when the grandkids going back twoards the mountain to save the grandmother. other than that the effects are breath taking.The best disaster film involving a volcano ever made. "},{"Title":"If a loud special-effects display gets your heart pounding and your blood pulsing, then Dante's Peak may be just what you need.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Others beware. Yes, the effects (including earthquakes, floods, explosions, flaming lava flows and ashen downpours) look expensive and are generally impressive, except for some bogus miniature work, that is. The rest of Dante's Peak is the pits. Tired clichés dominate. The cookie-cutter characters are beyond dull, and the predictable plot devices are borrowed from Jaws and countless other, better disaster flicks. Dante's Peak is a picture postcard-pretty town in the Pacific Northwest that has just been voted by Money magazine the second-best place in America to live. Cash and business should come pouring in, and the citizens will be happy. Obviously, when the votes were counted, nobody mentioned the dormant volcano next door that's about to blow its top. So much for being #1 next year. Soon the locals are fleeing for their lives, and the town's big potential investor is heading south toward San Diego. This 1997 version has Pierce Brosnan (who wishes he were back in his James Bond tux, no doubt) and Linda Hamilton (who wishes she were in Terminator 3, no doubt). That's it for Dante's star sizzle. Who cares about watching anonymous actors being parboiled while skinny-dipping or having their legs eaten away by a lake turned to sulfuric acid? Wouldn't it have been more fun to watch Drew Barrymore and Matthew Perry dive into boiling water? I'm sure disaster vets like Borgnine, George Kennedy, Linda Blair, Roddy McDowall, Stella Stevens, etc. would have been thrilled to play Dante's Peakians.  At least Twister had a flying cow, and The Poseidon Adventure had Shelley Winters. "}{"Title":"A good popcorn movie","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK,,,I have 3 categories of movies. Films with poignancy, subtlety, and meaning--The Natural, Contact, Courage Under Fire.... Movies with Popcorn Value Aliens, Blue Thunder, Bad Boys,  and movies I would never watch again Reanimator, anything with Bo Derek, etcetera....Anyway, if you are looking for a good way to spend an hour and forty five minutes on a rainy day or on a Saturday night when you have nothing to do, this fits the bill. If you are one of these anal retentive people who need to find a hidden meaning or realism in EVERY MOVIE YOU WATCH...then rent The Accidental Tourist or something else along those lines...This flick was decent insofar as special effects go. It wasn't too realistic, (they have a city council meeting more than 24 hours after they discover that eruption is inevitable and imminent), but I don't need realism from every movie I see. In fact, I don't want realism from MOST movies I see. If I did, I'd have only seen The Patriot once. "},{"Title":"Gets better with age","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'll have to say that the first time I watched Dante's Peak I found a few too many dumb things such as when Rachel Wando, the mayor, was looking for her good jacket and her daughter said, You don't have a good jacket.  After Rachel replied it was the red one her daughter said Oh! Oh that one.  Well, having been on the stage a few times I recognized a stage line and not a movie line.  One is subtle and the other is too obvious.  I know it's a little thing but since I want the move I rent or buy to be really good, little things like that bug me a bit.  Then in the course of the movie we have to deal with an idiot Grandma who doesn't have a clue.  I guess that's why she lives alone away from everyone.  I found myself not caring about her when she died and didn't feel the connection between her and her adopted family. While we're on the subject, why is it that the dog that runs away is soo ugly that your glad it's gone?  Did you notice it ran towards the lava that was headed towards them?  No big deal because the ugly dog lives. So much for the bad, now the good. When I watched Dante's Peak again I didn't mind the goofs as much because I knew they were there.  I liked Brosnan and even started liking Linda Hamilton in her roll as the Mayor of Dante's Peak.  The hardest thing for me to do was to see her in a romantic role as the only other movie I have seen her in was Terminator where she was absolutely cold (which was correct for her part).  Anyway, it took a second time thru to make me see her in a different role.  She wasn't too bad.  I guess that's the sign of a good actor. The special effects were quite good and the plot/story line moved forward correctly (for the most part). All in all the movie was a 6 and for me that's not too bad.  My own rating system is based on how many times i could see it in a year without going crazy.  This would be a 3 out of 12 meaning I could watch it 3 times during the year without any brain damage resulting.  Not a lot of movies get over a three and only the best movies get a 5 or 6.  I don't watch a movie that often except for The Natural which I made it a policy to watch every month while doing Month End on the computer system.  That was a long time ago and it is an excellent movie.  Dantes Peak is good but not excellent.The Generic Critic "},{"Title":"Donaldson got in touch with our nerves!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak, to be said, doesn't rely very much on the story, it can't be said that the characters actually have depth, nor the sense of an actual psychological revolution. Dante's Peak, is one of those movies that comes every year just to entertain and intrigue the moviegoer, filled with the latest Special Effects technologies and sound, one or two big names on the cast and lots of action, and that's what this is. Also, Dante's Peak can be described as the 1997 version of the fantastic Twister. As I said before, the story is pretty much simple, a vulcanologist is sent to a little town called Dante's Peak, near to a currently sleeping volcano, one of the scientists, Harry Dalton, truly believes the volcano is going to erupt, and the city mayor Rachel Wando, is the one who from the beginning believes in his story, needles is to say that there's going to emerge a love story between them and her two kids also help matters much add in the boiling panel fantastic special effects, good sound, breathless and thrilling action sequences and thrilling music, and that's what you will have, a mindless action movie that delivers which can not be said as the same year's attempt on grandiosity, Volcano with Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche.   "},{"Title":"I don't understand all these fussy people","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen Dante's Peak *and* Volcano and I liked Dante's Peak more because it seemed more human than Volcano. That is, I never really liked or cared about the characters in Volcano. In fact, I can't even remember how the movie ended. I've never liked the Grandma in the acid lake scene in Dante's Peak, but there wouldn't have been much tragedy in the movie if someone close to the family didn't buy the farm. For all those people who wanted to see the dog die, I don't want you anywhere near my pets. ) To those people who can't watch Linda Hamilton without seeing Sarah Connor, try to get your hands on a copy of Go Towards the Light or even old tapes of the Beauty and the Beast series she starred in briefly (though be prepared for some sugar shock from that one). For anyone who thinks Volcano was better just because Tommy Lee Jones was in it and they think Linda Hamilton doesn't have enough real credits to her name, she co-starred in a movie with Tommy Lee Jones that was kinda lame. So even big stars do hack roles sometimes and everyone has to start somewhere. And keep in mind that before Gillian Anderson became known around the world for her work on The X-Files, she was an unknown with one credit under her belt, and that one she tried to keep a secret. Sure, Dante's Peak isn't some epic masterpiece of modern cinema, but who says it has to be? I get the feeling that people who expect that kind of film every time they sit down to watch a movie are just never satisfied and will find something to dislike about anything and just want an excuse to complain. Boys and girls, it's just a movie. It's usually pretty easy to tell when you're not going to like a movie. Nobody *made* you watch this one all the way through. "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak isn't great, but it's still worth your time. The acting is decent, the special effects pretty good, and the plot nothing new. However, all in all it is very entertaining and enjoyable. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome Special Effects","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   Dante's Peak is a disaster movie about a long dormant volcano showing signs of eruption thereby threatening to destroy the small town of Dante's Peak and all therein. Volcano expert Pierce Brosnan is sent to the town to evaluate the situation. There he meets single mom Linda Hamilton, who also happens to be the mayor of the town. As in all such movies, no one believes that the volcano will actually erupt BUT, you know what will eventually happen. The real star of this movie and what sets it apart from other similar films are its awesome special effects. Through the expert use of miniatures, computer animation et al, you really experience what it must be like to live through such a disaster. Buildings and freeways collapse, red hot lava flows everywhere, volcanic ash rains down upon the town and explosions abound. The actors merely serve as window dressing until the film's climax. Brosnan and Hamilton do the best they can with limited roles. Charles Hallahan as Brosnan's boss is excellent. Watch his expression of hopelessness and fear as he is swept away during the disaster. This film also has the requisite pair of kids (Jamie Renee Smith and Jeremy Foley) who cause their mother (Hamilton) additional worries when they try to rescue ex mother-in-law Elizabeth Hoffman when she refuses to come down from her isolated cabin to safety. Although the story is very predicable, Dante's Peak is worth a viewing if only to experience the aforementioned F/X.  "},{"Title":"Nice brainless entertainment","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a deep movie. The plot is predictable, the characters are a bit shallow. That said, it is fairly well acted, and the special effects are nice. Not being a volcanologist, I cannot comment on the scientific validity, but it seems fairly solid for a Hollywood flic. The film moves along at a nice clip, and if you don't pitch your expectations too high it is a very entertaining watch. Verdict If you can pick it up on a special deal, definitely a film to buy or rent, however it is not worth paying regular prices for. I'd give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Small Winner","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak is one of those action films that doesn't have a lot going for it, but at the same time, doesn't have a lot going against it.Pierce Brosnan plays a volcanologist who is sent to a picturesque mountain town at the base of a huge dormant volcano.  He teams up with equally picturesque female mayor (Linda Hamilton) as he examines the various warning signs, alerts the appropriate authorities, is consequently disregarded and then ultimately proved correct when the mountain blows her top.The script won't knock you over but the effects are very good and the leading characters, likeable enough.  The setting is enjoyable also.  And why Linda Hamilton is not a HUGE name like the likes of Julia Roberts, Demi Moore, Sandra Bullock etc., I will never know.  She's always likeable, is attractive and can act.  Perhaps she is typecast too much as the tough Sarah Connor-type heroine?   Pity.Overall, the film is an all-round, small winner.  For an hour or two of harmless action entertainment, it's worth a go.  "},{"Title":"A blast!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak is a very entertaining disaster film about a volcano erupting in a small town in the Pacific Northwest. Pierce Brosnan stars as a volcanologist who goes to the town to investigate the current rumblings going on around the mountain. He gets help from Linda Hamilton who plays the town mayor. The first half of Dante's Peak is only moderately entertaining with Brosnan trying to convince his dumb-as-nails boss that this mountain means business. But the real excitement comes at the halfway mark when the volcano explodes and the special effects take over. The visual effects are very impressive in Dante's Peak, which puts the terrible effects in Irwin Allen's awful 1980 flick When Time Ran Out to shame. Brosnan and Hamilton turn in very good performances here, as do the two kids who play Hamilton's children. There are a few weaknesses in Dante's Peak which keeps it from being a great movie. It's too bad not everyone turns in a good performance in this film. Charles Hallahan and Elizabeth Hoffman have the most laughable parts in the film as Brosnan's boss and Hamilton's ex-mother-in-law, respectably. They provide the dumbest dialogue in the film. And it would have been better if the eruption had happened a little earlier instead of the mid-point of the movie. A couple of scenes in the first half are a little boring. Nevertheless, there is enough good stuff in Dante's Peak (especially in the second half) that I ended up liking it in the end. It's one of the better disaster movies. *** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Volcano gets wild","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan plays Volcanologist Harry Dalton who comes to a small town called Dante's Peak to check out the angry volcano. There she meets the mayor Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton) and her kids Lauren (Jamie Renee Smith) and Graham (Jeremy Foley). After Harry and Rachel get romantically involved the volcano goes wild and everybody's in panic. Dante's Peak from 1997 is a nice disaster movie.It may not be a classic but it's amazing entertainment.The movie offers lots of  thrilling moments. Thank God the dog survived.  "}{"Title":"Better than Volcano","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Though Dante's Peak had its share of faults, we (husband and wife) found it enjoyable, particularly the special effects and the small-town character. Having slugged our way through Volcano, we were not thrilled to be sucked into another volcano movie, but we decided to give it an optimistic try. Without Tommy Lee Jones, Volcano would have been completely intolerable. We felt sorry for Jones for having been roped into such a stupid movie. What made Dante's Peak more engrossing for us was the it could happen here feeling and the fairly smooth flow of plotline.  Volcano made us angry because the characters' behaviors seemed beyond stupid, in light of the circumstances.  It was as if someone asked them what's the worst, stupidest thing you could possibly do in this situation, and then told them to do it.  Volcano seemed so deliberately contrived, and it went on and on forever with contrivance after contrivance.  On the other hand, Dante's Peak moved along in a fairly logical order, allowing for some realistic human errors, such as the grandmother refusing to move, the children attempting to rescue her, and the boss who didn't want to unnecessarily upset the town.  Granted, if the acid in a lake can eat through a metal boat, it's gonna make quick work of a grandmother--so the grandmother/boat scene was foolish.  Also, a small truck cannot drive across molten lava and it is unlikely that a pickup can navigate a river.  If the director wanted us to believe in the truck's water ability, we should have been given a better reason for its having been equipped for water travel.  However, I don't know how he could have worked the driving over lava scene to make it more credible.  Perhaps a jump over a lava-filled crevasse or something.In spite of these flaws, the special effects were still convincing enough to keep us engaged.  The only time we began to get fidgety was during the tunnel scene in which Brosnan, attempting to make it to the truck, kept being pelted by falling rocks.  Either the rocks should have fallen at a somewhat constant pace or they should have fallen quickly once or twice. Unfortunately, the rockfalls kept recurring after every few steps taken by Brosnan, and every few moments after he entered the truck.  This repetition got lame awfully quick. Also, as the truck roof was caving in, it's elasticity cheapened the effect.  It was easy to picture a special effects employee leaning on the rubber roof over Brosnan's head.In spite of those things, we felt that the film portrayed a more realistic idea of what would occur if a dormant volcano near a small town became active.  With a few exceptions, the special effects were extremely well-done.  The acting was convincing, as well.  Linda Hamilton's coffee shop mayor reminded me of one of our local state representatives, who runs a small, popular nearby restaurant and nightclub.  Hamilton's character was friendly, helpful, and very likeable, much like our local rep, who's cheery smile and good work keep us voting for her.  Brosnan didn't appear to overexert himself, but he comfortably portrayed his usual charming, intellectual character.  The kids did a great job, and the volcanology crew was convincing.Because I usually find disaster movies somewhat trite, I didn't go out of my way to see this one, but now that I've watched it, I consider it one of the better ones. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but poorer cousin of VOLCANO","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's a pity that DANTE'S PEAK was released with VOLCANO, as it really is a better movie. However VOLCANO had the bigger star, the bigger effects and the bigger budget. But I have to confess I enjoyed Brosnan's effort a lot more.The plot is as simple as it is spelled out. All the Hollywood trademarks are here, a damsel in distress, mouthy but ultimately cute kids, and a 'deep respect' for the forces of Mother Nature. There is sadly a complete lack of chemistry between the leads (Brosnan and Linda Hamilton), and one can't get the image of her tough-girl TERMINATOR role out of one's head. And why is she running a coffee-shop at the same time as running a town???The effects are disappointingly sparse, and the big scene (Brosnan+truck v Molten lava) is highly improbable to the point of spoiling. Nevertheless you cannot fail to be swept along by this cheery molten yarn. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is really a fantastic movie. It has everything. Pierce Brosnan and especially Linda Hamilton acts brilliantly and the sound effects are amazing. You have to watch the movie some times to understand that, though. When I got the DVD, I watched it two times in a day! The only bad thing it's the running time - the movie should have been at least half an hour longer. Ten out of ten! "},{"Title":"Better than Volcano, says me","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Once the action started the movie went non-stop. I was on the edge of my seat a number of times. Especially when Paul, I think it was Paul, got swept away with the bridge and also when they were in the boat that started to dissolve right out from under them. Pierce Brosnan was very good, I liked the guy who played Paul, I think it was Paul, and the children were good too. But I really liked Linda Hamilton in this. It's hard to watch a movie with her without thinking Terminator, but I had no problem separating her from that role to this onei give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"A powerful and agile film!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A group of scientists, lead by a geologist, arrive in a small and beautiful city of the United States with the mission to check the activity of the inhospitable volcano of the area, a high, tourist point called Dante's Peak. Fearing the risk and the danger of a possible and unexpected eruption that may cause a gigantic scales' accident, the geologist tries to alert the place's inhabitants , what makes him begin a confrontation with the powerful business men of the town . When the disaster gets summed up, he tries to escape of the place and to save the people, at the same time he falls in love with the town's mayoress. An agile and pleasant film, valued by Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton's nice and talented interpretations as the courageous geologist and the lacking mayoress.The visual effects made by the Digital Domain industry (the same of Apollo 13)  impress and help to tell that impressive and loaded with adventure and fear story . Even having several clichés (as the dog lost in the middle of the tragedy and the children in danger), Dante's Peak is a powerful film, and its impact is original and unforgettable! "},{"Title":"Exciting how Mother Nature does damage!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most dramatic and exciting movies I have ever seen. This movie got so many near-death-scenes, it´s really a stunner. The volcano slowly but surely erupts in that flick, but the highlight is the lava-flood as Brosnan and Company try to escape with their car. Amazing movie, got to see it! "},{"Title":"The Best Volcano Movie!!!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this movie is the best one of volcanos yet!  I Love this movie!!!  The works of Digital Domain were phenomenal almost believe that there was a volcano in your living room!!! It is so exciting!!!  Pierce Brosnan was teriffic!!!!The Award for Best Movie Dante's Peak! "},{"Title":"Formula for disaster","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OKay, it's a typical Mother Nature Gets Mad flick, but it's cheap entertainment; plus, you get to see an energetic volcano like you've never seen before  (that's a safe assumption for most Americans in the continental US.) So, since we've decided it's a formula action movie (or because you're taking my word for it) let's nail down a few rules.  First, any character who ever voices any sort of dissent against our protagonist(s) will be obliterated, but not until they've apologized and undergone a Redemption of some sort. Secondly, we won't give a darn about the characters, except those we're so sick of we're hoping to witness their untimely death.  Linda Hamilton and Pierce Bronson, both superb performers, are clammed in underdeveloped roles. But of course we knew that, since this is Formula Action Movie. We also know there will be a Happy Ending, which is preceeded by much blowing up of sets and multiple explosions, floods, ooooos, ahhhhs and ouch that had to hurt's.  You will not worry for a moment about the beloved stars because not only are they assured many happy returns, you never cared about them in the first place.So there, that's Dante's Peak.  But you don't really watch this for spiritual enlightenment.  It's entertainment!  And truly it is.  The volcano shots are breathtaking, and I couldn't help but wonder how the denizens of Dante's Peak could live so serenely next to a dormant monster!Just one more little thing that irked me  When that glorious cast saved the family dog (a Kodak moment accented by a swell in the overdramatic, saccharine music) I was ready to screamThat's all. "},{"Title":"Good disaster movie","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Following the box-office smash of Twister the year before is the first of the year's two volcano movies. Great special effects supplement a good cast, though the movie falls into formula elements once in a while. However, I have no objection to dogs surviving; in fact, I like dogs, and any movie in which a dog dies immediately receives a mark against its quality. Anyway, Pierce Brosnan does a good job as a volcanologist tasked with checking activity in a small mountain town. The mayor (Linda Hamilton) also performs well as the mayor of said town whose kids get stranded on the mountain in the path of lava and ash. Brosnan's group of fellow scientists includes a hyperactive coffee-drinker (hmmm...) and a NASA tech-tester, all of whom have to predict if a volcano is going to erupt or not. Of course, we know something they do not, otherwise we would not have a very good movie. One of the few problems is that it leeches somewhat off of Twister's success the previous year. Excellent opening sequence to the movie, enough humor, generally good performances from the cast and great special effects add up to a good disaster movie.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Tense Stuff!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This type of flick always gets varied reviews.  Personally, I can't quite follow why so many people slated it with so much venom.  In my opinion, Dante's Peak scores for effects, has excellent sound and builds up an intimacy with the main characters, unlike many other disasters movies.  Some of the scenes are just TENSE!  I would give this 8 out of 10.  Not a masterpiece but I'd certainly watch it again. "}{"Title":"Beats volcano","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Most would agree that Dante's Peak is better than Volcano, and I'm no different. It wasn't a great movie - it's not something I would watch over and over, but compared to Volcano, it's a Godsend. There was no climatic ending whatsoever in Volcano, no giant explosion at the end, no utter destruction- with Dante's Peak, there was a big explosion at the end. I probably would have liked Volcano better if there had actually been a cool ending, but Dante's Peak excels in graphics and ending, even if the coincidences stack up a little too many (two little kids drive a truck up an erupting mountain with ash falling down, the dog magically appears and is saved, etc.) "},{"Title":"All that glitters ...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As with many recent high budget-action flicks, this film suffers from a deplorable excess of drama.  The true level of sappiness, however, is directly proportional to the maximum significance of the fate of an animal in the film.  Look at all the over-hyped phony action films, Independence Day, Daylight, etc... and you will see the trend.If you can never get enough of Funniest Bats in the Crotch or When Police Attack, this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"A+ for escapism C- for writing.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It you are looking for a movie that you don't want to think too hard about, this is the movie. It has lots of scenes and stunts that make this movie an action thriller. If you are looking for a movie that has good writing, continuity, commonsense, etc., you'd better look elsewhere.Harry Dalton, who is proclaimed to be a renowned scientist and foremost authority on volcanoes, comes off looking more like a spoiled brat, than an expert.  He attempts to try calling a townwide alert for a pending disaster that none of his colleagues agree with.  They ask him to give them some scientific proof to justify his claim of pending doom.  Instead, he pouts about it.Harry is assisting with the deployment of a mechanical device to measure seismic readings and the device gets stuck on the side of the mountain. The device cost more than 450,000. Why didn't the helicopter set the device down on the valley of the dormit crater.  Harry insists on alerting the town and not one of his collegues again agrees that disaster is about to occur. Harry starts to pout again and its off to a roll in the hay with the mayor, Rachel.When disaster finally does strike, Harry appears to lose any ability of commonsense, needed for even the simplest of disasters.  He starts off the movie, driving like it was a demolishion derby, then later in the movie, attempts to push a car off the bridge. Later, he trys to cross a stream that is at least three to four feet deep. He scoffs at other cars trying to do the same thing as really stupid. He gets stuck (dah)and only by the grace of the producers did he get away safely. Then, he drives away without any problem whatsoever.  The law of physics says that a motor immersed in water will not run. Harry proceeds to drive over debris with superhuman results. When it seems that they were trapped, they stumble over an alluminium boat for their getaway.  They notice all the dead fish and the boat being eaten by acid. As the water eats the propeller off the boat, Harry wraps his arm with his jacket and starts rowing the boat. When Ruth fears for everyone's safety, she jumps in the water and pulls the boat to safety. They show where the acid ate her legs off, but where the water had gotten on Harry, he appeared fine. Harry finds a truck and drives the crew off to safety. When he tries to drive over hot molten lava as wide as a river, I stopped and wondered if he was sane at all.  With a gas tank made out of alluminium, how did he, a scientist, expect to drive a truck, loaded with Rachel and her two kids over fifty to 100 feet of molten rock and not melt or explode as the gastank melted. Toward the end he finally gets smart and gets the NASA device. Why he didn't try to find another vehicle without melted tires is beyond me but, I guess thats Hollywood. Well, he puts that device in the truck and rams the truck into a cave.  The problem is he forgets to turn it on. Dah!  Harry - wake up!Two days later, Harry's crew sees the NASA light blinking and immediately realizes that Harry is ok. Why didn't it cross their minds that someone could have come back in town and simply turned it on.Maybe Harry was really the owner's son and constantly got into scrapes like this because he was overtly stupid and it was their jobs to lookout for Harry.In either case, watch it for fun, but don't analyze it for quality in script or content. "},{"Title":"sit back and enjoy the ride","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is made to make money. This means it is cooked according to a familiar recipe and that you know where it is going. But the same can be said of a roller-coaster. And sometimes I love a roller-coaster. But a home cinema environment is recommended.I just didn't quite like the Roughy part. Don't know why. "},{"Title":"Not great","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was OK, but not as good as 'Volcano'.  The special effects are good, but it seems that the lava did very little.  I think that lava should be a major part of any film about volcanoes (like 'Volcano', when lava is pretty much all there is. At least Dante's Peak has a variety, I guess.) The lava was largely overshadowed by acidic rivers, earthquakes, floods, and so on.  I think that the beginning section could have been much better and that Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton are wasted in this film.  I had high expectations but I was a bit disappointed. "},{"Title":"Why we all lav-a good volcano flic (or Toast of the town)","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There's no surprise when Hollywood releases a string of genre-similar films that vie for audiences' collective attention and dollar, but it is uncommon for two films in the same year to not only share the same genre but also the same exact threat/conflict.This is the case of 1997's Volcano and Dantes' Peak.  Tragically (no pun intended), due to DP's earlier release, it failed to garnish either critical attention or popular attendance.  Like so many non-summer blockbusters, however, it also proved to be the better film.The first thing you think when attending a film about a volcano lava. Given this, it was figuratively a breath of fresh air to watch DP throw an entire aresenal of obstacles, one of which was lava, in the path of the protagonists and other characters in order to prevent the accomplishment of their goal to flee the town.  Unlike Volacno, they were not trying to stop a disater over which they have no control, nor were they trying to save their town.  And believe me, the fictional town of Dante's Peak is much more worthy of salvation than the actual city of L.A.DP provided its audiences with better performances, characters with whom you could actually associate, deaths that moved you, better special effects and musical score, and a much more believable, on-topic plot.  Concerning the latter, Volcano tried to interweave a self-reflective commentary on L.A. itself, which confused the purpose and altered not only the course of the lava (symbolic?), but also the course of the plot and the theme.If you want to watch a film about L.A. (really, how many of us can relate?), then Volcano is the film for you, but if you are looking for a good disaster film, then my money is on Dante's Peak. "},{"Title":"This movie will make you hang off your seat with fear!!!","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Film Genre Action/Adventure (1997)(A Volcanic Disaster Movie)Starring Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton Writer Leslie Bohem Director Roger DonaldsonStory SummaryDr.Harry Dalton, a vulcanologist is sent by his boss to investigate volcanic activity in the small town of Dante's Peak, Washington, which is situated beside a volcano. After some preliminary research, Harry tells the town's major, Rachel Nando that the town should begin evacuation plans as he predicts imminent catastrophe. His boss, however and the local councillors are too cautious and do not want to scare investors away from the community so they call off the evacuation, insisting there is no need to panic - Disaster then strikes - the volcano erupts.My OpinionThe movie 'Dante's Peak' dramatises some real world concerns faced by communities which are located near active volcanoes.I thoroughly enjoyed Dante's Peak and believe that it is a great movie. The tension in the movie builds up very slowly with the two main characters, Harry and Rachel who develop a deep connection for each other and desperately fight for their own survival and the survival of others in the town.I thought it was an amazing action-packed thriller, which was full of excellent special effects. The plot is short and simple but there are so many special effects and drama that make it both very entertaining and a frightening suspense. The dramatic tension gradually increases as the volcano shows more signs of activity and eventually erupts and devastates the town.Overall, the movie is very realistic in that scientists, in many cases can anticipate volcanic eruptions. Harry Dalton was a acting USGS scientist (U.S. Geological Survey) scientist who do study and correctly predict in advance eruptions in real life.In many respects the movie's depiction of the enormous power unleashed during the eruption, the production of prognostic flows, clouds of volcanic ash and debris were very close to real life. However, lava flows tend to be thick and slow moving unlike the movie version!Volcanic ash clouds threatening the helicopters in the movie again is common in real life and the temperature change of the hot springs again is true to life, however it tends to build up more gradually. In the movie the town's water supply became contaminated when the volcano became restless and carbon dioxide killed the trees and wildlife &#x96; again this can happen in real &#x96; life but just more slowly!There is total chaos and everyone tries to escape at the same time and the excitement begins.The fight for survival is very gripping and the devastation is powerful.I felt extremely sad and very close to tears as the grandmother, Rachel's ex mother in law took the decision to die in the hot acid to save her grandchildren by pulling in the boat. I thought that this was horrific for the children to witness and I would not like to have been in such a position myself.The film has a geographically accurate basis, with a few exaggerations to achieve success. The opening scenes deal with real volcanoes and real science so it is very true to life. The images and sound quality are all excellent. I would thoroughly recommend this film to both teenagers and adults who are interested in romance, action and thrilling adventure.Stuart McCune "},{"Title":"Blew me away but not 100% right","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie in my geography class in school and it was very interesting and it was to help us on our topic of earthquakes and volcanoes.The movie has a lot of characters like the mayor the children and harry also the research team.Harry was from the land survey and was worried that the volcano was going to erupt so they set up a seismometer to see if the volcano is going to erupt.They also flew in a helicopter to see if there was any sulphur gas which was one of the signs the volcano was going to erupt.when it erupted it released a pyroclastic cloud with pyroclastic bombs fling around in side it some parts of this movie are realistic and some are not real at all.I am not going to spoil any more just go and watch this movie for the rest of the detail.directorRoger Donaldson "},{"Title":"pyroclastic mayhem","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed Dantes peak, the build up and eruption of the volcano were realistic, it showed me all the different signs that a volcano is a bout to erupt, e.g the trees dying on up the volcano, squirrels dying and the the large amount of sulphur. The equipment they were using was realistic as well e.g spiderlegs-robot, Gas detector hung underneath the helicopter and the computer simulation of the prediction that the whole top of the volcano would blow. I enjoyed watching the eruption taking place with all the ash clouds at the start and the pyroclastic bombs. A side effect during the eruption was the large amount of snow and ice melting which mixed with ash to form mudslides, and destroyed the only bridge out of the town. This left Harry (The vulcanologist first at the scene) and the mayors family stranded in the small town... NO MORE SPOLILERS!!!! On the whole i thought it was factual and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"14 Year olds read this!","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantê's Peak reviewI thought Dantê's peak was a good, interesting movie with a mostly realistic and enjoyable plot. Most of the plot was realistic as they got the science of the prediction of when a volcanic eruption is going to happen. All the equipment used to try predict the volcano is actually used, like the spider legs, size mo-meter to detect mini earthquakes and a gas detector to detect excess sulphur in the air.The part of Dantê's Peak I thought was unrealistic was the tyres not melting while driving over the Lava and the Grand Mother jumping into the acidic lake and her legs instantly burning off. The eruption was also realistic as it showed the ash cloud,pyroclastic bombs, the seismometer detected mini earthquakes and there was a mud-slide before the eruption.I thought the relationship between Harry and Rachel was believable. "}{"Title":"Excellent and Scienctific! )","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantê's Peak was a very entertaining and factual film. It uses science and Vulcanology to enhance the movie. It uses actual Equipment like seismometers to detect changes in the earths crust. It also used a robot to go were it is too dangerous for a person to go. They also mention pyroclastic bombs and pyroclastic clouds emerging from the volcano. They also used a distress beacon to help locate them when they were stuck in the mine. they also tested the acidity of the lake which was very high, so high in fact that one of the characters dies in the lake. Overall I think the movie was very well made, with its' characters and script it makes a very enjoyable and intellectual movie to watch. Well done Roger Donaldson. "},{"Title":"Better than a gorilla eating an orange","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantes Peak is a very interesting and entertaining movie. It is quite scientifically correct in some places but in others not so much. It was scientifically correct when the volcano erupted and the large ash cloud flew up into the air and pyroclastic bombs flew out too. The temperature of the volcano causing the ice to melt and a mudslide going down the volcano brought more problems for the group of four as well. The seismometer and the robot used to detect changes in the volcano and SO2. The lake becoming so acidic that it could melt the boat was used for the Hollywood effect but was very entertaining to watch and so was the car having to drive across the lava. The characters played all their roles very well and the relationship between Harry and the mayor was very convincing and in all a very good movie. "},{"Title":"good movie )","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie in my opinion was very good. The movie had a really good start. It starts off years ago with harry and his girlfriend Marianne but she got killed by pyroclastic bomb falling on her head. This shows the audience how dangerous eruptions are.It then brings the movie forward where unusual activity in the town of Dante's peak and harry is sent to investigate it because he is a volcano expert and that is why he was at the eruption years ago. When he gets to Dante's peak he meets the mayor Rachel and her two children they take a tour around the small town the children decide to let harry see the towns small peak that gives harry his evidence they find two dead bodies from a couple that has jumped into the spring and has been burned alive by the acids in the lava (mantle).harry tries to get his boss to reconsider about putting the town on alarm but he said the town would be at risk for tourist population decrease if the dormant volcano didn't erupt.The team of experts find information that could change this town forever and it does when the volcano erupts Harry, Rachel love grows stronger and the children and them go through many experiences such as crossing a lava river or nearly sinking in a river full of acid most of these movie features look realistic but the acid river didn't seem realistic as the boat wouldn't corrode as quickly as it did. Volcano features where all realistic from the ash cloud to the mud flow and overall I would recommend the movie to a friend or someone that is in my age group (14-15) as it was really educational but was really interesting in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Overall i thought that Dantes Peak was a good movie. I found it interesting, exciting, the movie was realistic in most parts but the lava was unrealistic.The genre of this movie was romance, it was a really good believable story. The volcano robot (spiderlegs)was really good, it was made by NASA in the USA, this is part was very good.The ash clouds were amazingly created and were realistic. The mud flow (snow-ice-ash) were very good. The volcanic bombs (pyroclastic bomb) were well create, the earthquake was good. The seismometer to detect earthquakes was good. They could have made the part when the grandma jumped into the acid lake a bit more realistic. The acid lake was OK, but would the lake actually be that strong it would erode the boat away so quickly? In my opinion i would recommend this movie to friends etc. "},{"Title":"VERY underrated film.  8/10  SPOILERS","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" BRILLIANT film with good acting. unpredictable at times and very entertaining. like some previous reviews, the effects are really good.now onto my next point.... why the hell did someone give this 5.7/10? they must be on drugs.anyways, onto the main review. Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton make a good cast. Pierce Brosnan play an environmental expert who senses of-the-scale readings of a volcano that has been inactive for years. the volcano scales over a town called Dante's Peak.Pierce tries to warn the mayor of Dante's Peak, played by Linda Hamilton. While the mayor plans the evacuation of the town, the readings get worrying and as the volcano erupts unexpectedly. "},{"Title":"A thrill-ride","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was fortunate enough for this to air on TV. This has been on my mental to-check-out list for a couple of years, and I wasn't disappointed. It is very exciting and the tension is thick, the sense of imminent danger very convincing. You may already know the basic plot. A small town lies by a dormant volcano. James Bond is sent in to investigate if there is a risk. This builds up the eruption and subsequent utter chaos remarkably well, gradually, setting it up. It makes the events all the more effective. The FX are marvelous and hold up well; I understand that they were largely practical, and it really helps. This is fairly realistic, and it isn't as insulting as your average Roland Emmerich picture, although there are clichés in this. The dialog is good. This is genuinely funny and charming, if it does try too hard a couple of times. The acting is largely solid, even the kids aren't too bad. Brosnan and Hamilton are great in the lead roles. The characters are reasonably developed, if they don't really break the mold much. There is a ton of disturbing content in this. I recommend this to any fan of disaster flicks. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The best disaster movie of the 90's. F/X are not everything.","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Of the wave of disaster movies of the 90's, this is by far my favorite. It has an emotive plot, likable characters, spectacular f/x, and a solid plot based on realistic situations.Linda Hamilton is extremely sensual and charming this time, and that helps the audience to feel identified with the main situation. Plus, Pierce Brosnan delivers an emotional performance that will make you forget him as James Bond.The writers and producer throw some low punches at the audience like, for example, in the grandma's death. A scene that happens in the middle of the disaster and that will try to make you feel bad.But after the satisfactory ending, you will feel powerful, good, and happy for the survivors.I really enjoyed this movie and the fact that there's an active volcano in my city, it's even more interesting. Thumbs up only if you like pop-corn cinema or if you're in the mood for mindless entertainment carried on by spectacular f/x. "},{"Title":"all action without credibility - same old disaster-movie plot","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like Pierce Brosnan as an actor but this is just a film for the natural fury, without any redeeming features but for its superficial roller-coaster ride with fate! I would suggest even 007 & these companions in this one, would have surely been immersed into the wreckage several times in reality! I note comments on this site from scientific experts supporting the accuracy of its information about volcanoes. All well & good, but note no comment from them on the chances of a vehicles on fire with its tyres burning & still driving on regardless, occupants safely inside, insightful dog waiting to be rescued at high speed & just happening to be in the path of their escape, let alone a sinking motor boat with motor seized up in boiling waters, but just enough momentum to make the shore, where the heat is somehow not overwhelming. But there's so much more in close escapes, not to mention the trusty government subordinate being right, while his boss belittles his contributions in public, earlier on. True enough. There's a lot of blind bosses out there, but you could see it all coming, so predictably, in this lame offering! But yes, it will appeal to lovers of disaster movie dramas. It's just that this was made close to 30 years after The Poseidon Adventure & little imagination of progress is anywhere evident.I enjoyed watching it, once but that's all. If you want action with incredulous escapes, go & watch any of the OO7 movies with Brosnan or others, or maybe the Indiana Jones adventures, or the likes of The Eye of the Needle & Three Days of The Condor & you'll be far better served than here! I also saw a movie I'd never heard of till today, named The Blue Butterfly, & it was far better than this ordinary re-production of other disaster movies. "},{"Title":"Inaccurate and poorly written","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The writer and producers of this movie based it on the situation in Mammoth Lakes, where I have lived for 19 years. How do I know this? There were many subtle and not so subtle references to the eastern Sierra region of California, such as the police chief or sheriff sending his wife to Big Pine or Lone Pine to visit her sister. Take a look at a map of California and you will see these towns south of Mammoth Lakes. In the 1990's, due to a large area of CO2 venting, mainly near the south side of Mammoth Mountain and a rise in the resurgent dome of the Long Valley Caldera, in which the town of Mammoth Lakes is located in, the media sensationalized the possibility of new volcanic activity in the area. They purposely misrepresented information and stated positions that have no basis in science. This movie is just one more effort to sensationalize the situation around Mammoth Lakes.Plenty of commenters above me have listed many of the stretches of reality shown in this film. I did not see where anyone commented on the scenes where the couple skiing on a closed run got swallowed up by a lava vent that opened up at the surface and then closed up. Come on, they showed deep snow on the rim of this vent as though the surface of the ground would not be heated up by this flow of lava towards the surface. This type of event would have melted snow for hundreds, if not thousands of feet around the vent, perhaps even miles. Then is magically closed up and shortly after nobody could find where this had happened after. A lava flow that close to the surface would have caused a phreatic explosion long before it got that close to the surface. A phreatic explosion is caused by lava flowing toward the surface coming in contact with ground water, which then is heated into steam very quickly, causing an explosion that forms a crater at the surface.The way that the USGS is depicted is very inaccurate, in spite of what some commenters said beginning on the first page. They did not represent the science of volcanology accurately either, although some of it, probably by accident, was somewhat on the fringes of the target. I haven't watched the movie since I saw it in the theater and have turned it off when it is on TV so I can't recall more specifically all the inaccuracies of this movie. A few weeks after the movie was shown in theaters one USGS employee made a fake snorkel out of cardboard and painted it silver and attached it to one of their SUV type vehicles. They drove it around the town of Mammoth Lakes and got a lot of double takes from folks.I take this position as the seismic, volcanic, and geological issues of the eastern Sierra are very familiar to me. I worked with the U.S. Geological Survey frequently as an employee of the U.S. Forest Service as most of the land in the Mammoth Lakes area is on the Inyo National Forest. I assisted them in locating and issuing authorizations for locating instrumentation used to study these issues. I was very much involved, first hand, with their research of the CO2 emissions that began in 1990 around Mammoth Mountain and near its south slope at Horseshoe Lake. I worked very closely with the USGS for 9 years. Many other researchers from universities and prominent laboratories conducted research in the Mammoth Lakes area as well. It was real privilege to watch real scientists at work.I knew this movie was going to be bad when a scene shown near the beginning of the movie involved a cabin that contained dangerous gasses. The producers really did poorly on this portion of the story. I can say that with more authority than anyone else as the incident involving a cabin, dangerous gasses, and someone nearly asphyxiated actually happened to me. No other incidents of this type have been reported around the U.S. before or since then.I gave this movie a 2 as it wasn't completely awful, but very close. It gets the second point only because it is a bad example of how poorly Hollywood is at telling a scientific story and that brought me a few laughs. Only an Irwin Allen disaster movie and the made for TV movie Volcano can get a 1. "},{"Title":"Pure escapism","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The point about this film is that to make it work as a disaster movie it was necessary to take a lot of artistic license.Like the car driving through the ruins-even a tank could have run into problems! But its what you want to see happen rather than some boring bedroom scenes which thankfully never happened. It built up slowly until the moment the water turned brown then it became riveting. Special effects are special effects whatever year they were done and looked very realistic. It was well acted without any foul language and as a video its a keeper. I take more to charity shops. When this movie is compared to real footage of volcanos erupting it comes out quite well "}{"Title":"Excellent Disaster Movie For All","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is the perfect popcorn with a few beers movie. Yes of course I would rather watch Die-hard but Dantes Peak was filmed in a perfect place, Wallace Idaho. Linda Hamilton was yummy as usual.The special effects were very good. Those who know of Wallace Idaho also know there is no big mountain there but the rest of the town in the movie is exactly like it.Nobody gives the 90's movies any credit but compared to some of the ultra fake explosions you now see they are very good. blah blah blah. I do not know why I must keep typing but there must be 10 lines for this to go through. If you really like porn movies then download limewire dot com then you can get all you want. Also say goodbye to warts forever with apple cider vinegar. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Could Have Been Better (spoilers)","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie for the first time last night and after the first half thought that it might just break the traditional Hollywood disaster movie mould. Sadly I was wrong. The Latter half of the movie was vastly predictable and contained some very 'hollywood moments'.The lead cast, Pierce brosnan and Linda Hamilton made a good job of the parts they were given, but ultimately could not save the dire script and predictable ending.The movie was quite scientifically accurate, which for a disaster movie is pretty much unheard of. However it suffered from taking the laws of physics/reality into its hands on a number of occasions and bending them at will, for example (***spoilers***) when pierce drives the car over the solidifing lava flow, 1)the multiple fires in/on the car miraculously go out and 2) the car is still drivable and not only that is able to out run a pyrocrastic flow on just its tyre rims! The laws of physics also seemed to bend a bit when Piece's hand and shirt covering it somehow came out of the sulphuric acid lake intact when the lake was burning through the metal boat, obviously jacket fabric is a lot stronger than metal.I also found it highly cheesy that 1) there was a dog 2) that it managed to escape the lava flow spewing down the mountain and 3) miraculously found itself on the ledge that the burning car was passing at exactly the same moment. Aside from a few other cheesy and unbelievable moments and the inevitable outcome the film was a good time passer.(***end spoilers***)It began with much promise and for a second I actually thought I might have a tough time predicting the events, but Hollywood got in the way with much cheesiness and unreality.Over all not bad but with a bit of plot tweaking (ie getting rid of the dog, the kids, the grandmother and countless predictable deaths) it could have been much better.6/10  "},{"Title":"An underrated, intelligent film.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It would be easy to overlook Dante's Peak as just another disaster movie released in the late 1990s. Hollywood rushed out a cluster of disaster films in this era designed to shock and astound audiences with massive CG inspired effects, which were vast becoming mainstream and affordable in their application of major studio films.  Each film attempted a larger, grander, direr situation for audiences to experience.  We were stuck in the middle of a tornado, (Twister) trapped underground a city, (Daylight) saw massive tsunamis wreak havoc, (Deep Impact) nearly wiped out by an asteroid (Armageddon) and found out what damage a volcanic eruption would do to LA. (Volcano)The unremarkable peers of Dante's Peak merely demonstrate why this film should not be underestimated or overlooked.  This film stands out in the pack as an intelligent, carefully paced disaster movie.The plot plays simply but effectively.  Harry Dalton (Brosnan), a US Geologist, has come to the picturesque town of Dante's Peak with a team of experts to monitor activity of its menacing volcano, which for about 3,000 years has remained silently dormant.   We know this 'sleepy' town is about to get a rude awakening.  Unfortunately for Dalton, his colleagues and most of the town think his theory of an eminent big bang is rubbish and his only believer is the town's Mayor, Rachel Wando. (Hamilton) The volcano subsequently erupts and these characters are 'in the thick of it' as they say.The surprising part of the story is the measured pace it gives the characters.  We get a long build up to the eruption, and the characters aren't rushed in their romantic moments or exposition.  We know that these characters have real lives, Dalton does field experiments on the mountain, and Wando works at her coffee shop.  The build up to the action accentuates its dramatic qualities, just as the characters aren't rushed, the audience isn't artificially forced into danger the minute the cinema lights go down.Perhaps the most intelligent aspect of the production is the casting.  The choice of Hamilton as Mayor Wando is inspired.  It is rare to see a female actor, chosen to play a romantic role opposite an attractive leading man such as Brosnan, who is over 30 and doesn't look like a variation of Barbie. Hamilton is an actor of courage and subtlety.  She knows strong characters, women who rely on themselves and their resolve to make it through. However, her intelligence is stimulating, and in Dante's Peak she gives Mayor Wando a sexy, sassy grounding in her realness and integrity.  She perfectly mirrors Brosnan, who is believable as the astute volcano expert.  It's easy to see Brosnan in any role that requires him to be heroic and say `well, that's just Bond.'  But that attitude is nonsensical.  The fact is, Brosnan has an engaging appeal to audiences, we want him to win, and we root for him and really believe this man could save the world.  No matter, not even a pair of glasses and straps hanging around his neck can make this man look ordinary. His face accounts for his knowledge.  A funny moment sees him pick up a rock and stare at it, Wando then remarks, `A man who looks at a rock must have a lot on his mind.'There is an adage about sexual tension that X Files creator Chris Carter used to say, in reference to the unresolved sexual heat between his characters, Mulder and Scully. It is the notion that if you get two intelligent people in a room together, sparks will fly. It is proved correct in Dante's Peak, and the fact that it works is testament to the talent of the two leads.Roger Donaldson is a talented Australian director who understands action and suspense.  His fourteen films to date as a director show an understanding of what makes tension on the screen.  (The Bounty, The Recruit, Thirteen Days.) The minute the volcano erupts we enter the action breathlessly and the direction of Donaldson evokes the destruction and panic in fine form.It would be easy for the story in Dante's Peak to be swept away violently by the river of lava gushing out the mountain's fiery mouth.  Thankfully, we have an intelligent, character-driven disaster movie that provides lots of action, lots of suspense and a little romance for good measure.  I think that's more than enough. "},{"Title":"yet another implausible disaster flick.","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I guess the dilemma with these disaster movies is that the film makers have to come up with a storyline to frame these disasters, and characters to insert in the disaster, so that we root for them to survive. Usually the opposite happens when the characters are so bland or annoying, that we just as soon see them get buried in molten lava or whatever. In Dante's Peak, we have a small town in the shadow of an active volcano, rather unconvincingly super-imposed on a location shoot. Pierce Brosnan, between jobs as 007, plays a geologist who comes to town to assess the volcano. Linda Hamilton as the widow mayor. These two are likeable enough, and they have their obligatory romance. But we also have her annoying kids, the grandma, the dog, and another merry band of scientists who are all class clown types. These merry bands can be found in other disaster films. Anyway, the volcano finally blows, with so/so pyroclastic flows and lava fountains. We see a pickup truck that can drive underwater, a truck that can drive on top of molten lava, a stubborn grandma who won't leave her cabin even though lava is flowing thru it, and a man drowning in a river as his colleagues stand and watch with their arms folded. So yeah, I guess it's entertaining after all. "},{"Title":"The most crap film I have ever seen!!!!!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am being generous with my vote by the way. Anyway onto the film. I have never seen a film with this amount of coincidences. Everything happened one after the other in the most predictable way. The way that Pierce and the others managed to climb through a most convenient hole in the fence right next to an unlocked car that did not even explode or seem to take any damage whatsoever whilst driving over boiling magma, that he was able to hot-wire(what the hell)!! The film had the most predictable plot ever, I had a job to stay awake throughout the whole film. Do NOT see this film, do something worthwhile instead, like go to sleep. "},{"Title":"Awful made-for-TV tripe","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's the same story as Jaws which is the same story as Ibsen's 1882 Enemy of the People (Hollywood offered no thanks to Ibsen of course) the materialistic town leaders downplay disaster warnings until it's TOO LATE.This is your basic made-for-TV schlock there's a flimsy lead-in; the hero perceives the impending disaster but no one will listen (until it's too late and he saves his love interest and her kids); the kids are precocious & say and do some startling yet endearing things; the acting is miserable throughout (even Brosnan); there are numerous relationship-building scenes; many long looks and meaningful pauses; and all the dramatic dialogue you could want.This reminds us for one thing that Linda Hamilton has 0 acting ability and incapable of anything more poignant than a strained facial expression.The lava is decent but not in enough scenes - water and the eruptive's explosion do more damage. Some clever aspects of the storyline 1) the hero drives his 4x4 through hot lava, get's stuck and we see the truck and tires on fire (plus Linda H helps us by saying the truck is on fire). But he downshifts and drives out. The truck's fire then goes out and the thumping tires then re-inflate themselves enough to outrace the volcanic explosion. 2) the only escape from the lava is via a boat across the lake. They then find a truck and drive a bit. The dog they had to leave behind manages to avoid the lava and the lake to catch up with them in time to jump into the burning truck and be saved. 3) They take a metal boat across the lake. The boat starts to smoke because the lake has become acid (as we see the boat melting Linda says Acid dissolves metal). The boat smokes and leaks (keep your feet up kids) for many minutes but they just make it to the shore.The morals and ending are nice and tight - worthy of any Disney or Ron Howard pap anyone who didn't believe the hero dies; the town elders and the bad guy (a helicopter pilot) really die; the hero, the kids and the dog are saved; someone almost ignores the rescue signal but then sees it just in time.Rates a 1 for storyline but has some OK special effects so we'll go with a 3. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie rated so high?  It sucked","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really stupid movie.  (may contain spoiler)  Driving over lava to save a dog?  Rowing a boat through a acid lake?  Who's brillant idia was that?  The first half of the movie was scientest's trying to figer out out when the valcano will eroupt.  The second half of the movie was over acted and stupid.  Was this movie a joke? I think this would make a perfect mystery theater 3000.  If you were concitering seeing this movie, DON'T. "},{"Title":"What a thrilling movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dante's Peak This was a fantastic movie. Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamlton are fantastic actors. Pierce Brosnan plays a fantastic part as playing James Bond in the Bond Movies and Linda Hamlton is great of starring in both Terminator movies. I give Dante's peak a great score 10 out 10. "},{"Title":"It has really nothing new to offer","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is based on the magic formula that Hollywood has used already so many times before for this kind of disaster movies. Apparently the studio's in Hollywood believe that we all are nothing but simple minds who don't like to watch a movie that's at least a little bit challenging.I have to admit that the graphics really look nice. The eruption of the volcano is really very well done. Even about the scientific facts and words used in the movie I will not complain, apart from some minor things like a car driving over lava without catching fire. Overall it all seems realistic and that's not always very evident in Hollywood. But the main problem that I have with the movie is that it has really nothing new to offer.A scientist is send to a marvelous, almost perfect little village to investigate a neighboring volcano that has already been dormant for thousands of years. But of course the volcano is getting active again and our beloved scientist, who's falling in love with a local beauty (the local coffee shop owner and mayor of the village), warns the authorities that a disaster will be inevitable if they don't react immediately. Of course no-one believes him and the disaster happens.We all know what happens, some people die, but our main characters will survive the horror. No, if you are looking for something new, you better switch to something else, because you'll not find it in this movie. I give it a 5,5/10, which isn't even too bad for a disaster movie. "},{"Title":"Do you ever wonder why they make movies?","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This stuff happens in this movie Big old cloud of smoke! People get burned up at some natural spring! There is a volcano! Grandma f*cking dies! I don't think the people knew the volcano was coming until too late! Linda Hamilton is a woman! A lady! Pierce Brosnan's character is not James Bond in this movie! Don't get confused! I think Pierce Brosnan's character is a geologist! They think about rocks, professionally! Do you f*cking think about rocks professionally, I bet you don't! Plate-tectonics is why volcanoes happen, that or because of supernatural causes, you decide! Pierce Brosnan's character does not die at the end, they make it seem like he might be dead, but he's not! "}{"Title":"This movie does NOT deserve a medium rating it deserves 100","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This should deserve a 100 For critics seriously why do some critics hate this movie?? OK sure it's got SOME silly moments but this movie is just great!! The movie has great intense parts and the pyroclastic cloud AWESOME CGI!! Also luckily roughy survived cause I thought he burned to death(and I would be angry if he died). Pierce Brosnan as Harry Dalton was a good choice. The kids were great And the bit with the dead charred squirrels and the acid fish in the boat part EWW!! I felt like vomiting after those bits. And also the kids weren't tools for Pierce Brosnan and Lynda Hamilton to save. The acting was surprisingly incredible and the cgi was used correctly and the sets were good and the pyroclastic cloud is unforgettable when you've seen this movie and the mine sequences were probably painful for Harry cause he got smashed by rocks and smashed by the trucks parts and so what do I think of this film?? Definitely A 100000000000000 ) "},{"Title":"review","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am a year 10 pupil who just watched Dante's peak. I thought it was really good because it shows how a real volcano would erupt. It helped me understand how it would happen. The plot goes like this&#x85; Harry who is a geologist is at another volcano eruption in Central America. He is going to collect his girlfriend. When he collects his girlfriend He drives away but after he gets further down the road his girlfriend gets hit by a pyroclastic blow which kills her. The next scene is where it brings us to modern-day where harry is sent to Dante's peak to look at a possible eruption. Harry thinks there is going to be an eruption but his boss Paul doesn't but Harry was right and there is an eruption. Harry then escapes with the mayor of Dante's peak and also her two children. Then there is a second eruption but Harry, Rachel and her two kids are in an old mine. Then soon after Harry uses the E.L.F to be located and they are rescued safe and well. The equipment they use is very expensive like the E.L.F this was on the side of The Spider. A robot with 8 legs that went into places which was too dangerous for Harry it also had a video camera and heat sensors. The characters in the movie fitted well with the story here is a list of them Harry &#x96;A geologist . Rachel-Mayor of Dante's Peak and mum of two kids. Ruth-Granny and mother in law. Kids-Graham and Lauren. Paul-Geology team leader. I thought that some bits of the movie was nor realistic for example the two people who were boiled to death they would have had time to get out because it would have not heated up instantly .when harry drove on top of the lava the car would have exploded but they are the only things that are bad about it. Over all I enjoyed the movie "},{"Title":"Dantes peak was good","Date":"12 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am Matthew Ney who is a student from dromore high school and I have just watched Dante's peak in geography.The plot in Dante's peak is very good it starts of when Harrys girlfriend got killed while she was trying to escape from a volcano.harry was sent to Dante's peak to get some things from that volcano.then harry thinks the volcano is going to explode but Paul the group leader said that it isn't going to explode. Then harry was right the volcano was going to explode and everyone was trying to escape.The characters in Dante's peak are harry who is a geologist, Rachel who is the mayor, Ruth is the mum and the granny, the kids Lauren and graham, Paul who is the geology team leader and the dog was called fluffy.Equipment in Dante's peak was things like elf from NASA and spider dangerous areas and robot 8 legs video camera audio.Emotions, scared, worried, sad, lost, crying,mad and the truck wouldn't of been able to drive through the lava because the jeep would of blown up and the dog wouldn't of been able to make it because it was running along lava piles.My opinion was that the movie Dante's peak was very good because there were some really good parts and the cool technology that they were using and I also liked the robot because it was funny and the ending was very good. "},{"Title":"Cialan's unreal review","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" my review on Dante's peak the movie is called Dante's peak the characters show passion and determination so there acting is world one of the characters is called Ruth. There also mum with 2 children. the theme is set in a town in front of a volcano.Dante's peak the film can be full of action at some times they used real equipment e.g. spider a 8 legged robot that goes into dangerous bits of an volcano e.g. inside the top of a volcano there also a machine called an elf as well Harry warns the mayor that the volcano is going to blow and kill all the locals but the other guy says the volcano is OK and to stop worrying the locals in the end the volcano erupts and all the locals try an escape but Harry try and helps Ruth's Family they go and collect Ruth when they get out to collect her the car catches fire from the lava so they have to get a boat into the acid water but the boat is metal so when they get half way the boat starts to sink the acid water nearly sank the whole boat but Ruth jumps out and brings the boat into the side. Ruth legs where completely swollen and she had cuts all over her foot and leg so Harry carry her on his shoulder as they headed half way Ruth sadly died on the way but she will go down as a hero with her family "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The main characters in this movie are Harry,Rachel,Ruth and Paul. In th e movie Harry is a vulcanologist who's girlfriend was killed by a volcano .Harry was then sent to Dante's Peak due to some volcanic activity. Harry thinks there will be an eruption but Paul (Harry's boss) doesn't. They call a meeting to evacuate the city. During the meeting the eruption happened. There was mass destruction and havoc in the city. The movie is quite believable but there are a few mistakes such as the acid lake and the take on lava. In the movie they used real equipment such as a Seismometer, Seismograph, E.L.F and a Spider Robot with eight legs that had a camera on it which showed any activity in the volcano because it was to dangerous for any human to go up into a volcano.They also use scientific information such as pyroclast, pyroclast cloud, ash, lava, dust and a cone. Overall I found this movie very informative and interesting and I would recommend anybody that hasn't seen the movie to go and watch it. "},{"Title":"Better then Y2K","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan is one of the most experienced geologists in the United States Geological Survey, and also a 4 year bachelor after he lost his girlfriend to a volcanic eruption in Colunmbia. Harry, Brosnan's character, gets a call from his boss to check out a presumed dormant volcano in the Cascades called Dante's Peak. Whilst in the town of the same name, he meets Rachael (Linda Hamilton) the towns mayor. Through-out the film Harry and Rachael must dodge many volcanic scenarios including acidic lakes and a pyroclastic cloud. *SPOILERS* One part of the movie that I questioned was when Harry and Rachael's family are driven over lava and the tyres to their car do not melt. "},{"Title":"Dantes Peak Review","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantes peak is a movie about a volcano that explodes and destroys a small town at the bottom of it. it is an a very interesting movie and compared to any other movies it id very realistic, but there is still stuff that isn't that real. the main character is called Harry Dalton (played by Pierce Brosnan) and he is a volcanic expert. The reason why it is so realistic is because of the stuff that comes out of the volcano such as the ash clouds and the gas. When they were checking the volcano for an volcanic eruption they used special robots called spiderlegs. This equipment is very technical and is used for going down into the volcano when it is too dangerous for any human beings. All in all i think this movie is one of the most realistic movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"This movie blew my mind.","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really think Dante's peak was a helpful movie as we are learning about volcano's in school and this film shows us exactly what happens. There was parts in the movie that were 'opinionated' as realistic or non-realistic. In my opinion there was some realistic facts. some are explosive cloud, lava flow, school gym earthquake, the coloured water and the acidic water. there are also some special effects which i thought were not realistic and they were The car driving over lava, ash on trees and the granny in the acidic water pushing the boat. The characters in the story are (harry) the vulcanologist's,(Rachel) town mayor and a business owner and (Paul) USGS boss. Harry+Rachel fall in love towards the end.I really enjoyed this movie as it was interesting what would happen next and was good to learn things i hadn't knew about before. "},{"Title":"it was good","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was and was not realistic for example things that were realistic are explosive cloud , lava flow , the school gym earthquake , the clouded/dirty water , acid water. Things that are not realistic for example car cant drive on lava , Granny in the water wounded burn her leg off. the scientific c stuff for example ash cloud , lava , volcanic bombs , gas doctors , sulphur dioxide , size mo meter , vibrations , spider , Lorrie's equalisers , when dangerous. the characters are harry - vulcanologist's Rachel - town mayor, business owner Paul -boss. i enjoyed the film but some things in it i did not like "},{"Title":"The amazing Dantes peak","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie Dante's peak was very good with different realistic and non realistic pieces, for instance the truck driving over 1000 degrees-Celsius + lava is just simply non realistic.in the film i thought their was some really good scientific facts about volcanoes like;Ash clouds from learning in my geography class lots of pyroclasts or otherwise known as pyroclastic bombs and in the film we saw lots of dust clouds, these symptoms are an indication to a volcano going to erupt. Some of the actors; Harry the vulcanologist played his part really well and their was a bit of a connection between him and Rachel. Rachel;The town mayor and local coffee shop owner.This movie does have a sad bit when Harrys boss Paul gets stuck on the bridge and cant get enough momentum to get off of the bridge and the current is so fast and strong that it that it breaks the bridge at both ends and the current just carries Paul away. Overall the film has a happy ending with Hary and Rachel along with Rachels two kids survive in an old abandoned mine. I think this movie was very interesting and it would help people to get the idea of how a volcano lets you know its about to erupt. "}{"Title":"Overall i think Dante's Peak was a vey good and realistic movie.","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The realistic parts in this movie includes the giant ash cloud which comes out of the volcano looked very realistic, also the volcanic bombs also looked very real when they were fired at the town, the lava flow was also quite good and realistic but you could still see it was fake but it was still quite good and also the Spider developed by NASA was also very good and realistic.Some unrealistic parts of the movie are when the car drove over the lava but was able to drive fine after it but in real life the lava would of melted the metal rims and the tyres would have burst and another one is when Harry is using his shirt to push the boat the acidic water would have spashed up onto his arms like when the granny jumped into the water her legs and arms were burnt of her.Characters Harry-VolcomolisistRachel-Town mayor-Business ownerPaul-US Geographical study-Harry's boss Harry and Rachel have a bit of a romance going on and Harry and Paul have a bit of conflict about if the volcano will explode. "},{"Title":"OK movie","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The main characters in the story were, Harry who was a vulcanologist, Rachel who was the town mayor and also owned her own business and Paul who was the USGS boss. Some of the scenes where realistic and some unrealistic. The car drives over the lava which is over 1000 Celsius which would be impossible because the tyres would melt. One of the realistic scenes is the acid in the water and the explosive ash cloud from the volcano. The scientific parts of the movie was ash clouds, volcanic bombs , gas such as sulphur dioxide . In my opinion the movie was OK not the best because of some scenes.i would advise people to give the movie a go because it i quite educating and it has some exciting thrills "},{"Title":"It is about a town that gets destroyed by a volcano. It is a must watch!!!!","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Harry is a vulcanologist and goes to a town and tries to put the town on alert and Paul his boss cancels the meeting that Harry had with the council.Harry goes to Rachels house and her daughter wants a glass of water and it is brown. So Harry rushes to Paul and shows him the water.Then Paul,Rachel,Harry and the crew go to the school gym and have a meeting with the town and tell them to be ready to have to go at any time. Rachel's kids go up the mountain to get their granny so harry and Rachel have to go up while the volcano is going off and the go into the mine it collapses and harry turns on a beacon and help comes they all escape. "},{"Title":"The volcano isn't so dormant after all!!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I think that Dante's Peak is a very good educational and scientific movie. The main characters in this movie are 'Harry' played by Pierce Brosnan, 'Rachel' played by Linda Hamilton and 'Ruth' played by Elizabeth Hoffman. Harry is a vulcanologist who lost his wife years before due to a pyroclastic bomb. Harry has been sent to Dante's Peak to investigate unusual seismic activity. When he is out with Rachel and her two kids he finds two dead bodies in the hot spring. He tests the water down at the lake and realises that it is very acidic. Rachel is the mayor of Dante's Peak and Harry tells her to alert the community as he thinks the dormant volcano is going to wake up. As harry and Rachel are discussing the matter, Harrys boss Paul, walks in and tells Rachel not to alert the community as there isn't enough evidence, but later on that night, Harry discovers the tap water is coming out brown!. The community are going to be alerted! Harry and his work partners go up to the volcano with 'spider legs' the robot that has a camera attached to it. It also has a gas detector on it just like the helicopter did, detecting for SO2 (Sulphur Dioxide). Harry and Rachel have a warm relationship that grows throughout the movie. My favourite part of the movie was the end of it when the volcano erupted with a pyroclastic cloud and lava, putting a lot of people at risk. I loved the action at the end of the movie but there were some unrealistic parts during it as well. Whenever Harry, Rachel and Rachel's two kids were trying to leave Dante's Peak, Harry drove over lava and the tyres didn't burn and also when the lava came through Ruth's house they would have died due to the heat. Altogether I enjoyed this movie and I think it is very educational with a great plot. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed the film but some parts were unrealistic.","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From the beginning of the movie I was interested in what would happen. I thought the beginning of Dante's Peak was really good, I liked that the beginning, when the main character, Harry's wife was killed by a pyroclastic bomb, gave the viewers an insight to why Harry was very cautious about volcanoes even if they were dormant for many years.I thought the relationship between the two main-characters, Harry and Rachel, was very believable, and as the movie went they got closer and closer.I didn't think when the volcano erupted that it was very realistic. Near the end of the film when Harry, Rachel and the two kids tried to drive through the lava, the tyres didn't melt. And whenever they sailed through the lake, I didn't think it was possible for the lake to become acidic and dissolve the boat. "},{"Title":"Run for your lives","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie Dante's Peak was very well structured, and I found the movie to be quite interesting along with educational. In some of the scenes in the movie it didn't seem to be realistic although it looked good it wasn't quite real. Throughout the movie it seemed to take the tale of being a romantic type as the two characters got along rather well. The robot 'spiderlegs' was quite interesting because it seemed to have many uses, to videoing and collecting information, it seemed to me, to be one of the more realistic parts and therefore I enjoyed it more.The main characters in the movie are; Harry Dalton geologist at the United States.(Pierce Brosnan)Rachel Wando mayor of Dante's Peak and food and drink shop owner.(Linda Hamilton) Altogether, I really enjoyed the movie and watching it. If given the choice I would recommend this to an age group of 12+ it was very interesting and I really enjoyed this. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie!!!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this film, it was spectacular. I thought that that most of the film was very realistic, although some parts were a little unbelievable. When Harry, Ruth and the family get into the acidic lake, I do not think that it would be so harmful as to eat through the metal. I thought that the volcanic eruption was very realistic, especially the pyroclastic cloud at the beginning of the eruption. My favourite part of the film was when Ruth saved her family and Harry from the acidic lake. My favourite character in the film was Harry because I thought that he was very enthusiastic during playing his role. In conclusion all in all I thought that Dante's Peak was a great film and had some very interesting facts included throughout. "},{"Title":"Be ready for an explosion of excitement!!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak was an Exciting and breath taking look into how a volcano erupts and the signs of eruption before it explodes. I really enjoyed watching this movie as it made you constantly think about what could go wrong next, This movie had an exciting take to the more scientific area of volcanoes, by introducing us to the robot that detects gas and also has a camera called 'spider-legs'. Dante's Peak has an interesting style, because while there was constant drama with the volcanic eruption, they made a romance occur between the town's Mayor, Rachel and a volcanic specialist, Harry. This gave the movie a really good story line, as whilst we seen everything about the eruption, you just wanted Rachel, Harry and Rachels two children to survive. I think most of the features were created very realistically , as the Pyroclastic cloud and bombs seemed so real, though I think the mudslide was the most unrealistic part. I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to learn more about volcanoes, but also be kept on they're toes with excitement. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action movie","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We watched Dante's Peak in Geography as part of our volcanoes study. Dante's Peak is a very well structured movie and is very scientifically correct, it is a very educational movie. The main characters are Harry(Pierce Brosnan), Rachel(Linda Hamilton), Ruth (Elizabeth Hoffman). Rachel has two kids, Lauren and Graham. Rachel is the mayor of Dante's Peak and Harry is a vulcanologist, who has been called to Dante's Peak to investigate unusual volcanic activity with his company. Throughout the movie a romance develops between Harry and Rachel. They sent a robot,Spiderlegs up to the mountain,Spiderlegs was a very interesting robot with many scientific uses, it had a camera which was linked to the comany's office and collected important information. There was a seismometer to detect volcanic activity.On the helicopter, there was a gas detector looking for SO2(sulphur dioxide). The volcano eruption happened at the sports ground. The Volcanic eruption was very realistic as it had all the features of a volcanic eruption, there was ash cloud, gas, pyroclastic bombs and pyroclastic cloud, this made the volcanic eruption seem very real. After the volcanic eruption happened a mud flow was formed due to there being snow,ice and ash. In some scenes this movie was very unrealistic, when Elizabeth got into the river, I don't think it would have turned to acid so quickly and when the volcano hit Elizabeth's house, they would have been killed instantly. I thought it was very unrealistic when they drove over the burning ash,the rubber of the tyre would have burnt straight away.Overall, I think this movie is very interesting and the scientific information is correct. "},{"Title":"It will blow your mind!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought Dante's Peak as an overall was a fantastic movie. It was thrilling, exciting and kept you on the edge of your seat. The movie is definitely full of cliff-hangers. It is also very helpful as we are learning about volcanoes in class at the minute. It made it a lot more realistic and gave me a better idea of what it would be like.The characters including Harry, Rachel and the volcanic activity team all made the film seem like the disastrous volcanoes eruption was happening in real life.The film included lots of true scientific facts and machinery like the spiderlegs and the pyroclastic bombs. It was really helpful to see the actual eruption with the mudslide caused by the snow and ice, the ash cloud/ pyroclastic cloud and the earthquakes which they used a seismometer to detect.The downsides of the film were that at some points it was very unrealistic. I thought it was unrealistic when Harry tried to drive away from the pyroclastic cloud as pyroclastic clouds travel at 450mph and they couldn't be outrun by a pickup truck with no tyres. Other unrealistic scenes of the film included the motor boat in the acid lake, the children driving the truck up the mountain and surviving, the dog and Harry and the rest of the family trying to drive over 1000°c hot lava.There could have been more detail at the end of the film like a fishing trip with the children.Overall I really enjoyed the film and I thought it was thrilling but educational at the same time. I would definitely recommend to anyone but especially anyone learning about volcanoes. "}{"Title":"sheep-man review","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From the beginning I enjoyed it because of Harry's wife being killed by the Pyroclastic bomb. This insight helps the viewers understand why Harry is so determined to save all of the people from the volcano. In some bits of the movie it was very unrealistic, such as the bit when Harry was able to drive his pickup truck through red hot lava and the wheels didn't even melt never mind it not blowing up. I thought Harry and Rachel's relationship was unrealistic too because they just suddenly feel in love when they first seen each other. I loved the bone that you could see that was pocking out of Harry's arm after he had broke it in the car. The science was right because they had a size-o-meter, spider legs robot and the gas detector was all correct. "},{"Title":"Dantes Peak Review ))))))","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i thought Dantes Peak was an interesting and action-packed film.The plot was very good and the romance between mayor and the vulcanologist added to the movie and made it all the better to watch. Most characters in the movie were very lovable like the mayors daughter and son. Other characters quickly became very annoying like the vulcanologist's boss who would listen to him about the warnings of the dormant volcano. The science in the movie was was very clever with the volcano robot and the CCTV cameras showing the volcanic activity. The sulphur dioxide was accurate as a volcano would show toxic activity before it would erupt. the volcanic eruption itself was very accurate as it did even show the mud slide of ash,ice and snow after the first eruption. Even before the eruption it showed the earthquakes and measured them with the seismometer. The pyroclastic cloud and bombs made the volcanic eruption all the more realistic. "},{"Title":"Super cool amazing thing!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak was very exciting from the start because it had an action scene first. I thought the movie was realistic in most places for example the science aspect because they used real scientific equipment, like the spider robot the sulphur testing, the size monitor for testing the vibrations and the gas tester and also the camera on the robot. The eruption was realistic in places like the pyroclastic cloud, the ash cloud, the volcanic bombs, the mud flow and the earthquake. The unrealistic part of the eruption was the lava, I thought this was unrealistic because Harry was able to drive across it and only one tire caught fire, I also thought it looked unrealistic. Over all I thought this was a good movie and very realistic in places. I thought the actors and Actresses performed well, Harry especially done a convincing performance. "},{"Title":"BLEW my socks off!!! )","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought Dantes Peak was an interesting and exciting film. The plot was very interesting and the romance between Harry and Rachel, made it much more better to watch. the children in the movie were also very fun to watch as they were very lovable.The science was very realistic with the camera's showing the volcanic activity and the sulphur dioxide and the robot spider. The volcanic eruption was accurate as it showed the mud slide, ash, snow etc. and the volcanic cloud that came from the volcano.I would recommend this movie from a geography point of vIEw and just as a genuine movie as it was amazing and very interesting and exciting. "},{"Title":"Volcano plays its part very well!","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I found Dante's Peak a great movie and really enjoyed watching it. There was a good build up throughout the movie, getting to know the characters and seeing their relationships develop before disaster happens.I am currently learning about volcanoes so Dante's Peak was very interesting and helped me understand more about volcanoes and what actually happens. There were scenes in the movie that were realistic, like the pyroclastic clouds and lava, although there were some unrealistic features too. For example, when Harry the vulcanologist drives over a lava flow successfully. This could not be possible as the tyres would melt and the car would probably go on fire. The unrealistic features kind of ruined the movie, but brought in a lot of action which made it more enjoyable.I love how the movie was based on a love story between Harry and Rachel (Dante's Peak mayor) but was also filled with lots of action. I would love to see what happens next in the movie and i recommend Dante's Peak to anyone who loves movies with love, disaster and lots of action! "},{"Title":"Some tense stuff","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dantes Peak Movie Review I enjoyed watching Dantes Peak because of the realistic features of the volcano erupting like the ash cloud,volcanic bombs,pyroclastic cloud and even a mudslide. It also contained a robot which had spider legs, a gas detector and a camera on it which they would use to check the volcano. The characters in the movie were also very good they played their roles well which made the movie even better. I liked it when the family were in some tense situations like when they were driving through the lava and when they were going through the lake these parts made the film all the more exciting and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak is an excellent movie","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a very educational and interesting movie. The movie is filed with realistic facts and images. The characters in the movie are very good and Harry who works with volcanoes, he also knows a lot about them, he warns the village about the volcano erupting. the plot in Dante's Peak is very well written and structured and the plot is also believable. When the volcano erupts it causes chaos in the village and everybody is evacuated from their homes. The ash, lava and pyroclastic clouds are very believable. all the way through Dante's Peak it is filled with facts to do with volcanoes. It is a brilliant movie that from the very beginning shows and explains a lot about volcanoes and how they work. I would recommend this movie to a friend. "},{"Title":"Very exciting thriller","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" USGS volcanologist Harry Dalton travels to the small Pacific Northwest town of Dante's Peak to investigate recent seismic episodes in the area. Expecting to find little other than the routine rumblings common to this region, Dalton becomes alarmed by what he sees as evidence of the kind of activity that precedes a catastrophic eruption. When his colleagues doubt his theories, Dalton enlists the aid of the town's mayor Rachel Wando, who though skeptical at first, comes to believe his theory that the long-dormant mountain is about to become a ragingly destructive volcano. With the earth's clock racing against him, Dalton must defy the orders of his superiors, defeat the demons from his own tragic past, and together with Wando, convince an unbelieving populace that the imminent danger before the towering mountain known as Dante's Peak unleashes its fury. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a very good movie. I learnt a lot in the movie. The plot of the movie is a love story. The story is about a man called Harry who is a volcano expert whose interest become more than academic after he lost the women he loved in a pyrodastic bomb. When he is sent to investigate unusual seismic activity in the community of Dante's Peak he discovers people boiled to death in the hot spring and plant and animal life dying or displaying unusual illness near the city's volcanoes. Rachel who is a major of Danke's Peak and also runs a cafe. Rachel takes a cynical view of Harry about the volcano but doesn't tell the residents. When the volcano erupts, Harry and Rachel and Rachel's two kids try to escape the town but doesn't make it and has to go through lava floods. Ruth ( there granny) dies. When the volcano dies down and Harry and all are saved, Rachel and Harry fall in love. "},{"Title":"very good movie, just some bad points","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's peak main characters are 'Harry', he is the volcanologist played by Pierce Brosnan, 'Rachel', Dante's peak Mayor, is played by Linda Hamilton. This movie is partly love story, when Harry and Rachel get together and partly action with very tense music. This movie is mostly a very realistic movie with details including acid burning Ruth's (the grandmother) legs and rising fish to the top of the river. Also, helicopters being taken down by ash clouds choking its engine. There are also very unrealistic features for example, when harry drives over lava, that is not possible as tyre's would burn. They send a 'Spider' camera down the crater of the volcano which lets the volcanologists see if any activity is present. Pyroclastic bombs also star in the movie, they are rocks spewed out from the volcano when it erupts in the movie. "}{"Title":"What was it like to be near Mt. St. Helens when she erupted?","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 1997 delivered two volcano movies, Dante's Peak and Volcano. The latter film stars Tommy Lee Jones and takes place in Los Angeles. Volcanic activity in Los Angeles? They might as well have had the story take place in Ohio! Needless to say, the idea never tripped my trigger. Dante's Peak, however, has piqued my interest over the years. I've seen a couple clips of the film while channel surfing and each time I was drawn into the storyline. One clip I saw showed a skinny dipping couple in a hot spring suddenly get boiled to death because of the volcanic activity of the mountain. Another clip showed a handful of people trying to escape the volcano in a boat on a lake. The lake had become acidic because of the volcanic pangs of the mountain and all the fish were dead and the propeller on the boat melted away. These scenes convinced me that the film was worth catching some day.THE PLOT A scenic Washington town at the foot of a mountain is celebrating being nominated one of America's best small towns. Meanwhile a scientist from the U.S. Geological Survey (Pierce Brosnan) sniffs around the massive peak and becomes convinced the Volcano is going to blow at any minute. The rest of the scientific team comes to town to investigate while Brosnan develops a relationship with the mayor (Linda Hamilton). Brosnan wants to put the town on immediate alert while the boss vulcanologist doesn't want to jump to conclusions and disrupt the town's economic interests. The volcano blows, of course.As you can see, the plot rips off Jaws, trading a Volcano for the shark, but it's effective. The thing about Dante's Peak is that IT'S BASED ON REAL-LIFE EVENTS. On May 18, 1980, Mt. St. Helens in Washington blew her top. Although there was no decent sized town nearby, 57 people were killed and 250 homes, 47 bridges, 185 miles of highway, 15 miles of railway and hundreds of miles of forestry were obliterated. The eruption caused a massive debris avalanche, reducing the elevation of the mountain's summit from 9,677 feet to 8,365 feet and replacing it with a mile-wide horseshoe-shaped crater. Mt. St. Helens is even mentioned in the picture a few times.WHAT WORKS The cast is likable even though they do dumb things or react in a stupid fashion, e.g. the grandma who insists on staying on her mountain because it would never harm her (aduh). I always thought Brosnan was too dour as James Bond, but he's more likable and human here, albeit still serious. Anyway, I like the way the film takes its time to let us get to know the characters before disaster strikes. This works because, in the meantime, anticipation of the eruption slowly builds.I've read quite a few of the Amazon reviews and was surprised that no one had commented on the scenic locations. The town scenes were filmed in Wallace, Idaho. This quaint village sits at the foot of a big hill (we'd call it a mountain in the East), which was digitally enhanced to appear as a volcano in the film. I tell you what, they fooled me 'cause it sure looks like a real volcano. Anyway, the shots on the mountain and in the crater were filmed at none other than Mt. St. Helens, Washington (my brother incidentally lives a mere 50 miles north of there in Yelm but has mysteriously never climbed the volcano -- WIMP!).The F/X are outstanding. They used both miniatures and CGI. The volcano doesn't fully erupt until the last half hour of the film's 1 hour and 50 minutes runtime.WHAT DOESN'T WORK Some of the dialogue and acting is lame here and there and I find the idea of a truck driving through lava to be unbelievable -- it sure took a long time for the tires to blow -- but, then again, I don't really know how long thick truck tires would last under those conditions. Lastly, they could've done better with the women (e.g. the hot spring girl, etc.), although Linda's always likable.BOTTOM LINE Want to see what it might have been like to be near Mt. St. Helens when she blew her top? Dante's Peak is the next best thing to being there. It's one of the better disaster flicks.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"A story of a volcano erupting in a small town,and the main character has to save the village","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I did not really enjoy this film as it was quite boring and dragged on a bit,also i found it a little Gory espeshily when the old lady legs were hanging of,also i found it a little scary,too scary for my liking.The effects were good though and quite believable.The beginning i found to be a little high strung and would have preferred it to have gone a little faster.I would not watch this film again.I would recommend it for people who enjoy si fi films and horror and also action.For this reason i am only giving it 1 star. "},{"Title":"Nothing special but well crafted","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A solid but unremarkable disaster movie. Pierce Brosnan arrives in the town of Dante's Peak and predicts the imminent eruption of their supposedly dormant volcano, but will the city council believe him? If you've seen 'Jaws', 'Earthquake', 'The Towering Inferno', 'Gremlins' or 'The Blob' you'll know the answer to that one, and so in due course the special effects department takes over and pours smoke, ash and molten lava all over the place. The story and characterisation take a back seat to the impressive destruction of the town, which means logic occasionally gets swept away in the lava flow, but there are some refreshingly gruesome moments and the whole thing has a certain old-fashioned charm. "},{"Title":"run for you're life","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" always fascinated with Volcanoes ever since I got ashes from Mt. St. Helens from my uncle as a kid, this is a really good story about a long dormant volcano. or so we think.. a young couple pay the price for getting it on in the Hot Springs, squirrels start dying,, and the mountain starts to heat up a bit,, water starts to boil,, I really love the pyroclastic flow in the movie,, wow just watching all that was pretty cool,, Linda Hamilton is gorgeous as ever , and she did a great job acting as well.. Pierce Brosnan seems very credible in his role as a Geologist. the team arrives to check out the mountain and good thing because it's getting ready to blow it's top,, the town is named 2nd best place to live,, population under 20000. a real estate magnate wants to invest heavily in the town. our geologist s boss however doesn't wanna put the town on alert because the town could suffer financial instability and go broke if all the tourists leave and the money man decides to leave town,, he will have to live with that decision.... excellent movie,, lot's of lava,, some improbable things like , can you drive on it,, apparently so,,, it the lake turning to acid,, no I thought that was pretty cool,, "},{"Title":"good","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i watched this movie in school and our class had to review it for homework we watched because we were doing a topic on volcanoes the weaknesses were the unrealistic lava the granny in the lake the bridge looked like it was a toy modal bridge the crater robot broken LOL .the pick up truck driving thorough hot lava the granny in the water and instead of romance more action and explosions there is really bad graphics and bad effects.if i was making a movie i would change the romance i would recommend it to others because other year 10 pupils and geography teachers because it their doing topic about volcanoes and it would show them what happens when a volcano explodes and erupted "},{"Title":"Great effects from a 16 Years Old Movie!!","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie and I think it had many strengths but also some weaknesses. The effects were usually fantastic, especially considering that the movie was made 16 years ago. The movie followed a good storyline but I found that it was too predictable (e.g Harry was right about the volcano, although there was no proof.) Many parts of the movie were unrealistic like when the boat eroded away so quickly that Ruth had to sacrifice herself to get it across the river but their dog had somehow got across with no problems. I enjoyed how this movie had romance and occasional humor (coffee scene), after watching Harry's girlfriend's tragic death I was pleased the movie ended happily.Danté's Peak helped me understand more about volcanoes although I feel they could have added more detail/attention to this aspect of the movie.Overall I enjoyed this movie. I feel it educated and entertained me from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A review on Dant's Peak","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought the movie was good in most of the the main areas. One of the areas were it was good was the plot,the plot had the right amount of of action and tension. Also the special effect were good when the pyroclastic flow wiped out the town. The CGI was used well because you would need a lot of it in a film like this. There were a few weaknesses like it was quiet unrealistic when the car drove over the lava flow, also how the dog got over the lava flow and finally their was not much humour in the film, it was all doom and gloom. What i would change in the film to make it better would be to make it more realistic also to add in some humour to keep the viewer engaged in the film also to add in a better ending with a bit more action in it.I would recommend it to people as it is a good film overall. "},{"Title":"make believe","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Strengths 1.I enjoyed the dog surviving numerous of times when it jumped into the jeep with only one chance it would have of surviving and also it coming out of the mine still living. 2.When Harry, Rachel the granny and the kids went to the hot spring and found the dead naked bodies, I thought this is a really good way of teaching the people watching this movie how hot the water really is. 3.I also enjoyed the scene when the granny died due to her acid burns which she got when she jumped into the river to save her grandchildren.Weaknesses 1.The most unrealistic scene in my opinion was when a lava bomb hit Harry Dalton's a vulcanologist girlfriend on the head but didn't go straight through her and pass through the jeep floor at the start of the movie, this seem very strange that the lava bomb sat in her body. 2.That Harry Dalton vulcanologist could tell how long ago did Danté's Peak volcano explode by examining a rock on the mountain. 3.When the boat on the river as they where traveling downstream was melting due to the acid in the water, why is because acid does not dissolve metal that quickly that is scientifically proved. Opportunities 1.This movie had also a romantic genre in it involving Harry Dalton vulcanologist with Rachel Wando Town Mayor that didn't lead to anywhere Harry only said at the end of the movie that Rachel, the children Lauren and Graham and himself would do and do things when the volcano settled down but the movie didn't show it. 2.When the experienced team that Harry worked for looked up at the volcano it somehow seemed much far away than when Rachel looked up at it from Harry's jeep window when it had exploded. 3.It was kind of obvious that the volcano was going to explode with all the tension before it explode but sill Paul the experienced teams boss still denied when Harry pleaded with him to put the town on alert, he wouldn't because he did not believe Harry that the volcano was going to explode. Threats 1.If I was the director of this film i would make the ash cloud more realistic because it looked very similar to to another movie's black smoke effects. 2.Danté's Peak is boring for most of the film, is because it's poorly written and simply because I knew the kind of build-up because i've experienced it countless times before. There's not much to get excited about when you can figure out what's coming next without particularly engaging your brain. 3.I would most certainly change where they where in the mine because the mine collapsed, but did not kill Harry while he sat there in one position for at least two days said one of his workmates "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It Was a alright movie overall.The things that i liked in Donte's Peak would have been the special affects in the movie for example how the mud-slides and lava were presented. Most of the movie would have a lot of tension when you were watching it because you didn't know when the volcano was going to go off. The C.G.I was well disguised like when the volcano went of and how the some cloud smoke would have been there. Some of the things that i thought were unrealistic would have been when the jeep went through the river because the whole of the jeep except the roof was under water so that would have flooded the engine and the engine bay so jeep would have cut out. Also the movie went to quick because one minute one thing was happening and then the next minute something else was happening. Last of all the movie could have contained more humor because the movie wasn't really that funny. To improve the movie i would have took more time to explain things more and added more humor. I would not recommend this movie to someone who liked to watch movies but i would recommend it to someone who studies or has an interest volcanoes and things to do with geography. "},{"Title":"Good effects that show good volcanology","Date":"18 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought that the effects for the volcano were impressive at the time and that they were very realistic in how the volcano erupted and that scenes such as the beginning were impressive at the time.There were some parts that were silly such as when Rachael's kids Graham and Lauren driving Rachael's truck to their grandmother's house and that the romance between Harry and Rachael's romance was forced at times. I also think that Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton were a bit out of place and that they didn't need to be in the movie. I also thought that the scene when Harry and Rachael's family drives a car over hardened lava which was just unrealistic as the car would have melted and kill them. If you're interested in volcanology you might like this movie. "}{"Title":"A typical disaster movie where the Volcano is the bad guy","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a disaster movie with no real plot behind it. Like Titanic there is a love story, but this story is very flat and it is the volcano that dominates the scene and not the romance. It is the volcano that tries to pull the lovers apart and even then they just appear to be more of a couple of kids who really like each other than true lovers.The focus of the movie is the destruction caused by the volcano. Though we know that the volcano is going to erupt, it wouldn't be a movie if it didn't, we are kept waiting by watching the volcanoes throes. The experts say that what is happening happens with volcanoes and doesn't mean that they will erupt. It is the huge flows of lava, the destruction of the city, and the many explosions, that keep us interested. Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton) is only in the movie to give the hero, Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan, whom I think plays a reasonable scientist) a heroine to rescue.The scientist is the hero in this movie. The main reason is because he knows what is going on. He has been around volcanoes before, and has even been around them when they were erupting. He is a bit of an action hero, but he is not the ex-commando that one would expect to dominate the action movie. In fact there is not ex-commando that plays a part in the movie, only scientists. Even though this wouldn't be out of place, I find it better that it is the scientist who is the hero for it, to me, is not unreasonable. Back in the 18th Century, the scientist was the hero as he was going into the unknown. The discoveries were what made men, and still do to an extent, and it is good that the scientist still receives the recognition that he should.Self sacrifice plays a little part in this movie when Ruth (Elizabeth Hoffman) throws herself into a lake of acid to push the boat to shore. One may question about the possibility of a lake of acid and using my limited knowledge of chemistry, I can say that it is possible. Harry, when he first arrives at Dante's Peak, tests the acidity of the lakes on the volcano. This is because volcanoes produce sulphur dioxide (SO2). When sulphur dioxide comes in contact with water (H2O) it creates sulphuric acid (H2 SO4).Dante's Peak is good for a disaster movie, though there is nothing much new in it. I enjoyed the movie but won't buy it. "},{"Title":"Truly Awful - but sort of entertaining","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now this is a truly awful film. The plot is bad, the characters are worse, and not even a cast off fairly well-known actors can save this film.I actually cannot believe that some people review this better than Volcano. At least Volcano is entertaining, has good characters and a decent plot, and doesn't get on your nerves. This film does. I'm not even going to go into how unrealistic it is - most disaster films are and that's okay, but this one is so much less realistic than any other disaster film I've watched that you can't avoid noticing it - if I started talking about that this film would get a rating zero. As it is, I'm going to give it a four - only because it's so stupidly awful that you keep watching it so that you have a film to moan about afterwards, and a film that you can compare to any other film and say compared to this, that movie was brilliant! "},{"Title":"There Is No Suspense","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a below average disaster movie that benefits from the great on screen personalities from Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton, but suffers from... virtually everything else.Actually, I'll begin by saying that the everything regarding the erupting volcano looked really cool (except for all of the miniature cars that had no one in it and were obvious models). From the prophylactic clouds to the running lava to the way the earthquake sequences were shot, the erupting volcano looked really cool.But it only *looked* cool. This film is so incredibly predictable that there is no suspense throughout this movie whatsoever. The audience gets a good taste of every conceivable archetype that could appear. A boss who's underplaying everything and acts as the films villain, an expert no one will listen to, the stubborn old woman who won't leave her home even when it's three minutes away from burning down, the token children who are already one inch away from death...And the scientific inaccuracies are astounding, which includes a truck that *drives* *over* *lava*. If cars could do that as easily as it was in that particular scene, there wouldn't be much need in leaving, would there? Nothing unpredictable happens in the film. All of the good guys live, anyone who was bad or stubborn dies.The highlight of the film was Pierce Brosnan, who seems to be too good to even be in the film. He doesn't give what I would consider to be a powerhouse performance, but compared to all of the other relatively lazy acting that appears in the film, it's easy to view his performance as being exceptionally awesome.At the end of the day, Dante's Peak is nothing special. There's little to offer audiences, and there's no original thoughts in this movie.4/10 "},{"Title":"A Kinetic Story With An Undeniable Human Element","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is a fantastic film that truly captures the essence of the human spirit and also serves as a fabulous achievement in the world of CGI and visual effects. Some of the sequences, such as when Ruth's cabin is inundated with lava, are breathtaking, so much so that you start to think the lava is real and is going to flood straight into your living room. The first hour or so is reminiscent of Alien, as we know something ominous is lurking but can't quite put our finger on an exact time but we know all hell is going to break loose. The best part of Dante's Peak for me, though, is Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton's fantastic chemistry. This is a couple you truly root for, and the intimate dialogue they share at certain parts of the film are the movie's most memorable moments. Only complaint would be the supporting cast--- not as dynamic as the leads and the film suffers for that to a degree. It's not the best action movie I've ever seen and I think the ending could have been slightly more dramatic and lava-filled. All things considered, though, a special film that I think showcases Pierce Brosnan at his most vulnerable best. "},{"Title":"A sermon against the sin of avarice","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It is sometimes said of London buses that you can wait ages for one and then two come along at once. So it is with films about volcanoes. Although there had been earlier films such as The Last Days of Pompeii and Krakatoa- East of Java, both based on real disasters, volcanic eruptions were one form of catastrophe omitted from the great disaster movie cycle of the seventies. After a lull in the eighties, there was something of a revival of the genre in the nineties, and 1997 saw two volcanic films, Dante's Peak and Volcano. Whereas the latter film describes a volcano which (improbably) appears from nowhere in downtown Los Angeles, the former is set in the Cascade Mountains of Washington State and is based in the real-life eruption of Mount Saint Helens in 1980.Dante's Peak is the name not only of a fictitious volcano but also of the small town that nestles at its foot. The name is an obvious allusion to the Italian poet Dante Alighieri; although he also wrote about Purgatorio and Paradiso, he is the man who gave the English language the word Inferno. His name has become associated in the popular imagination with all things hellish; I doubt if the adjective Dantean would ever be used to describe anything heavenly.At the beginning of the film, however, Dante's Peak does seem a heavenly place to live. It is surrounded by beautiful mountain scenery, has recently been voted the second-best place to live in the USA and the neighbouring volcano has long been dormant. Reports of increased levels of volcanic activity, however, mean that Harry Dalton, a scientist with the US geological survey, is sent to investigate. (Dalton is played by Pierce Brosnan, who was the current James Bond in 1997. Is it a coincidence that he shares his surname with Brosnan's predecessor in the role?) Dalton concludes that there is a high risk of a volcanic eruption in the near future, and advises that the town be evacuated.Disaster movies often incorporate a sermon against the sin of avarice; the disaster must be seen to have been caused by, or at least exacerbated by, human greed. Thus the fire in The Towering Inferno breaks out because a sub-contractor has tried to cut costs by using substandard wiring, initial warnings about the shark in Jaws are ignored because local vested interests do not want to frighten away the tourists and the collision with the iceberg in Titanic occurs because the ship's owners, for commercial reasons, have ordered the captain to steam at full speed through the ice-field. Similarly, Dalton's warning falls on deaf ears because the Town Council of Dante's Peak are worried that any reports of volcanic activity in the area will frighten away not only tourism but also business investment.More surprisingly, Dalton's warning is ignored not only by self-interested local politicians but by his own superior Dr Dreyfus, the sort of scientist who values public relations more highly than public safety, who reassures the local residents that they have nothing to worry about. Of course, in films of this nature the prophet of doom is never believed but always proved right (the prototype of this figure seems to have been Cassandra in Homer's Iliad). In another moralising touch the false comforter Dreyfus is one of those killed by the eruption. (The first victims are a young couple who sneak off to a hot pool for some alfresco sex, only to be scalded to death when the temperature of the water suddenly shoots up. In The Towering Inferno a couple having an extra-marital affair are among the first victims of the fire, which suggests that the makers of disaster films like to preach against lust as well as avarice).In common with a number of disaster movies, Dante's Peak falls naturally into two acts, (although here there is also a prelude in which we see an earlier eruption which killed Dalton's girlfriend, and fellow-vulcanologist, Marian). Act I allows the Cassandra-figure to issue his warnings and also sets the human background to the disaster by giving us a select group of characters with whom we can identify. In this case they are Dalton himself, Rachel, the divorced female mayor of the town with whom he becomes romantically involved, her two young children, and Ruth, the feisty but stubborn mother of Rachel's ex-husband. Act II deals with the disaster itself, the main source of drama being whether or not the select group will be able to escape with their lives.The scenes of the volcanic eruption are well done, but as with many disaster movies the special effects mean that the human stars tend to fade into the background. Brosnan is the best-known star here, but I felt he came across as too cool and laid back, not showing much emotion even when talking about Marian's death. This style of acting works well in the highly-stylised Bond films, but disaster movies require something a bit more naturalistic. I felt that Act I was too drawn out and that the actual eruption could have started earlier in the proceedings. Just as the real star of Titanic is the ship and the real star of Towering Inferno is the fire, so the real star here- the part that viewers will watch the film for- is the massive fireworks display in Act II. Dante's Peak is not the greatest disaster film, and has a few scientific inaccuracies, but at least it is considerably better than Volcano, which frequently managed to stretch credibility past breaking-point. 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's coffee time! Coffee, coffee, coffee, coffee, coffee, coffee! Cappuccino, java, YES!","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You put Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton in a film and I am sure to watch it. They are both fine actors and just the sparks between the two makes this a film to enjoy.It didn't hurt that it also had the geek who loved coffee. Writer, producer, actor, and two-time Oscar nominee Grant Heslov (Good Night and Good Luck, The Scorpion King).The special effects were amazing and the action, once everything started rolling, was phenomenal.Just a good movie all around. One that makes a big bowl of popcorn taste good. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For a lot of years i have seen enough disaster movies to be critical at seeing how we could see from a on site persons point of view as a vulcanist. This movie was very accurate in showing what the stages are when a volcano erupts violently. From small burps to the anxious singing a volcano does when the esophagus clears for more. The pyroclastic cloud was top notch and just as violent as always shown in the learning channels or discovery channels descriptions. Pyroclastic clouds can reach Fahrenheits of about 600 degrees outside part of a cloud and reach a higher inwards to about 850. It can also burn some ones lungs to a cinder in seconds, and blow buildings off of their foundations in about the same amount of time. This was a great movie to watch, the characters were really good, the backup characters of harry's team was also done well. And the special effects were also top rate, i almost believed that a real volcano was erupting in the movie. As for the other movie volcano with tommy lee Jones, it didn't come close in anyway to the insurmountable disaster that volcanoes have. Roland Emmerich will have to do better next time in his disaster tries down the road. As for this movie i was very impressed. "},{"Title":"Harmless Disaster Movie","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Typical disaster film, a volcano explodes, everything and everywhere are collapsed, lava burn everything (and viewer's eyes), it's the end of the world as we know it, and I feel fine.... Typical wanna - be characters He (Brosnan), the hero, she (Hamilton), the action woman - tender mother, we have also the kids (they cry and scream Mom during the whole movie), the sacrificed grandmother (a scene supposed to bring tears to our eyes) and a dog (the most lovely performance). All these run and saved from fluids, fire and other natural catastrophes almost in time. At the end we have the family reunion (they will go for fishing after all!) and the happy audience around to applause them... "},{"Title":"Excellent Film and I will not read other reviewers.","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved this film, with just one small point to nit pick. Dr. Harry Dalton is recognized as a top expert in his field. he is even called in off vacation to go check things out. He reads the signs and tries to warn the town. And his boss, the man who recognizes that he is the leading expert, calls him on the carpet and tries to play politics with the town council. If someone told me my volcano was going to blow up in my face soon, I sure as Hell would not be worrying about the future economy at the possible expense of people's lives.There was one reviewer who said that Ruth's stubbornness was not believable. On the contrary, when you are older, and I can speak from experience, you don't want to give up your security, whatever life around you may be saying. Don't forget there were a number of people who died when Mt. St Helens blew in 1980 because they were just like Ruth. With my one nit picked, I can say this was an excellent film as disaster films go, with excellent performances, outstanding set work and miniatures, and great direction. I rate it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one!","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well for the second time now I have seen this movie and I disagree with other peoples assessment.This movie had great affects and good acting.This movie also has some interesting science facts.I liked this movie a lot because of the way it made you feel like you were there.This movie's voting only got 5.5\10 personally I give this movie more than that because it had a lot of great features like good acting,good affects and a good story.Everything seemed very realistic and fast moving.It makes you think about what could really occur if this happened.In conclusion this is a great movie because of everything I have said and all I can say is if you ever get a chance to see this movie it's a great movie so watch it. "}{"Title":"most impressive","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's peak is MOST impressive. It is MORE realistic than Volcano I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes intense action all the way right to the end.I have seen it quite a number of times & I NEVER tire of it. It is SO exciting. This movie is the most impressive Volcano type I have seen. I currently have Volcano (DVD), Volcano  Fire on the Mountain (VHS) I also have Journey to the Centre of the Earth (1993)I just cannot stress enough how well Dante's Peak was made. There is not much more I can say here since 10 lines is a LOT. I ONLY wanted to say just a few words BUT the system won't let me say less than 10 lines.You guys at IMOB should remedy this so that people can say any amount of lines they want. 10 lines is WAY too much. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak might be worth a second look to find whats behind the scenes","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is based on the 1980 eruption of Mt St Helens, basically the same setting, people who live on the foot of a dormant volcano don't know it's dormant, don't believe scientists until it's too late. In movies, there are always heroes who alway survives conditions in the movie that will actually kill without doubt. I personally think that Dante's Peak is one of the best volcano films I've seen. Some facts sacrificed for our entertainment and action, there are some examples of where the movie changed the facts for us to enjoy like - Glass lake couldn't have turned that acidic that quickly. (the bit where the Grandma's legs are nearly melted off) - The pyroclastic flow should have smashed the green jeep into pieces before it even got close to the underground hideout, seriously what affordable land vehicle can exceed 800kmph? - Too many people escaped the volcano's wrath while people would normally have a few minutes. - The noise of the eruption shouldn't have been heard by anyone in a 60mile radius. - The actual lava was too runny for a composite volcano of that size, the lava should have been slow and thick. - The tyres didn't melt in the extremely hot lava when it got stuck.Overall, I think that the movie itself was too concentrated on the relationship of Harry and Rachel not the actual eruption itself. I suggest a second look for people who have already watched it. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Dante's Peak","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is one of the best of the 1990's disaster movies.Harry Dalton is a Volcanologist sent to Dante's Peak to have a look at the volcano overlooking the town after some readings suggest it is about to blow its top. It has been dormant for thousands of years. The first sign of things to come is when a couple are killed bathing in s spring when a tremor strikes. Dalton teams up with the mayoress of Dante's Peak but despite continuous warnings, nobody believes him of the predicted eruption. They do when the volcano finally erupts and the town is evacuated. Dalton and the mayoress then go to her ex mother-in-law's home to rescue her two children. The mother-in-law is killed and they only just make it to safety in one of the children's hideouts. They are then rescued and have also fallen in love through all of this.Dante's Peak has excellent special effects, especially the eruption scenes.A good cast too, lead by Pierce Brosnon (in between making Bond movies) and Linda Hamilton.If you like disaster movies, Dante's Peak is strongly recommended. Fantastic.Rating 5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Halfway decent movie...","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's a fun movie if you want to spend an evening not being scared or nervous. Pierce Brosnan plays a volcano expert discovering simple mountain town Dante's Peak! It's been named the second most desirable place to live in America, but of course, there has to be a snake in this Garden of Eden. The slippery serpent is a volcano, and it ultimately blows its stack and threatens every one in the area.Linda Hamilton is a mother with two children who becomes Brosnan's love interest who rides out the explosion with him.Most of the movie is enjoyable, but the scene with the trucks is a little far fetched. No matter how fast you drive a Forestry truck, it won't last driving through molten lava, and a 4 wheel drive truck usually cannot travel underwater for long.5 out of 5 for special effects and tension! "},{"Title":"Decently Entertaining, Could be Better","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is actually fairly accurate according to my geology professor, who showed parts of it in lecture to illustrate his point. It's just such a large eruption, which really hasn't been witnessed in our lifetime so people think it's overdone. It really isn't. It gets pretty cheesy at times though, the dialogue could be better. The part of this movie that's unbelievable is how everything that could possibly go wrong does, but somehow the characters always have a way out (as usual). Driving across scorching lava without the gas tank exploding? Come on. Most people faced with this situation would have no chance in hell of surviving but this is Hollywood folks. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable thrill ride","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite disaster film next to Twister. This movie had me gripping on the edge of my seat. It really pulls you in. The story centers a quiet little town called Dante's Peak where a volcano eruption seems slim to none until a scientist name Harry(Pierce Brosnan) who knows about volcanoes has a scary prediction that it will erupt. Can Harry and the mayor(Linda Hamilton) convince the town to get out in time before its too late. Linda Hamilton and Pierce Brosnan always seem very concerned about the well-being of Linda's ex-mother in-law through the whole scene. The actors did a great job making the movie. It is sad that the town that just won an award for their hard to get the town on its feet that this disaster may strike. "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First of all. Ruth the grandmother staying in her home is a portrayal of a victim of the 1980 Mount Saint Helens eruption, where a man would not leave his home as he didn't believe there would be a very big eruption. He died. The film I think although some parts seem a bit far fetched, it may help save lives as it shows many of the effects of volcanic eruptions lava flows, lahars, ash fall, pyroclastic flow. When people think of volcanoes they only think of lava. This film shows the truth and perhaps volcanologists could use this film as a point of reference for people who are in danger in the future. If the film has a good impact on people it cant be bad.  "},{"Title":"Make Your Own Movie","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Watching movies is such a lazy,passive activity that i have decided on something more amusing-make your own movie.Its a bit like Fantasy Football.Take some plot elements;a handsome scientist,an attractive single mother with two cute kids,a picture-postcard town and an extinct volcano.Write these on pieces of paper,put them in a bag and shake.Will the handsome scientist discover something no=one else knows,and will nobody believe him?Will he fancy the attractive single mother and will he be rebuffed,but eventually get through? Will the volcano erupt a few times and kill some unpleasant people before finally destroying the picture postcard town? Will the handsome scientist,the attractive single mother and the cute kids ride off into the sunset? I know what you are thinking-this is all very predictable so we had better drench it in CGI effects,which are rubbish of course,but theyll do for the public.Congratulations!You are a moviemaker! "},{"Title":"Good SPFX but......","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When it comes to really trite screenplays, this must rate as one of the worst films for a long time. A granny who has to be resuced, even a little lost dog - yuk. Typical of feelgood disaster movies, despite hundreds of people dying, everyone is extatic over the heroes rescue - big scenes of clapping etc. OK, the special effects were pretty good but so what - they usually are these days. The poor actors do their very best with an awfull script.This is a film for children or adults with a mental age of about 6.   "},{"Title":"I Loved It...","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies. The musical score is so moving. There aren't any love scenes per se, but rather little snippets of tender feelings that are starting to brew beneath the surface of the two main characters.  I find these small moments are more moving than any full-blown love scenes from other movies.  To me Dante's Peak is a love story that happens to have an emergency going on around it.  I found the entire thing totally superb.  I nearly died when I first saw the bridge collapse with the cars still on it.  I love how they filmed Linda Hamilton's face reflected in the truck window, totally mesmerized by the sight of the volcano erupting, also in the window.  That was a good touch.  That pyroclastic cloud looked really beautiful, in a dangerous sort of way.  This film gets my highest accolades. "}{"Title":"Exciting but without a very interesting storyline","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a OK film. I like Pierce Brosnan, and he was good in it and he played a scientist who was trying to convince the population of a small town in the midwest that the volcano above their town was going to explode in only a matter of time, but they refused to believe him. It finally does explode, and chaos comes about. If you like disaster films you will most likely enjoy this as it had good special effects with the lava and all. It was very fake though in some parts (as with most disaster films) when Brosnan and the family he is taking care of get in a canoe and paddle across an acid-contaminated river and the water begins burning through the sides of the canoe immediately (it would most likely take a few hours to do that in real life). But this was entertaining and worth your time unless you are terrified of volcanoes (as I am of tornadoes). Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Not as good as 'Volcano'","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another good after Bond Brosnan film, this joins the Thomas Crown Affair as one of his greats during his reign as the English agent. The plots good and easy to understand, it moves along very nicely and Hamilton (Terminator 2) offers good back up acting. It's one of my favourite disaster films and certainly a good movie, you should see it. "},{"Title":"Explosive! The sleeping giant erupts.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Very realistic special effects in this disaster yarn about a volcanologist(Pierce Brosnan) who tries to warn the citizens of Dante's Peak, Washington of impending doom. Volcanic fury turns a sleepy town into a chaotic disaster area. Simple plot, but dynamic effects. Excitement simmers. Brosnan is energetic, sincere and believable. Also  featured are Linda Hamilton and Charles Hallahan. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie, and I must say the visual effects are stunning. While the plot lacked twists, and dialogue lacked thought, and the character's lacked depth, I'd still give this movie a 7 out of 10. Pierce Brosnan was playing his usuall character, but ya gotta admitt, he's pretty good at it.  Linda Hamilton showed very good interpretation of the character and I thought she was a believable character.  The kids acted well, which I think is always necessary (if you're gonna have kids or pets in a film, they gotta be good actors).  The directing is amazing, though he had to deal with a somewhat lame storyline.This movie had almost everything comic moments; memorable quotes though some lines, while it is obvious they were intended to be memorable (it's my recipe for disaster) came off sounding lame; a love story in the background; heroic sacrifices; and suspenseful music to go along with the many tense scenes, which one may say were predictable but I don't care.I think this movie would have been nothing with out the effects, good acting, and good directing, but you can say that about any movie. "},{"Title":"A two-hour commercial....for volcano dust!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ..........Or one for General Motors! Must have been PERRIER water in that ice jug at the Town meeting, just after discovering water looking like root beer  coming out of your faucet. Utterly unwatchable for a near complete lack of credibility in just about every facet. Some good talent and painstaking effects lost in this production. One of those moments you wish you knew what we were in for. Glad it wasn't a rental or an outing.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful use of special effects","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I like this film quite a bit.  I think Pierce Brosman's performance as the geologist was outstanding.  Also were the neat special effects.  We had the volcano erupting and the lake filling up with hot acid (that sure would scare the dickens out of me if I were boating along the lake).  Watch this movie yourself and see how good it is. "},{"Title":"A bona-fide action disaster flick","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly I'd like to dispel the obvious and quite unnecessary comparisons with the film Volcano. By itself, Dante's Peak stands out as an impressive action flick with all the most important elements - a good, tense buildup, principle characters which you care about and good special effects.A word about the special effects - yes, I fully understand the comments about the model dam spilling over.. yes, that was quite un unfortunate addition.  However, there aren't many films which so successfully portray earthquakes, cars being tossed around, bridges being destroyed and the like. Overall, the special effects are superb, and the most important element - the volcano is a real sight to behold.There aren't many films which had the guts to make a granny wade through boiling acid, or to have the leading character's arm visibly broken with the bone protruding. Perhaps this gore is unnecessary but on the other hand, it shows that the director is not afraid to portray such extremes.The acting from Brosnan and Hamilton is superb and the romantic link is developed well and does not detract from the action.I really enjoyed this film, even seeing it on the small screen. It was a disaster movie with unique touches, and for me it gets 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Realistic Film","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the most realistic disaster films second only to Twister. Anyone who thinks otherwise needs to learn a little more about composite volcanoes before they critisize this movie. The Pyroclastic Flow was very real. The lahar (mudflow) was right on, and the ash clouds and triggering earthquakes were perfect. Even the Acid lake would really happen. The characters weren't great, but the old lady staying in her house against all logic was taken from an actual old man named Harry Truman who refused to leave his home at the base of Mt. St. Helens in 1980.There were only two things that were off. The lava flow wouldn't come out of that kind of volcano, and the dog would never have been able two survive on that rock, and wouldn't have been able to jump to the truck.  "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although critics hated this movie when it came out I still think that it's a great film. Brosnan reprises his 'cool' image once again and Linda Hamilton delivers a quality performance as the mayor of Dante's Peak. However both actors were slightly wasted as their real talents were not well-unearthed and the ending (I'm not into romantic finales but nevertheless) wasn't well developed and seemed all too quick. And that's another story - the end. If more time was spent developing it then the film would have done a lot better, I'm sure, although the fantastic effects compensate for any lapses. Anyway, I'd give this a 7, 8 on a good day. "},{"Title":"an excellent disaster movie","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie quite a long time ago, but i'd like to comment on it anyway.I think Dante's Peak is one of the best disaster films ever. It is much better and much more plausible than Volcano, which i totally hated. Of course this movie lacks credibility at times, but it is a very entertaining watch. The person who saves this movie is Pierce Brosnan, who gives a great performance. If he wouldn't be in it, i'd like it a lot less. Even though his developing romance with Linda Hamilton is predictable, the dialogue and acting make it good. Some of the action scenes were truly nail-biting, and the scene where they try to save the grandma is very touching.Although this movie is generally fairly predictable, there's something that just makes it better than other disaster films. I think that's because of the excellent casting, everyone seems to fit his role perfectly. The convincing acting jobs from everyone involved make us care for the characters, i believe that's what makes this movie better.So, if you want to see a good disaster film like they used to make them, with interesting characters, see Dante's Peak..  "}{"Title":"good disaster film","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I like these kinds of films. This movie wasnt as good as Twister , but it was still good. The acting was good. The special effects are awesome. It was a lot better than Volcano. The ending wasnt what i expected but i still enjoyed it. I would recommend this film to anyone who likes disaster films like Twister. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  1 on a scale of 10 for believability. Rarely do you get to see a major motion picture that is so absurdly unbelievable. The general plot is fine. The acting is fine. Actually, the dialog is fine. The problem really begins about 2/3 of the way through the movie when Dante's Peak blows her stack. After that, it is one implausible scene after another. And every scene as a variety of subimplausibilities. I figured it was about 1 per 15 seconds if you wanted to be picky. For the average intelligent person, 1 every 30 seconds out of sheer necessity to make sure anyone you are watching with couldn't possibly imagine that you might consider it realistic.NEVERTHELESS, I enjoyed the film. I really like Pierce Brosnan and I also really like Linda Hamilton. They were good together. The scenery is great. I liked the town. And, the build up to the climax is fairly well done. And, yes,  I was intrigued by the suspense. But, once the final action sequence began, you had better either close your eyes and plug your ears or else be prepared to suspend any possible disbelief you may have - because it will take all of it. "},{"Title":"Dante´s vision of calamity falling upon us should resemble this...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    There´s an analogy, told by Brosnan´s character, that defines this great movie. If you drop a frog in scalding water, he´ll try to jump, to get away from it. But when you boil  the water, slowly, with the frog already in it, the frog will dye, and that´s how the story, this story, goes.  Wonderful movie. Fine suspense, good plot (although not astonishingly original), good and well developed characters, good acting and believable special effects. And a fine soundtrack.  Pierce Brosnan is the man of the moment, no doubt about it. He is, by far, one of the best irish actors to appear on celluloid...and no one has yet seen his true potential. And this man knows his choices - he has the eye for detecting good scripts and good movies - from The Lawnmower Man, to Thomas Crown Affair.  Dante´s Peak is a movie about family. It portrays a small town where almost everybody would like to live in - cozy, small, nice, friendly. The delivering of a prize to the mayor of this town is a proof of that.  But before settling the viewer´s attention on Dante´s Peak, the director tells us what happenned to Brosnan's companion when a volcano somewhere in Colombia (?!) erupted. This introduces to the real undertone of the movie - it´s a tragic story, deep down.  Brosnan´s character (a vulcanologist - no kin to mr. Spock, he points out) warns the inhabitants of this town that something may be brewing beneath the earth. As usual, people do not believe him, as happens with every man or woman who tries to reveal new things or break news. This sets the tone for the rest of the movie...until, at last, something tragic happens.     The director showed a firm hand while shooting this story. It´s clear that he showed us and told us things exactly the way he wanted them to be showed or told. Ok, there is no surprise (at least not a big surprise) in the outcome of the story but there´s no need  for it. The sheer intensity of the events, the realism - all this is enough to grip the viewer from beginning to end. The menace to everyday normal life is tremendous, andfamilies must act accordingly or perish. The town perishes, some lives are lost - all due to lack of care and planning. So Dante´s Peak becomes, like Deep Impact, a warning.    Pierce Brosnan is great, Linda Hamilton is good enough, and the kids, the grandmother and the colleagues of Brosnan´s character are excellent.  The science behind the movie´s plot is accurate enough a la Hollywood, naturally.  When I saw this movie, I felt I was in front of a fine work. Money spent on this movie is well spent, as it teaches us many lessons - besides being a pure piece of entertainment.  I recommend it, I loved it. I wish there more movies like this one and Deep Impact -  very well crafted catastrophe movies, not to everyone´s liking, but good examples of how sucessfull a story like this can be when is well told.   "},{"Title":"Solid, enjoyable actioner","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can't understand the low ratings of this solid, well-crafted action movie.  Critics panned it when released, but IMO it has the edge on 'Volcano'.  Perhaps it just lacked a catchy tag line that the latter had.The plot is plausible (except the 'acid lake' -- that's just scientific nonsense), the acting is acceptable, and the special effects are, with a couple of minor exceptions, first class.  The exceptions are a couple of scenes during the pyroclastic flow that engulfs the town of Dante's Peak; some small models in that lot, quite obviously.More 'edge-of-seat' than Volcano.  Watch it -- it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was in my Top 5 for the 1997 films (next to Austin Powers & Titanic).  Great special effects and great actors make this an awesome action flick.  I'm still not sure on how the kids got up the mountain, though...they did kind of stretch the truth though, but hey, it's a movie. In the Hollywood VS Hollywood battle, Dante's Peak came out ahead of Volcano.  "},{"Title":"Yaaaaaaaaaaawn!!!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If I can think about a movie that deserves to be on MST3K,it's this one!Dante's Peak was so dull.Poor acting,boring characters with no personalities and you'd at least think that the good people will also end up dying.Oh,and not to mention that the sappy,emotional scenes should have been left on the cutting-room floor.The whole eruption was as threating as American super-hero cartoons for the kiddies.If you want GOOD disaster movies,watch Irwin Allen's Towering Inferno or Poseidon Adventure.Or Toho Studio's (a Japanese studio)Nihon Chimbosu/Tidalwave.They might have mediocre special FX,but they are worth-while! "},{"Title":"The best of the dueling mountains.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the summer of the explosive mountain movies,  my close friend and I, chose to see just one of the movies.  We made the big mistake of seeing FOX's VOLCANO.  Just last week,  my old science teacher as well as a close friend recommended DANTE'S PEAK.  When I rented it I was pleasantly surprised.  In it's own right,  VOLCANO is a good movie.  Compared to DANTE'S PEAK,  it sucks. 'Peak had a more believable plot as well as better special effects.  DANTE'S PEAK is clearly miles ahead of VOLCANO.  UNIVERSAL was right in breaking off its partnership with FOX on this one.  DANTE'S PEAK is an entertaining and very enjoyable disaster movie. "},{"Title":"I was sitting on the edge of my seat through out the movie","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I found Dante's Peak a very exciting, entertaining and interesting movie. I was on the edge of my seat through out the movie.In school I am studying volcanoes and earthquakes and this movie made me really understand what it must be like to in the situation of an eruption of a volcano. Dante's Peak also helped me to understand the science of volcanoes and how vulcanologist's can use different equipment like a robot called Spider legs Who can go down further into the volcano where it is not safe for humans . They also used a gas detector to identify what gas the the volcano was producing and a seismometer to predict when the volcano would erupt. It also taught me that a volcano can erupt at any time.I liked the part at the end when the the volcano erupted, there was a lot of action when Harry the vulcanologist and Rachel the mayor of Dante's Peak and her children were tyring to escape from the flowing lava and the ash cloud. They then drove into the mine to escape and got stuck there because the rock s all came crumbling down. They were eventually rescued a couple of days later, which was a reviling moment and a happy romantic moment because Harry and Rachel kissed!I sometimes found the movie unrealistic for example when Grahm and Lauren(Rachel's kids)drove up the mountain by themselves even though they are children. The lava also looked unrealistic and the lake had so much acid in it, it was eating into the boat. I think these parts were exaggerated. But overall I enjoyed the movie! "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak Reeks!","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You know who is going to die in White Sands director Roger Donaldson's predictable but explosive disaster epic Dante's Peak, co-starring Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton, long before the rogue volcano erupts and cremates a small Idaho resort town. This $100 million dollar plus opus is the second major Hollywood disaster flick to explode across the big-screen, trailing the Sylvester Stallone epic Daylight. Meanwhile, Dante's Peak imitates but never surpasses previous classics like the 1972 version of The Poseidon Adventure or the 1974 opus Earthquake. Interestingly, audiences will find little in the way of sex, nudity, violence, and profanity to complain about in this harmless, PG-13 rated, special effects laden melodrama.Brosnan plays volcanologist Harry Dalton who has just recovered from a South American blast that claimed his girlfriend's life. Four years later, as Dalton is about to embark on a vacation, his boss sends him off to the Pacific Northwest to check out a sleeping volcano. Dalton arrives in the small town at the foot of the volcano as its Mayor Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton of The Terminator) accepts an award for hailing her hamlet the second best place to live. When Dalton alerts them about the volcano, the townspeople start to fidget. They have just convinced an investor to erect a million-dollar business in their town. Dalton's boss rolls in not long afterward and calms their fears. He appreciates the damage that a false alarm can do and tells Dalton to take a hike. Dalton decides to stick around as much for the volcano as the pretty mayor.Daylight scenarist Leslie Bohem's less than molten script criss-crosses scenes from Steven Spielberg's Jaws and James Goldstone's When Time Ran Out. Dante's Peak turns out to be just as formulaic as both Jaws and When Time Ran Out. You know that the dog that gets lost will be rescued before the lava flows fry him. The characters that shrug at the idea that the volcano will ignite get their just comeuppance.Dante's Peak gets off to a riveting start with a volcanic eruption in South America, and then subsides as the filmmakers lay out the story and deploy their characters. Of course, Mayor Wando has been left high and dry by his husband and has two children to raise. Gradually, signs of danger appear and Dalton smells the ash in the air before the mountain blasts itself to smithereens. Two lusty teenagers die early when a hot springs pond scorches them alive. Despite solid computer evidence to the contrary that the volcano won't explode, Dalton keeps crying wolf until it is too late.The early matte shots of the volcano look rather cheesy, but the eruption sequence is as well done as the nuclear blast in Andrew Davis' Chain Reaction. Freeways collapse and buildings crash into rubble as extras dodge flying debris and howl in agony. Director Ronald Donaldson, who also helmed Species, The Getaway, and The Bounty, seems more preoccupied with hysteria than gut-wrenching shock tactics. Nothing really scary or gory jumps out at you in Dante's Peak. A couple of decent scenes stand out in an otherwise staple plot. A boat ride down a river turned into acid yields a chill or two, and your skin will crawl when Dalton legs it ahead of a lava flow.Dante's Peak suffers because the cast consists largely of unknowns, so you won't feel much sorrow when a character croaks. Nobody dies a genuinely nasty death as in either The Poseidon Adventure or Earthquake. Of course, Mayor Wando's children are thrust into harm's way so that Dalton and she can rescue them. Dante's Peak features a fearless grandmother that willing to risk death to save her relatives. Only toward the end when everything seems undeniably bleak does it look like our hero and heroine will survive this catastrophe. Although Dante's Peak is certainly no Twister, this potboiler should keep the kids entertained and might even occasionally distract adults, too. "},{"Title":"A must see (that is, if you want a good laugh)!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, I had a great time watching this movie!  I really did!  Not because it was a powerful special effects drama, but because me and my family watched it together, and spent the entire time laughing our asses off!  It is so bad!  Very bad!  We were mocking the hell out of it continuously!  I was glad I could get such a good laugh out of something so ridiculously serious. This reminds me of the time I watched Plan 9 from Outer Space with my dad.  We were cracking up the whole time.  Not only is this movie extremely overdone and EXTREMELY unrealistic, it also has very corny and laughable characters who are only there to serve as victims for the overkill of special effects.  We were placing bets on who was going to die and who wasn't. We all won because we bet on the dog's survival.  Scenes like the grandma on her deathbed, with her granddaughter saying Here grandma. Have my crystal. really p****d me off.  I wanted to take the crystal and stick it where the sun doesn't shine!  My dad, who is usually very tolerant of special effects bonanzas, eventually said to me This is beyond bul***it!. Of course, if you don't have a good sense of humor, and don't enjoy laughing at VERY stupid movies, you should avoid this at all costs!  "}{"Title":"AAAARRRRGGGGHHHH!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, this movie. Phew! To quote a critic whose name I forget This movie was like being tied to a post and beaten with a big wet sock.  I could not agree more. This movie was filled with problems. First of all Doesn't gas explode when heated? Not in the world of Dante's Peak apparently. Brosnan drives while in the middle of a big thing of lava, but escapes with his life, love, kids, and of course, his horrible movie's chances of being good hanging by a thread. Then they sing while in the midst of an 'acid lake' in a beat-up wooden boat. At least I think it was wood. For all I know it could have been titanium steel, the way it somehow held up in the boiling lake. Hey, I've got an idea! As long as you sing to the volcano, why not just put on a Broadway play for it! Geez! And finally (since I don't want to take up too much time writing about this terrible movie!) the grandmother was the stupidest person in the whole movie. They were just about to reach the docks so they could get out of the acid lake, and she get's out of the boat to make a swim for it! Talk about stupid! How could you feel sorry for her without laughing to yourself about her stupidity? Oh, and the ending in the mine shaft was one of the worst in Hollywood history. This movie gets a 1, though I would have given it a 0 if possible. "},{"Title":"Good example of how bad a movie really can be...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It was so terrible I can't believe how bad it was..It's a natural disaster movie and noone dies..FOUR PEOPLE, only two of which are of any significance, how unbelievable is that, typical sappy moment, with the Pierce Pathetic Performance Brosnan and Linda Least Desirable Female Hamilton kiss, Brosnan laid in car bloody and broken apart for 2 days and he climbed and walked away just with a limp, a dog with 2000 degree lava surrounding it jumped off a cliff into the back of a pickup truck, but the best without a doubt, was the giant volcanic cloud that moves in reality about 100-150 mph, BEING OUT RUN BY A PICKUP WITH FOUR FLAT TIRES..ugggggggghhhhhhhhh awful movie, if you waste your time, its your own fault...what a godawful movie "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak should have been labeled a comedy.","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My wife and I laughed so loud that she had to bite my shirt to keep from howling. The volcanic mountain, Dante's peak, never sat still in one place . . . it kept moving.The boiling to death of the Mayor's grandmother was too funny to believe. Of course, if you are an animal lover, you will most certainly appreciate the scene where the Golden Retriever was rescued from a rock three feet above a lava flow in which the rescuer's truck was sitting.Most of us living in the mountains know how to outrun a prognostic cloud (which moves at 200 MPH) start two days before the eruption and drive away like Bobby Unser in a big hurry.Aside from the unintentional comedy, and the childish screen writing, Dante's Peak was a movie. Unfortunately, when giving us a choice on how many numbers to award, you forgot to include the minus numbers . . . the producer clearly owes us points. "},{"Title":"this movie is not realistic","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I really think Dante's peak is an awful movie as we are learning about volcanoes in school and this is very bad way to my learning. there was parts in the movie that on my opinion opinionated as realistic or non-realistic. in my opinion there was some realistic facts. some are; explosive ash clouds, lava flow, school gym earthquake, the coloured water and the acid rain, there are also some special effects which i thought were not realistic. The car driving over lava, ash on trees and the granny in the acidic water pushing the boat. i don't like this movie as it is non realistic and the actors are bad. this movie is annoying to watch. "},{"Title":"Dante's Peak","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I didn't like Dante's Peak for many reasons,I thought it was unappealing to my age group and was very boring until the last half hour of the movie. The role played for Harry in Dante's Peak was a very bad choice , the character showed no emotion throughout the movie. Rachel's character and her two kids were pretty good roles they were the ones fill my satisfaction throughout the film. The movies was quite unrealistic in my eyes, I have never seen a car drive over a 1000 degrees liquid, have you? Some of the special effects over long distances of land were very unbelievably bad. An example of this is a scene were ash clouds swept over the forest. Overall I rate this movie 1/5 stars for its bad character roles, terrible script and woeful special effects. "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life B","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" That movie Volcano can suck my D, that split was whack son! DP4LYFE! Caint F's wit it. Peirce Bros is my BOI cousin! Lava, fire and ship, Split was crazy! Eh remember that first scene where that hot broad was all up in the hot Spring? She got cooked wit her BOI son. White people soup FO real! It's a good thing volcano's don't exist.Go see this.Pierce Bros done done it again. Remember that scene in contact when Jodie Foster was meditating on that Satellite dish B? "},{"Title":"Mind blowing!","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I personally think Dante's Peak is a brilliant movie. The casting is perfect, the script was well written and the graphics is what really makes this movie good.Pierce Brosnan really holds this film together. I think he's a great actor and played his part really well, a volcanologist who checks out the town, convinces his boss Dreyfus that the town should be on alert and wants to protect the citizens of Dante's Peak and even forms a relationship with the mayor, Rachel Wando and eventually becomes fond of her children Lauren and Graham. I'm not too fond of Linda Hamilton but she plays well in this film.Dante's Peak and Volcano were released the same year (1997) but Dante's Peak did better at the box office. I couldn't really get into Volcano, even after seeing it countless numbers of times. Dante's Peak is more accurate, unlike Volcano. The director wanted to bring in real volcanologists for Dante's Peak to make scientific accuracies. They thought the film would sell better by adding these scientific accuracies and show the audience what would really happen during an eruption. Now, I've seen a lot of comments about how there are tons of mistakes in Dante's Peak. No movie is perfect and they're not going to add every single accuracy into a movie. They are allowed to approach the film however they want too. The pyroclastic cloud at the end is what really gets to me when I watch this film. Every time I watch it, when Dalton is driving away from the pyroclastic cloud, I always think for a minute they aren't going to make it, even though I know what's going to happen. They did an outstanding job on the graphics, looks so real.I have to say that Dante's Peak is one of my all time favorite movies. I've seen it possibly over 200 times over the last 12 years and still love it. It's a brilliant movie and I'm glad the director decided to do it after debating for a year if they should do the movie or not. It was his best move. I wish movies like this were still being made. Now we have stupid, pointless movies like Disaster Movie that I have no intention on watching, although I hate to say I have seen it, and hated it. I would rate Dante's Peak 1000 stars but unfortunately it only goes up to 10.For anyone who likes disaster movies, I recommend Dante's Peak.10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A vulcanologist arrives at a countryside named Dante's Peak after his boss instructs him to investigate the possibility of a dormant volcano (the Dante's Peak) getting active again in that region. As story progresses, we see that Dalton is getting increasingly convinced that the volcano might blow up but his boss is reluctant to declare an emergency in the city yet (because of possibility that if the volcano finally does never erupt, the real estate prices will plummet anyway and the city might loose a huge financial investment deal). Unfortunately, the common residents of the area know nothing about it until very late. Finally, when Dante's Peak does erupt, the city panics, some does not survive the catastrophe, including Dalton's boss and for Dalton and the mayor of the city (who falls in love with Dalton) and her children, it becomes a race against the pyroclastic cloud to save their own lives.Good volcano film, with all your good clichéd actors and effects. But, it's script is flawed.Rated PG-13 for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Since when do trucks have snorkel's? Watchable big budget disaster flick.","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is set four years after United States Geologist Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) lost his girlfriend Marianne (Walker Brandt) to an erupting volcano & starts as his boss Dr. Paul Dreyfus (Charles Hallahan) calls him to go to the small Northern Cascade town of Dante's Peak to carry out some basic checks. Harry travels to Dante's Peak & quickly becomes convinced that the volcano overlooking the town which has laid dormant for years is about to erupt. At first no-one believes him & the townsfolk don't want to scare local businessmen away from the area so try to keep it quiet, unfortunately Harry is right & the volcano erupts with the entire town of Dante's Peak in it's destructive path...Directed by Roger Donaldson this fairly entertaining big budget natural disaster film which demonstrates how vicious the fury of mother nature can be is one of two halves, the first half is rather talky & is there merely to pass the time until the second half when the volcano actually erupts so the big budget special effect set-piece action scenes & destruction can begin. The script follows the usual disaster film rules, it focuses in on one person who know's whats coming yet no-one believes them & their attempts to warn people, it also focuses in on a normal family to add a bit of human interest & in particular two cute little kids, there's even a bit of dramatic incident when a couple of the main character's die although you don't really care that much as most of them are pretty clichéd. I am not sure if Dante's Peak is scientifically accurate or not although one would suspect that factual liberties have been taken in the name of entertainment, the acid lake at the end for instance just doesn't sound that plausible to me. Once the action kicks in Dante's Peak becomes a lot of fun amid all the destruction, near misses & special effects although it takes quite a while to get there & the journey there isn't entirely pleasant. Also someone should tell the makers of Dante's Peak that lava has a temperature in excess of 1000 °C & trying to drive through it with rubber tyres would just not work. At all.Unusually the special effects in Dante's Peak is a mix of traditional model work, on set mechanics & effects & CGI computer effects rather than if it was made these days as it would almost certainly be entirely CGI. The mixture of special effects work highlights the respective strengths & weaknesses, the model work for instance sometimes doesn't quite match up to the on-set stuff as the shades of colour of cars & the light in the sky can differ slightly between shots & of course CGI can at times just look like a bad computer graphic but overall I did like the mixture of effects work & the budget was suitably high enough for them to be of a good standard throughout. The final forty odd minutes features plenty of action & destruction from exploding helicopters to rivers of lava, from raging rivers to acid lakes, from collapsing Churches to collapsing freeways, from crashing cars to daring rescues, from out-driving eruptions to collapsing mines to the destruction of an entire town there's enough packed into the final forty minutes to keep anyone entertained, it's just a shame about the first hour or so that feels rather pedestrian & forgettable by comparison.With a supposed budget of about $104,000,000 this had a lot of money spent on it, mostly during the final forty odd special effects laden minutes I would assume. Filmed around California the actual St. Helens volcano was in Washington & was digitally added to various shots while the town used was in Idaho. The acting is alright, Brosnan & Hamilton make for a fairly forgettable & dull duo while the kids are annoying.Dante's Peak is a perfectly watchable big budget disaster flick showcasing how savage mother nature can be, while the last forty minutes is undoubtedly where the majority of the entertainment value lies the film as a whole is decent enough. "},{"Title":"Wasted opportunity","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This could so easily have been much better. It's obvious that a large fraction of the budget was spent on the effects, but realistic destruction scenes do not make a good film. Had some of that effects budget gone into storyline and screenplay, it could have worked out much better. As it is, this film could appear in the dictionary under formulaic.You can't really fault the cinematography or the acting - it's just all badly let down by the script. "}{"Title":"Dante's Pit","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say, this could have been the perfect opportunity to advertise a four wheel drive, because I never realised that you could drive your 4WD across a lava flow or dodge flying boulders.If you are tempted, I mean really tempted to watch the video, place a peg on your nose, because the movie smells worse than sulphuric acid. Just as well they haven't invented the smellyvision. "},{"Title":"I'll explain why I watched it on the theater","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit this (even though I'm not very proud of it) I went to see Dante's peak on the theater. I certainly knew it wouldn't be a masterpiece and I was pretty sure that this was hardly a highly intelligent movie experience but I was so inspired by this Brosnan guy who had just made his debut as James Bond two years earlier and not only because of his sake but because of a chance to see him together with Linda Hamilton who is naturally one of the finest actresses around. My third point is that if a film has an extravagant special effects in the most important role, it wouldn't work very well in the television. Therefore if the movie sucks then you can at least enjoy the terrific audiovisual effect feast on the big screen. This was pretty much it, stupid movie with one nice actor and actress, one dog and superb effects. If you like it, you'll love Twister. The effects are just as fantastic and the storyline is, well, just as ingenious. I saw it on the theater too, shame on me. "},{"Title":"Was the script written in a weekend?","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really think there is a computer somewhere that comes with a template for movie scripts.  I think this movie was written from that template.  The characters development never got deep, the plot was predictable.  The action sequences once the volcano started erupting were exciting, but I kept expecting something even bigger at the end.  They go into a mine and then they're rescued, then it's over.  It just dies at the end. Yuck. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton are wasted in this film.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The key to a good romantic adventure story is a realistic script that makes the lead characters the focus of the plot.The director of Dante's Peak forgot this rule.Instead of a story about two people rediscovering a loving relationship in the midst of a natural disaster,we have an erupting volcano chewing up the scenery in shot after shot.Please Mr.Director give us time to know and care about the live actors then dazzle us with special effects.  "},{"Title":"Volcanic eruptions aren't the only disasters in this film","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The title contains a literary allusion to the Renaissance author of the Divine Comedy. The writers of this film have earned themselves a place in one of the circles of hell for this inaccurate, unbelievable, and ultimately uninteresting movie.Dante's Peak actually refers to a fictitious town at the foot of a dormant volcano in the cascades. The volcano begins showing potential signs of life, so the USGS sends their best man, Harry Dalton (Pierce Brosnan) to investigate the situation. Harry's been battling his own demons since his girlfriend, Marianne (Walker Brandt) was killed four years earlier during an eruption in South America. Harry meets up with the town's mayor, Rachel Wando (Linda Hamilton), and quickly has cause to believe that the volcano will erupt. He is working out an evacuation plan with the town council when his boss, Paul Dreyfuss (Charles Hallahan), arrives and puts the kibosh on the whole thing with words of wisdom about not creating a panic until they have more evidence. By the time Harry manages to convince Paul that an eruption will indeed take place, it begins before they can safely evacuate the town. To further complicate matters, Rachel's children, Lauren (Jamie Renee Smith) and Graham (Jeremy Foley), have gone off to the volcano to convince their grandmother, Ruth (Elizabeth Hoffman), that she should leave the mountain, which she stupidly and stubbornly refuses to do. Harry and Rachel race against time, lava, ash, and pyroclastic flows to save the kids and their grandmother from the evil volcano.I'm not a vulcanologist, but even as a layman, I had to question the scientific accuracy of the film to the point where I did a little research. I discovered whole websites devoted to pointing out the inaccuracies of this film. Sadly, they start in the opening scene where a lava bomb burns through the roof of the truck and lands on Marianne's head, killing her. While you would indeed die if a lava bomb landed on your head, steel has a higher melting temperature than liquid lava, and a solid piece of rock flying through the air would have cooled to the point where it couldn't burn through steel. The scene where the hikers are boiled in the hot springs is also way off base. Hot springs are a result of magma heating rocks which in turn heat the water. Unless the magma came in direct contact with the water, the water would heat gradually enough that any bather would have plenty of time to get out before getting burnt. And if the magma had come in direct contact with the water, the resulting steam explosion would have ripped away half the mountain - end of movie. Likewise, no lake would turn to acid that quickly, and even if it did, it couldn't eat through a metal boat in a matter of minutes, nor would it cause burns that severe on flesh covered in denim, which is a pretty heavy material. Lastly, a pyroclastic flow is hot gas, which will go anywhere it can get in. They couldn't have hidden from it in the mine unless they had been able to seal the entrance so that it was airtight, which would have meant they would eventually run out of air themselves. Someone didn't do much research in writing this screenplay.To further stretch our credibility, are we to believe that Harry didn't notice something coming through the roof of his truck, or smell the burning hair and flesh as his lover expired without a sound? Rachel doesn't see the faces of the hikers boiled in the hot springs, yet she claims to not recognize them (she knows every ass in town?). Apparently, swarms of earthquakes and deformation of the ground, two of the most common signs of an impending eruption, fail to convince Paul that one is about to happen, yet when Harry shows him a glass of dirty water he's convinced (I'd be worried every time they cleaned the water mains if it worked that way). Are we really to believe that two children under the age of twelve could drive a truck up a mountain while it's erupting? How do you outrun a pyroclastic flow, which can easily outdo a car, on four flat tires? And considering Harry nearly gets crushed as the mine continues to collapse, and the others don't have much food or water, how are they able to walk out of the mine with little or no ill effects? We've definitely stretched the limits of credibility beyond breaking here.Unfortunately, the acting fares little better than the writing. Neither Brosnan nor Hamilton manages to rise above the material. While they don't rate much chemistry with each other, they do at least manage to make you care about their characters, as does Hallahan, whom you route for even though you know he's doomed. Not so for Hoffman, who is irritating from her first moment on the screen until her last. Smith and Foley present two of the most annoying kids you could imagine, and in the end, you wish Harry and Rachel had simply left them all to their fate on the mountain. The USGS team is enough to make you glad you don't work with them, and their performances don't rate individual mention.The only good part of the movie was the special effects. The scene where the lava comes through Ruth's living room wall was good, and the actual explosion of the mountain was awesome. Pity you have to sit through such a bad movie to get to them.No doubt a movie which portrayed a volcanic eruption accurately could be made entertaining. Most movies tend to sacrifice accuracy for entertainment value. Unfortunately, this movie sacrificed both. "},{"Title":"The pain, the pain!!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Together with Lost in Space, this is definitively one of the worst movies from the 90's.It took me 4 tries to see this movie to the end. When I sat down to see it the first time, I got halfway through it. When the action finally started I had to stop the movie to go out and cool down. This must be one of the most insulting movies ever! Both to the viewers and the main actors. I wont bother writing all the stupid stunts that happens, many of the other reviewers has said it so well before me.I decided I would see the rest of the movie, but I had to stop it over and over.Its often the expectations that ruins a movie, and with this movie I had somewhat high expectations.If you have not seen it yet, but are planning to do so...Do it with NO expectations whatsoever, then maybe you can laugh your way through.  "},{"Title":"Ugh! Another thriller about volcanoes! Disaster!","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Dante's Peak' was one of the volcano disaster films that emerged in the mid/late-1990s. It's just what you would expect out of the typical thriller movie. You're introduced to the characters typically a male and female lead who will probably get together by the end of the film, a brewing disaster usually followed through with some sort of science lesson, and a fast-paced and action-packed scenario typically involving something natural like killer snakes or dinosaurs or terrorists or volcanoes or aliens or snowstorms or tornadoes... You can pretty much make a generated storyline based on the genre. Enter number of characters, at least one male and one female. Enter natural disaster. Hit submit to get your plot.Dante's Peak is no exception to the rule. You can pretty much guess the conclusion here. Hey, if you like thrillers, see this film. If you don't like them, then don't bother. I wish I hadn't been dragged off to the cinema to see this. Talk about a waste of a few dollars... "},{"Title":"A Boring, Predictable Film...","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   Around the same time Dante's Peak was released, another campy film named Volcano with Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche was released. I find both of these films to not be a good campy film, and was extremely disappointed in Dante's Peak, after hearing some good things about it. Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton are both fine actors, but the script, special effects and characters are predictable and dumb, and there are no thrills in this film. Not even campy thrills.2/5 stars --John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Pointless action flick","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan leads an otherwise unremarkable cast in a volcano thriller that never really grabbed me.  Linda Hamilton proves her limited acting range, and although there are some breathtaking special effects, they never integrate into the plot effectively.  A predictable script, except for an uncharacteristically realistic twist, followed by an even more uncharacteristically fantastic last scene, never moves away from its linear path into anything approaching interesting.  "},{"Title":"Bombs Away!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was a bomberoo if ever I saw one. Corny, predictable, if you can manage to stay awake through the standard disaster film opening 20 minutes you will continue to be disappointed. The studio should have taken the money they spent on this on and played one shot of Red/Black on the roulette table at Vegas. The odds were better and so was the payoff. Brosnan looks good as always, but you keep waiting for some of the magic from the Bond films to come through and save this one. It doesn't happen. Linda Hamilton is still a favorite of mine, but wow... she had to have something to work with here... and between the story/plot and writing.... she was doomed with the rest of the film. Read about the actors comments themselves from interviews and they admit that this was just a paycheck for them. There are just so many good movies out there, I hate wasting the time on these clunkers. The only way that this is watchable is being snowed into a cabin with only one channel on the tube. "}{"Title":"dreadful, terrible, awful, every other bad adjective","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've ever viewed in my lifetime..and I've seen a lot of movies. I was forced to watch this movie for my Physical Geography class and it was horrible. The storyline was garbage, the acting was dreadful and you had to wait forever for the volcano to erupt. This movie gets a big fat zero out of 10. Please for the love of god, no one see this movie.Mr. Dick, I will forever resent you for showing us this movie ) "},{"Title":"Read a book instead.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the worst films ever made. Ever. The script at best simply reiterates the plot. At worst is drivel. It draws on historical events in an attempt to create believability in the film's plot however, there is no consistency of science throughout. My favourite scene is where Pierce is driving a metal fishing boat across an unusually rapidly formed lake of sulphuric acid. In the boat with him are the mayor of the town (who also works in a coffee shop) (?) Her 2 kids and their grandma. Halfway across the lake the acid has dissolved the off-board motor's propeller, although not the base of the boat. He proceeds to row the boat straight ahead to the shore with just his right hand wrapped in his jacket. The grandma jumps ship and walks the last 10 meters screaming, up to her waist in the acid. In the next scene her jeans are torn apart by burns (sorry I'm laughing now). Actually maybe the scenes where Bond drives a jeep style truck through a river without dying, then over flowing, molten lava with the tires catching fire but not actually melting are my favourites, it's hard to decide really. The saddest thing is that I lost about 2 hours of my life watching this on TV the other day, half an hour registering and writing this now and that there's no way on earth that this mess of a film is going to create enough enthusiasm in someone to actually read my carefully constructed thoughts. "},{"Title":"don't bother -Spoilers","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie might have the worst script I've ever seen.  It was purely an excuse to show off the special effects, which by the way are decent for 1997.  But the movie's storyline is SO AWEFUL, and the ability for the stars to escape harm SO UNBELIEVABLE, that the five minutes of special effects are just not worth it.  The only thing that could have saved this movie would have been to brutally kill Brosnan, Hamilton, and the dog.  I can't believe I wasted my time.  Don't make the same mistake. "},{"Title":"All effects, bad acting, and annoying script, makes DANTE a dull Movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In a string of pretty BAD volcano pictures in 1997, DANTE'S PEAK is by far the worst. Although it may seem more likely that a dormant volcano comes back to life than a volcano that unconvincingly pops up in the middle of L.A., DANTE has taken the lava-toasted taco for the worst of the annoying strain. Pierce Brosnan's unintentionally funny dialog was by far the worst, aside from those annoying over-acting kids. I was especially annoyed with the kids, who clearly couldn't act their way out of a paper bag. Linda Hamilton-well-lets just say she's seen better days. The effects, on the other hand, exceeded that of VOLCANO and that, my friends, is where DANTE peaks over its competition. Thats all. Nowhere else.  *1/2 out of four. -You know its BAD! ITS BAD! "},{"Title":"Volcanus Eruptus","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In 1997 two disaster films, Volcano and Dante's Peak galloped toward the Hollywood finish line in the hopes of becoming the first Volcanus Eruptus to explode into movie theaters.  Dante's Peak won that race by a nose with it's release date coming in February, and Volcano's coming in April.  In the end it doesn't matter which film won the race as both are nothing more than a couple of tired old nags that belong in the glue factory.In the seventies Hollywood gave us a satchel full of Disaster films such as this.  Most of those were usually filled with an underwhelming all star cast placed smack dab in the middle of some impending doom whether it was jetliners with holes poked in them, skyscrapers lit up like a blow torch, overturned ocean liners, or earthquakes rocking the California coast.  In the nineties, we were still getting the disaster films, but the all-star has been casts seem to have been done away with. Instead we get a few well known cast members sleep walking through an exercise in how to survive nature's peril.  In Dante's Peak they throw Pierce Brosnan who is moonlighting from his 007 job along with Terminator cast off Linda Hamilton at us to gawk at.  Brosnan should have just taken the time off and Hamilton should have looked for another gig.Resident volcano expert Harry Dalton(Brosnan) comes to the town of Dante's Peak to find out whether or not the local volcano is still dormant or is ready to pop it's cork.  Harry, you see, was in love with another volcano expert he worked with who just loved to get up close and personal with them. Unfortunately for Harry, she gets bopped in the head during one such explosion and that's the end of her.  I have good theory as to why this was written into the story line.  It helps explain Brosnan's woeful unattached acting performance.  Since he's supposed to be moping over his lost love, he can now mope through the whole film and he excels at it.Linda Hamilton is the Mayor of Dante's Peak.  Unlike her character of Sarah Connor in the Terminator films who took action when things weren't looking too good, as Mayor and Widow Rachel Wando she does nothing much more than run around the mountainside looking worried and fretting about her kids and her mother-in-law who lives on the mountain.  The mother-in-law, Ruth, is played by Elizabeth Hoffman, and is supposed to be just like that guy who stuck around Mount St. Helens till the bitter end refusing to move from his home.  Here it just enables the writers to throw in the idiotic plot development where the kids and Rachel have to go and rescue her just as Dante's Peak is spewing ash and lava all over the countryside.  It's supposed to add suspense and excitement, but only serves to up the stupid level.  For one thing, Ruth is annoying enough that we don't care whether she is rescued or not, and second, the two kids (Jamie Renée Smith and Jeremy Foley) have a high annoyance level of their own and we end up rooting for Dante's Peak instead of them.One thing they have held over from the disaster films of the seventies is the terrible on screen chemistry of the two main love interests (see Charlton Heston and Karen Black in Airport 1975, Charlton Heston and Genevieve Bujold/Ava Gardner in Earthquake, Paul Newman and Faye Dunaway in The Towering Inferno, Jack Lemmon and Brenda Vaccaro in Airport 1979).  I can understand that it can be difficult to develop a love interest when certain doom is clouding the horizon, but I'm of the impression that if Harry and Rachel were to meet under normal circumstances they would shake each other's hands and be on their way.There are truly some ridiculous scenes in this film.  These are the moments we would usually just overlook and go on if we were at least being entertained somewhat by the proceedings but since we are not, they stand out like the Rock of Gibraltar.  We get people in a jeep riding a lava flow, Pierce Brosnan paddling a boat with his hand in an acid filled lake and not being any worse the wear for it, we get a couple of cute dog moments, we get a ridiculous scene of our cast trying to outrun a cloud of ash in a jeep and so forth and so on.Also on hand is Charles Hallahan as Brosnan's doubting Thomas boss Paul Dreyfuss who is made to believe in the eruption only when it's too late to do anything about it.  There's always one such character in these types of films, but at least Hallahan's doubts come from logical assumptions instead of the blatant idiocy usually given these characters.  At least that was refreshing if nothing else is.There is nothing about Dante's Peak that you'll believe for one second. Everything about it is below par, and not worth one second of your time. If you want to watch a volcano in action, I suggest reading something about Mount St. Helens.  Even if such books don't entertain you, at least you'll learn something important  Stay away from Hollywood films about volcanic eruptions.My Grade D "},{"Title":"More Cheese than Domino's Pizza !!!!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Dante's Peak is very predictable in its plot and storyline. The main character's wife is killed and he becomes a recluse(like this scenario hasn't happened before!) Of course the title of the movie is the same name of the town which is a Redneck Pompeii about to happen complete with lily white charm and gumdrop smiles.But what's really irritating is when the whole town refuses to leave until the last second when the volcano explodes! Is there any intelligence in this town or they just don't believe the laws of nature and the laws of averages?! Since this podunk, white-trash hamlet doesn't believe in the Law of Averages, Dante belches out soot, ash, steam and lava, it's that precise moment, when the whole village packs up and heads for the hills. Or in the case of this godawful movie, scream and run about in a frenzy like headless chickens! One family was so consumed with fear that they left their child behind! WTF?! Look I've seen videos of 9/11 and even those people didn't run amok that way! But that isn't why I hated this movie.But wait there's more!!! What really makes this movie suck is the Mayor's dips*&t children no older than 12 rescuing their grandmother on the mountain where volcanic ash and lava is spewing about. Duh! that's a genius idea! NO! IT ISN'T! Another moment where this Dante's Mistake shines is when the Pierce and the Mayor follow the children up into the mountains while in a heavy-duty SUV that fords the river.But wait there's more!!! Several desperate,retarded, village idiots in a fit of blind panic of primal intuition decided to play follow the leader into the damn river...IN THEIR CARS! Which leads to the part of the mountain that has lava flowing down it. WTF?! Thus, proving that evolution passed these country bumpkins by at least 1.3 million years. Speaking evolution, by the looks of things, Dante's Peak sounds like they never even heard of the concept of EVOLUTION. But wait there's more!!!! When our main characters have rescued Grandma they are feet away from molten lava when and should've been vaporized. Not only the same damn thing should've happened to the fish in lake which turned to acid. Not only that, but shouldn't the characters suffocate from the thick blinding ash that has covered everything. Why was this movie made...I don't know! "},{"Title":"WARNING! This movie is a disease!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Everything that can be done wrong in a disaster movie is done so here. This movie has so many unrealistic elements you could cry.  How about a pick-up on fire truck driving through killer hot lava? Or how about two small kids driving a big four wheel drive truck up a mountain where airborne ash makes visibility zero? And I just love how time is eliminated as a factor here, sure, they talk about not having time, but I guess there's always time for hugging, running after dogs and collecting old photographs.  Nevermind the volcano erupting. Even the effects aren't that good.  Model dams with tapwater just aren't as scary as real ones. Pierce Brosnan has kept his James Bondish skill of always being able to get out of a though situation and is most likely the toughest actionhero-geologist ever. This movie is a catastrophe!  I can't say it loud enough. Do not waste your time, see Volcano instead, it will provide what Dante's Peak falsely promises.  If you see both, you can see the clearest example I can think of how to and how not to make a movie about a volcano.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining - no more, no less","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's amazing to me that no matter how many times and in what amount Hollywood manages to cram in the most overused clichés into one film, they always seem to be entertaining at some level. It's the effects, of course, that saves them, and this film is yet another disaster movie - albeit on a smaller scale - filled with effects and screaming people. What I have to say is that this film has some REALLY well made effects. It actually looks like an actual little town has been used to simulate a volcanic eruption.Then, of course, there's the ol' I'm-the-best-darn-expert-there-is-but-nobody-believes-me crap and for once I wish the dog could just die (a great no-no in American film). But, it's entertaining...I'll grant it that. "},{"Title":"Nightmare is in your living room","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Loodicris collection of movie clichés with a special effects department gone berserk in what is today routine ingredients.The movie is a strange hybrid - something between a naive Lassie movie and a science fiction alien invader movie from the 50's with few opportunities for the characters to make an impression and use their talent for character building.Whatever urged Bosnan and Hamilton to waste their talent on this is beyond comprehension.I still don't know what the staff wanted to tell us with this epic.The moviegoer's nightmare during this trial surely surpasses by far that of the unlucky citizens of Dantes' Peak.I give it minus 1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Small-Scale 'Volcano'","Date":"3 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In the summer of dueling volcanic eruptions, 'Volcano' comes out ahead of Dante's Peak.  This movie is more of an intimate volcano movie.  We don't care about the characters any less, though, and both Brosnan and Hamilton are wasted.  Everyone who is marginally bad gets killed  The F/X are good, perhaps better than 'Volcano', but at the end you just shrug your shoulders and wonder why they bothered. "}{"Title":"more like the sort of thing that you'd have to watch in Dante's Inferno","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" They must have paid Pierce Brosnan a LOT of money to get him to star in this dreck. The storyline is a total cliché (scientist warns town about volcano, they don't listen, volcano erupts and kills some people, hero survives with his friends). The whole thing must be an outright embarrassment for everyone involved. Plan 9 from Outer Space was at least so bad that it was funny. Dante's Peak is only so bad that it makes your eyes roll, what with sappy relationships and vomit-inducing reminders of the human spirit. HOW MANY DISASTER MOVIES CAN THEY POSSIBLY MAKE? One goal that all people will have to have in the near future will be avoiding this movie at all costs. There are plenty of B-movies that don't insult your intelligence, like The Brain that Wouldn't Die. "},{"Title":"What Else Can I Say? It Sucked.","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Mmmmkay. First off I'd like to say that we watched this in science class to see how volcanoes explode, and I'm mad. I want a reason. I want vengeance. I want my 104 minutes back dammit! This movie had the worst plot ever, predictable to the last minute, and no good acting what-so-ever. Whoever wrote the script for this needs to be struck by lightning. This movie is action fodder. There's no romantic interaction for Rachel and Harry, the kids going up the mountain was the most friggin stupid thing I've ever seen done in a movie, and the kentucky fried grandma part was uncalled for. If you need to see a good action movie, count this out.Notes -Why can't the grandma survive and everyone else dies? That would be cool.-The volcano needs it's own credit.-Peirce Brosnan must've really been tight for money.-I was expecting Rachel to be prettier.-Any movie where the characters say Safe and Desirable in the first five scenes is doomed to be crappy.I give this movie 20 burnt popcorns out of 20 possible well-cooked popcorns. (That's like negative 20 in contrast to positive 20.) Don't waste your time with this movie. I WANT Vengeance!!!! "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE WAS HORRIBLE","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life.  Someone should tell Pierce Brosnan that not only is not James Bond anymore, but he wasn't even a very good James Bond in the first place.  Linda Hamilton's only other REAL credit is the Terminator, need I say more?  The Grandmother jumps into an acid lake.  WHAT KIND OF LOGIC IS THAT?  The 10-year-old kid can drive a standard, but can't figure out how to turn on the windshield wipers.  Do NOT watch this movie unless you are fully prepared to be completly turn off at the first moment. "},{"Title":"One of the worst disaster films ever created in the history of film. 1/2* out of ****.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  DANTE'S PEAK (1996) 1/2*Starring Pierce Brosnan, Linda Hamilton, Jamie Renee Smith, Jeremy Foley and Elizabeth Hoffman Director Roger Donaldson   Running Time 112 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for disaster violence and gore)By Blake French	Dante's Peak is a disaster of a disaster flick. That is a cheap joke, but the movie sure wasn't cheap to make. Massive pyrotechnics, state of the art special effects, some of the biggest names in the movie business, all contribute to one big fat number to the production cost. It is a movie with such little intelligence and emotional significance it is hard to sit through the film's overly long running time without laughing at its stupidity. This is one of the worst films I have seen in quite sometime.	Instead of the story, lets skip right to the chase. How about starting with the flawed characters. Take for instance the grandmother, Ruth. Her character is all but a puppet of the plot. Ask yourself these questions and notice the answers are only present to place the other characters in more tension rising jeopardy Why would Ruth refuse to leave her cottage when the town is being destroyed by volcanic material? To provide the characters with a reason to travel up the mountain to save her and put themselves in more danger. Unfortunately, the film is so stupid it cant even capture a rescue correctly. Ruth's grandchildren (10-12 years old,) take their parents vehicle, drive through the volcanic soot, and somehow manage to find their way to the cottage, yet they cant turn on the windshield wipers in the car. And lets not forget to mention the two main characters, Harry Dalton and Rachel Wando, whose personalities are instantly obvious. We know who is going to die from the beginning just judging from difficulties in personalities.	This entire production is held together by pure foolishness. Just look at the film's extreme stupidity--here are a few examples of how dumb and or desperate the writers actually get · Harry drives his truck directly through a moderately deep river due to an overcrowding of traffic, and makes it across with few difficulties.· The family's dog, Ruffy, disappears near the start of the volcanic eruption and somehow manages to appear out of nowhere for his heroic family rescue sequence. · Harry and crew drive through a platform of molten lava.· The concept of the characters waiting till there's a river of red hot lava flowing through the living room of their cottage before they decide its time to run. 	Dante's Peak  is so bad it doesn't even offer any surprise when the volcano finally does blow its top. The film foreshadows the eruption with so many elements it is almost hard not to ask yourself why they even bothered with the production in the first place. Here are some examples of elements foreshadowing a Volcanic disaster · First of all, why would anyone make a movie about a volcano about to erupt if it wasn't going to erupt in an all out action finale filed with special effects? · Animals are dying everywhere on the mountain for unnatural reasons.· While swimming in the mountain's springs, two lovers are killed when the water dramatically heats up.· We see water boiling in the mountain.· The mountain shows strange activities while a man just so happens to be testing its activity levels.· Sulfur dioxide is found in the city's water supply.Now here is some dialogue foreshadowing the volcano's explosion· This mountain means business.· 98% of these are false alarms.· When is this mountain ready to blow. · If the volcano did blow it would reach here within a minuteOf course the filmmakers couldn't resist but to throw in a romantic subplot. The following actions and or conversations all attempt to develop romantic chemistry between Brosnan and Hamilton· Harry's and Hamilton's characters sit down in the evening and nonchalantly discuss romance in their past.· The two take a peaceful walk together in the evening while one asks the other if they can stay longer.The special effects in this picture are also quite lame. The erupting volcano looks like a still photo of something out of national geographic. We do get to see buildings fall apart and fires start, but that isn't as exciting as the scene in which Harry outruns a cloud of volcanic smoke speeding towards him-not. This may be the worst disaster film ever made, but at lest it still contains decent performances.Brought to you by Universal Pictures. "}]