[{"Title":"What a great movie!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" OK, for all you people who came from smalltown, America who are complaining about this, you should really think about it. This was a really great movie, that shows that you have it all if you just take a look at what you think you are missing. I grew up in Southern Ca, and i moved to a small town when i was 21, but even growing up in a town just shy of a million people, i got an appreciation for it when i left that i would have never had, had i stayed there. This was a great movie, one i would recommend to anyone looking for a good way to spend an evening. not only does it show that a movie can be good without being raunchy and filled with sex, its worth the time that you spend watching it. I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story, wonderful performances, wonderful movie","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  In 1998, Tim McCanlies had a crazy idea.  He made a movie about a tiny town in the middle of nowhere, in which no one gets killed, nothing gets blown up, no one has sex, and there aren't any aliens from outer space.  Thank goodness he saw his crazy idea through; the result is a fabulous movie that I saw in the theater in 1998, and I am not sure I have seen a better movie since then.The setting of the movie is the fictitious town of Dancer, located in Southwest Texas, where the counties are bigger than the states in the northeast and the people are outnumbered by rattlesnakes.  The movie begins on Friday, when four boys are graduating from high school.  We learn that, while they were in junior high school, they made a solemn vow that as soon as they graduated, they were going to get on the next bus to California to make their mark on the world.  Easy to say when you're in junior high, and graduation is years away.  But now it's here, and the bus is pulling out on Monday morning.  The question is whether any of the boys will follow through.That's pretty much the plot.  What's so special?  Simple the relationships between the boys, between each of them and their family members, and between the folks in the town.  This movie, like all great movies, is about the characters' reactions to the circumstances they are in.  The characters are real, fleshed out not in bold strokes but in nuances, and their actions, not always predictable, are always believable.  Most of us have faced the decision whether to leave the town that we grew up in.  It is fascinating to watch these teenagers begin to grow into men -- at an accelerated pace, because of their childhood pledge.Someday, when you are at the video store and you don't know what to get, you will see this on the shelf.  Get it.  You will be very, very happy. "},{"Title":"If you know and don't hate small-town life, you'll enjoy it","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Before getting the movie, I was puzzled at the sharp disparity in the comments here.  Now I think I understand them!A character in the movie says something like this Some people aren't meant to live in a small town.  Some can't live anywhere else.  There's truth to that, and I think it's reflected in the differing responses to the movie here.If you have experienced small-town life, and either love it or at least are wryly comfortable with it, you'll like this movie a lot.  You'll feel you've met these people, you've been to their church, you've been at their picnics.  You'll enjoy the scenery, the decent neighborliness, the conversations, the characters.If you're more of a big-city type, you'll be very impatient.  Nothing happens!  No heads explode, no alien invasions, abductions, or even flyovers.  No sex, virtually no profanity, no fist-fights.  Everyone keeps most of his clothes on.  Kids love and respect their parents and families, even when they're a little daft.  People fight, but basically care about each other.  It's boring - to some!I offer no judgment, just this filter to help you decide whether the movie's for you.  If you like movies that make you ache for small-town life, you'll like this.  If you need action and adrenalin, you may very well not.  I like both, and I liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Hey, I didn't give anyone permission to write a movie about me.","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie was a like a trip back home for me. I grew up in West Texas, and I always knew in that process that I would one day leave it. By no plan or design, somehow it happened, in many stages. Ultimately, where did I find myself? In California, of course. Now looking back with the help of this movie, I see the simple good of the life I lived back then, when life was slow, plodding even, but placid and enjoyable. Dancer, Texas Pop. 81 provides a window back in time to the life we used to be able to live. I especially enjoyed the halting conversation between the two ranchers, a conversation of one and two word sentences. These two were so tuned into one-another that they needed very few words to express their ideas, thoughts, and concerns. People should be more like that today.  "},{"Title":"Totally enjoyable","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Though a bit slow at times, it is quite refreshing to watch a movie that doesn't have any box-office ambitions and yet exceed the expectations one would associate with a blockbuster. 4 teenage boys are faced with life-changing choices when they graduate from high school, whether to follow their parents' wishes and stay in small town Texas (as the name implies), or to strike it big in one of the big cities.There are some commendable performances in here, notable that of Breckin Meyer as Keller Coleman, as he tries to come to terms with leaving his only kin, his grandfather, behind alone while he leaves the town with Lusk (Facinelli). Facinelli also puts in a performance better than I expected from his previous films as the son who does not want in on the family business but wishes to strike it out on his own. I wished that there could be plot involvement for Eddie Mills and Ethan Embry though, the other 2 main actors - they did not have much to act on and I for one would have liked them to have a larger role in the story. But I guess there is only so much you can show in 2 hours. Irregardless of any 'faults' this movie might have, it is still a refreshing look at small town life and the choices some of the teens have to take when they come of age.  "},{"Title":"This one is a charmer.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I spent a pleasant evening last night viewing this superb portrait of americana. I only wish that I had grown up in such a small town. These kids, teenagers, had it all, most of all solid friendships. I never was able to determine for certain how many if any would leave that fateful Monday morning on the journey to Los Angeles, leaving the small town and its people behind. That some left was inevitable. That some stayed was natural. I would have stayed. As the song at the end said, Dancer may not be on the map, Mr. McNally but it ought to be. I agree. My next visit to West Texas will include it. What a delight I have waiting for me. I feel SO good!!! "},{"Title":"Big City Dreams, Small Town Hearts","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Coming from a small town in West Virginia I was able to understand the plight of the 4 boys. My friends and I also made a similar pact, although ours started with going to college together and then moving to some big city and living a glamorous life. That's why this movie really struck me.This movie is for anyone who has ever felt like there has to be more out there. It captures both the charms and pitfalls of small town life. In Dancer Squirrel and John both find a situation that suits them, giving them a glimmer of hope for the future, while Keller and Terrell Lee both realize that they will never be able to find the happiness they wish for in Dancer, Texas. At one point, though, both almost hit a point of acceptance that this is what their lives are to be and resolve to themselves that they must stay and make the best of it.The theme through for this movie is that each of us must find what makes us happy, assessing what we have, what we need, what we want and how we're going to balance these. We can't always have everything we want, and sometimes to get something we have to give up something. And furthermore, we have to remember that what is right for one person may not be right for someone else, no matter how much you might wish it is. "},{"Title":"A feel-good film of the first order","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I walked away from this film with an incredibly good feeling; it was great. It features four young boys on the day of their graduation. They had made a childhood pact to leave their tiny town right after graduation. The audience watches as family interests and friends conflict with hopes, dreams, and practicality. For the record, I'd like to add that this is a great film to see even just for the performances of Breckin Meyer and Ethan Embry. Meyer is the story's dubious hero; he's self-centered but so good-natured and hopeful that you can't help but like him. Embry's character is dirt-poor and has a drunk for a father, but he's so incredibly goofy and sweet that at the end of the movie, you find yourself cheering for him. I recommend this movie to pretty much anyone. There's no sex, no violence, and only a tiny amount of cursing. An especially good  movie to watch in groups.  "},{"Title":"A great story about friendship that reminds me of home.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film because it did capture everything that's great about small-town life, including bonds shared with the people around you. Even though this kind of story could take place anywhere, placing it in a small country town slowed the story down so that I could really enjoy it. The nostalgia also brought a tear to my eye) "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to put a smile on your face!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I was bored one Sunday morning in August 2004 and I was surfing through the channels and I stumbled on this movie that was on one of the premium channels. I was getting more and more into it as the plot was going. My favorite character is Squirrel played by Ethan Embry. After seeing it on TV, I just had to buy it on DVD and I have showed this movie to many of my friends and they love it! It was amazing to see that the director of this movie Tim McCanlies directed Secondhand Lions. This movie shows what true friendship really is and what small town life is about. I recommend this movie to everyone and it is great for the whole family to watch. "}{"Title":"When movies were young, signs warned audiences about their lack of reality...","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" ...and the smashing verisimilitude is what makes Dancer,Texas such a fine piece of work.This is one of the few films I have on the shelf. I have watched it time and again. Its pace is perfect, slower than the norm, as you'd expect life in Dancer, Texas to move. The film moves forward gracefully, allowing you a satisfying undercurrent of simple suspense. In sharp contrast to more contrived, more spectacular films which try too hard to stimulate or excite the viewer, this one succeeds effortlessly on the strength of its fine portrait of humanity. The players&#151;none of them household names&#151;are completely convincing and quite talented. Within minutes, you'll swear you've met them all in the times of your own life. The familiarity will, I hope, be endearing rather than boring. There's a lot of warmth and charm in this film, yet it never becomes saccharine. Neither does it ignore some of the harder, less pleasant realities of human life. They remain below the surface or are stated quietly rather than being blown out of proportion. It's a nicely balanced work.What touches me most deeply every time I watch this gem is the sweet, wonderful friendship shared among the four main characters, so well created in the script and so nicely executed by four fine young actors. In a few words, this film is good for the heart, fulfilling the restorative function of good entertainment. It may renew your faith in human nature. The citizens of Dancer, Texas must exist&#151;and not just in places too tiny to be on Rand McNally's map. This film's sweetness is a rare find in an industry not usually given to such expression, and therefore it's a great prize for some.This is a classic. I want to jump into it and stay for a while. "},{"Title":"lovely little movie....","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I grew up in one of the towns mentioned in this film.....Midland, TX. This movie will certainly appeal to those who are from the area, like quirky laidback flicks or just enjoy a good film.  This film had heart...it includes a cast of virtual unknowns at the time...Peter Facinelli(Scorpion King)...Ethan Embry(Sweet Home Alabama).....Breckin Meyer(Clueless)....There's some beautiful shots of wide open land....Some of the lingo might be outdated but it's a town of 81 people....You have to figure for it to be authentic...they people wouldn't be up on the latest lingo since they live in a town of 81 people.  Don't listen to some silly critics(heck, it's their job to criticize) or someone  from New Zealand.....what the heck do they know about small town USA....I recommend this flick....check it out... "},{"Title":"good movie overall","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  this may not have been the best movie i've ever seen, but it ranks high on my faves. even though the story takes place in a town that does not exist witch is ok by me. It's only a movie right. Actually the real name of the tow it was filmed in is Ft. Davis texas witch is 26 miles from me and if you hear the name of a school called sul ross in this movie i'm here to tell you that school is as real and it's name how do i know this. Because i live in Alpine and did attend sul ross at one point. Anyways i can pretty much relate to keller and all of his buds for wanting to get out of a small town. I mean 81 people?! Now thats to small even for me. But the story does make a lot of scence. And the directior seemed to know what he was doing, even though some scenes dragged out a bit. Anyways i defently feel that this movies relates to thousands of people who live in small towns all across the country and i think that at least 90% will enjoy the movie. This is one movie I highly recommend  "},{"Title":"Simply Warm, Charming, and Real","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This starts out so simply, but cuts to the heart of the American midwest, having spent my summers there as I child, I understand that mentality very well. My mother was born in a small town in New Mexico, and the people there have a wonderful, if simple charm to themselves. They are caring, yet ultimately unchanging, they can't possibly understand why anyone would want to leave a small town, very much as the townspeople in the movie were.The four main characters in this film were portrayed wonderfully, by Breckin Meyer(Keller), Peter Facinelli(Terrel Lee), Eddie Mills (John), and the ever charming Ethan Embry(Squirrel). The friendship they had felt real, as if they had really known each other their whole lives. When their oath to leave town after their High School Graduation begins to fall apart when Terrel Lee Announces he cannot leave his family behind, each member examines his reasons for leaving the small town of Dancer. Of course, the truly bright spot in the film is the incredible performance of Ashley Johnson who you might remember from Growing Pains as the youngest member Chrissy. She plays John's little sister, she is simply heart-felt and charming in this role, amazing you with her ability to speak about difficult subjects better than some adults I know. Of course, you can't leave out Patricia Wettig as Terrel Lee's tyrannical mother, even though she only makes about three appearances in the film, she fills the screen with her presence each time.All in all, this film is a well done venture. I recommend this film to anyone who comes from a small town, or would like to know what one is like, this is your best bet. With so many brilliant performances, and a breathtaking backdrop of Texas behind it, it is simply magnificent.  "},{"Title":"THE HOMETOWN OF EVERYONE","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this film while I was spending my holidays far away of my living city....   I felt that Dancer Texas it´s like our hometown... no matter how different it´s our language and location.This it´s a real movie... not the plastic hollywood style movie.No famous actors... no bombs or explosions... no crashes...  no beautiful cars or Barbie dolls.  Not Michael Douglas or the Ice Face of Julia Roberts... The film looks like one of the best old italian style...I will wait for the next film of the same producer and Director. Thanks DANCER !!!!CARLOS  "},{"Title":"A heartwarming movie","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie when I happened on it on cable. When I saw the four teenage boys in the first scene, I braced myself for a typical teen comedy. What I found instead was a gem of a movie about four boys who planned to leave their tiny Texas town after graduation. The film traces the weekend before their planned departure, as the boys are torn between staying in their small community and leaving for Los Angeles. The film does not glorify the small town. It clearly shows that for a restless teen, it can be boring. But it also shows the relationships that develop when there are only a few people of each age in close proximity. The writing is wonderful. Each boy had a distinct personality, and each family is unique. I wish more small movies were available. I will recommend this movie, and I look forward to finding more movies made by this writer/director.  "},{"Title":"Warm and intelligent","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. Not only because of the warm and well planned story. The young actors are more than great. Excellent casting. Ethan Embry is the star in my opinion. He plays his character Squirrel with a lot of energy. This is his best role along with Preston in Can't hardly wait. Peter Facinelli is also a great actor and you can see why in this movie.I am a bit angry, because Sweden didn't show Dancer at the cinemas. It went direct to video. People will not notice it. They all want to rent blockbusters that they have seen at the cinema.See this movie! You will not regret it! "},{"Title":"GREAT! One of the best and most under-rated films of 1998!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  GREAT! One of the best and most under-rated films of 1998!This was a beautiful film with a simple yet powerful message about friendship and life changing decisions. Touching, heartfelt and utterly sincere, the movie is not for the cynical, pretentious, and too-hip-to-care crowd. It is instead a quiet celebration of not only small town life but also the unique and important memories and experiences that make us who we are. Never forced, manipulative or false-- the straight forward screenplay dares to take its time and skirt the edge of gratuitous sentimentality without ever dipping into it. A heartfelt and profound film that leaves a lasting impact. "},{"Title":"Brilliant evocation of bored West Texas teenagers","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  McCanlies does a superb job as writer and director evoking the boredom and wanderlust of teenagers in small West Texas towns.  The film is a beautiful homage to the Big Bend country and its resilient residents. "},{"Title":"A movie you must see!!","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie really caught the feeling of living in a small town. There are many characters in those towns, and the characters in this movie are entirely representative of what you might find in a small Texas town. Keller has dreamed of leaving for California with his three buddies for years, but on the day before they are to leave, several of them start having second thoughts that their place is really in Dancer and not in Los Angeles. This movie demonstrates the emotions which come in to play when a young person truly realizes that he or she might be seeing really good friends for the last time. It also brings into play the fear that a young man might experience when leaving the relative safety of his small hometown for the big, wide world where everything is an unknown.This movie caught the emotion tied up with leaving that small town and those people who have been your life for 18 years. Filmed in beautiful Ft. Davis, Texas, this is really one of those fine under-appreciated movies that will be enjoyed by movie lovers everywhere. "}{"Title":"A movie that will put you to sleep about a town that will put you to sleep","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There are some good parts to this movie but overall it is very boring and slow. It's a somewhat interesting story about life in a very small west Texas town. 4 graduating Seniors, over half the senior class, are coming to terms of whether or not they want to keep their boyhood pledge of leaving once they graduate. It's main quality is the Human Element. Some of the writing acting and directing is done quite well but overall the movie just lacks something. If you like movies about people you will like it but it's a bit slow for the Rambo and/or Chris Tucker crowd.The scenery is quite nice, horses, mountains, desert vistas and Oak Trees. The background characters and props are done well and not overdrawn. The cinematography is excellent and the direction is quite good if you like a minimalist approach. "},{"Title":"Simple, Feel-Good Fare","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Some reviewers have referred to Dancer, Tex Pop. 81 as a Last Picture Show-lite. How wrong. Last Picture Show was dark and depressing; focusing on death, decay and lost hope.  Dancer, Tex Pop. 81, although also set in an extremely small Texas town, is about choices, all of them good. It balances the joys and benefits of small-town life against the youthful yearning to experience the unknown. The movie follows the town's high-school graduating class of all of five students; four young men and a lady. Years ago the men had pledged a sacred oath to leave town together for Las Angeles immediately after graduation. Now three of the four are not so sure. To stay or to go? That's it in a nutshell, as a weekend's events unfold before the fateful bus journey. This is a feel-good movie in the tradition of American Graffiti. Not nearly as good, but certainly good enough for a night's rental. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Having been brought up myself in a small West Texas town (not nearly as small as Dancer, though) I saw so many familiar things in this movie.  The closeness of friendships in people of disparate heritage, means, and beliefs is one of the overlooked wonders of coming from a small town.The stoic nature of the Texas man was also one of the truest to life aspects of this movie.  This was a poignant yet enlightening look at life growing up in the sticks.  I believe that there are many benefits to life in a small town, and of course the definition of what is small varies, but what really matters is the necessity of developing close intimate relationships with one's peers.I really thought this movie was right on the mark, and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great movie, fabulous casting!!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I found this movie very enjoyable. I was very disappointed that it did not come to theaters in my area, but I saw it on tape as soon as that was possible. Ethan Embry's character is my favorite. His lines are so adorable!! P "},{"Title":"my review..","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  A great slice of small small small small small town life. Excellent acting, excellent writing. Great movie.  "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Great movie about growing up in small-town Texas.  The interaction between the four main characters, who would not have been friends elsewhere, is right on.  Easy going movie that is character driven and not action driven. Nice to have a movie out there that will not offend the small ears. Definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie was full of fun and humor. A lot of the humor, though is closely related to Texas life, so people who have never been to, or known someone from Texas may not understand it. It is hilarious, and full of great actors and actresses. Ethan Embry portrays Squirrel with a goofy attitude. Breckin Meyer is wonderful as Keller. Peter Facinelli and Eddie Mills( both wonderful) are big, and talented up-and-coming actors!! "},{"Title":"Incredible.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Here's a movie where the writer didn't want some stupid director screwing up his movie so he directed it himself.  It's funny, charming, and it sends some clear messages to the audience. The characters were played by excellent actors, though they were relatively unknown, and the screenplay was excellent. Tim McCanlies is a great writer and also a great director.  This movie was up there with the best of 1998. "},{"Title":"Small Town Feel","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie captured the exact feel of a small town - and that can be ambiguous.  On the bad side, the dialogue was uninspired and the pace was rather slow, just like spending the week at Grandma's place in East Texas. But on the good side, the characters had heart, if not brains, and there was an overpowering sense of anticipation blanketing the show.  You honestly didn't know which kids were going to leave, but more importantly, you didn't know which of them SHOULD leave.  This movie has helped me to understand where my parents were coming from, and Vivian's speech on the swing about how 6,000 people is more than enough really hit home.  "},{"Title":"Delighted with Dancer","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  What an incredibly sweet and gifted movie!  One of the best movies I have ever seen! "}{"Title":"A nice little Gem","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Dancer, Texas isn't a perfect film, but at least it's watchable. Initially the cast didn't really turn any heads or catch my attention, but the naturalness the actors encompassed in their characters was quite endearing. Considering the lackluster filmographies of the four main characters, this film will be a standout in their careers.What I especially enjoyed was the fact that the film didn't poke fun at small town life. While small town people are often times ridiculed in most films, McCanlies tries honoring them by portraying their humility and honor. What I especially liked was how slow the film was, a perfect juxtaposition to the speed of small-town life. The only thing I was somewhat down on was the lack of development in terms of father-son relationships. While Terrell Lee's relationship with his father was revealed quite nicely, we didn't get much in the way of Squirrel's or John's father.Beyond that one little oversight, I felt the film had a solid enough ground to stand on. "},{"Title":"Coming Late to review this film","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I know I'm coming late to review this film but just stumbled on it today. I loved this movie. Sweet. Respectful of small towns and it's people. Filmed beautifully.And I totally disagree with a previous poster that said you had to love small town life to like this film because it is slow paced like a small town with nothing exciting happening. Not true. City girl here, although I have lived in and near small towns. These are not just small town people, these are everywhere people.I have all sons. You do not have to be from a small town to have these feelings, desires and dreams. It's a wonderful human story about growing up and making adult choices but still follow your heart. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Small-Town Slice of Life","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a surprisingly well-written and enjoyable little film about that choice that so many of us have to make at one time or another...whether to carry on with the old family traditions or to strike out on our own. Some of us need familiarity and safeness, others need to see the world. This is a simple story for those who like the slow-paced thoughtfulness of films like A Straight Story, An Unfinished Life or Strangers in Good Company. No bells and whistles here, very few plots twists or conflict. The film kinda plods along just like life does, one has to pause to find the best moments of the film just like one needs to stop and smell the roses.Performances are generally good except for Ethan Embry who goes over the top a bit too often and becomes a caricature. In fact all of the 4 main characters seem a bit too old to be in high school, and a bit too cultured to be from a West Texas town of 81 residents.A family film with a sophisticated sense of humor. Excellent cameo roles from a handful of screen veterans are a highlight. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but it's enjoyable and recognizable","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm not familiar with small-town Texas, but I do believe that this story could be situated anywhere. I'm convinced that all teenagers sooner or later make big plans to leave home far behind, in order to start a 'better' life of their own. And it's exactly that recognizability that will make sure that this movie will not only be liked by the American audience.Dancer Texas is a small town with only 88 inhabitants. This year there are only four teenagers, with completely different backgrounds, who will graduate from high school. The four are friends and have been planning this day during their entire lives. After the graduation they will leave town for L.A. But as all inhabitants are watching them, give them advice and put bets on who is going to stay and who is going to leave, the four find it much harder to leave home than what they initially expected...Even though the movie was incredibly slow, especially in the beginning, I must say that I quite liked it. The main reason for that is because I could recognize myself in the four friends. OK, they looked pretty stereotypical, but when you combine them, I'm pretty sure that everybody will find something of himself / herself in them.Despite the fact that this isn't a perfect movie, I still give this movie a 7/10. The acting was more than OK and the idea behind the story is good. Too bad that they had to use so many stereotypes and didn't dare to come up with a new approach. Otherwise this would have been an absolute masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Absolutely love this movie!!!!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  If you have ever lived or grew up in a small community then you will truly love this movie.  You will laugh and you will relate to all the characters in some way.  Each character will remind you of a neighbor, family friend, parent, sibling, or even yourself.  It's a must see even if you aren't familiar with small town life.  WATCH IT!!!! "},{"Title":"A simple movie, with positive results","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot.  No profanity, no nudity, but a movie with  a positive spin on it.  My husband and I both watched it, and felt that it was filled with hope for what could be seen as a dead end for these boys and their families. It;'s a celebration of small town America with positive choices.  I loved the scenery, and enjoyed the interaction between the boys, their families and neighbors. It may be boring to some, but for me, it was such a pleasant relief from movies that always have to have a lot of profanity, and nudity. Would I rent this movie again?  Yes I would.   "},{"Title":"A charming movie about small-town life and big decisions","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie seemed to start very slowly; but it is a study in character development.  As a native of Texarkana, Texas, and as a former inhabitant of two small towns in Pennsylvania, I found the characters and the roles they played in Dancer highly realistic, along with the negative and positive attitudes that the inhabitants of Dancer, Texas, had about their little town.  The movie has a lot of humor, when it shows grown men at the high school graduation hardly saying a word to each other; and yet it was a complete conversation, after a fashion.I would not call this a great movie, but a good one.  It reminds me of the small-town joys and pains one sees in Baby Blue Marine and Hoosiers. "},{"Title":"not great, but good","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't say I relate to the feelings of the main characters in this movie. I came to my town when the pop. was 20,000. In 12 years, it has reached almost 60,000. But I'm not isolated like Dancer was. I can also see how hard it is to find a big city to go to, considering the size of southern U.S. I live right in between the Bay Area and the Sacramento Valley, so isolation isn't a big problem.The thing I most enjoyed about this film is that it didn't stick to the assumed plot throughout the whole film. SPOILERS SPOILERS Instead it gives us bumps in the roads that change that. But then, it also doesn't decide to go down that way either. Breckin Meyer had no future, and was physically, socially, and intellectually determined to go. Peter Facinelli had a planned future that went downhill, giving him a good reason to go with his best friend. On the other hand, Ethan Embry and the cowboy discovered the better lives they would have by staying. That's what I like how everyone's decisions were the right ones. "},{"Title":"Smart and heartfelt teen drama.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was one of the best teen genre movies I've seen in a long time.  It doesn't rely on gross out jokes or nudity to further the story (like most other films of this sort).  The characters are nicely acted by an impressive cast and the story telling is equally well done.  The film takes place in a fictional small West Texas town of 81 residents.  While the town is fictional, the people and story are very indicative of small town life. This is a definite must see and is suitable for all audiences.  When was the last time you saw a PG movie?  Seems like they don't make them anymore. "},{"Title":"well done and worth seeing if you can relate to small-town life","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I agree with one of the other writers about not having to be from small-town west Texas to enjoy this film.  It did help that I grew up in rural Saskatchewan which is pretty close in atmosphere to west Texas (it's called the 'gap' between Ontario and the rockies where you can watch your dog walk away for days)I saw this film in Houston at one of the huge suburban multiplexes with 3 other people from Saskatchewan and maybe 10 people in the entire room so it kind of felt like the wide open spaces portrayed in the movie.The scenes of sitting on the road for hours waiting for traffic, joyriding and the feeling of anticipation for the time when you finally get to LEAVE the confines of the small-town almost made me nostalgic.  Sure the dialogue got hokey and the pace was kind of stifling at times, but have you visited a small town lately ?In an age where people are becoming more tied to technology (you're reading this, aren't you ?) for basic living, it's always nice to have someone present a perspective about a different kind of life, one which not that long ago, used to be the norm.I won't ever go back to living in a small town, but if I can bring a little bit of small-town attitude to my corner of the city, maybe all the stress and heartache of modern urban life would be easier to put in proper focus. "}{"Title":"big city kid in a small town","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  amazing movie....amazing actors...nuff said "},{"Title":"You Don't Have to be from Texas...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The movie has some of the best photography I've ever seen of the Outback of Texas. As far as the portrayal of young people whp are raised in the middle of nowhere, it spoke a universal language?I think what made it especially intriguing was that the middle of nowhere is sometimes actually some place special.   "},{"Title":"Kind of slow, but at least it is clean","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I liked the movie. Yes, it is unusually slow, but at least it is clean, and something a family can enjoy together without worrying about sudden outbursts of profanity or other objectionable material. Other than Squirrel's over-acted nerdiness, I thought the guys were believable, except that it is obvious that these are almost-30-year-old actors pretending to be teenagers--few 18 year old guys can manage to be as clean-cut and nice looking as these 4 are. Other than Breckin Myer and Ethan Embry, I have never heard of anyone else in the movie. In some ways that is a good thing, in that there is the opportunity to see some new faces. I liked Ethan Embry back in his kid movie roles (back when he was Ethan Randall--Dutch, All I Want for Christmas, etc.), and it is nice to see him in other types of work.  "},{"Title":"Provides Coming of Age w/o Bad Aftertaste","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I rented Dancer, TX with the expectation that I get everytime I rent a movie that didn't do well enough to make it to the NC market... Dancer, TX did not make it to our theaters. But ya know what -- I found that it was inspiring in a way. Certain people ARE ready to go on - and should go on from their small towns. Certain people are made to stay in their towns - and thus have offspring which are categorized between the two... migrators or stayers. The movie helped me to categorize myself - myself now being a migrator as I journey to LA myself next year for college. California here I come. "},{"Title":"Sensitive Males","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  As someone who grew up in the area where this film is set, I can tell you that the four male protagonists are waaaay too sensitive.Four real-life small-town Texas buddies would NOT spend all that time hugging one another and telling each other how glad they are to be friends, even if they were about feeling emotional as they approached high school graduation. Real West Texas boys are far more crude than that.Small West Texas towns are seething pits of sex, drugs and alcohol (or at least they were in the 1980s and 1990s, and 1970s, and 1960s, and 1950s...) and these kids were rated PG. They hardly even cuss. For a more realistic take on Texas life, rent The Last Picture Show instead.The other thing that bugged me was that the rich-kid character came from an oil family. That the family oil business was going belly-up was plausible, but there is NO OIL in the mountainous part of the state. It's cattle country. "},{"Title":"One of her early best, version 1.01","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" In an atlas the Americas have the Andes in the south. I have read some stories from there but only have one feature so far, Secret Of The Andes. Wild country and wildly different culture. Culture is an element of that story.To the north, Rockies. Of these I do have several features and while High School Musical is rooted in a film facility in Utah, fairly central, the outdoor parts play act as a sunny Albuquerque where the Rockies are suddenly much lower, a warmer colour on the map.Dancer is set in Texas, south east of Albuquerque. The story shows a very different countryside to the high Rockies. All of the territory shown is still higher than the minimum height that a hill needs to be to be called a mountain. All is higher up than anywhere in England. Farmland is not the lush green of many farming areas.The town is very much one of the characters. As with Secret this will not fully be day to day small town Texas, but comments here tell me that, as with Secret, something of the heart of it is here. Places such as Alpine and, not in this, Austin, Texas, appear to be attractive to those wanting a setting for their stories. Heart, The Quiet was filmed in big city Austin, a wide range of heart.Two family type stories Grand Champion (2002) has a wider range of west and central Texas, prairie flatness to rivers and big hills, small town and big town, mostly not as elevated, mostly not the Rockies. When Zachary Beaver Came to Town (2003), large crop type fields, a big river, small town again, an even lower altitude, further from the Rockies. These are both nice, rather okay, if I had to choose between all of these it would be difficult to choose and I would be going by details such as Champion having Emma Roberts and Dancer having Ashley Johnson. The Quiet is okay but does not attempt to be that sort of okay, more a black sort of nice.* These stories say that small town Texas is not for everyone and Dancer faces this head on. Just what does it take to be the type who will fit in? From a lot of perspectives this can be arid land, but in other ways the big city can be arid land too. Some would have trouble anywhere and the older actors all show some symptoms, if less blatantly portrayed than in the Canadian Rockies feature, The Chumscrubber (2005).In this feature, Squirrel is up against the Big Bust problem of being expected to be good when the girls need him to be something very different to that if they are to have any interest in him re romance. He shows some of the more obvious Big Bust problems and how those can appear to be intractable. The other main characters show more subtle faces of Big Bust. Dancer Texas shows this while remaining within the bounds of a 'nice guy' story.Some consider this to be a slow but thoughtful sort of feature. To me it is more a dreamy romance sort of feature, not the same thing. Sandra Bullock would fit here, no problem at all.So, this is also an early feature of Ashley Johnson. Half of her parts are as she rides around the family ranch with her screen brother, this being maybe his last ever ride around.I rate this a lot. "},{"Title":"Man, this movie is SLOOOOOW","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I went to the video store expecting great things from what I've heard.  I don't have to have a totally action packed movie in order to enjoy it, but wow... this movie is a pretty honest account of something like what many people go through, but still... geez.  I get enough of the same old stuff in real life.  I gave Dancer Texas a 4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"T.V. Movie Disguised as an Indy Flick","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Dancer, Texas Pop. 81 repeats every coming of age story cliché, and it's languidly and boringly paced. It plays like a movie of the week. Had I seen it on network television for free, I would have considered it a pleasant time waster, but I expect more from a movie I plunk down my hard earned money to see.Four friends are at a crossroads, do they stay in their podunk hometown or move to L.A. now that they have graduated from high school? The pic starts off promisingly, but after the first twenty minutes you're so bored you simply don't care anymore.All the performers do decent enough jobs, but they have nothing at all to work with. "},{"Title":"A completely phoney sentimental cliché ridden movie","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I had high hopes when I found this film while channel surfing. I came into it 20 minutes into the film but soon found that it was a rip-off of several small town coming of ages films including 9/30/55, The Last Picture Show, etc.None of the characters rang true. I could see each cliché coming a mile away. The annoying manipulative little sister, the trailer trash boy with the alcoholic father, the town's one rich kid, the kid with the rancher father who wants the son to follow in his footsteps, and the one alienated kid with no real attachments.Everything about the film was annoying. The self righteous phoney salt of the earth portrayal of a wonderful future in an isolated town of 80 people for the boys. The waitress with a heart of gold who is going to reform the drunken father. (I think the kid really stayed because he is attracted to his fathers girlfriend and hope to have some involvement with her.The only thing I liked was that the oil rich family turned out to be nearly bankrupt and the father advised the son to leave town rather than join a failing business.The way the whole town turned out to see the boys off on the bus to L. A. Silly, never would happen.The way such a big deal was made of them going to L. A. like it was going to the ends of the earth or something. In small Okie towns half the town generally has relatives all over California and lots of visiting back and forth.A stupid stupid movie.  "},{"Title":"Disappionted","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was very disappointed after watching this movie and was surprised to see this movie get such a high rating and such good reviews on IMDB. It was a movie that I had been eyeing for a while at the video store because it looked like it would be a good comedy/drama. I knew this movie would get sentimental at some point given its subject matter of four youths who are getting ready to leave the small town they grew up in, but the problem is that it got sentimental about 15 minutes into the movie and stayed that way throughout. Some of the scenes were just too long with nothing significant happening in these scenes. The main characters were very dull (even Ethan Embree's character which was supposed to be the spaz of the group is generally boring) and there is nothing unique about them. We get a sense early on in the movie as to which character is going to stay in town and which character is going to leave which doesn't make the ending very surprising. The only thing this movie has going for it is its beautiful scenery but that alone cannot make an interesting movie.  "}{"Title":"Sweet but a no brainer!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  At the root of this film is the story of whether the young guys can actually bring themselves to leave their small town (population 81) after graduation.Maybe its just me, but sweet as this film was it was a no brainer - Leave town now and head for the big city. Its not a difficult decision to make. Perhaps its because I'm English or perhaps its because I was born in a city, but no matter how difficult it got for the guys to make the decision it made me feel more strongly that they had to get out.Glad I watched it, but I never quite bought into it. Its saving grace it the really sweet voice over at the start and finish. "},{"Title":"Slooooooooow.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Here's a summary of the scenes in this film these guys sit around and talk. Then, some more people sit around and talk.  Then, this guy and that guy sit around and talk.  Then, this guy and this girl sit around and talk. Then... get the picture?  Just when you think you can't stand to see people sitting around and talking any more, one of the boys comes home and sees his father sitting at a desk  The father says, Son, I've been wanting to talk to you.  Come in and sit down.  My wife and I LAUGHED OUT LOUD.  The pacing is slow, the direction is amateurish and unimaginative, the dialog is so on-the-nose it's painful and the actors do the best they can with what little they were given.  How do awful scripts like this get made?  "},{"Title":"Caution the reviews here are really mixed.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  In short, the characters were cliched, the music old-fashioned, some acting over-done, the script unimaginative, the pace way too slooooow, and the cinematography average.  I fell asleep twice and my wife only stayed awake for 10 minutes of the entire film. Rating 5 out of 10. And yet there are many very positive comments about this movie on this page from those who loved it.  Why the disparity? Is it because this film portrays life in a tiny Texas town exactly as it is BORING, and viewers react to boredom on the screen differently? "},{"Title":"Bad movie which steals points in the end","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Okey, I have to say I had really high expectations about this movie which may reflect my opinion on it too.. It startet out in the small town called Dancer, TX and from what I had heard and read then they were suppose to actually go instead of spending the whole movie in Dancer, what a waste.. This movie startet out a bit slow, but I hoped it got better, it didn't till the end which dramatically change your opinion if you are of the emotional type. Reccomended? Well only if it's airing on TV, don't rent it, it's not worth it, bur hey, the guy before me said it was the best movie ever so we all have different opinions.. check out my other reviews to be sure. "},{"Title":"where is the dancing?","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  i know life must be slow in a small town but come on...do we have to sit through their boring lives too?  The slowness however isn't the worst part of the movie...no no my friends...be prepared for the return of chrissy, the little sister from growing pains, playing the little sister of one of the friends.  Also the teen heart throb cast from can't hardly wait does a sorry acting job.     "},{"Title":"Sappiness, Texas Pop. 0","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's hard for me to believe that any of you can consider this movie the quality piece that it isn't. After watching the first half of this movie I was already in a mood of... Boredom.  The pace of this movie is so slow. It seems like every scene has to have some sort of corny after affect.  The acting is overall mediocre, and that's not even my most annoying beef with this movie.  That would be the corny music that attempts to pervade every single scene.  It makes a movie into a TV movie in moments.  Finally, this is a great idea for a film.  81 people in a town... And what does the director do with it?  ABSOLUTELY NOTHING!!!!   "},{"Title":"slow as molasses","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I found this movie very disappointing.  I liked several of the actors involved from previous films, but only Ethan Embry turned in a performance with a pulse in this one.  The story, while not a bad premise, took so long to develop that I just wanted to fast-forward to the end, find out who left and who stayed, and forget I ever saw it.  All in all, it just seemed to be very uninspired filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Strange Trip","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Dancer, Texas takes the viewer on an emotional roller coaster ride as the main characters contemplate making the biggest mistake of their lives by staying in a do nothing, go nowhere town.  The film's actors, while they make the best of their parts, are not believable as small town Texas teens. "},{"Title":"Unfulfilled potential","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The story had a lot of potential, but the writing was rather dull and boring.  The characters needed more development and the writers missed many great comedic opportunities.  I was disappointed in this film.  "},{"Title":"Slow to start and throughout","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I rented this movie on the recommendation of users of IMDb.  I found it very boring and slow.  I fast forwarded a bit to see if it would get better but, it never did.  There was not much acting and definitely not any good acting. The dialog was monotonous.  It had a good story, the boys deciding whether or not to leave their home town.  I came from a small town and almost all of my friends left after graduation.  But, the way it was told made me have to fight to stay awake.  I think the supporting characters could have been developed more and the boys could have had more interesting things to say. I asked for my money back. "}{"Title":"As Sappy and Unrealistic as they get","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  OK, I live in Texas, grew up here. I have been to every part of it. No place in  Texas will you find the kind of lame events that transpired in this stupid film.  They do not dress like GQ models in West Texas. They do not talk the way those  people did. They do not have towns that neat and cardboard. I literally became  sick watching this film. It is like watching one of those old time films about Texas  where the actors used these outrageous Southern accents and showed everywhere in big ten gallon hats. Just too stupid. By the end, I did not care who left  Dancer, as long as I was one of them. This just tries to pull at the heart strings in  every scene. It just gets so old, it is like Jerry MacGuire out West. The director  wanting you so badly to get emotional. But you are just illl. Yuck, hated this film!  Hated it! "},{"Title":"Sentimental muck","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The movie is more like an after-school special, or a movie for a Tuesday-night church social, than the type of thing you expect to see in a cinema.  The movie-maker wants to illustrate the idea that, for some people, there's no place like home, and for others, you've got to take your chances and leave town.  The boys grow up together, don't know anyone outside of the town, and never get tired of sitting talking about themselves, and watching the sun set.  The guys are all hunks, but their relations with women are quite chaste.  Even the retarded guy (named Squirrel) would be cute if he stopped acting retarded. The idea that these guys would just hang out and talk, and not be totally bored (like the audience is) is totally unbelievable.  At least these guys would be out shooting small animals, or hitting pool balls.  The one adventure that they have in this move is aborted because they forgot to fill up. Now these are supposedly smart guys, and, until the very day that they graduate from high school, they have no idea what they want to do, other than to go to L.A.  They don't even know what kind of jobs are available in L.A.  They don't know nothing  one guy's father family owns an oil company, but the kid doesn't know that the company is broke.  The guy who runs the general store sells beer, even though it's in a dry county--but the kids don't know. So the whole movie is verbal masturbation, and these handsome, extremely dumb boys learning the secrets of a town with a population of 81!  How can there be any secrets at all? There's no enjoyment to be had from this movie.  It took me three days to watch  I just kept falling asleep again and again.  "},{"Title":"DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Honestly, do not see this movie if you value your time (or sanity). Dancer Tx Pop. 81 was one of the all time most boring movies I have ever seen. I actually had to fast forward through part of it to avoid screaming it was so boring!! Dont see it...thats all i can say. "}]