[{"Title":"High Noon at Mega Suck-fest","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"65 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First off, this is a kids movie so certain allowances should be made for its rubbishness. But I expect that the majority of 7 year olds would find High Noon an unrewarding and painful experience.The film concerns a group of extremely unscary baddies who decide that world domination can be best achieved by hijacking an amusement park. Two things prevent the villains from carrying out their evil plan. Firstly, the bad guys find themselves easily defeated at every turn by three children and Hulk Hogan. Secondly, those aforementioned bad guys are morons.The three children are, of course, the 3 Ninjas. They defeat fully grown men in martial art combat at every turn. Particularly remarkable, since one of the kids appears to be about four years old. Of especial note is the second youngest as he sports a haircut that is so abysmally misguided it makes Billy Ray Cyrus's mullet look tasteful. It is a bowl-cut/pony-tail combo; two haircuts from hell all on one head - it is truly horrendous and should really not be seen by younger viewers.An interesting aspect of the movie is that despite the fact that the fairground has been hijacked, no one seems to have informed the extras. They carry on enjoying the rides as if nothing has happened. As I said earlier, the bad guys are essentially idiots, so its just possible that they have not got their heads round the technicalities of hijacking. But, at the end of the day, it doesn't matter as the film is not exactly convincing in a general sense.Do I recommend it? Not really but it is an ideal birthday present for a child you dislike. "},{"Title":"CRRRRRRRRRAP!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1992's 3 Ninjas was a really cool movie, back in 2nd grade! I felt that it would of been best to leave it alone. But, like all money hungry executives do, they have to go and make 3 lame sequels that overexpose what made the first one successful fighting. And I don't know what the hell the filmakers were doing while shooting these movies and casting the stars? I guess they filmed the third one right after the first and intended for that to be the second one, since the kids in it are the same as the kids in the first! (still with me?) But overall, this is the worst of the four. Was it supposed to be a prequel or something, 'cause all three kids look about 5 years younger than in the previous movies. And even if it was a prequel, the filmakers obviously didn't realize the kids don't get their names until later. Please don't rent this movie to enjoy it with your kids or yourself. Rent it to make fun of it with a friend or sibling, but beware, it might bore you or cheese you to death before you finish it!!Note A black belt doesn't screech out a high-pitched HI-YA when doing something like throwing an egg at a bad guy or cutting a rope that releases an anvil or something of that sort that black-belts don't do. "},{"Title":"possibly the worst movie i've ever seen","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" the only reason i rented this garbage excuse for a movie is because i am a big fan of the original 3 ninjas movie. when the original came out i was a little kid and it was great. after seeing 3 ninjas kick back and 3 ninjas knuckle up i wasn't expecting 3 ninjas high noon to be that good, since the 2 preceding ones weren't' that great. so finally, 8 years after the release i rent 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain....where shall i begin.-3 new actors playing the boys, if u can even consider them actors -rocky is too cool to be a ninja -colt has a lisp and a pony tail -tum-tum looks like he retrograded back in time and is now 5-when tum-tum screams hi-ya it sounds like a little girl-hulk holgan is in this movie -terriorts take over AN AMUSMANT PARK! -worst acting i've ever seen...ninjas, hulk holgan, terriorts included -dummest plot linethis movie killed the 3 ninjas for me. i don't' think i can ever watch the original again and enjoy it. every time i see rocky i will think of a stuck up asshole; colt, i will think of his new look, and tum-tum i will think of a 5 year old cry baby. god "},{"Title":"Right to video...","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was horrible.  I remember that the original movie was mildly amusing, but this stinker left me disgusted.  This is one movie where I was actually wanting the villains to win, because of the annyoing, constipated sounding screeching noises that Tum-Tum was making for karate yells and what not.  I actually laughed when Loni Anderson said Rest in pieces.  The first two movies were cute, the third was...blech, but when a movie stars Hulk Hogan.... slow up on that, you've already lost all the money that you put into this flop; and then some. "},{"Title":"a bad acting roller-coaster","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There two types of bad film.... a)a film so bad you turn it off immediately or b)bad films starring hulk hogan that you have to watch to amuse yourself. Hulk plays Dave Dragon, some old guy who is not very hard and not very funny - and basically the bottom line of the film is some female terrorist tries to take over a theme park. They fail, thanks to some geeky kids who apparently know martial arts. The most annoying thing though is how easily grown adults get beaten up by pesky little kids. This film is so bad, but, fair play, I watched most of it so it achieved something in that sense. Enjoyable if you like ripping it out of bad actors and rubbish plots. "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS my SOCKS!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this tremendous film Hulk Hogan plays a really brilliant and inspirational character called Dave Dragon and he runs around being BADASS with his amazing theme tune and also he beats up loads of bad guys with his little chums who all suck at acting. This film is basically ninjas (rubbish ninjas) getting beaten up by little kids for ages, while rubbish bad guys go about executing their rubbish plans. Hulk Hogan doesn't really do much in it and his theme tune doesn't get played anywhere near as much as it should.All in all I would say watch this movie because it's got Hulk Hogan in it. "},{"Title":"Epic","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Every once in a while a film comes along that makes you glad to be alive. Cinema is a beautiful art form, and no cinema is more gorgeous than 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain. Epic on a grand scale, the cinematic majesty on display would make Kurosawa's corpse reanimate just so it could kill itself in shame at never meeting the grandeur of vision presented herein. I saw this movie and broke down in tears, as I knew my eyes had witnessed the most beautiful sight since Stallone and Carl Weathers flirting with each other on the beach in one of the Rocky films. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll curse yourself for thinking that the greatness of the previous 3 Ninjas movies could ever be topped.Bravo. Bravo. "},{"Title":"One thing made this film great...","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...and that was the atrocious lesbian subtext between the little girl and Loni Anderson! Some of the lines from the lady in leather were so morally wrong they were superb! That said, the rest of the film was poor, with the three kids not even comprehending the basic rules of the ninja (as in STAYING UNSEEN AND SILENT!). The fight scenes were static and bland. If you want a good ninja film for the kids, rent Surf Ninjas. Also, even thinking about Colt's haircut still makes me cringe a week after I saw the film... "},{"Title":"OH GOD PLEASE.....no...no...NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OH...UUHHGG...AAAARRRGGGHHHHH...*COUGH COUGH* EEEEWWWW      worst movie ever, i fell asleep in the thearter, REALLY i did. It was that bad. You have got to be really corny to like this movie. Its one of those movies that make you hate every thing about your brother, They made me go because they couldnt go alone. After the movie ended, My little brothers wanted to become ninjas themselves.. coming out they were kicking. OH YUCK "},{"Title":"this movie STINKS","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is the most awful karate movie i have ever seen. The moves the kids did stunk, the plot was lame, and the ending was dumb. At the end, the bad guy offers a fight deal against the grandpa when he is his prisoner. If the bad guy had half a brain, he would have simply kept him as a prisoner. When the ninja kids do their moves, they do not look realistic and they do not actually hit the targets when they do the moves, but the bad guys get hit anyway. Also, to hold off the criminals in their home, the ninjas give two of them diarrhea?? How lame is that? DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE!!! IT STINKS!!! This movie is currently on my top 10 of worst movies of all time. Oh, by the way, the kids looked like they were 3 yrs younger than before and the middle aged boy's hairdo gave me nightmares. DO NOT WATCH THIS!!!! "}{"Title":"more like High Noon at this film is %&@£","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've just worked it out on my pocket calculator, this is the worst film I have ever seen. Reminds me of a film produced a couple of years back, Kitchen Wars, if only for the fact that the bad guys(the late great Jassi Chan)/girls in both films liked to wear leather skirts. The film has only served to fuel my hatred for the 3 ninjas. I'd love to beat up the 3 ninjas, I'm pretty sure I could take them in a fight. I've seen the film three times now, studying their moves and I don't think they're as good as Hulk Hogan says. On the plus side... It did star Hulk Hogan and as Hulk always says hi, I'm Hulk Hogan! My favourite part was when the little kid went POW! However, it's really good and I love it. 1/10 "},{"Title":"There's a circle of hell reserved for Hulk Hogan, based on this movie alone","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My therapist won't like me talking about it but I've got a bottle of calm-down pills nearby in case this review brings up too many memories for me ad causes...a relapse.This film is dreadful. There aren't enough words to describe how buttock clenchingly bad this film is. It made me want to yell at those responsible about how they were causing physical pain to people with this movie. I was 12 when I first watched this and I thought it was awful then as well. I defy any child to be content with this dross, and if any adult enjoys it I'm sorry but the men in white coats are coming with the special jacket.The plot is nonsense, the dialogue stomach churning and the acting worse than anything seen in a Friday the 13th movie. Avoid if you like your eyeballs and don't want to spoon them out.Now if you'll excuse me I'll just take my tablets and go to bed before they come and take me away again... "},{"Title":"Tam Tam - Tam Tam - Tam Tam","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You might think, that this movie sucks, but you´re dead wrong!This is the funniest piece, I´ve ever seen in my life!Seriously, I was laughing tears the whole movie - then I tried to kill myself!Normally, in a Hogan movie, you can expect, that he´s the one, beating up the bad guys, but not here, Hogan mostly stands - or lies - in the way, while the villains get an ass-kicking from an 3-year-old, and his two wannabe-ninja brothers!I won´t write something about the story, becausea) There is no story, and even if you find one (I didn´t), you should forget about it wright now!b) I have seen this movie 3 years ago, which makes it difficult, to write a good comment!Hey, I rated this one 10, and YOU should do the same!But please rate it, BEFORE you watch it! ;) "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 for being one of the worst movies ever made","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie falls under my friend's theory that if a movie is bad enough, it loops around to become good again. Not dissimilar to Einsteins theory of bending light around the universe to see into the future (aka Paycheck). This movie is so terrible (just like the ones before it) in so many ways its hard to believe any production company would sign on to do it. Hulk Hogan is, as always, a terrible actor, but to reproduce the performance he gave in Gremlins 2 The New Batch, would be impossible for anyone.Watch this movie if you have a sense of humor and an hour and a half to waste. "},{"Title":"It had Jim Varney","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The only reason I bought this DVD is because I'm such a fan of Varney's. I wouldn't have known about this movie much less get it if he wasn't in it. While lots of people rag on Hulk Hogan, he wasn't the worst actor. By far, the most wooden performance goes to Loni Anderson. If this is a family oriented movie, why in the world did they have her dress in that skanky leather outfit that was far too short? Terrible casting as far as Loni goes. She was supposed to be the evil Medusa but I didn't buy it. She just didn't have the quality of pulling off the 'bad guy' type of role. She was much better on 'WKRP in Cinncinati'. I got a little tired of Tum Tum's 'Ay-yahs' after a while. They were too high pitched and over done. All 6 stars go to Jim Varney. I was actually rooting for Lothar to become successful in his mission for he was the only one of the bad guys with the brilliance to pull off the heist. He easily outshone all the stars, as usual. He always gives 100% to whatever role he played as you can see here. Jim and Victor were the two best actors in this movie. Maybe if Jim had cast and directed this, it would've been a bigger box office success. The man was a brilliant actor and a genius. If you're a fan of Varney's, then yes, get the movie just to watch him. Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Flick","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was a real treat. I say treat in the sense that it was one of the worst movies I've ever seen, hence I love it. The plot is ridiculous & other posters have done a good job at pointing out the shortcomings so I'll keep this brief. As someone alluded to previously & after a secondary viewing last night re-enforced, it is quite comical how the terrorists go through extreme measures to get into the park (ie; having a ship offshore, jet skis, scuba diving, underwater lasers etc,) when they could just pay the nominal fee to gain access to the park! That was great. Hulk Hogan as always, is a crowd pleaser. I like at the end when he knocks off the tops of the underwater breathing apparatuses with a single blow & they masquerade as oxygen diffusing projectiles! Jim Varney obviously was funny in his role as the antagonist, no doubt ashamed to be cast in such a lousy movie. And the three ninjas? Don't even get me started. So cheesy with the Ayais! over & over. Terrible actors, but it all adds to the ambiance of a wonderful film, albeit low budget & misconstrued, unintentional comedy. Would highly recommend, & it goes without saying that a solid buzz while embarking on such a journey will no doubt add to the enjoyment derived from this little gem. Cheers! "},{"Title":"Outlandish movie.............. phenomenal soundtrack!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm sure when this movie came out it was the greatest disappointment of whatever season it was released in. I'm sure the intrepid masses of casual movie-goers teeming with anticipation for the latest 3 Ninjas spectacle felt betrayed on a deep and personal level akin to having a father register you for the navy. While this movie may not be the best in its class and may suffer from numerous flaws (rancid acting, unrealistic plot, pathetic villains, stanky clichés, annoying ninja kid grunts, Hulk Hogan's dialogue, Hulk Hogan's wardrobe, Hulk Hogan) it still maintains one splendid aspect which I find delightful no matter how many times a week I sit down and pop this VHS in its soundtrack.Yes, Howard Bucket may be one of the most under-recognized composers of synthesized film soundtracks. I bought this soundtrack on cassette in 2001 and have never felt more satisfied spending a dollar twenty five. Bucket shows a diverse range of emotions, from the go-lucky tune of Ninjas and a Female Geek to the dark and menacing track Varney's Villainy. Who could refuse the heroic and uplifting tone of Dragon's Theme? A personal favorite of mine is Hogan Gets Captured Again. The whimsical and bouncy nature of Bad Guys Get the Money forms a stark contrast to the dramatic almost nerve-biting Realistic Battle on Top of a Roller Coaster Track, a technique that bands like Radiohead and Smash Mouth began to employ many years after. And who can forget the pen-ultimate track Tum Tum Eats the Flesh of the Fallen? Yes, this soundtrack is truly as epic as the film it was made for, but of a much higher quality! You see kids, soundtracks don't require a gigantic team of cameramen, directors, producers, writers, engineers, actors, more writers, actors' parents, and technical consultants. Soundtracks require only one lonely thirty three year old in a studio with a synthesizer. And a lot of heart. "},{"Title":"Here be monsters...","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Old sea maps used to leave a warning on the outer edges of the charts. It would read Here be monsters. I wish such a message had been written before the opening credits. Oh, actually it was, but it was in code that I deciphered too late to save myself. It was the part which read 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain. WOE! WOE UNTO ME!!!!I'm a man with, admittedly, unusual and quirky tastes when it comes to film and film actors/actresses. I like a lot of character actors because they tend to get the most interesting variety of parts. I really loved Victor Wong's career. Memories of his performances in films like 'Tremors,' 'Prince of Darkness,' and especially 'Big Trouble in Little China' (with another favourite of mine, Al Leong -- the Wing Kong Hatchet Man!!! *LOL*) have put me on a quest to see as much of his work as possible.A quest that died Saturday afternoon just past. This deeply regrettable, dreckish, foul excuse of a film and the knowledge that Victor Wong appeared in three other incarnations of it is enough to sour even the strongest movie-goers stomach. Victor's appearance in this awful thing is mercifully concentrated in the opening of the film. It gives him no chance to show off any of his inimitable charm and Victor Wong looks like a tired old man weighed down by the two hardest words that any actor will ever have to listen to Contractual obligation.Music insipid. Direction insipid. Plot insipid. Dialogue insipid. Acting hit and miss.The kids all deserved better than to be stuck in this film. For fear that they will track me down and beat the heck out of me with their ninja skills, just let me say that they all gave academy award worthy performances. Exhibit A the two younger brothers manage to keep a straight face and wait -- holding their fight stance -- for thirty seconds as the three bad guy adults struggle to get out of their costumes and dress up again so that the kids can yell NINJAS!!! I don't blame the kids for this despite the fact that they were as unwatchable as everything else here. This film will bore parents to death so unless you want orphans, avoid, avoid, AVOID!!!Victor Wong (let me return to a bright light for a moment) died after this film. Jim Varney, who also appeared in this film, has also since died. You may draw your own conclusions.Varney, in all fairness, is probably the best thing in this film. His performance takes him in a scene-stealing direction with a bad guy turn. Out-acting Loni Anderson, Hulk Hogan and all three ninjas, he easily comes across as a bully who is picking an acting fight with unarmed opponents ... I said I wasn't going to blame the kids... this wasn't their fault, this wasn't their fault ...Final Verdict (un)watchable... BEARABLE only for those who are die-hard Wong or Varney fans. Also bearable if one chants over and over again the words this too shall pass. All others should give a miss with extreme prejudice. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of all time...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A colossal mess. Badly acted, poorly written, sorely misdirected. The 3 Ninjas series never needed a sequel, much less the uncountable number it has spawned.The infamous 3 Ninjas go to a theme park in this sequel and use Hulk Hogan to fight off a bunch of terrorists (?). Miserable, putrid stuff. The acting is in league with Pod People (1983).Do NOT watch this movie! I feel stupiderererer already.0/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A middle school AV team could have made a better movie.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Honestly. Do yourself a favor and don't watch this crap. It is not even good enough to be a lame kids movie. In fact, the makers of this film should be sentenced to a life term in prison for exposing the world to such garbage.Seriously, there are a lot of cut corners here, and the story is worse than that of a cheap porn flick. Anyone who payed to see this movie in a theater was robbed. It still amazes me that this could have been printed, honestly, the movie is just one stupid gag after another, one's we have already seen and are tired of. On a scale of 1 to 10, I wouldn't give it a score at all, it is not good enough. "}{"Title":"Passes the time I suppose but not great.","Date":"29 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain starts as a young girl named Amanda (Chelsey Earlywine) & her family move into their new home in Hidden Shores, they are welcomed to the neighbourhood by brother's Colt (Michael O' Laskey II), TumTum (James Paul Roeske II) & Rocky (Mathew Botuchis) who are all going to an amusement park named Mega Mountain that afternoon & invite Amanda to join them. While at the theme park the three ninja brother's & Amanda become aware that it has been taken over by a group of thieves, armed with guns & in complete control of Mega Mountain they hold the owner to ransom. The three ninja brother's decide to fight back & with the help of ageing television action hero Dave Dragon (Hulk Hogan) take on the criminals, can they save the day or will the bad guy's win?Co-written & directed by Sean McNamara this rather violent & childish slapstick action comedy that isn't particularly great & pretty silly at times but I found it passed the time if nothing else. The script is a sort of childish Die Hard (1989) but instead of ruthless criminals there are bumbling bad guy's, instead of the high rise building they take over an amusement park, instead of a tough cop hero there are three bratty child ninjas & their geek female friend & instead of a wisecracking Bruce Willis we get a tired looking Hulk Hogan as a washed-up television star (art imitating life maybe?). Here in the UK this film was quite heavily cut by around four minutes for scenes of nunchukas, head butts, ear claps & a kid wetting himself & having just seen the uncut version I am not sure what to make of it, 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain is definitely aimed at a young audience with it's silly slapstick action & childish humour so the high levels of violence did sit a little uneasily with me. From the head butts to kicks & punches to sword fights & even a scene in which a young boy throw's darts at a man. Just think about how incredibly dangerous that is for a minute, seriously if someone threw a dart at you & it hit you in the face you would be in big trouble & another worrying aspect of 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain is that none of this violence ever has any consequence. The guy who gets a dart thrown at him just catches it in his mouth, punches, kicks & being pushed off rooftops seem to cause no sort of injury to anyone & maybe it would have been better if the makers did emphasise how dangerous these techniques are. As an action comedy it moves along at a decent pace, it's silly & not particularly coherent (where did Amanda get that remote control helicopter from at the end? Why is everyone at the park enjoying themselves it being run by armed criminals?) & it's pretty predictable & safe in that the good guy's win & the bad guy's lose.The fights are played mostly for laughs with bumbling bad guy's being beaten up by kids, there's an exploding boat at the end & not much else in the way of action. One also has to say that Mega Mountain amusement park has some really lack security, I mean Amaanda manages to take explosives, razor sharp throwing cards, a razor bladed yo-yo & a remote control helicopter inside her backpack. Mega Mountain also seems to have many brilliantly placed CCTV cameras that track exactly what armed criminals want & from perfect angles.Filmed at Elitch Gardens amusement park in Denver in Colorado, rather sloppily made with poor continuity & lacklustre production values. The acting isn't great, the three ninja kids are terrible while Hulk Hogan seems bored & Loni Anderson is the main highlight as the whip cracking leather clad Medusa but what is someone dressed like that doing in a kids film?3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain is a silly & childish action comedy that is probably a bit too violent for a film aimed at children & implies that violence has no consequence. I suppose it passes the time & as a silly Die Hard style kids comedy I thought it was watchable. "},{"Title":"Was it just me, or did anyone else feel like they were watching a Kraft cheese commercial?","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I swear at the beginning with the parents, I felt like they were just smiling too much and it looked like they were just going to say cliché' things like Oh, you kids! or That's coming out of your allowance while smiling at the camera on cue.Now, granted, this is a movie for kids, but I think we are starting to insult our kids just a little bit. I mean, we do actually have a decent cast for a kid's flick, but these adults really sunk beyond the kid's humor. While it has some good morals and another happy ending, just the jokes got old and I think we are just insulting our kid's intelligence and humor.1/10 PS Loni, lay off the fake tan! "},{"Title":"My kids loved this movie, we're going out to buy it today.","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kids loved this movie, we're going out to buy it today. We just rented this movie and my kids liked it so much that we have to go and buy it today. My wife and I liked that the fight scenes were fun and not violent. A GREAT kids movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know what else to say!!!","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was the worst I've ever seen.  I hope they don't keep it in the video stores, because kids don't need to see all that bad acting.  Even Hogan was stupid!  The kids do okay with the martial arts, but you can so tell that they hardly ever connected the blows.  The least they could have done was make it look real! "},{"Title":"My kids LOVED this movie when they were little!","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My boys love Hulk Hogan so when they first saw this corny movie years ago, they loved it! We had it on VCR & they played it to death. It's very silly & corny but just right for kids. We found it on Netflix recently & what fun it has been to watch it again! My oldest son is having a blast sharing this movie with his girlfriend. It's been fun watching him laugh at it all over again. (BTW, my sons are currently 21 & 17...lol) Even though it doesn't have all the same boys in it as the previous 3 Ninja movies do, you don't need to have seen them to watch this one. In fact, we actually saw this one first, then the others. My sons still like this one best. "},{"Title":"3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Another wonderful addition into the 3 Ninjas series. 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain. Some audiences did like this addition, but it was amazing film like the other 3 Ninjas movies. 3 Ninjas are awesome totally. Great selection on bring the legend Hulk Hogan into the picture he was cool.3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain was also a classic and really good kids family film. A kick-butt action-comedy-family film. The boys, Mathew Botuchis, Michael J. O'Laskey II, and J.P. Roeske II were so awesome in this addition. 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain was so funny and full of true Martial Arts. Victor Wong who starred as Grandpa he did great and connected very well with the boys in this addition. Sean McNamara who directed film. Great work! Sean McNamara and Jeff Phillips thanks for writing such a amazing kick-butt story. 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain rocks!We all remember watching the 3 Ninjas films as a kid and watching them via Television whenever they showed. 3 Ninjas was always a joy to watch because they kick-butt. There's nothing negative about the films itself. I recommend them for everyone and you should check them out if you haven't today. If you love them you'll love this one too. 3 Ninjas will forever rock your world. These boys are cool. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hasn't anyone ever dreamed of being a ninja as a child? I watched this movie years ago and would have told you then that the 3 ninjas movies were the absolute best movies ever made. Looking at this movie from an adults perspective defeats the propose of this being a Children's MOVIE. From a child's perspective this movie is one of the best martial arts movies ever made. Think back to when you were a kid. Wouldn't you love to see a movie where kids your age can take on fully grown men and win? This movie was a favorite of mine growing up and I would still sit down and watch all of the 3 ninjas movies because they were so epic as a child. "},{"Title":"Worst of the series; what were they thinking?!","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know if I can add to what others have said about this movie's crappy-ness. They really cut corners on this one For example, in the first movie, the kids seem to be pretty good at this karate stuff. You have to kind of suspend your disbelief when the youngest attacks anyone, because you can just see him getting picked up by the scruff of the neck and hung up to dry until the fight is over. But it's a kids' film so that's not really a spoiler. And there is a lot of Home Alone-type stealth-fighting on the kids' side to help even things out. At the time, I saw the original actors from 3 Ninjas on the Tonight Show and they seemed to really know karate, and were pretty charming for kid actors.By contrast, in this last abomination, you can see in the fight scenes that there is no contact, and frequently there is cheap, obvious, camera speeding up to make it look like a real fight, not choreography. The littlest one, who is even younger than he was in any of the other movies, (there are all new actors for the kids in this movie, a big mistake, and what's up with the mullet/ponytail on Colt? Even knowing karate he's going to get his ass kicked with that haircut! I'm gay but that look's too faggy for me. I mean, really! Butch it up a little, will ya?) In a good kids' movie there is something for the adults, too. But this movie doesn't really have much for the kids. Bad acting by Hulk Hogan and the kids, bad, bad, bad writing and directing, the earlier mentioned fake fight scenes (maybe these kids could take on an adult who didn't know karate, but for them to beat an adult NINJA, just because they have been trained by a cliché-spouting grandfather, and have an FBI agent father? I don't think so. And amusement park rides aren't designed so they can be stopped upside-down and remotely release the passengers, which is the so-called terrorists plan. It's called safety engineering, meaning, there is no situation where you would WANT to be able to do that, so you don't design your system to BE ABLE TO DO THAT! Of course, then you don't have a movie, if you can't do that. Of course, you would have to GET CLEVERER WRITERS! There's a few good lines from Loni Anderson and Jim Varney, although they both come across as somewhat incompetent. Can't have real, know-your-stuff terrorists around to scare the kiddies, now, can we? Guess not.As it happened, this movie came to North Carolina Cable TV around the same time I saw my first episode of the Middleman TV series, which happened to be the one about aliens hiding on earth disguised as people addicted to plastic surgery. When I first saw Loni Anderson, with her artificially plumped lips, probable-cheek-implants, probable-face-lift, probable-Botox, probable-etc., I first thought she had the same makeup as the aliens did in the Middleman episode. Then I realized that this was how she really looked. Scary. Probably too scary for a kids' movie. I know it was for me and I'm near 50.Summary For a good karate movie, see the first 3 Ninjas movie, or possibly the next two. Skip this bomb. Also the Karate Kid is good, esp. the first one (see a pattern here?) Someone tried to squeeze the last dime out of the 3 Ninjas franchise; hopefully it is completely dead now. You know how these things can come back to life in Hollywood... (cue scary music...) "},{"Title":"Not even Hulk Hogan and Loni Anderson could save this one.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Growing up till this day 3 Ninjas Kickback was the weak link in the series but that movie is a blessing compared to 3 Ninjas high noon at mega Mountain.It does have some star power and familiar faces such as Jim Varney, Loni Anderson, Hulk Hogan, and Victor Wong but not even that could save this film.The plot has the 3 ninjas saving a theme park from the bad guys. Not a bad plot because it introduces some fun scenarios. And some of the training and fight sequences were pretty creative, just hard to get into considering how flawed this movie was.The previous kids who played the ninjas obviously had outgrown the roles by the time this was made but the casting was terrible. Nothing against the replacements, its just they didn't fit the role.I'd suggest any of the 3 ninjas films except this one. "},{"Title":"This is the best film ever!!!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the funniest films I've ever seen. Watched it on a hangover with a mate and we couldn't stop laughing the whole time and, despite having a lot of work to do, were compelled to watch to the end to see if the 3 ninjas won. It's the most ludicrous story line I've ever seen in a film, I was just sitting there thinking how is that little kid beating up grown men 'ninjas' - surely just knee him in the head, he's about 6. And that ridiculous girl with all the gadgets, Let me just reroute the encryption through the CPU or some bollox, on what was essentially a toy computer. The female leader of the terrorist looks like an 80s porn star (so does the Hulk as well, I guess), speaking of which, Mr. Hogan put in one of his best performances since Muppets from Space. It is genuinely the worst, least believable film you will ever see and as a result is truly hilarious. Also, one of the kids has literally the worst haircut you will ever see, it's worth watching the film purely for that. Long live Dave Dragon!!! "}{"Title":"Good for children... Not for adults.","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The thing that most people have to realize when watching a movie such as this one is its not made to be reviewed by people over, lets say 10. But seeing as how most under the age of ten have the attention span of a wet rock, I'll do it for them.I recently showed this movie to my kids, all of which are under the age of ten. And they loved it. I on the other hand walked out of the room. My kids were so entralled that two of them have now taken up karate lessons.that means Its served its purpose... they stayed still for 2 hours and I got to get some work done. "},{"Title":"10 reasons 2 WATCH this movie","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Here are ten reasons 2 watch this movie 1) You have done EVERYTHING in life so u are basically jobless.2) You are an IMMESNSE fan of Hulk Hogan from his earliest days of wrestling n before u die u have 2 see whatever movie he's been in.3) You want 2 know what is the meaning of 'gay'.4) You always wanted see what a movie would look like if it was made by a 2 year old.5) You have permanent brain damage n can swallow even the most disgusting piece of crap put in front of you.6) You want 2 be a director and after watching this movie you have hope that if this piece of crap makes it , U have a better chance.7) You hate yourself ( warning After watching you'll hate urself more)8) You love 2 point n curse at the TV 9) If you have the habit of crying at something funny n laughing at something serious.10) If you're on he brink of suicide watching this movie will speed it up. "},{"Title":"Good Sequel Dont Listen To Others","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very good sequel in fact one of the few sequels that give a good plot and crew.Although the 3 ninjas in this film were alot different they were good enough,the only problem was tum tum and colt look completely different.Another question i want answered is why this was in the theatres and any of the others werent.This had a lot of cool parts also.Now please take your own comments get it and watch it yourself you wont be disappointed.Dont listen to all the older people who judge kids movies,i am a 14 year old and i loved it in fact i am disappointed that it wasnt at any nearby theatres. "},{"Title":"Quite simply the funniest film ever","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest film ever. Why?Because of the funny gags and ninja-tricks? **NO**Because of the stupid 3 grownups? **NO**Oh, then why was it so funny?I don't know, really but I think it was something about it being so incredibly bad. Well, I laughed to death every second. I think I'm going to buy it, I haven't have this much fun in a stinking movie in years.0/10 - Rent it today and prepeare for laughs. Everything in it is funny, trust me (and I don't mean for the kids) "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think worst movie ever is being too kind. If I had the option of watching this again or ramming nails through my head, I would choose the latter and I hope all of you do as well. This has got to be the dumbest idea I have ever heard of. And Hulk Hogan? Wow, he is just absolutely pathetic. Stick to wrestling - that's something you suck at slightly less than acting. "},{"Title":"it's bad, but it could be worse","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" *may have spoilers*First things first, I enjoyed the first 3 Ninja's movie and found it a bit entertaining as a child. the sequels however stunk, but the first 2 sequels did something right that part 4 failed to do, make the children seem to age. that's the first major strike with 3 Ninja's High Noon at Mega Mountain. Rocky looks about the same age, Colt looks around the same age and looks like he lost touch with reality with that hair style (please ditch that) and the worst of them all was Tum-Tum. it's not the actor's fault because he tries hard, but when i see the first movie and then the last, Tum-Tum looks younger and more fit. Tum-Tum is supposed to be big, not slim. Another major issue with this movie is the plot. the plot of villains hi-jacking an amusement park isn't a bad idea. the bad idea though is that a lot of the things they do aren't really reality based. there's no way on Earth that a bad woman would be able to hack a roller coaster ride and turn it upside down like it occurred in the movie in that time. they should've made it more believable. also when the bad guys finally reveal themselves, it shows that some people (i guess) didn't hear that the park was hi-jacked as there are people still riding rides.and finally another issue is Hulk Hogan. He's just not a good actor and in this movie, he's just kinda there to provide a few fight scenes until the over acting Loni Anderson knocks him out or captures him. then at the end, the kids give credit to Hulk for saving the day when the best thing he did was hit a torpedo that the kids created. this movie wasn't awful though because Jim Varney at least was having fun and i DID enjoy the female characters they made. Rocky's girlfriend was fine as she was there to look pretty and depend on Rocky while the boys' new neighbor Amanda did her part well as the Velma of the group by being smart with computers. if the movie actually did better with picking actors who were older, then this movie would've been better. the biggest issues couldn't give it a better grade than 4. if you enjoy a good laugh, then watch this movie because Hulk will crack you up...i still don't understand how Jim Varney can't tell that Hulk Hogan is following him. "},{"Title":"Harmless fluff, but poorly done at times...","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1st watched 4/6/2008 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Sean McNamara) Harmless fluff, but poorly done at times. In this 3 Ninjas entry, the guys are spending time at their favorite amusement park for Tum Tum's birthday. A group of bad ninjas just happen to be attempting to take over the park for a ransom while they are there. The bad guys are led by Madusa(played by Loni Anderson) and assisted by a rare non-comic Jim Varney, who actually does a pretty good job as a villain. The movie starts with the 3 hero's doing a pretty cool obstacle course at their grandfather's place but learn a valuable lesson when he turns off the power and then makes them attempt it backwards. The lesson they learned, supposedly, is not to get a big head because they aced it going forwards but couldn't cut it backwards without power(believe it or not!!). This is later used by the guys in the final showdown with the baddies, which kind of brings their lesson back to them and creates kind of a purpose for their grandfather's teachings. I won't let you know what happens the 2nd time, in case you want to watch the movie yourself, but you can probably guess. This predictability, some obvious mistakes in the production(boom mikes and wires being visible) and the low acting expectations from most make this attempt at a fun kids movie even dismal to most kids, probably. "},{"Title":"OK I guess","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This sequel was alright but its not one of my favorites I think that the first 3 movies were better. The main thing that I did not like about this movie was that 3 different actors play the 3 ninjas. I think that the writers and the rest of the crew felt that the original actors were to old for the parts which I felt was ridiculous, why couldn't they have the original actors go to an amusement park as teenagers and young adults I don't see anything wrong with that, everybody goes to an amusement park, and if they are going to use 3 different actors why couldn't they find kids that resembled the original actors none of these kids even came close to looking like the original actors. I don't think that the director and the rest of the crew took the time to audition kids I think that those 3 kids were probably selected through a raffle or something. The only thing that they got right was the grandfather and the parents. If you have seen the first 3 movies then you might as well see this one but let me warn you you might be disappointed. This is the only 3 Ninjas movie that I don't own I just look at it whenever it comes on TV. "},{"Title":"Bad Clichés, Ninja action, Kids outsmarting adults - Well, it is the 90s after all.","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I reviewed this title back in November 2008, about 4 years ago, and while I still come to the conclusion that this movie still gets a rating of 1 because of how ridiculously bad it is, upon seeing it a few more times, I have to dig deeper into this movie and provide some more thoughts and ideas about it.First off, if you've seen the movie, Skip the next paragraph.In the recent years of the 3 Ninjas, They've grown older and more mature, and because of this, their interest in being ninjas has taken a backseat to more older things. While Tum-tum is still a young boy, Rocky has moved onto girlfriends, and Colt is merely stuck in the middle. Not only that, Tum-tum's Favorite Saturday morning hero, Dave Dragon, is about to cancel his 15-year long superhero show, due to low ratings and loss of interest. His final appearance will be at the Mega mountain theme park on tum-tum's birthday. So Tum-tum wants to go, and his older brothers tag along with their new friend, Amanda, who seems to be an expert on Computer Programming, hacking, and complex electronics. while at the theme park, a group of mercenary Ninjas, led by escaped convict, Mary Ann rogers, AKA Medusa, take over the theme park and threaten to harm it's people, but will let them go in exchange for a large sum of money. Will they succeed in their evildoing, or will the 3 ninjas save the day? OK, Upon seeing this movie a few more times and reading other comments left by users, There's lots to say now. First and foremost, i see 2 obvious references to mid-90s Role Playing games - First, look at Colt's hair. not only does it look ridiculous, it's a bad rip-off of Hero-class Bowie from shining force II, A sega Genesis RPG from 1994. Also, look at Amanda. Doesn't her character seem familiar to another girl from a 1995 SNES RPG? she does have thick glasses, knows her way around complex electronics and computers - Kinda like Lucca from Chrono Trigger maybe? Secondly, kids movies of the 90's can be totally remembered for kids outsmarting adults and leaving a trail of laughter in their wake. It started with Home alone, from 1990. Then it carried throughout the 90s, but around the mid-to-late 90s, the cliché got really old. this movie feeds off that cliché like Michael Moore feeds off of McDonalds.Thirdly, The aged stars of our show. First there's Hulk Hogan. Now i love wrestling, to me, it's entertainment and should not be looked at as a legitimate sport, cause it's not. Hulkamania was still running wild for the hulk at the time, he was in his 40s (if this was filmed in 1997, released in 1998, and hulk was born in 1953, he would've been 44 years old. For the most part, his acting isn't really believable, but his larger than life character in the ring more than makes up for it. then we have our other aged star, Loni Anderson. this was a few years after her divorce with Burt Reynolds, and i gotta admit, with all the leather, the make-up, lipstick, and sexy cougar voice, I was still turned on to her. How old was she around the time of filming? Well, she was born in 1945, making her 52 around the time of filming. Hot damn! But her acting skills in this film are as follows...Fourth, Loni Anderson might as well have starred in a porno, cause her acting skills, are totally unbelievable. And adding onto another user's comment, The Dialogue between Loni and Chelsey (Amanda) feels like watching a lesbian porno, about an aged beauty queen wanting to have her way with a young woman.So the bottom line, 3 Ninjas; High Noon at Mega Mountain isn't what you'd call a memorable film, i'd prefer the term Boring Saturday afternoon fare. it's totally forgettable, the only reason i'll ever remember it is because Loni Anderson was a total cougar in it. I'd rather remember hulk hogan for his Wrestling matches.1/10 "},{"Title":"Kids movie cliché","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If I were to describe this film in one word, it would be cliché. Since one word reviews are not allowed, I will have to elaborate. It seems the film makers were unable to think of anything original and just threw in every kids film gimmick they could find, except for cute animals that is. We have the classic conflict between older siblings wanting to be cool and the younger ones acting like kids. We have the three bumbling bad guys who get beaten up by little kids. We have the phony TV superhero becoming an actual hero. We have bad guys with guns who seem to never use them, nd if they do they never hit anyone. The list goes on and on, however there are other kids movies that do all of these things so much better, in 3 Ninjas it just becomes corny. The only original thing (not counting the other 3 Ninja films) is the fighting but that ends up being nothing but several minutes of three kids repeatedly shouting Ai-ya. This clearly suffers being a sequel produced solely to cash in on the franchise. I say, go see the first one and skip this. "}{"Title":"not bad.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie. Granted it was a bit cheesy and hokey at times, but you have to realize that this movie isn't for 16 year olds looking for a lot of heated action. This movie was geared towards children. Which is why the fight scenes are more cartoony. I liked the actors in it. The late Jim Varney did an excellent job of playing a goofy, yet overall, bad guy. I suggest you see this, that is off course if you are in the age group of 12 and under. I guarentee that your kids will love it. "},{"Title":"High Noon Fun!!!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some people may say that this movie is 'lowest common denominator tripe.'  These people are shallow.  3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain is a thrilling ride.  Like the best work of Scorsese or Kubrick, TN HNAMM not only makes you laugh, but it forces you to look deep into your soul and question exactly what it is that makes us human.   "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me just say that a nice introduction is not needed in this piece of leftover meatloaf that needed to be produced by a Fishcer Price karate team.3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain had a plan in it's motive to be produced. It wanted to show compassion. It wanted to show teamwork, brotherly love and it wanted to show Hulk Hogan's acting abilities. It all failed in that.Three brothers who happened to be in an amusement park will save the day because the amusement park is taken over by terrorists! There are also subplots of Hulk Hogan's character being a has-been (so is he) and the eldest ninja who'll get the heart of this ten-year-old girl. Lame! Colt is played by this kid who will become the future Canadian band Moffats-parody lead singer. Tum-tum is a little Hilary Swank stuck in a Baby Gap model's body. Rocky is this over-the-top, meant to be cool punk who can't kiss at fourteen.The supporting kids are just as weird. The computer girl had not a cinch of fear since there was a four-minute bomb inches away from her face. The roller coaster-Come save me! girl was the miscast of the entire debacle. Can she even stand still? Why is it such a good idea for terrorists to take over an amusement park? Why cast a has-been wrestler who can't even say his name right? Why are Jamaican men such good computer junkies? Why cast a toddler (who yelps like a strangling cat) into saying those damn Ay-Ya's over two dozen times? I liked these ninja movies. The first ones? Great. I was like three when that came to video. But this? This is the limit of underdeveloped. It looked like it was directed by a damn pro-kids pedophile! I would just say that the hype, the story, the climax and the stupendous fight scenes (where the kids close their little eye-dy widey's to kick the bad goons) take the cake as making this pure garbage.Don't waste your time, I did. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not a child, but I still enjoyed this movie. I enjoyed the first three, although in the second movie (kicks back) the youngest kid barely fought at all. I enjoyed this movie because all the kids have action. They all have black belts so the action is really good. It's a great movie. I liked it. This movie is great entertainment for children. This is also a good movie to watch if you are bored or there's nothing good on. I enjoyed this movie a lot. I've seen all the 3 ninjas movies and enjoyed them all. This is also a good action film for children. They would probably enjoy it as much as I did. Victor Wong acted really well returning as grandpa mori. The rest of the cast is good also, and the movie as a good storyline. "},{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies ever","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the 10 stupidest movies ever. It was boring even to a 7-year old watching the movie with me. This movie seemed to go on for ever. It's as bad as watching Barney or Tele-tubbies. I do not recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Awful out of 4.","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Three young boys, Rocky, Colt and Tum Tum together with their neighbour girl, computer whiz Amanda are visiting Mega Mountain amusement park when it is invaded by an army of ninjas led by evil Medusa, who wants to take over the park and hold the owners for ransom. Kids and retired TV star Dave Dragon, who made his farewell appearance at the park at the time the ninjas appeared, have to break Medusa's vicious plans.Thank goodness that the 3 Ninjas saga is over and done with. For years after seeing the three other films in the saga, I really hated them and with Hulk Hogan as a guest in this movie, my thoughts... I thought this would be much better and would redeem it after all. But it just turned out like a game of Roulette and everyone loses, the movie turned out to be absolutely worse than the first three. Now that the saga is done, I can rest in peace knowing that I'll never watch any of these films ever again in my life! "},{"Title":"Stupid, But Enjoyable!","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a huge fan of the 3 Ninjas, I can safely say that this movie is horrible. And yes, this is coming from a fan of movies where kids successfully beat up adults. I know this is a kids movie, but this is just plain silly.The plot is that it's Tum Tum's birthday, and he's going to have his party at Mega Mountain (the one and only!) Just in the nick of time, a geeky girl moves in next door. How convenient. Tum's birthday party is on the same day as the final appearance of his favorite TV hero, Dave Dragon, played by the Hulkster (brother!) Well, he got lucky. There also happen to be terrorists who want to, get this, take over the amusement park. See? That's just plain silly. So, since the 3 Ninjas are there, they break out their ninja skills and save the day with the Davester.I remember this being my favorite 3 Ninjas movie. I totally regret making this decision, and I don't even know why it used to be my favorite. It feels like they tried to get everything wrong here, but with that, it makes the movie fun to watch. There's always something to make fun of, like the laughable special effects, horrendous dialog, and Hulk Hogan's hamming it up! (Seriously, how can you NOT laugh at One ninja stew coming up!) "},{"Title":"Low quality at dreary kiddie-friendly martial arts dirge - 20%","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes, I'm my own worst enemy. The paradox of being a movie critic is that when you encounter a movie that you know from others is gonna suck like no other, you find your interest growing and you make yourself watch it. But no more. After this, I've learnt my lesson - this was so bad that I've decided never to indulge my masochistic side ever again. All the signs were there - none of the returning cast (this is apparently the fourth movie in this franchise), Hulk Hogan topping the bill and a resolute grip on a place on IMDb's bottom 100. I should have seen this coming and to some extent, I did. But like Batman & Robin and GI Joe The Rise Of Cobra, I was quite unprepared for just how mind-numbingly boring and poorly made this family movie actually is.In case any of the others have passed you by, three young boys by the name of Rocky (Mathew Botuchis), Colt (Michael O'Laskey II) and Tum Tum (James Paul Roeske II) spend their summers training to become ninja with their grandpa (Victor Wong) with the apparent blessing of their parents (Alan McRae and Margarita Franco). When Tum Tum's favourite TV show is cancelled, they head off to nearby Mega Mountain theme park when Dave Dragon (Hogan) makes a living in a live stage-show version of his show. But terrorists led by the glamorous Medusa (Loni Anderson) take over the park in an attempt to raise some ill-gotten funds from the park's owner (Denis Berkfeldt). Only the 3 Ninjas, together with their new neighbour's daughter Amanda (Chelsey Earlywine), can save the day!I understand that most family films have a lesser quality to their bigger-budgeted brethren but even so, 3 Ninjas High Noon At Mega Mountain is a shocking waste of time, celluloid and talent. Not Hogan, obviously - he speaks most lines with the same level of interest as a train tannoy announcer - but Botuchis actually looks the part and even convinces in the fight scenes. The other two are hopeless but at least they match the same level as their adult co-stars. Anderson comes across as a cut-price version of her namesake Pamela while Jim Varney is wasted as her unfortunate right-hand man Lothar. The rest of the supporting cast are blighted by tragic lookalikes - the cop looked suspiciously like OJ Simpson while I was sure one of the goofy henchmen was actually Ronnie Wood from the Rolling Stones! Still, this film maintains the laws of kids battling adults laid out in films like Home Alone which clearly state that any adult can be incapacitated by violence so long as it is comic. So minor falls onto soft landings, mishaps at various fairground attractions and Jackie Chan-style prop use are all that's really required at any stage.I could go into greater detail about stuff I didn't like by listing things like a barely coherent plot that feels optional at times or a horrible sense when watching it that you're wasting your life perhaps. But I rise above such petty statements and besides, I reckon you get the picture by now. Even with the youngest of boys who believe everything they see in WWE programming, 3 Ninjas High Noon At Mega Mountain won't do the trick. It's too dumb for younger viewers to enjoy and way too stupid for the rest of us. There are worse films out there - another Hogan family film from '98 by the name of McCinsey's Island has the dubious distinction of being one of the lowest scoring films I've ever seen - but why does Hollywood produce such poor movies that are meant for kids? Pixar can produce movies suitable for both adults and kids seemingly at will while the likes of Wallace & Gromit provide endlessly entertaining outings and have done for years. This, by contrast, feels as much fun as a detention. But at least I've not wasted my time completely by seeing this - learn from my experience, trust your instincts and keep the hell away from this turgid, unintelligent and frankly forgettable swansong for the 3 Ninjas. "},{"Title":"Everything that makes a bad movie bad is in abundance in this movie","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have seen a lot of movies, old and new, good and bad. 3 NinjasHigh Noon at Mega Mountain is a really awful movie, not the all-time worst, but everything that makes a bad movie bad is in abundance in this wretched excuse of a movie. In fact, the only somewhat tolerable asset was the soundtrack, that was decent compared to how awful everything else was.What made the movie especially bad was the plot. It is incredibly lame and predictable, with one of the dumbest endings I have seen in recent memory. Production values-wise, the movie is not good either, the cinematography, sets and scenery are of shoddy quality and the editing is so slip-shod it hurts the eyes and makes the editing in a movie like The Medallion seem Oscar-worthy. The fight scenes are poorly choreographed with little or no drive or energy, while the script and direction are terrible. Same with the acting, the kids are all annoying, the villains are pathetic in both character and acting while Hulk Hogan has a poor character and is not given much to do.Overall, an awful film and not worth it. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Karate Kid / 3 X 0=0","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" That math problem sums up this whole movie. It is The Karate Kid divided into three smaller karate kids. Then you times that by zero effort and you get one big fat goose egg of a movie. It is the fourth installment in the 3 Ninjas saga, and it is by far the worst. The other films I will review in time, but this is the big one. This is the one that everyone hates. It has terrible acting, terrible fight scenes, and an awful story. When it comes to the acting the only person I liked was Jim Varney, but that is not enough to make up for the rest of the cast. As you would expect the child acting fails completely. The 3 ninjas are all annoying especially the little one. As for Hulk Hogan I didn't hate the performance, but it is exactly what you would expect. Then we have the action which is terrible. It goes for fighting that is practically slapstick instead of actual fighting. That is something I hate about a lot of kung fu/karate movies. So many of them just go for laughs from kiddies instead of actual honor for the fighting. It insults it, and if I was a karate teacher I would spit on pieces of trash like this everyday. In my opinion martial arts should stay in the more adult categories. The only true exception I have seen for these largely kid friendly martial arts movies is The Karate Kid that's it. I can't wait for a day when another film like that comes around and shows kids what the art of combat is about instead of constant shots to the balls. Until then we get this. Also another thing terrible about the fighting that is unbearable is how they have weapons with knives, but they never use them. I know it's for kids, but if there is a terrorist in front of you and you have a knife that guy is getting stabbed. Have stabbing or lose the knives in my opinion. Also the fighting suffers from those cliché noises that are made when you make a punch. It gets really annoying quickly. Now we move on to the plot. It really all seems like an excuse to have Hulk Hogan. They might as well call it Hulk and 3 Ninjas. He was what sold the film in the first place, but I am going to try and explain the plot. The ninjas go to an amusement park, and it gets taken over by terrorists. The only hope is the 3 ninjas, a smart girl with glasses, and Hulk Hogan......(3 hours of laughing later) Yeah that is one of the lamest excuses for a plot I have ever seen. Then we have dialogue which just like the fighting suffers from way to much childish humor. The jokes are very repetitive. The movie just isn't funny. I'm not going to give this film a 0 star rating. It's bad, but at least it isn't Pocket Ninjas. Just saying the title of that movie makes me shiver.1/2 of a star out of 4 "}{"Title":"3 Fast, 3 Ninja Hyper Fury Review","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain I have become a changed man. Before I was lost in a fog of listlessness and melancholy. I was in a state of deep depression that for all intents and purposes was inescapable. But then like a toaster dropped into the bathtub of my life, 3 Ninjas High Ninja Mountains Hyper, changed it all. From the tight and clever writing to the on point set and lighting design everything was solid.A real stand out here was Terry Hulk Hogan as Dave The Dragon Dragon a semi washed up television star who is performing his final show at Mega Mountain. In what can be seen as art mimicking life in a sick form of jurisdiction.The only weak point here is the basic plan of the terrorists. For a group of highly trained mercs, lead by Lothar Zogg no less, it was lacking in forethought. Everyone knows you need to take into account ninjas being the monkey in your wrench.All in all 3 Ninjas Mega Assault on Hyper Mountain is a fine film. I'd give it a shot if it happens to come on cable or the like. "},{"Title":"Worst kiddy movie ever made!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although I may be ashamed to say it, there was a time in my life where I thought the 3 Ninjas movies rocked. My personal favorites were the first one and the one where they go to Japan. When I finally surpassed that dark age in my childhood, I decided to see one again just for plain stupidity. I noticed all the elements present in a bad movie. Then, Mega Mountain was aired on HBO, years later since the last time, and saw it for whatever reason you could think of that included weed. Stupid jokes, stupid plot, stupid acting, stupid kids making stupid moves to stupid bad guys. That's all there is to it. Just like the previous ones, but this time they step it up a notch, by adding the incredible martial arts moves of that kung fu legend, Hulk Hogan. There were really memorable moments, like the one where a bunch of people puke after riding a ride turned nightmare (actually, they were puking over being extras for this movie). The movie's plot was probably stolen from a rejected script from Beverly Hills Cop 3, and later rewrote to achieve that disgusting kiddy tone. This is an insult to any audience, including babies. You can't even make fun of it while watching it (it's that bad). "},{"Title":"Cheaply delivered in every regard without any sense of fun, wit, imagination, or thought for the audience","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rocky and Colt are probably getting a bit too old to be spending their summers practising their ninja skills and Grandpa Mori knows he will soon loose them to the appeal of girls and probably inexpensive soft drugs. Young Tum Tum skill shows heart though, but is that enough? Anyway, for Tom Tom's birthday, they all go to theme park Mega Mountain to see television star Dave Dragon in a live appearance. However when terrorists seize control of the park and demand $10 million or they will start causing accidents among the customers. With the gates locked down and no help on the way, the boys find themselves calling on their ninja skills after all.OK, I wasn't expecting this to be Die Hard but I was genuinely surprised to find out what passes as kids' entertainment in the eyes of some makers. I had to check IMDb during it to find out if it was a TVM or not and again was shocked to learn that this made it into cinemas, yes, cinemas. It actually got released and was shown to a paying public as opposed to just let out on television. Personally I do not have an issue with the idea behind the film because kids will always love to see their peers beating adults. I'm sure many parents will have concerns about letting their children watch something with lots of fighting and kicking in case they imitate it, but I'll leave those concerns to them (even if I do agree with them). So in theory this should be a silly and fun martial arts film for children.However this is so cheap - lacking originality, effort and fun that I did wonder if the audience didn't deserve something better than this. The mixed group watching this on a lazy afternoon hardly let out a chuckle or any sign of enjoyment. The martial arts action did show that the movement is well done but that is about it. I expected the plot to be daft but it is daft to the point of being painful and it just felt churned out like a bad panto &#150; the basics with little for kids and nothing at all for adults.The cast are roundly poor although this was almost always going to be a given. The kids can't act to save their lives even if they move well. Botuchis is unconvincing, Roeske is unbearably saccharine while O'Laskey looks absurd with one of the worse haircuts I have ever seen. Hogan looks so cheap that his wrestling days look like Shakespeare in the Park as a result &#150; he is terrible and really should have more dignity about him than this. Anderson is poor and given little support by Jim Varney. Wong's last film on earth? Shame. McNamara's direction is TVM standard at best and the cheap incidental music just makes it all feel worse still.Overall, a popular one for inclusion in the bottom 100 on this site and it is indeed rubbish but it didn't have to be. The idea could have been fun if done properly but it is cheaply delivered in every regard and lacks any sense of fun, wit or imagination, leaving it feeling like it has been churned out as part of a money making process without a care for the audience (which, on this evidence, it exactly what happened). "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having watched this movie as a child, i learnt that it doesn't really make any sense. It is difficult to understand and follow. The main mistake with this film is how a white sub-urban American family have a Japanese Grandfather, this is really weird.I must admit the main reason i actually sat down and watched this disaster was because of Hulk Hogan, and his role was also so BAD. The really annoying part was the little brat Tum-Tum, and his annoying war cry. looking back on the film now and taking into account that its a kids movie, I still find it so funny that a bunch of grown men can get their buts kicked by a bunch of kids. I would have much preferred it if they had using firearms, and test the little brats to see if they could dodge bullets like real Ninja's. "},{"Title":"Boring... Looses everything that I liked about these movies!","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was younger I loved the first ones. We watched them over and over again, laughed at them... you know, it was an enjoyable kinda thing. But wow, I never thought they could get this bad! Rocky, 15 huh? The guy looked about 11! Colt's hairstyle was atrocious, and I swear I remembered Tum-Tum's character to be older >_<.The plot-line is completely unbelievable. It doesn't seem to really have any purpose in it.The acting is stupid... I mean, I might as well go and watch a school play and get better acting than I did here. So, overall, if you want to watch a movie from these series, let this be your last choice... "},{"Title":"WOW that wasn't good","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was younger when this movie was released, I was 6 years old and when it was over, I felt as though i could whoop butt. The second one made me glad I was older and didn'y act like that anymore. I was embarrassed to see it. Why do they make them waaaa and hiya and uh sounds? What is that? They just made this film hard to believe because everyone knows there isn't any way that 3 kids could take down that man grown men. It just doesn't happen. I hope there done producing god-awful movies such as this one. Mabey with todays effects they could do a little, well, A lot better in trying to make a kiddie karate movie a little more interesting. "},{"Title":"Wasn't that bad","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At least the sequels weren't *that* bad, although the High Noon one wasn't quite as funny like the first 3, it was still action packed anyway. The interesting thing is that, there's always at least 3 goons, as the mercenaries, like the 1st one it was 3 long-haired guys, who liked heavy metal Music, surf-boards, and babes. The ones on the 2nd movie were like 3 Red-neck cowboy kind of guys, who hung out at bars, n stuff, and the ones on the 3rd movie were 3 metal-heads, like the first one, who didn't quite know how to do their jobs, so they're all o.k., of course that's what always made it funny all the time, was the 3 goons in every flick. "},{"Title":"Sweet, merciful Jesus, why?","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Once I saw a movie review, where the reviewer wrote something like Why do the bad critics keep reviewing this like it's a piece of c---? All the children like it!. I expected this movie to be something similar. When the credits started running, though, i even try'd to watch it through the eyes of a five year old, but it still seemed terrible. Jesus Christ, even the storyline is a piece of dung! 3 kids whoop-ass ten men with machine guns?! Come on. Don't waste your time on watching this movie. Go do something useful, like get scored or something. Just don't watch this one. Please. It's for you're own sake. Okay, i even may like Hulk Hogan's way of plaing a bad guy, but why did he do it in this movie?! "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How could anyone possibly say anything bad about this cinematic masterpiece. Come on guys, this is Hulk Hogan in the peak of his acting career. What more could a movie buff ask for? This is like Christmas, Channukah and Kwanzaa rolled into one bundle of fun. I'm just kidding this is the worst piece of garbage I've ever seen. Even though I watched this really stoned at 3 in the morning, I want that hour and half of my life that was stolen back. I wonder what the director of the movie was thinking during production. Probably something along the lines of what the hell am I doing?.An avid 3 ninjas fan "},{"Title":"OK plot, but wrong actors, they should of kept the originals, or not made this movie at all","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK I've been watching the 3 Ninjas over and over since i was little, all of them, and then this one comes out... you have 3 new actors, which are worse then the real 3, but then again the 3 Ninjas Kick Back has 2 new people, but anyways, it's impossible for these new actors to be as good as the original... and yeah, the plot is pretty good, but it would of been better if Michael Treanor, Max Elliott Slade, and Chad Powers would be the main characters, if they couldn't get them then they shouldn't have made this movie at all, so yeah, the plot was good, but totally wrong people for the job, sorry but that's all i have to say about this movie. "}{"Title":"half way decent sequel","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the fourth film of the 3 Ninjas series, the ninjas are on a trip to the Mega Mountain amusement park, they are joined by their computer genius neighbor, 13-year-old Amanda (Chelsey Earlywine), daughter of a movie special FX designer. The villainous Medusa (Loni Anderson) leads a ninja army to Mega Mountain. With her head henchman Lothar (Jim Varney), Medusa intends to move into Mega Mountain's master control center and hold the park patrons for a $10 million ransom. However, former TV star Dave Dragon (Hulk Hogan) happens to be making an appearance at the park, and the combination of Dave, Rocky, Colt, Tum Tum, and Amanda makes life difficult for Medusa and her warriors. High Noon at Mega Mountain is stupid and fun and Hulk Hogan's performance makes this movie better.  "},{"Title":"Hi-Yah!","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hwah! Huh! Why did I make those noises? Because that's how exciting this sequel to the very funny movie 3 Ninjas really is! Both movies are nice, good, clean family fun (as for Surf Ninjas, too), and parents won't have to be worried about bad content or anything of that matter.I remember in the first movie, those kids can kick those bad guys' butts! Now, in the second movie, well, there's more fighting! Kids love this stuff!And another reason to like this movie Two words Hulk Hogan. Seeing him act is just like seeing Tor Johnson act; both are funny guys! So this Friday night, when there's nothing to watch on television that night, go out and rent these movies! "},{"Title":"3 ninjas and Dave Dragon save the day in true ninja fashion!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is really good, even though Dave Dragon gets captured two or three times, but it's still a good movie. Jim Varney is great as the villain,Lothar. 3 ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain is the best 3 Ninjas movie, and I dare challenge any film critic to a Film debate, Seriously! This movie has it all action, drama, comedy, and even some sensitive moments which isn't at all bad to have in a movie. It's a true family film, because it isn't very violent, and there's no bad language, which has just completely taken over the movie, and TV industry. I'm glad that there's some movies like these that doesn't have all of that. And Hulk Hogan is a great actor. "},{"Title":"Would you please stop trashing this series?","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've waited over four years to see this movie, and people have to stop trashing this series.  Having taken karate myself as a kid and working in an amusement park, this movie is far from stupid.  If you're a fan of the series, you'll love this one.The only negative point I can see is that they didn't use the original actors except for Grandpa Mori; however, in this case it doesn't hurt the movie.  The kids were far better at karate and the action was great.If you like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or Power Rangers, you'll like this movie too.9 out of 10.Peace out. "},{"Title":"The ten-year-old is what?","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I'd been wanting to see this movie for some time.  I enjoyed the first three greatly, and although Hulk Hogan's in it, I consider it a good investment.  Victor Wong III had a brilliant background part as Grandpa, and the toys were fun.(Alright, I'm a teenager.  The fact that the two older guys are easy on the eyes doesn't hurt anything, either.)What had originally enticed me, though, was the action part of the film. After all, the actors playing Rocky, Colt, and Tum-Tum (see the list) are all black belts.  Yep, even the ten-year-old!  So if you're looking for spills, not kills, and amusement park thrills, rent this today! "},{"Title":"Um..........what have we done to deserve this","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All I'm going to say is there is no possible way that you could make a movie like i mean WTF!!!!!!!! I've seen so many bad action movies but WTFF!!!!!!!!!! Omg honestly i want to die after seeing that movie it blows so much that it should be an natural disaster. I don't even think Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton faced an F5 tornado of absolute bolder-dash in twister. The funny thing is all of the bad movies that I've seen especially the 80's action/kick boxing type movies no matter how much i think they're the biggest load of testicles i still watch them its crap fest pulls me in with and imaginary force that cannot cannot be reckoned with "},{"Title":"Awful. Just Plain Awful.","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hey amigos, your good friend Disco Bob here with a few comments on 3 Ninjas High Noon at Mega Mountain. Man, they should've stopped the 3 Ninja series a long time ago. The first was a very fun spin on the Karate Kid series, the second fit right along with the first and was a good sequel, but this one? Horrid. Also, they got Hulk Hogan in it which drops the ratings of any movie. What were they honestly thinking with him and that washed up hag Loni Anderon. Oy vey. I feel vaklempt just thinking about this flick. "},{"Title":"Impossible viewing for anyone older than 6.","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Uggh! This is a terrible film and this was obvious by the first scene. The film begins with three very white-bread kids being taught by their grandfather how to be ninjas in some sort of Mario Brothers-like training facility. Considering how similar all this looks to Pocket Ninjas (the #4 lowest ranked film on IMDb's Bottom 100 list), I knew I was in for a painful time! Soon after leaving grandpa's house, the three annoying brats go with their friends to an amusement park that is about to be taken over by the lamest villains in history--Loni Anderson and Jim Varney as 'Medusa' and 'Lothar'!! And, oh God say it isn't so, it's up to the thee kids AND Hulk Hogan to save the day. Can it get any worse?!?! Well, with tons of lame stunts, tons of special effects and minimal acting, the answer is YES! To show the FBI that they mean business, once the baddies take over the park, they make certain rides go SLIGHTLY faster!!! What beasts!! In fact, while there is lots of punching and kicking, this is only family-friendly violence--so the kids naturally win and no one shoots, stabs or even tickles their opponents. Because of this and the constantly insipid writing, the film is a total bore to anyone older than about 6.So should this movie be on the infamous Bottom 100 list? I think probably not for two reasons. First, very, very young kids will enjoy this insipid crap--and to me, a film should not be on the list if it is in any way enjoyable. Second, the production values are not that terrible and the film makes no attempt to be anything more than it is--a dopey little film that would most likely make a parent kill themselves or the kids if they are forced to watch it!! "},{"Title":"horrid!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ok, i am a humungous 3 ninjas fan! i'm fourteen and i've been watching them since i was in 8. i loved the first one and knuckle up and kick was pretty good too. but this one was just bad! it didn't fit in with the previous 3 ninja movies. it just seemed so wrong, i was also had something against the guy who played Colt in this one, and all the other stuff too, it was too over the top, it was trying to hard and the villians were ridiculous too.ok, enough said, but if your a fan of the 3 ninjas movies, dont' watch this one!! "},{"Title":"I love ninja movies, even with comedy mixed in.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With this movie, I have all four '3 Ninjas' movies. And in regards to one ofthe stupidest movies ever, I think that movie was 'Too Wun Foo'. I'd never give any 3 Ninjas movie a bad rating for any reason, not to mention that I'm a major movie go-er. "}{"Title":"The last and worst in the '3 ninjas' series!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a big fan of the first three 'ninjas' movies so I was very excited about a fourth one in the series. I rented it on video one night and had mixed feelings about the movie. It had the same formula as the first three did, but not the same actors except for Victor Wong. Infact, Victor Wong and Jim Varney are the only ones that gave good performances. Victor Wong once again plays the wise Grandfather and Jim Varney plays a silly and funny bad guy. If you are a big Victor Wong or Jim Varney fan then rent this movie, but don't be expecting anything entertaining because this isn't entertainment.  "}]