[{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I disagree with the people here saying this is one of the worst films ever made.  I'm somewhat of a connosieur of bad films, and that just isn't the case.  It's competently put together from front to back, but the script definitely could have used another draft or two.At its worst, it's just unfunny, not mind-bendingly horrible as some would have you to believe.  Certainly if you know nothing about the inner workings of Hollywood you won't understand the references and almost none of it will be funny.I'm sure there were lots of references I didn't understand -- I get the feeling people working in Hollywood would get more out of this movie than the rest of us.  One odd reference is the repeated name of Michael Ovitz throughout the movie.  It appears in the song I Wanna Be Michael Ovitz in the soundtrack, there's a Paging Dr. Ovitz... in the background in a hospital, etc.  It's not quite clear what writer Eszterhas's feelings toward Ovitz are -- does he hate him or look up to him?Another thing I don't understand is why director Arthur Hiller felt he had to change his credit to Alan Smithee, except that it's amusingly appropriate.  Looking at the film, I can't imagine that it was changed too radically in the editing, except  perhaps the ultra-acidic put-downs on the title cards that introduce new characters. "},{"Title":"Engagingingly funny, but for a limited audience","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you are in the feature film industry, what makes this picture so funny is the close parody... some of the characters appear to be modeled on real people. It would not be too far a stretch of the imagination to believe that two of the characters are parodies of Peter Guber and John Peters of Sony Pictures. Read the true story of these two guys' careers, documented in the book, Hit and Run, then watch Burn Hollywood Burn again. You will probably find the film twice as entertaining as the first time you watched it. After having last watched the film 7 years ago, I bought the DVD this week because I wanted to see if I could grab the title track that I liked, and I also clearly remembered (and liked) the graffiti art that was drawn for the movie title. Once I got the DVD in my hands, though, I watched the film all the way through again, and enjoyed it every bit as much as the first time I saw it. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is actually a rather intelligent, if cynical, satire of the shallow and idiotic nature of Hollywood. More cameos than you can shake a stick at. Ryan O'Neal is great as an amoral producer. Eric Idle is even better as an unfortunate director named Alan Smithee whose movie is corrupted by the studio. He wants to remove his name from the movie, but since Alan Smithee is the pseudonym used for directors who want to remove their name from a picture, he is out of luck and becomes... unbalanced. Very dry, but very amusing. If you liked Last Action Hero and Purple Rose of Cairo, you'll probably like this. "},{"Title":"Very funny poke at Hollywood","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe the negative quotes for this movie.  Sure, it isn't the fastest paced movie in the world, but for sheer parody of Hollywood it works quite well.  Especially the Whoopie, Stallone and Jackie Chan parts. "},{"Title":"a love it or hate it thing","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why did I buy this movie? Because several (British) friends of mine were discussing it passionately, declaring it a masterpiece satire full of wit and irony that Americans (and Germans) would probably never understand.And because the cast list looks like a dream collection of funny actors Jackie Chan, Sylvester Stallone, Whoopi Goldberg, Eric Idle, Ryan O'Neall....And then this. My friends were right. If there is any humour, I did not get it. The movie tells of film-editor Alan Smithee, who has been given a chance at directing for the first time. An action blockbuster of unseen proportions (and budget). Seeing this movie, I could not help suspecting that it depicts quite accurately what might have happened behind the set of MI-2, with a kind director being overrun by his star's and producer's egos.Unfortunately, the story isn't told linearly, but in flashbacks, and in interviews, and with the trailer for the blockbuster. It wants to be a mockumentary. Like Bob Roberts. But it just isn't all that funny. And Eric Idle is wasted, as he only ever gets to run around screaming manically during most of the few scenes he has.To some it might be a classic. For me it was agonizing.... "},{"Title":"This movie is good","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie like, three years ago on HBO, or something, and I thought it was awesome. So I decided to see what people on the net had to say about it, and I was shocked. Apparently everyone and there mother hates this film. I don't know why. Sure it's no masterpiece, but only a handful of movies are. When Roger Ebert said it was worst than Showgirls, he went too far. At worst, I expected reviews like 2/5 stars, or 4.5/10 points. Instead I got things like 0 stars, something I didn't even know existed. I could see people didn't like the way the actors looked at the screen (even though it was a mockumentary), or the way you can't care too much for any one character (even though it's a satire, in which society as a whole should look bad). The movie has an odd flow to it (is that bad?), which I found cool. I Don't see why people can praise films like Memento (which told a story in an unconventional way, just like Burn), or Spinal Tap (which has no real plot, just like Burn), and not give this movie, and at least average review. If you can find it, watch it and decide for yourself, don't take the word of these flakers and perpetrators. "},{"Title":"Essentially inside jokes","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you work in the film industry, you'll probably find it very funny.  Or at least quite amusing.  If you are employed in some other fashion, you will likely think this film ridiculous. It is not, however, in the same league as The Player or S.O.B. (from which this film seems to have borrowed one basic story concept). "},{"Title":"Starts well as a potential satire but does very little with it","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Real life director Alan Smithee is an editor by trade but is signed up to direct the action movie `Trio' starring Whoopi Goldberg, Sly Stallone and Jackie Chan.  However when the producer's final cut leaves it, in Alan's opinion, a mess, he steals the master negative and runs.  This documentary follows the story of what happens when a director is forced to watch his art turned into a poor money spinner.I hadn't really read the very negative reviews of this film before I watched it and am a little surprised by the strength of feeling from the majority of the critics.  Having said that, I can understand why this film is so hammered &#150; as it really isn't very good.  It started well and I thought it had potential &#150; it seemed that people were making fun of themselves and that it would be a good satire on the industry and in particular, studio execs.  However after a certain point it doesn't really do very much other than be flabby, repeating, self indulgent and silly.  After Alan actually takes his film and seeks refuge with the Brothers Brothers, the film is very messy and not very funny at all.  The documentary approach had worked well up till this point but from here it was a strange mix of action and documentary.  It gets increasingly silly and increasingly less clever and funny.It had a few laughs but satire is meant to be funny &#150; not just taking easy pot shots with crude characterisations and jokes.  I still maintain it had potential but it is a good idea crying out for a better script and director (I notice it is directed by Smithee &#150; I don't know if that's a joke or if the real director really did disown it).  So from a good idea it goes nowhere &#150; the little touches are nice but the total plot is rubbish.  In away it is both made worse and more bearable by the actors, who are a mixed bunch.Eric Idol is awful and he simply doesn't suit the material &#150; watch the scene where he turns his hat sideways and says `cool' and you'll see what I mean.  Chuck D should really have known better than to deliver a meaningless performance here &#150; although I totally expect that from Coolio!  However, Stallone, Goldberg and Chan are all quite funny and make fun of themselves quite well.  O'Neal and colleague as the producers are quite good but are dumbly stretched to extremes for the sake of humour.  For the majority of the cast there seems to be a problem gelling &#150; it feels like every single person thinks they are in a cameo and thus add to the feeling of this not being a film so much as a cobbled together affair.  The support cast is good for names but the quality of delivery isn't really that high.Overall I'd stop short of adding to the list of boots that have been put into this film, but I'd be lying if I told you I didn't feel like I'd waste 90 minutes &#150; I do.  It started with a good idea but the script was nowhere near sharp enough and the majority of the cast (certainly those required to carry the film and not just be cameos) are just not up to the job.  Could have been a fun satire but instead is an unfunny messy affair that doesn't really have anywhere to go beyond taking easy shots at the producers. "},{"Title":"Even the insincerity is fake...","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am willing to bet that when the principle players in the making of AN ALAN SMITHEE FILM BURN, H0LLYW00D, BURN got together and read the script they probably found it hilarious. But they were probably drunk, stoned or deep into jet lag at the time. But somewhere between that first reading and the film's release, someone surely must have sobered up and noticed just how badly this film fails to deliver. The film is bad not just because it is bad, but because it coulda/shoulda been pretty good. Joe Eszterhas's script is sophisticated and savage and full of inside jokes. The direction by Arthur Hiller/Alan Smithee cleverly juggles ideas and viewpoints. And most of the cast give credible performances, even the nonprofessionals who contribute cameos. Obviously, everyone thought they were making a pretty good movie. In the end, the film is smart and pointed and even insightful, but it is never, never, never, never even remotely funny. It is hard to pinpoint just why the film ends up being so depressingly blah, but a good guess would be that it is a matter of attitude. ALAN SMITHEE is just so insultingly smug. Everybody involved is basically making fun of themselves, but not in jovial, lighthearted way. The self-deprecation is condescending See, they all seem to be saying, I called myself a bastard before you had a chance. Nyah, nyah, nyah!!! I beat you to the punch. I mean what is the point of self mockery if it is intended to belittle someone else? Even the most mean-spirited of satires require a degree of innocence; a posture that allows the audience to find the humor and the hypocrisy for themselves, rather than to have it force fed to them. For instance, the film's structure, basically a series of talking head interviews, demands that the interview blurbs seem spontaneous, not preprocessed and rehearsed. Hiller skillful stages these little snatches of interviews as though they are being given on the fly, in different places and at different times, but they still seem canned. Even the characters' insincerity should seem sincerely insincere, not like tossed-off one-liners at a Friars Club roast. Even though everyone involved is obviously in on the joke, they shouldn't appear to be. And a major inexplicable problem is the whole black thing the film seems to be doing. This is a satire about a British director and bunch of Beverly Hills/movie studio suits, so why does the film feature rap music, African-American themed title credits and references to black directors? Is black cinema supposed to be the new New Wave or avant-garde? Is it supposed to be like references to beatniks in the fifties and hippies in the sixties, a clumsy attempt to make the squares seem hip and to make the story seem relevant (when ultimately it will only make the film seem quickly dated)? The film can't fake sincerity, why do the filmmakers think they can fake soul? In the end, ALAN SMITHEE seems to be little more than a home movie, a gag reel to be played at the office Christmas party. If that were the case, I suspect that all involved would still find the material funny. But, what happens at the Christmas party should stay at the Christmas party, otherwise it can just be too embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Well, it's not Human Highway.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this in a video store tonight after wanting for years to see it.. when it was being made, because the concept was so intriguing and hearing that it starred Eric Idle, and later when I found out that Arthur Hiller had taken his name off the film, and that it was written by Joe Esterhas, I still wanted to see it, but instead out of my love of bad cinema, rather than out of hopes of it being a quality film.  The sad thing is that it had a lot of potential -- it _sounds_ like it could be a great film if you just look at the plot.  It's just too bad that Joe Esterhas can only write comedy when he's not intending to.I pretty much hold Human Highway as my measuring stick of Bad Movies. Like Highway, it's only 80 minutes and feels like it's much longer, but it doesn't seem as relentlessly bad.  There's actual bits where you might have a single, solitary heh at some of the jokes.  The third act is by far the worst, though, where half of it is reused footage from earlier in the movie... and well, the whole bit with the Tarzan Yell I _don't_ get at all. And the whole Brothers Bros. bit gets kinda muddled, but hey.Cool.Cool.Cool.Ugh. "}{"Title":"Are you a masochist?  An Alan Smithee Film is for you!","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this film, An Alan Smithee Film, and it is absolutely the most excruciating film I've ever seen.  It's no wonder Arthur Hiller took his name off this film.  I wasn't sure what was supposed to be funny and what was supposed to be straight.  Even the outtakes during the credits were so not funny that it was painful to watch.  In summary, avoid this movie at all costs.  The world will be a better place for you if you do.  "},{"Title":"Wait a second...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this film was utterly hilarious.  What a concept!   Watching it late at night on Starz!, I woke my entire family up laughing.  The actors are great, the documentary style footage is wonderful, but when it flashed Linguist under Jackie Chan's name, I lost it.  7 out of 10.  Funny stuff, in the same ballpark as MST3K The Movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad, just slow","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" All in all, it was an interesting mockumentary that got tiresome when Coolio showed up. Not that coolio was bad, but it just dragged along. Probably more accurate about the Hollywood mindset then people in LA are willing to admit.The best moments were between Jeni and Oneal, the manic studio men. Richard Jeni had the right sarcastic edge and the best lines. Stallone, Goldberg and Chan were also amusing, but Eric Idle was a bit over the top. Some scenes were simply pointless, such as the cussing between Coolio and the black cop.There are some inaccuracies in the trivia, which claims this to be the last film to use Alan Smithee, but the IMDb lists at least a dozen other projects after 1997 with that name as well.Would have had a better impact, maybe even memorable like Spinal Tap if there was more work done, maybe some tighter editing or better writing to pick up the pace. Instead, it becomes forgettable. "},{"Title":"Wow this film is briliant.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many users have said this is a really bad film. A totally rubbish film. But this film is really a brilliantly funny film; it's so full of irony, every line form start to finish. Sadly the US audience doesn't understand irony so the film flopped. But if you're British you will like this film.Example. The person who plays the director is Eric Idle, From Monty Pythons Flying Cirrus, and an ironic joke in itself. WATCH THIS FILM.  "},{"Title":"Ya gotta dig Hollywood itself to appreciate this movie","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Burn Hollywood Burn' isn't bad.  It's actually entertaining if you have a twisted, shameless enough fascination with the mechanics of the entertainment industry, as I do. The lying, deceiving and stonewalling tactics played out all over the story (such as it is) shows us one comical scenario of Tinseltown. My favorite bits were the cameo scenes by producer Robert Evans. For him to get in front of the camera again after so many years took some cajones. He plays it very cool though, Mr. Blame-It-On-The-Bossa-Nova.  I rented the flick for two bucks one night, it was worth the two bucks. "},{"Title":"If you like Spinal Tap & Waiting for Guffman see this movie","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How could this many people hate a film so much? I'm giving it a 10 just so the average will go up a little. If you liked spinal tap and Waiting for Guffman then this movie is a must, but like spinal tap, it's all about dialog, like Stallone's observation of the immaculate conception in the Rocky movies truely great.  If you are looking for a great action movie with big stars then the joke is on you. This is maybe the most realist portrail of how the movie business works maybe that's why people don't like this movie because it takes all the magic out it and shows how the public is completely played by the movie companies (people don't like it when a movie shows how easily the general public is manipulated). Much like another movie everybody hated the last action hero cars don't blow up when you shoot them, chances are you'll break your hand trying to punch your way through a windshield etc..I laughed all the way though this movie from the first 5 seconds till the end (When I realized I had been duped). Maybe americans can't get it but I guess I was lucky. This is Ryan O' Neil's best role in years and Coolio and Chuck D are perfect as the Brother Brothers (Cosacks), Richard Jeni is classic. Its amazing the movie ever got made,,not because it's bad, but because it shows the blatant prostitution of the movie business.This is a comedy and you are the joke,,,relax and laugh     at yourself "},{"Title":"Respectless? Yeah. Absurd? Absolutely. A masterpiece.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was on TV on New Year's Eve, and maybe in that condition you like anything, but I do not drink and therefore was not drunk. And it still was hilarious. I did not believe my ears and eyes, because this movie is such a pointed and respectless account of the Hollywood system (and, with a look at who wrote and directed it, probably very accurate), you cannot get your mouth shut You just keep wondering at how respectless and absurd the whole thing can get. The script does not really surprise, but entertains to the greatest. The characters fulfill their purpose as comedy characters, and only the third act is very slightly disappointing because of the unnatural happy ending. But with respect to the story told, even this twist can be considered as perfectly fitting. So, maybe you've got to be into the Hollywood system at least a little to understand this; but if you are, do not miss it. You probably might lose every ambition to work in the movie industry, but that's worth it. Definitely. And you will be exasperated from laughing after watching. "},{"Title":"Amazing how unentertainingly bad this is!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This confounds in its badness.  And I know badness is not a word, but Burn Hollywood Burn is not a movie, and that didn't stop them.All the actors in it should be ashamed... except Ryan O'Neil, whose performance actually stood out and was pretty good.  But, that's all there was in this picture that was good.  The music, the directing, the editing, and especially, the writing.  Joe Eszterhas can chalk yet another bomb to his over-paid resume. "},{"Title":"An Alan Smithee Film...The Irony!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is awful, it is one of the only films I have not been able to sit through, and I am very tolerable. The reason I watched this film was that I thought the adverts for it looked hilarious, and I was extremely disappointed. I'd give this film 2/10, and that's being very fair. The acting is atrocious as is the film. However the Sly Stallone interviews are quite funny, but they are a small part of the film and nowhere near good enough to redeem it! "},{"Title":"Worthy of it's 1998 Razzie award.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's not many films that I haven't been able to sit through, but this was one of them. Believe me, it's that bad. It's certainly worthy of the title - An Alan Smithee film. What a waste of talent. What are people like Eric Idle, Sandra Bernhard, Sylvester Stallone and yes, even Ryan O'Neal doing in this film. The premise of the film is good - the taking away of a completed film from its director and having it mutilated without his consent. Must have really happened. This idea in the hands of a more competent team, say like the Zuckers, could have resulted in a much funnier film along the lines of Airplane or Top Secret. "}{"Title":"My Two Cents","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All I can think about this horrid piece of crap isOh, Jesus Christ.The idea of this movie is a good idea. The execution of this film was the worst. Some say, Well it's an inside Hollywood joke. No, it isn't. Kid Notorious on Comedy Central is an inside Hollywood joke. Joe Ester-whosits is an inside Hollywood joke -- that continues to get a paycheck. But...there isn't anything actually WRONG with that..as we can all see, there are many inside Hollywood jokes that are getting paychecks while talent is still knocking at the door.As I've written, the IDEA of this film was a savvy one -- it just doesn't transfer--or makes sense -- in this film. We all know who Alan Smithee is and its kinda funny to see a real Alan Smithee want to take his make off of a film. Funny -- for about 15 seconds. Then we have a whole 'nother hour or so of this movie to go, of nothing but pure hell masquerading as a Hollywood inside joke.The guy who writes on Bazooka Joe Bubble Gum wrappers would have done this film better. Much Better. 'Oscar' Caliber better. Okay, I went a bit too far on the last better comparison.Or did I?!?!?  "},{"Title":"The WORST movie of the 1990'S!!!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Joe Eszterhas is not the best writer in the world, but this is just pathetic. All we get is a bunch of talking heads that speak to the camera for an interminable period of time. The plot is practically nonexistent, the dialogue is lame, the acting pretty crummy, and the direction uninspired.The result an extremely boring, tedious, pointless mess. This film has no reason to exist. It offers no real insight into the studio system. It was made just so Joe could badmouth the studio execs who were presumely mean to him. Ironically, it turns out he's just as bad, as he recut the film against director Authur Hiller's wishes.In short, Burn Hollywood Burn represents just about everything that can possibly be bad about a movie. It should be mandatory viewing for film students as a warning of the depths to which the medium can sink.NOTE Hiller removed his name from the project-so now it's really an Alan Smithee film!!Rating ZERO STARS!!!86min/Released by Hollywood Pictures "},{"Title":"A lightweight, fairly clever movie","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" well, re the first comment, I can't imagine what either Purple Rose of Cairo or Last Action Hero have to do with Burn Hollywood Burn, or with each other, or with ANYthing... but anyway...IF YOU LIKE FLY-FISHING, AND ENJOY THE CRISP, TART TASTE OF STRAWBERRY-RHUBARB PIE, YOU'LL LOVE THIS NEXT USER COMMENT...It's a fairly funny movie. It's always good to see Eric Idle working. Of course, now with Spamalot a huge hit, he's set like Mel Brooks.Honest to god, maybe this movie is meant more as an inside joke, but I feel like it was one that I got - Joe's point is that he was coerced into making a movie (Showgirls) that was so bad, he wished he could've done anything to prevent them from putting it out - because when they did, and it bombed, he couldn't help but take the blame.Also, you get to see Jackie Chan stoking' some honeys, and Stallone flexing his ego. and the Alan Smithee gag ran for quite awhile. I got the feeling the industry really HATED Ester-H. Where is he now, I wonder ? And why is this movie in the Bottom 100 ? "},{"Title":"Wild, whooping insider satire of Hollywood madness.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Laughs come loud and often in this Putney Swope genre satire of contemporary Hollywood scripted by those in the know, with an incredible cast in an obvious labor of love, wherein the in-jokes abound in every frame. Eric Idle as the manic Brit director Alan Smithee turns in a bravura performance, as does Ryan O'Neal.  The internet critics who panned it are humor-impaired. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The problem with this movie is that you expect much more because it has famous actors. I don't think this movie was very good but it made me laugh, though it has very boring parts. It's not a movie to remember but it didn't deserve the razzie, at least not as much as others. "},{"Title":"Funny satire","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a brilliantly funny and satirical comedy, portraying the Hollywood dog-eat-dog world. Jackie Chan was great in his self-parody as was Whoopie Goldberg and especially Sylvester Stallone. This movie was a rip-off of all big budget movies. The movie featured in BHB Trio was a cliche cash cow Hollywood movie a la True Lies or well......pick an Arnie movie. The big name producers (Ryan O'neill and Richard Jeni) were brilliant as spoof of the blockbuster producers and especially confusing the Brothers brothers (two independent african-american filmmakers) with Spike Lee. It WOULD have been a painful experiance for anyone affiliated with hollywood or ignorant of Hollywood goings on. I give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"I don't see what so many peoples problem with this movie was.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was sifting through the other reader reviews of this film and frankly, I don't see what so many hated about this film. I happened to catch it on Starz and found it rather amusing. No, this movie isn't top-quality film making but it wasn't bad. I laughed pretty hard throughout most of the movie. I was rather surprised to see that it only got an average score of 2.8, I would have thought it could have gotten at least a 6 out of 10, which is what I scored it as. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really liked Eric Idle's performance in this movie.Some of the satirical scenes involving Hollywood players are positively classic.  Overall, the movie is good for cable or rental but not quite worth going to a theater. "},{"Title":"Great Hollywood parody","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Obviously some of the commenters just didn't get it. This film is a hilarious send-up of Hollywood filmmaking culture. A must-see! The self-parodying of Whoopi Goldberg, Sylvester Stallone and Jackie Chan is an unexpected pleasure. Frankly, the first two never struck me as particularly self-insightful. jackie, of course is reknown for his ability to laugh at himself  "},{"Title":"It's kinda weird but fun","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I kinda like the movie actually, it's a little strange and I didn't get some of the inside jokes but I like the way where they basically poked fun at the whole film industry.Eric Idle and Ryan O'Neal were great.  "}{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one funny movie! All you people who hated it, what is wrong with you? You belong in the institute where Eric Idle was in the movie! I love this film! "},{"Title":"I Think people are missing the point","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was supposed to be a crapper on Alan Smithee type films...so of course the film is supposed to be painful to watch....I laughed every time I thought to myself, this movie is garbage because I believe that this was exactly the intention of the director. It was extremely boring, yet had its moments, especially the punch lines that were so cheezy, the one that made me split my side was Don't f*^$ with us!Come on, don't you get the joke? The joke is on us. Watch it with a sense of humour because it is supposed to be crap and I believe, tell us something about the industry at the same time. "},{"Title":"Good Joke","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll admit that this isn't the greatest film ever made, but after watching it carefully, I realized that in a sick sort of way, all of what this film represented is true. Everything you see on screen has happened to a movie in some sort of fashion. To me, the inside jokes were funny, and I enjoyed seeing a lot of people mock their images. Ryan O'Neil was perfect as the producer, and Stallone and Chuck D were hilarious. Stallone couldn't be anymore stupid in mocking himself. It was perfect! And Chuck D is just awesome, so whatever he does is great. I wouldn't say this film is for everyone, but if you are interested in getting into the business, do not pass on this.  "},{"Title":"Burn Smithee Burn","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Quite a humourous film, an interesting dilemma facing a director called Alan Smithee, not the best name a director could have.  Idle carries the film, and there are a couple of other funny pieces, most of it coming from the documentary style the film takes. "},{"Title":"not THAT bad","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I definitely would feel violated and ashamed if I had paid money to see this movie, but I don't see why it is considered one of the worst movies ever. I was very amused by it. I feel sorry for Eric Idle and Jackie Chan. I think they must have had to trick Jackie somehow to get him to make this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie's HILARIOUS!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first caught this GREAT movie on pay-per-view, and wondered why neither I nor anyone else had heard of it before. Now, Academy Award time, and I come to find out it's been called the worst movie of the year!What the Hell?!!!!This is one of the FUNNIEST movies I've EVER seen! I'm boggled by all the negativity this movie's gotten (i.e. Razzie Awards, etc). I've never laughed so hard in my life!Maybe Hollywood doesn't like it because IT'S the object of ridicule in this clever Spinal Tap-style pseudo-documentary about a director, Alan Smithee (jokingly named after the Directors' Guild pseudonym given to any director who doesn't want to take credit for his work), who directs a multi-million-dollar Hollywood action movie, then decides to steal it and run away with it because it's so bad.On one hand, the movie is a tongue-and-cheek parody of egotistical actors (with LOTS of funny cameos), sleazy producers and aloof film executives. At the same time, however, it's a nice story about a director sticking to what he believes in, even if it means burning up the only print of an enormously expensive film.Go rent this movie NOW! Trust me.  "},{"Title":"If you don't understand the title is the joke, give up.  Otherwise..","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that probably did not see major release, simply because it straddles so many lines of modern cinema.  Is it a simple comedy? A documentary?  This film does for Hollywood what Spinal Tap did for rock and roll, in many, many ways.  Weasly agents, power-mad producers, eccentric talent, and oversexed groupies abound in this film about being caught in a 200+ million dollar flop's wake.  Eric Idle gives a very Eric Idle performance, which in this case works perfectly with the movie, allowing his mild appearance and demeanor to stand out among the glitz of people like Sylvester Stallone, Jackie Chan, Whoopi Goldberg, Coolio, and Larry King. With many cameo appearances, by nationally and Los Angeles regionally famous faces, this movie is sure to not just tickle the funnybone of any aspiring Hollywood insider, but grab it and throttle it about a bit. "},{"Title":"AS FUNNY AS IT GETS!! EXTREMELY INTELLIGENT!!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you see something that has Eric Idle in it, you already know what you can expect extremely intelligent humour for smart people. From Monty Python to Burn Hollywood Burn Eric still remains as one of the most brilliant personalities who´s ever been part of the show-business world. This film is just another proof of it it´s high-quality, extremely funny humour for an intelligent crowd. If you´re into Jim Carrey and all that stuff (that´s a nice way to call it), don´t waste your time with B.H.B. - you just won´t get it; otherwise, don´t even finish reading it and check this film out NOW!!!!! "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard it hurt!","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always been one to like movies that aren't major blockbusters, so I tend to rent obscure movies I never saw in theatres. As I was walking through the video store, I noticed Burn Hollywood Burn on the shelf & had never heard of it. I read the back of the box & loved the summary as well as the cast so I rented it. when I sat down to watch it, I laughed until I couldn't breathe and had to stop the tape to laugh a few times. the casting was brilliant, the story believable, the characters & dialogue were fun, witty & hysterical! I plan to share this movie with EVERYONE I know who likes comedies. I can't see ANYONE not LOVING this incredibly well done film! "},{"Title":"Not a total success, but not a dog either.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Burn, Hollywood, Burn is not an altogether successful satire. It's shapeless, it's talky, it's self-conscious, it has essentially no plot and it wastes Eric Idle's talents badly. However, giving it zero stars or labeling it one of the worst movies ever made, as so many reviewers have done, suggests that there is nothing worthwhile to be found here at all, which is pretty inaccurate. There are, in fact, some big laughs in this movie, especially when Stallone (explaining why the Rocky pictures are deeply religious) and Jackie Chan (demonstrating how he feels about any director who tries to control him) are parodying their screen images. There are also some biting satirical remarks about the role of the director in a big Hollywood blockbuster and the marketing strategies the studios are prepared to use to get the audiences where they want them. At one point, a producer says We don't have a movie. So what? We have a 30-second trailer. We can release that to theaters and charge full price! How far do you suppose this way of thinking is removed from reality?     (**1/2) "}{"Title":"Too good for Razzie","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Really, the official worst movie of 1997 isn't that bad. I mean it is pretty bad but not bad enough for being awarded the Razzie. Movies in which Hollywood tries to spoof itself are always a little presumptuous and full of inside jokes. In a group of Hollywood producers, studio bosses and directors it would cause permanent laughter. Special appearances by major stars and by the filmmakers themselves enlighten the movie, which must have had a very small budget. The idea is nice and the fact that the movie is structured like a `documentary' makes logical objections obsolete.But of course, humour is often very low, the caricatures of the film's characters are exaggerated. The film tries to be anarchic but fails and becomes a mess. It is not a good movie.Well, if one knows that one is going to be watching a whole year's worst movie, expectations are very, very low. And under these circumstances, this Alan Smithee film is at least bearable.  "},{"Title":"Funny - if you are interested in Hollywood","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Film is nowhere nearly as bad as it's supposed to be. Actually, it's quite funny, though you've got to have some interest in the Hollywood scene to appreciate it. If you don't, it might look like a waste of time and celluloid. "},{"Title":"Did not disappoint my expectations","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It´s probably my problem that I always expect more from a film than it actually can show to me. But this film did NOT disappoint my expectations I wanted to watch a very bad movie and I did. This is an Alan Smithee Film at its best (worst) 1/10.P.S. Don´t miss Sylvester Stallone´s best acting ever. "},{"Title":"Irony..","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ..and do Americans understand it? This is no classic but it is amusing and the reviews suggest that US reaction killed it. Why does irony die a death over there? It's a shame because UK audiences ape those in the US and I think the humour in this film would have appealed more to UK audiences "},{"Title":"I think it's brilliant","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know I'm not the only person who liked this film.  I watched it for the first time with a couple of friends and we all enjoyed it.  It's funny because it's honest and realistic (to an extent at least).  It pokes fun at a lot of the scumbags operating in Hollywood and the whole moviemaking business.  I don't see how you could not understand at least half of the humor if you are at all familiar with the way media and the film industry operate.  If you want to be strictly entertained in a sophomoric way by typical Hollywood drivel, then avoid this movie.  But for movie buffs who understand the industry along with the art, I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"the truth always hurts. funny is objective","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hollywood is a strange state of mind. This movie speaks to that. See it for what it is. Power, greed and insecurity combine to create a no win situation for a director that views himself as an artist. As a Hollywood insider myself, I can certainly vouch for the authenticity of this film. Not one person that is familiar with Hollywood would deny the accuracy of this filmMaestrodamus. "},{"Title":"Ryan O'Neal A New Beginning","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are many people in the movie business who understand this film. It's something that is influential for all people who watch movies, in the theaters, on cable, video, dvd, or wherever. Don't ever forget that this is a medium that covers the entire world. So what this film has to say, in an very pleasing and entertaining way, is that there are, as in any other business, some problems. No one shines better or is a more interesting part of this film than Ryan O'Neal. He plays his part with total authenticity. You should look for that. So many top directors respect O'Neal's acting skills that you should notice here. Kubrick  once said to me that Ryan was the the best actor he'd ever cast in a role (i.e. Barry Lyndon) and he told me that before Ryan had even finished the film. Kubrick considered O'Neal a master at his craft. And Peter Bogdanovich's film editor, Verna Fields, who edited many of his Oscar-nominated films, including Paper Moon, told me that Ryan was a perfect actor because he was so able to adapt to whatever was asked of him. She won an Oscar for Jaws and when I talked to her later she said that Barry Lyndon belonged in the Louvre museum in Paris.While O'Neal was a major film star for his elegant looks, he was far more than that in the eyes of the creative people who made films withhim. He's an actor's actor, a director's actor, and he is not even remotely a person about whom we should speak in the past tense. He hasa disease, and we all know people who do. I predict that if his film with Pacino doesn't merit an Oscar nomination, one will soon.Ryan O'Neal has the heart of a fighter. He will always have the heart of a figher. And I guarantee you this is one fight he will win.S. Jaffe "},{"Title":"Burn this movie","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Burn Hollywood Burn is a terrible movie in every sense of the word and its only redeeming quality is because of an accident that occurred after filming concluded.On concept this high brow yet simple movie of mockery is a thing of genius. I mean make a movie about a guy named Alen Smithee whom is losing control of a big budget movie. However, he cannot disavow the movie because he is the fake name he is Alen Smithee. Now thats funny (but maybe only if you know movie history?) Perhaps it is to high brow because nobody went to see this film. OR perhaps it is to English (ie Eric Idle as the leading role). Or perhaps it is just plan terrible.The movie basically, rather than poking fun at Hollywood and the stream of never ending big budget special effect extravaganzas (which Eric Idle's character is making 1 of), pokes fun at itself instead. It jokes about the movie being made is worse than Showgirls (BHB is from the writer of Showgirls), but in reality the movie (BHB) itself is worse than Showgirls.The actors just don't have any fun and are not very good.They are stuck in the middle of hamming it up and actually acting.This is probably because the fake movie is supposed to be bad, but instead that badness overflows into the real movie.Jackie Chan, Sly Stallone, and Whoppie Goldberg cameo as overpaid and past their prime actors demanding huge wages and silly concessions and while some aspects are true, they don't all apply to the actors (Jackie Chan wanting like red M&ms taken out or something?) Anyway, the movie turned out to be directed by Alan Smithee which is almost a saving grace, but it had to be the writers cut which survived to get that moniker and not the directors cut. (the incident occurring after filming wrapped) Perhaps doing as such was a lame attempt to save a lame movie, but this movie about making a bad movie turned out to be just that= aka A BAD movie "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Hilarious,Hilarious...","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hilarious, Hilarious,Hilarious...Eric Idle in this film plays a great narcissistic self condemning writer;but with some great attitude-hahahahahaha...I so loved it. Its so true to real life; with what i am sure, script writers go through in there daily routines. However, Eric Idle takes it even one step further in laughs and comedy for this film in self preservation. ) It is so funny! The film shows you the realism of Hollywood,as well as what regular people and artists are thinking in Hollywood. Such a great and hilarious comedy. I was rooting for Alan Smithee all the way/lol. Watch it, it really is a great film.It also has some great A listed supporting actors and comedians. I would give it a 12 out of 10,if i could...Hope you enjoy it. "},{"Title":"it's good and it's funny","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anyone who doesn't like this film, and there are a lot who don't, obviously has no idea of how Hollywood works. It's a funny film, it's got a lot of pace, good performances and lots of stars. The story is quite good, and the reversal of fortunes quite believable.You don't have to work in Hollywood to understand this movie, a bit of imagination is all it takes. If you liked The Player you will like this. It's Robert Altman type funny. I would also compare it to the Larry David Show.Also don't stop watching once the credits roll, there are some great parts all the way through to the end. "}{"Title":"I think people don't get it, it's a great comedy","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really don't understand all the negativity around this film. By 2000 or so I was already sick and tired of Hollywood productions turning to money grubbing garbage, and I first saw this movie at around that time.I found it very funny, smart and absolutely spot-on. The actors doing cameos are visibly having a lot of fun mocking the industry, and the film demolishes and makes fun of everything I hate about Hollywood and the star system. People who hated this film obviously didn't get it, and I guess they deserve the dozens of rancid turds Hollywood throws at our faces year after year. If you're a transformers or fast and furious fan, you probably won't like it, even hate it for having too many insiders jokes and references. I didn't think the humor was obscure or ellitist at all, It's just a really funny jab at Hollywood, and god knows how it deserves it. For one thing, I felt thrilled that many people shared the ideas I have about the movie business, it's one of these gratyfying moments where you go thank god-I'm not the only one thinking this. It really saddens me to see so many people hating this film, because it confirms what I've been knowing for quite some time  most of the people are idiots and have stopped using their brains decades ago, hence the general quality of movies nowadays going downhill very fast, at an ever increasing rate. I'm just clueless as to how this film can be rated below 4 when awful, idiotic and vulgar turd-burgers such as Ted get 7+. The answer  humanity is doomed by it's own filthy ignorance and stupidity. Sad. "},{"Title":"Is it possible for Hollywood to satirise Hollywood?","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" On the strength of this film, then the answer is no. One of the biggest flops of all time (impressively failing to make back over 99% of its budget) and critically slated, it's still perhaps a lot better than its given credit for.Whether the director taking his name off the credits was genuine or for misplaced publicity purposes is open to question. Yet a film about a director who uses the same pseudonym after making a terrible movie would have more potency if it wasn't for a misguided performance by Eric Idle.But what really tarnishes any credibility this film has as a workable satire is a combination of the crudity it possesses, along with the smugness inherent. Made from the inside looking out, the cameos of stars like Chan and Stallone (currently credited as appearing as themselves on the IMDb, despite the fact they're playing fictitious versions of themselves) aren't self-effacing, but smug and indulgent. It's the signs of bloated actor egos, sending themselves up with a aren't I being funny? wink to camera, but all the time using this good sport performance to stroke their own egos. The rest of the film follows suit, trying to prove that people in the industry can laugh at themselves, but doing so with in-jokes and self-congratulation.Ultimately Burn, Hollywood Burn isn't a great film, though is considerably better, perhaps, than its rep. Maybe trying to playfully nuzzle the hand that feeds worked against it? "},{"Title":"Shame on the people who made this!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What could the people who made this turkey have been thinking.  The premise is that a respected editor (named Alan Smithee) directs a movie that he is ashamed of.  He can't use the 'Alan Smithee' name because that IS his name, so he kidnaps the only print of the film.I'm sure the people who made this are very proud of themselves because it has tons of 'insider' Hollywood jokes.  Unfortunately for them, I live two time zones away from L.A. and because I'm a faithful reader of Premiere I picked up on every reference in the film- as can millions of people.  And making a movie in hopes that viewers who live outside of Beverly Hills won't catch the jokes isn't very smart.The movie that Smithee has directed is called TRIO, an action-comedy that looks to be in the same vein as the LETHAL WEAPON series.  We see the previews of it, and it looks way more interesting than this sorry mess.Although director Arthur Hiller- who has done a lot of solid work in the past- got his name taken off the film, he does appear in a short scene. Poor Mr. Hiller.  This movie is playing on cable this month.  I'm sure that since it seemingly never got any theatrical release, he figured nobody would ever see it.  Oops.  Maybe it should have been called I KNOW WHAT YOU DID IN 1997.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood self-parody that forgot the humor!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I knew all about Allan Smithee before I saw this movie and I got most of the in-jokes.  They just weren't very humorous.  If you're into Hollywood stars breaking the third person rule, you might like it.  You might.  "},{"Title":"Worst of '98","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's give a hand for this film. An Alan Smithee Film managed to get nominated in several categories of my personal worst movie of 1998 list. Nominations include Worst Film, Worst Supporting Actor (Sylvester Stallone), Worst Directoion, and Worst Screenplay. Congratulations!  "},{"Title":"A film by Alan Smithee...about Alan Smithee...and apparently only for Alan Smithee.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Burn this movie! I mean it, he should be made to watch this...except that he is actually six writers and about three directors who all abandoned this sinking ship that would put the real Titanic to shame. At least there was no Leonardo. My wife fell asleep in the first five minutes. I envy her. I'd been waiting to see this for THREE YEARS and believe me, the blurb that announced the project was much more interesting. I will wallow in self-pity here and say that if I, as an independent filmmaker, had the millions that went into this magnificent bowel movement, I'd have made probably ten pictures, each most likely better than this turd....but I could just as well give my six year-old a super-8 camera with no film in it and she will STILL come up with a more watchable masterpiece. I'm seriously mad at this and I haven't been this upset over a bad movie since my (rented) tape of Lost in Space ended...about five minutes before Alan Smithee started. Not my best movie night. "},{"Title":"Missed the Mark","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps the biggest problem with this film is that the subject matter will appeal to a very small portion of the public.  Making a movie about making a movie is kind of like writing about writing -- it's a tempting subject because it's something which the writer understands and sees lots of inherent humor in, but it's a subject that comes with a limited audience. With that said, truly amusing moments were few and far between in this flick.It's one thing to be a little uncomfortable because a movie has such dark humor that you feel a pang of guilt for laughing.  It's quite another to simply feel embarrassed for the film makers because they've provided no humor in their comedy.  Most people will find themselves shifting uncomfortably in their chairs as they watch the movie die. "},{"Title":"0 out of 4 stars","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate this movie. I hate it for what it has done to me. I hate every single thing about it. I hate the fact that I can no longer look at any of the actors involved the in the same way again. I saw this movie several months ago and it still pains me to think about it. The only reason why I kept watching was that I couldn't believe that this movie could get any worse, but it did, all the way to the end, with its painfully unfunny outtakes that make me long for the days of Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise would try to crack each other up. This thing (I can no longer bring myself to call it a film) is the work of a very bitter man. "},{"Title":"The Movie IS the Joke","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One the the reviewers said  You can usually forgive and easily dismiss low brow, low-budget comedies that are completely devoid of laughs but this one with several big name stars is particularly insulting. Whoopi Goldberg, Sylvester Stallone, Jackie Chan, Ryan O'Neal? What were they thinking? Duh that's the joke,,,that's what makes this movie sooo funny . The deplorable characters, ruthless, 2 dimensional completely plastic characters,,welcome to Hollywood. I'm not sure if it's because I love movies and hate Hollywood so much (And I've seen so many movies it's embarrassing) or it's because I've lived in Southern California for all my life but I thought it was great. As bad as they make it out to be,,, the truth is it's so much worse. So sorry for all those who didn't get the joke and gave this movie a low rating, but for me it's one of my favorites, right up there with Spinal Tap and Monty Python. "},{"Title":"An Alan Smithee Review","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just awful. This was an absolute waste of my time. I can't believe I was able to sit through this trash long enough so that I could post and honest review. The film is about a director whose film is so badly changed by the forces in film making that he chooses to take his name off the credits. In the event that a director chooses not to accept authorship of a film the director's guild allows a pseudonym of Alan Smithee. The director must also have a hearing by the director's guild to get this approval. Unfortunately in this film, Alan Smithee is the director's real name. So now Alan Smithee must find another way to dispose of the film. The film is supposed to be a comedy, but I can assure you it's not funny. He's the interesting part. This film was edited twice once by director Arthur Hiller and once by writer Joe Eszterhas. When the film company Cinergi Pictures prefers Eszterhas editing to Hiller's, Hiller did a real world Alan Smithee and won approval. If you want to know just how bad of a writer Eszterhas really is watch the 1995 movie Showgirls. "}{"Title":"Just why is it that no one makes fun of Hollywood more than Hollywood itself?","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, so we all know that Alan Smithee is the name that directors use when they want to disassociate themselves from their bad movies, and that Joe Eszterhas is one of the people most associated with such movies. But in this case, a real director named Alan Smithee (Eric Idle) makes a movie so downright God-awful - it stars Whoopi Goldberg, Jackie Chan, and Sylvester Stallone as kick-ass mother****ers - that he destroys it. The rest of the movie portrays interviews with insiders putting in their two cents about the whole ordeal.This is certainly a devastating look at Hollywood, and they pull no punches here. I think that when An Alan Smithee Film Burn Hollywood Burn came out, some critics said that it was as bad as the movie portrayed. But I thought that they did a good job. A particularly funny scene...well, I'll just tell you that it's associated with Keith Moon.So why is it that Hollywood likes to make fun of itself so much? "},{"Title":"see it with the one you hate.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Critics are good for one thing. They tell you when a film is inexplicably bad, too horrendous for the public to behold. I shall now proceed to review BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN AN ALAN SMITHEE FILM.Joe Esthereas is the sleazy equivalent of ED WOOD. He's a writer of films that don't seem to need a writer. Hollywood being Hollywood, mindless sex and violence writes itself. Unfortunately, the man himself harbors ambitions of being Robert Altman. A tad overreaching for the mastermind behind SHOWGIRLS, perhaps?The writer is no stranger to comedy, as the cast of the above would attest. Unfortunately, comedy is hard. Dying, on the other hand, is easy, as the box office fate of BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN goes to show. It's about a ludicrous film-within-a-film a studio has sunk its money into a film teaming Whoopi (THEODORE REX) Goldberg and Jackie (CANNONBALL RUN II) Chan (after Willis and Schwartzenegger declined).   It is cinematic anarchy, though nowhere near as much fun. In fact, the whole sorry film - and every caricature - is entirely unpleasant. It's an Alan Smithee film, so there was nobody around to push the quality control&#133;I mean, edit button.Thanks to BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN, the Smithee pseudonym is now too great a death-kiss for wretched films. Think about that. It's funnier than anything that occurs in the film proper. Unredeemable. "},{"Title":"Or You Could Just Shoot Yourself In The Head","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I like movies. I really like movies. I can only remember two other movies that were so bad I actually turned them off halfway through. This is bad garbage, folks.Yes, this movie has Eric Idle, Jackie Chan, Whoopi Goldberg, and Sylvester Stallone, but it's structurally and dramaturgically bankrupt. After setting up the basic premise, which took about ten minutes, you get at least thirty minutes of talking heads telling us about scenes that might have been interesting if we'd been able to actually watch them and even then would have only taken ten minutes. I say at least because I finally gave up in despair and disgust.Unless you're a writer or filmmaker and you're using the film as an educational tool, just don't do it. Let the pain end here. Go watch The Player or Living In Oblivion or 8 1/2 or something that's actually good.And if you made this film? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. People have to pay good money to rent it. "},{"Title":"Burn Coolio Burn","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Actually, Coolio was the highlight of the film. Who was the worst actor in this film?  You guessed it, Sylvester Stallone. This movie was awful.  It had no point.  It was literally painful to watch. Do yourself a favor.  Go out and rent Crash instead next time you want to see an awful movie.  At least it has some sex scenes.  "},{"Title":"God awful","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Eric Idle, I love Coolio and Chuck D, but I really really dislike this movie. A mishmash of celebrity cameos who collectively narrate possibly the most boring story ever told, albeit in a misleadingly fun manner. "},{"Title":"Well, it ain't Sunset Boulevard","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It (the film) really, REALLY makes you saddened for the loss of Billy Wilder, not that in any way the combination of Arthur Hiller and Joe Esterhas is anything short of unholy. Hyper, unrelenting look at Hollywood tactics - but truly boring. Just an awful movie. "},{"Title":"Aaaaaaargh!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What an awful flick ! I caught it yesterday as it was aired on French TV and I couldn't believe it. I had read several IMDb reviews and I expected the movie to be ... I'll say not very good. But this ! Let's face it not only is this whole thing stupid (though it was probably meant to be very clever), ridiculous and humiliating for the actors (all of them, no exception) but it's also boring to an inconceivable extent. In fact, I'm not sure that these words actually reflect how lame this thing is. Kudos to all the people who managed to see it from the beginning to the end without running away (I left after 45 minutes). This is undoubtedly one of the worst things I've ever seen. Avoid it like the plague ! "},{"Title":"Could be the worst movie EVER!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I watched this movie, I couldn't help but wonder, has anyone ever watched this movie and enjoyed it? At first I thought it was a joke but an hour later I realized that the joke was on me and I had paid three dollars to get it. It was a complete waste of life and film. Plastic is a non-renewable resource so do the world a favor and go out and rent this movie, then take it to the recycling center.  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have never not bothered to watch the end of a movie, until now. This is the only movie I have ever seen where I just couldn't face watching the end, I just swiched off and watched some paint dry in the next room! Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Is this some sick joke???","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is so ungodly awful that despite the jokes not being funny, I couldn't stop laughing. How could this happen? How can the people involved with this still have jobs? How did Whoopi go from this to hosting the Academy Awards?So bad you may enjoy it, especially recommended for a home version of Mystery Science Theater 3000. It is on cable now, but UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES should you PAY MONEY FOR THIS. "}{"Title":"I'm still hurting","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...two weeks after having attempted to sit through this thing.  The pain I felt while watching this unfunny slop is comparable to the pain I felt while watching OVERDRAWN AT THE MEMORY BANK and MANOS  THE HANDS OF FATE!  If ever a movie deserved a spot on the bottom 100, it's this one.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood is Bad.. But Not This Movie !","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie had too good intention to present a new dissimilar drama form which aimed at satirizing all of the Hollywood community to declare that the producers in particular with their selfish thinking and avidity for money would do lousy movies had been edited by them not by the directors as it should be (so money is the higher power and the main goal here, not the art !). But this movie itself got the very same disease which it was diagnosing ! Whereas its REAL producer went to wipe off the personality of its REAL director and edited the final cut. Hence, director (Arthur Hiller) denied any connection or whatsoever to that final version because simply it is not what he did or wanted to do ! It's a perfect case of life imitating art imitating life !It's written by (Joe Eszterhas) the one who wrote some of the most famous exciting Hollywood movies (of sex or violence) at the 1990s, and whether they had a smash success like (Basic Instinct - 1992) or a smash in the face like (Show Girls - 1995) ! They're all a commercial movies not high art. Here as a writer for this one, and its co-producer also, it's clear how he's trying to criticize the very system which he worked and had success under its authority, and by its own rules became one of its stars. But is he mocking at the City which made him ?, or exposing negativism that destroyed him?, is he kidding with it or compromising it, or both ?? (Putting in mind that it is his only movie as a writer and producer in 9 years !).Anyhow, the movie suffered from vehement criticism, being described as disassembled, sleazy, boring.. (well, if you want a bigger picture then read the rest of the comments). Though, I think most of these opinions missed the real point. It's obviously not an action, and it's not your usual drama or comedy. Big part of the movie's failure belongs to the stars' names on it (especially Stallone and Chan together), whereas it was totally unpredictable and surely disappointing for some to see these stars in a movie of that kind, so how about them presenting an acrid self-mockery as well ! But despite the wrong way people dealt with it, and despite any mistakes it already made, this movie isn't entirely bad.Along side the unstoppable sarcasm, still the wittiest thing about it is the end's rare nice point of view; it says that all of the violence, shallowness and haphazardness of the Rap culture will balance out with the values that Hollywood's foundation lives by. So it would be the most disciplinary punishment for that gang of bossed producers when they have all of those uncultured gangsters singers as their inheritors. Thus the production of the richest dreams factory ever will be more violent, carnal and flat, with no intellectual awareness at all; it's maybe a prophecy or it's just a warning with too dark sarcasm.(Burn Hollywood Burn) is a satirical mockumentary after all, expresses how Hollywood is not that good, but it has been said in a way which's not that good too. Though its value relies on being originally an attestation about a business from people who knew this business best, showing their experiences with some hard bitterness, and still its highest bitter point, that will make it live long, is being a real or rather the ultimate Alan Smithee Film ever ! "},{"Title":"Funny on the page, but on the screen, ouch.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Got a chance to read a script of An Alan Smithee Film a couple of years back. Funny, funnier, funniest. Not much plot, but funny, believable, outlandish circumstances. Joe Eszterhas  lays some Hollywood realism on the line for us all to enjoy.Too bad funny on the page doesn't necessarily transfer to funny on the screen. Eric Idle not funny, Richard Jeni less than not funny, and Ryan O'Neal torturously cruel and inhuman.Sandra Bernhard as someone's wife? Always funny.The  little cameos aren't even cute, although you gotta appreciate the irony of Gavin Polone's appearance. Too bad Michael DeLuca wasn't available.Coulda, woulda, shoulda.translates to better ways to spend your time.  "},{"Title":"A failed attempt","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood spoofing itself? I'd want to see that! But surely not in the way 'Burn Hollywood Burn' does it.The story resolves about a missing, big budget, big stars picture of which the director (Monty Python's Eric Idle) wasn't satisfied, so he took the only copy and ran off. This much to the dislike of the producers, as one can imagine.The movie tells the story documentary-like, which becomes incredibly annoying after 20 minutes or so. The characters are overdone (and not in a 'fun' way) and although the original thought of the movie is a cool one, Burn Hollywood Burn fails miserably, as it's boring, unfocused, annoying and messy.3/10. "},{"Title":"The most apt title in film history","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I die, I just want to confess to anyone listening that I actually watched ALL this film. It took two months....five or ten minutes at a time, but I was determined to see it through whatever the cost to my health and sanity.  Now I feel better for the experience because I know I can handle ANYTHING, biochemical warfare, an alien attack, Bill Clinton back in power...nothing is beyond my adaptability! It is the first true celluloid jigsaw....you can watch any part of this film in any order you like - it makes no difference. Try it! fast forward for seven minutes or so and watch five minutes of dialog. Then rewind three minutes and watch a bit more. Its often way better than in the correct order.  Was this cutting-edge satire or asylum-qualifying insanity? Does it matter?Your entire life can only ultimately be enriched by not watching any of it. A shame, coz its probably Ryan O Neals' best performance (as opposed to best movie....that remains DRIVER!)Joe Eszterhas sets a new benchmark low for himself here, hopefully to top in 2003! "},{"Title":"Eszterhas should stick to sleaze","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Joe Eszterhas was the perfect man to write Basic Instinct and, sadly, Showgirls. He's turned sleaziness into an art form. So, you think he'd be the write guy for a satire on Hollywood movers and shakers. Slippery producers, wacko directors, narcissistic actors. This is Joe's world. Unfortunately, An Alan Smithee Film Burn Hollywood Burn is not exactly The Player. The script is not as clever by half. For those who don't know, Alan Smithee is the name directors use when they feel their movies have been altered or even ruined by studio intervention. They don't want their real names associated with the finished product. The joke here--and it's a small one--is that the director (Monty Python vet Eric Idle) is Alan Smithee. That's his real name. The studio isn't satisfied with the action movie he's made so they re-cut it, much to his dismay. He decides to steal the master copy and burn it. Idle is wasted in the title role. He's a caricature and, as such, someone we can't really sympathize with. That leaves us with a series of interviews with actors, producers and agents telling us, in documentary fashion, what went wrong with Smithee's film. None of them are particularly interesting. Rappers Chuck D and Coolio come off best as independent filmmakers the Brothers brothers (yet another lame joke). Ryan O'Neal is one dimensional as a slimy producer who expected the film to become another Titanic. O'Neal's inclusion should have been one tip-off that An Alan Smithee Film... would turn into a real Alan Smithee film. In fact, Arthur Hiller took his name off it. Incidentally, the film being made in An Alan Smithee Film... is a big budget thriller starring Sylvester Stallone, Whoopi Goldberg and Jackie Chan. Perhaps Eszterhas should have used that concept instead. It's hard to say who this film was made for. It's not a realistic satire of Hollywood movie makers...it's not funny...and, considering Joe's reputation, there aren't any wild sex scenes to keep us from being bored. Stick to the sleaze, Joe. It's what you do best.   "},{"Title":"Who cares?","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For those who don't know, Alan Smithee is not a real man, rather, a fake name for Hollywood filmmakers to choose if they are not happy with the end result of whatever movie they're making. Generally, these films will be films that were either destroyed by the studio, or were crafted together in an uncaring and unconcerned fashion. Some films that are directed by Alan Smithee include HELLRAISER BLOODLINE(a movie I liked), THE BIRDS 2(which I thought was okay), GUNHED(which I loathed), and SUPERNOVA(which wasn't that bad in my opinion). BURN Hollywood BURN is a film by Alan Smithee. Yep, the director of BURN Hollywood BURN was so ashamed of the result of his movie about Alan Smithee that he chose the Alan Smithee alias as the director of the film. Um... Yeah. Cool? Not really. This film apparently is intentionally bad, but it really takes talent to make something this bad. I wonder what would have happened if instead of Hollywood wasting such fine talent as Eric Idle,Coolio, and Jackie Chan on a half-assed project like this, they decide to quit at the screenplay stage, if there is a screenplay, and pack up, go home, and then continue putting out their usual crap and occasional gems. That would've been cool. If they had done that instead, we wouldn't have gotten this boring, cheap, confusing mess of a picture. Sure, it has it's followings, and sure, people undoubtedly will forever love it for it's energy, wit, talent, and uniqueness, but in the long run, it was a film that never should have been made and will most likely be forgotten about. "},{"Title":"Yes, it's really that bad","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was so damn curious about this movie that I was willing to cough up 10 bucks to download it onto my I-Pod. Don't get me wrong, I don't regret spending the 10 bucks. I had to eventually see it, because strangely enough, I'm more fascinated about checking out the films regarded as notoriously bad than, say, the Oscar-winning AFI films. Well, I could totally understand why the movie swept the Razzies and was so bad that the director himself took an Alan Smithee credit (Mind you, in a film that's already titled Alan Smitheee's Burn Hollywood Burn). My question is why did they even bother releasing it? On the most basic level, Burn Hollywood Burn is a talking head film. What's worse is that it's a talking head film with boring dialogue. It's supposed to be satirizing Hollywood, when it really just regurgitates facts that everyone already knows. Every time an agent or producer comes on screen, we see a title referring to him as scum or a liar. Ooooh, you mean agents and producers are not honest, wholesome people? I'm not getting any sleep tonight! This brings me to another point. The movie uses titles in the same way most bad movies use narration. Whenever a new character appears on screen, a series of adjectives appear on screen, describing him or her. Unfortunately, these adjectives are totally unnecessary and not even funny in an ironic way.The film has cameos by such big celebrities as Jackie Chan, Whoopi Goldberg and Sylvester Stallone. But to give you all a warning, they're only cameos! Ryan O'Neal, Eric Idle and Richard Jeni play the main roles. They each deliver decent performances. But decent performances can't transcend a lackluster script (that is, if this film even had a script).The movie focuses on the making of an ultra-budget action piece starring Chan, Stallone and Goldberg. Now, I understand Hollywood still continues to release overblown trash, but I don't think even Hollywood would release a film nearly this trashy. OK....maybe if this were the early 90's in the days of Steven Seagal and Van Damme, but nowadays a crackhead action flick like this would probably go straight to video and star....Steven Seagal or Van Damme.All in all, Burn Hollywood Burn is a satire without any truth and without any laughs. The editing is Godawful, and screws up the timing of some of the (so-called) comic moments. OK, so there's a few hot-looking women and mild chuckles--which is why I'm voting this as a 2, instead of a 1. This is one clunker that's not even worth enjoying on a so bad it's good level. "},{"Title":"Couldn't get through it--what were they thinking?","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that a good indicator that the makers of this supposed parody of Hollywood didn't have the conviction or skill to pull it off comes pretty early in the film. In the trailer for the film-within-a-film, they have three action heroes turn into the camera with huge guns and deadpan growl, Don't f*** with me. The first of the three, Stallone, is an obvious choice--he actually was an action star who made a living in the 80s blowing away bad guys. But Jackie Chan was never a cinema tough guy. He made action films, but he was never the type to be tough, brandish a rocket launcher, and tell bad guys not to f with him. Even worse, whose stupid idea was it to use Whoopi Goldberg as one of the action heroes? Whoopi? WHOOPI? I mean, maybe the inclusion of Goldberg was intended to be a joke, but it didn't play like one. As I alluded to before, the inclusion of Chan and Goldberg as Stallone-like action badasses just reeks of cluelessness. I mean, they could get Stallone, but couldn't get Segal, or VanDamme? Or even a washed up Burt Reynolds? Bronson would have been great. Arnold might have done if for fun. Imagine if it had been Sly, Arnie, and Bronson! Sure, they all would have been a bit long in the tooth, but they were true film badasses! The audience would have been laughing and cheering at the same time, instead of just going wha? Whoopi? Wha? "},{"Title":"A mockumentary of a mockumentary.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A mockumentary of a mockumentary is the best term I can think of describe this random, self-conflicted attempt at Hollywood self-parody.Supposedly, a first-time director whose real name is Alan Smithee directs a huge summer blockbuster called Trio. But he thinks his movie stinks, so he steals the film canisters. Cue lots of faux interviews with studio heads, big-budget stars, family members, and random other people who wander in and out of the story.The movie is supposed to be a lampoon of Hollywood. But everyone in this picture acts like they're afraid to reveal too much information about what they're supposed to be lampooning, as if too good a roasting of executive-Hollywood hubris might cost them a future role. Sylvester Stallone and Whoopi Goldberg in particular seem terrified that anyone might find out that A-list movie stars like themselves really ARE as demanding and arrogant as the parody script portrays them. Gasp gasp.So the whole thing has a tone of let's make fun of the boss but we're not sure if he's watching or if he'll think it's funny so let's tone it down. Compromise comedy never works.On top of that, the real movie Burn Hollywood Burn seems to have suffered all the calamities that the fictional movie Trio did. You've got your petulant cast, a script that's been over-written into a nonsensical blob, and a director who removes his name from the credits. Everything except the master copy being stolen. Unfortunately.As a result of all these conflicting forces, Burn Hollywood Burn becomes a mockumentary of a mockumentary. It's Hollywood making fun of Hollywood making fun of Hollywood. It's self-parody taken to a new extreme of recursiveness.And as final tribute to the complete insincerity of this production, there are outtakes in the final credits. Outtakes, in a movie where everybody plays parody versions of themselves. Shouldn't the outtakes BE the movie? "}{"Title":"Time I can't get Back","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is such a waste of time.  I watched it with my Father and that wasn't what I had in mind for Father/Son time.  It is a waste for the people in it, a waste for the people behind the scenes, and a waste for anyone who happens to stumble on this piece of junk someone once called a movie. "},{"Title":"One of the absolute worst movies ever made.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This piece of crap is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I only watched about twenty minutes of it before I hit rewind.  It's like a fake documentary about Hollywood, with all these big shots making an appearance, but it's just not worth the price of a rental.  Whoever made this movie should be banned from ever making another film. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Congratulations. This fetid corpse of a movie managed to replace Smokey and the Bandit 3 as my 'Gold Standard' of eye slicingly grim movie making.Its cheese meltingly smug yet testicle chillingly amateurish at the same time. Its supposed to be a movie from a Hollywood 'Insider' but the stars are washed up old lags Eric Idle and Ryan O'Neal. Its also so boring it could, in some cases, cause death. The director had his name removed from the credits of this film. He may also want to remove his name from any public records so as to avoid detection by people who paid to see this pile of dead monkeys. This film blows more than a tornado in a trailer park. "},{"Title":"This movie should 'burn'","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  AN ALAN SMITHEE FILM BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN is a terrible movie. It is about a big hollywood director named Alan Smithee Eric Idle who hates the way his movie is edited so much that he decides to take his name off of it, but since Alan Smithee is also the pseudonym directors must use when they don't want screen credit than what can he do? If that alone sounds funny then this is the movie for you. If that does not sound funny to you then stay far, far away. "},{"Title":" Anyone Can Put Terrorism On The Screen  ....","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" .... Indeed they can sir , same as anyone can put a crap movie on the screen too , but to be able to a film as gut wrenchingly bad as BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN onto the screen must have been the work of an insane genius . Think about the premise for a moment - It`s a mockumentary featuring director Alan Smithee , it`s a mockumentary , a mock documentary , so why bother to cast well known faces like Eric Idle and Ryan O Neal etc in roles ? The reason SPINAL TAP worked so well is because the audience believed they were watching a real documentary about a real heavy metal band from Britain , no one is going to be fooled by this movie which seems pointless  "}]