[{"Title":"...if you like rock-a-billie and love a campy adventure in which the theme is set around who will be the next king after Elvis, you'll love this bizarre piece of comic book fiction brought to life.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...if you like rock-a-billie and love a campy adventure in a post-apocalyptic world were Elvis, the KING, has just died and there's a guitar-strumming race across the desert to Las Vegas to see who will be the next King crowned - you'll love this bizarre piece of comic book fiction brought to life.  Our hero & his sidekick are chased across the desert by Death(a cross between Tom Petty & Slash) and his archer henchmen. Our Hero slashes his way through one unbelievable fight scene after another. Falcon is truly amazing. The fight choreography alone is reason enough to watch this peculiar piece of cinema.  The climax is a duel between our Hero(Rock-n-Roll) and Death(Heavy Metal).  Who becomes the King?  Watch it & love it. "},{"Title":"Mad Max meets Yojimbo","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film can best be described as a post-apocalyptic spaghetti western samurai fantasy. Our hero is a taciturn Buddy Holly look-alike traveling with samurai sword and six string guitar as he treks across scenic Death Valley on his way to America's last outpost of civilization, Lost Vegas, where he expects to be coronated as the new King, Elvis having died without naming a successor. Accompanying him is a stereotypical post-apocalyptic bleating child snatched right out of Fistful of Dollars. Buddy slices and dices his way through an evil bowling team, the Russian army, would-be usurpers to the throne, and anyone else who gets in his way. The music is good and it's wonderfully filmed, so have some fun and enjoy the ride.  "},{"Title":"Swell, baby.","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the best post-apocalyptic rock 'n roll samurai movie ever made!  There are so many subtle references and spoofs to so-called 'new classics' - 'E.T.', 'Road Warrior', 'Baron Munchausen' - and manages to flow smoothly as well.The story is too clever.  America is over-run and then largely abandoned by Russia 40 years ago.  The last outpost of the American dream is Lost Vegas, where Elvis rules as king.  Upon his death, a lone modern-day samurai warrior with a guitar (Falcon) heads for Vegas to beat out other wannabes to the vacant throne.  He hacks, slices, punches, and kicks his way through every insane nuclear holocaust survivor who stands in his way, all the while with a feral orphan boy in tow.There is not a dull moment in 'Six-String Samurai', thanks to the off-the-wall script and Jeffrey Falcon's acting and fighting.  I was very surprised to find out that he hasn't done anything else since.  This movie was incredible for an otherwise unknown martial arts bit actor who also wrote the script and coordinated all the fighting.It would be cool if there was a sequel, or better yet, a prequel to 'Six-String'.  I for one would love to see a movie about King Elvis in Lost Vegas.9/10.  Very highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Two-fisted, end of the world, rock'n'roll high camp","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this film does have it's faults. Most low budget films do. But the overall theme of this work is a multi-layered spoof of many genres. The Hong Kong fantasy samurai film, end-of-the-world pictures, rock and roll musicals, and the obsession with Las Vegas.I had the fortune to see this film at a multiplex in Las Vegas, and was not disappointed. Buddy is a bad-ass rock'n'roller with a katana hidden in his guitar with his sights set on being the next king of Las Vegas. The Kid is annoying and has a ear-splitting shriek (Why wouldn't he? No playmates, no cartoons, just empty land and not a Gymboree or video arcade in sight!), and the various bad guys (loved the evil bald bowlers) come in just about every shape and size.Elements of Wizard of Oz, El Topo, Mad Max, Sam Peckenpah, and God knows how many Kung Fu/Samurai films are in this, seasoned with a handful of self-conscious humor.Living in the Las Vegas area, I'm familiar with most of the scenes featured (The bombed out gas station is the ghost town of Rhyolite, Nevada), so it was a kick seeing some of those places in a film.It isn't for everyone, and some will dislike it, mostly for it's campiness, but this is a film that doesn't take itself too seriously...and neither should you.  "},{"Title":"An Epic","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful experience - the cinematography is stunning, the fights exquisite and the music perfect.  One of the most enjoyable theatrical experiences of all time; I'd recommend it to anyone with an open mind about movies.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre but enjoyable","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie at in the rental section, I assumed it would be a rip-off of EL MARIACHI or DESPERADO.  I rented it out of curiosity and found that I was mistaken.  This film is quite original and a little bizarre, but it is definitely the kind of independent movie that is worth seeing.The budget is low, the costumes and special effects are sparse, and some of the sound is non-synchronous.  But this is all made up for with a story and directorial style that lends itself to camp.  The stylization of this movie is definitely what makes it worth seeing.  It is kind of an over-the-top martial-arts, rock and roll, post-apocolyptic odessy-adventure.I enjoyed the flow of the story, which breaks down like this  The hero is traveling across the desert to the post-apocolyptic city of Lost Vegas, to vai for his right as king.  Along the way he is tested by other would-be-kings with the same goal in mind.  This allows for constant samurai style action/fight scenes.  But the story is compounded by the jugernaught he must inevitably face, which is manifested by his ultimate competition, a Death Metal Band lead by Death himself.  The story is smart, allowing each fight scene to develop the characters.  We see Buddy, the hero, to be a supreme, loan-wolf type fighter.  And Death, stalking close behind, is ruthless and hard to beat.  This sets the stage for their eventual conflict. The first conflict they have is ended permaturely by outside influence, which furthers the story by creating a score to settle in the final fight scene.  I prefer when movies take the time to set up this kind of conflict. Rather than just throwing a good guy up against a bad guy and having one big fight scene, we get learn about the characters and the story.  Business is left un-finished, which allows the audience to anticipate the climax. This adds suspense to the story and draws the audience in to the movie.  The movie has a very good Second Act, which throws the main characters in to great peril, with the bad guy's having all the advantages.  This is then resolved with a great third act, finding clever resolution.  Very good story telling.The movie is totally over the top and wierd, but the story is fairly concise and exciting.  The circumstances are totally bizarre, but the director creates a world that is enigmatic and yet consistent.  I would say this movie is kind of a Mad Max in Wonderland.  It is not your standard Hollywood tale, which, of course, made me like it even more.  Not to mention, the entire movie is action packed.I highly recommend this movie to anyone seeking an original action movie, but on a critical level, just to be fair, I will list the few problems that I found  I think the fight scenes could have used a little more choreographing.  It looked like budget constraints were limiting the number of takes they could do, and they were making up for actual precision work with simple slow motion and tricky camera angles.  Falcon appears to be fairly well trained in Wu Shu, the standardized style of Chinese Kung Fu, but he is no Jet Li...nor Zhuang Hui, for that matter.  It looked like he could use just a little more practice (I don't think he nailed that Butterfly Flat Spin in the sand dunes fight scene with the Death Archers). However, he is good enough to be quite convincing, and he was genuinely a lot of fun to watch.  The fight scenes still managed to be quite exciting, and again, I highly recomend this movie.  Especially, to anyone looking for a good independent movie.  In my opinion, there really are not that many independent action movies that are worth seeing.  The TROMA team tries to make action movies, and they pretty much all stink.  Don't think that SIX-STRING SAMURAI is another MR. KABUKI MAN NYPD.  Buddy would kick the crap out of Mr. Kabukki Man!I rated this film a 7 out of 10 on the IMDB.  Go rent it and let your mind get a little bent.  Its really pretty clever.  "},{"Title":"Kurosawa meets Rockabilly","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First, the bad stuff. The film will not appeal to people who can't deal with camp, with pure Lynch-like strangeness, or people who demand a big budget production.However, those who are willing to give an oddball film a chance will find this to be a real gem of an indie flick. Imagine if you will Buddy Holly, Mad Max, and Jet Li bundled into one character, fighting across a desolate warped postapocalyptic Nevada. The dynamics in the movie are all about conflict... Rock & Roll against Metal, Communism against Capitalism, bravery versus despair. Mix that in with Weird West touches, demented nuclear families, and warriors who duel with both blade and guitar. There is even a hint of the manga, Lone Wolf and Cub thrown in. That and some excellent Russian-influenced rockabilly.Some of the scenes fall flat, sure... but few movies try to reach for such imaginative and demented heights... and few succeed to this extend on a shoestring budget. Despite its shortcomings, the action sequences are exciting and well-done, and one really sees an American Apocalypse which never was -- but in some ways happened, in our heads, at least. "},{"Title":"Post apocalyptic kung-fu rock-n-roll showdown!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A personal favorite, Six String Samurai is an independent film melding and twisting so many genres that I'm convinced this film is truly one of a kind. We'll never see its like again and that, quite frankly, is a shame. Jeffrey Falcon comes across as the epitome of cool as the katana wielding wannabe king of rock n' roll. His quest to Vegas brings him in contrast with a variety of oddballs left confused in the atomic dust of the apocalyptic United States. From the Pin Pals and the cannibalistic Leave It To Beaver family to the remnants of the Soviet Army; Buddy meets all types.Six String Samurai should appease anyone with an interest in Road Warrior styled apocalypse films. At most times the film tongue in cheek and filled with humor. Still the action scenes show Jeffrey Falcon knows his way around martial arts and how to swing a katana. Take the tour across the rock n' roll wasteland and give SSS a view. "},{"Title":"Funny, action-packed, film with a lot of spirit","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie.  With the title and description, I expected an all out camp movie that would be fun and humorous, but this film has a lot of spirit.  It's unique it's assimilation of several genres, for one.  It also manages to create what has been destroyed in recent history of the martial arts film genre, where the protagonist is tragically heroic, and flawed.  This is not typical hollywood fare, nor does it cross that line into a pure comic camp romp. The action scenes are excellent. The main characters are multidimensional, despite what little dialogue (and what great dialouge it has) they have.  The film is well photographed, going far beyond what currently is offered in theatres.  The film also has a lot of heart.  It never compromises its integrity for trying to make a popcorn movie.  It's so fun fillled and free spirited, which is rare in movies today.  Plus, any movie with buddy holly moving with the grace of bruce lee is nothing short of unique.  This one's a winner.  "},{"Title":"Very peculiar and odd, but funny and well done","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS ** Recap There has been a nuclear war. America is reduced to a wasteland with mutants, freaks and cavemen roaming free. There is just one place were civilization thrives, Lost Vegas. And the king of Lost Vegas, Elvis, has just died. Now, every guitar playing weapon wielding musician with any self respect is making a journey to Vegas to claim the throne. Buddy is one, Death is another. Buddy is a legendary musician that has somewhat of a drinking problem, and his journey becomes so much harder when he rescues a little boy from gum throwing cavemen. The kid tags along and a odd bond develops between the two. Death and his arrow shooting band members is out to kill every opponent, and soon Buddy is the only one left...Comment This is a very odd and peculiar movie, that at a first glance has a really poor story and acting. Costumes and scenery are not that great either, except for Death's and Buddy's. But as the movie goes along I discovered that the quality of camera movement and editing was high and that the story actually was full of references not present in a poor written story. So there is one conclusion to draw, this is a low budget b-movie that tries to be just that and nothing else. And it succeeds brilliantly. The story and acting, still peculiar, is actually entertaining and Buddy is a great character. The kid is annoying sometimes, unfortunately, but I thought that it got better as the movie went along. In the end I was very happy I had rented and seen this movie...7/10 "}{"Title":"Why do I like it?","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has so many faults.  But why do I love it so much? First off the position of the bad guys is never really explained.  I mean who exactly are the windmill people?  What makes Buddy flip around when the kid cries? (Amen to the reviewer who mentioned the kid's psychotic episode inducing moan)  Just what exactly happened at the end?  The music is great but at certain times does not feel fitting for the situation.  Buddy repeats the same lines over and over as if that will make them cooler. (ex. Float away little butterfly, swell, etc.)However, there is so much to love.  The instant Falcon appeared on the screen as Buddy, the kung fu rocker, I was amazed.  I kept thinking to myself, dang, this guy is awesome.  The scenery and photography is gorgeous.  As to a comment about erotic photography I did notice that there was a similar scene.  Buddy and the kid are standing on opposite sand dunes.  It looks like a pair of boobs to me, but that's just me.As for the guy that complains that Death was given a wussy guitar, that seems to be the point to me.  Heavy Metal is contrasted with Rockabilly and Surf Guitar.  The director obviously prefers the latter, and so do I.The dubbed voices are cheesy, but that doesn't make it any less cool.  I loved the too short segment involving the windmill god himself.  But what was with that kid who kept saying, Tag! You're It!  To get all the nuances of the film you probably have to be an anime, hong kong, mad max, Sergio Leone junkie.  I liked the fact that the movie was bloodless.  It helps to keep the fun factor high.This movie is just what the world needs.  Meteor destroying the Earth, bah! A pale remake of a giant rampaging lizard, forget it.  Take a trip back to the fifties when rock was revolutionary. "},{"Title":"'Six-String Samurai' is the kind of movie that is more fun to describe to someone else than to actually sit through yourself.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love strange and unique movies that create a bizarre world and invite you in to visit. Movies like 'Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!', 'El Topo', 'Eraserhead' and 'Repo Man' for example. As profoundly odd as those movies are, they feel natural to me, not contrived attempts at making a cult movie ala Troma. I don't like Troma's output much and can think of very few of those kind of self consciously quirky movies that I actually like ('The Adventures Of Buckaroo Banzai' is one, 'Killer Klowns From Outer Space' is another). 'Six-String Samurai' for me is closer to the contrived Troma approach than the naturally strange Russ Meyer/Coen brothers one. It's the kind of movie that is more fun to describe to someone else than to actually sit through yourself. Now it isn't a complete failure, far from it. I did enjoy parts of it a lot, but it kinda dragged on, and for me just didn't live up to its potential. The initial premise was good, but the script needed a lot more work. As it stands it would have made a neat 50-60 minute short. Jeffrey Falcon plays Buddy, a guitar slingin' samurai who is on a journey to Lost Vegas to become the new King of rock'n'roll. In this America you see,  the Russians took over after they dropped the Bomb in the 50s. Buddy encounters lots of oddballs along the way, reluctantly looks after The Kid (Justin McGuire) , and ends up having a showdown with Death (Stephane Gauger). 'Six-String Samurai' deliberately echoes 'El Mariachi', 'Mad Max 2' and the Lone Wolf and Cub series, but never reaches the heights of its inspirations.  I always like to encourage low budget film makers trying to push the envelope. 'Six-String Samurai' doesn't quite do it for me, but I hope Lance Mungia and Jeffrey Falcon continue to make movies. Who knows, guys,  maybe next time? "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i'm actually typing this as i watch this movie for about the tenth time. does it have flaws? certainly. the editing can be rough, the pacing is a bit slow, and the ending is very good but a bit unsatisfying (it makes you want SSS Part II). But this is the sort of movie I wish there were more of a sincere, stylistically consistent romp through one man's vision. Well-acted, action-packed, but most importantly a convincing construction of a fantastical universe that sucks you in for 90 minutes. I've seen this movie 10-15 times and every time it gets better. Plus, it has the best quotable one-liners. Follow the yellow back road, homie. It'll always be the same, wherever you go. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is one of the most original and fun movies ever made. There are so many good parts to it, I would fail trying to list all of them. The acting is great, the jokes are funny, the music is awesome, the shoots are eye candy. Get it on DVD for never-ending fun! Too bad this seems to be the only movie Lance Mungia ever made'We saw Red Elvises at a concert and we would yell Nice shoes! to them between songs ) Here's a (poor quality) video for Red Elvises' song Lovepipe that consists of outtakes from this movie http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=LyHc0ysKy4s "},{"Title":"A Post-Apocalyptic, Spaghetti Western, Rock-N-Roll Samurai Film?","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A post-apocalyptic, spaghetti western, rock-n-roll Samurai film? Yep. That pretty much sums up SIX STRING SAMURAI. It's quirky. It's B-movie all the way. It's wonderful.What we have here is a film shot on weekends on a minuscule budget in and around Death Valley, California. It also pays homage to many films; every Clint Eastwood spaghetti western ever made, Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, Night of the Living Dead and, of course, The Wizard of Oz, just to name a few.The movie was dubbed giving it a hokey spaghetti western feel that matched the production values perfectly (very low). The Kid in the film was a complete carbon-copy of the mangy little guy that follows Mel Gibson around in Beyond Thunderdome. There's a family of cannibals and The Windmillers who represent the slow brain functions from Night of the Living Dead. And then there are the multiple references to The Wizard of Oz (Just follow the yellow brick road).The story's focus is on Buddy (Jeffrey Falcon), a six string carrying, Samurai sword wielding bad ass who wants to be the new King of Lost Vegas. But first he has to get there. Traveling across the desert wasteland of the post-apocalyptic world, Buddy (who looks remarkably like Buddy Holly) has to slash, punch, and scratch his way toward The Emerald City (another Wizard of Oz reference that we see, Lost Vegas looking very much like the gateway to Oz's hometown). Along the way Buddy picks up The Kid, a young boy who's mother was killed by humans resembling troglodytes. The Kid doesn't speak (initially) and only screams/moans whenever he wants Buddy's attention. But The Kid is good with mechanical objects (cars, motorcycles, bicycles) and the two form a grudging relationship as they travel together. The only issue between them is Buddy's priceless guitar which he nurtures more than The Kid ...in the beginning. But Buddy can play his six string as potently as he can don his sword, giving him a good shot at becoming the King of Lost Vegas.On Buddy and The Kids' tail, however, is Death (represented as the four horseman of the apocalypse ...but without their horses). Death wants to be/remain the King and kills anyone who gets in his way, leaving a lot of rock-n-roll wannabes as corpses. And in front of Buddy and The Kid is the Russian Army (Oh! Did I forget to mention that the USSR took over the U.S. after it nuked us in 1957?) After much bloodletting, Death and Buddy have their day on the sand. First comes a guitar duel (Death wields a wickedly good six string himself!), then the sword. But what will happen if Buddy wins? Can he be a true father-figure to The Kid? And what would happen to The Kid if Buddy died? Would Death take the little tike, too? There are A LOT of well choreographed fight sequences (perhaps one or two too many). The camera work was done with an eye toward professionalism, never being herky-jerky or under -over exposed. The acting was okay. And the story was so ridiculous that suspending disbelief was quite fun. The dialogue often set the tone for the entire production, giving us some great bits like...Death You have failed me for the last...hey, nice shoes. Then we watch Death kill the men wearing the shoes and walk away with new footwear.The musical score is also pulled off well. The Red Elvises leant their music and themselves for the production (they are the ones with the nice shoes mentioned above). Their musical numbers reminded me very much of The Stray Cats (a band I liked).If you don't mind low production standards but enjoy spoofs with a good, if somewhat ridiculous, script, then slip this little B-flick into your DVD player and bask in its foolishness. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"B-Movies are truly Great, and this one was More-So","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Aside from a heart pumping and catchy soundtrack which only serves to embed the imagery into the mind of the audience, this well done film offers up many memorable quotes alongside the humor which is sometimes so subtle, it takes a moment for the concept to hit. As previously stated, this was very well written and shows that the overall sum of a movie's greatness does not stem from the film's multi-million dollar budget, or that Hollywood's over-paid and untalented (but very well-known) actors, are always only hype. B-Movies are a dying breed and in my opinion all about doing the best with what you have...not doing a lot, because you can afford it. I recommend this movie to all my friends, and ultimately, the only issue that arises is the sheer annoyance of the Kid and the eventual destruction of the hero. "},{"Title":"One hell of a whacked-out film","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an absolutely awesome piece of American cinema. It's just absolutely indescribable; there are two groups of people in this world, those who have beheld the awesomeness of this movie, and those who think the first group is just weird. If you don't think it's awesome, then obviously you haven't beheld it and are therefore in the latter group. Buddy Holly is a samurai-sword wielding, kung-fu-fighting, guitar-picking hero making his way across a post-apocalyptic desert in order to become the new King of Lost Vegas. He's pursued by Death, who looks like a combination of Rob Zombie and Slash from Guns N' Roses. The fight scenes are awesome and have an amazing soundtrack to them, and the dueling guitars scene near the end is one of the coolest confrontations ever. I can't gush about this movie enough. If I could give it a higher rating than a 10, I would. "},{"Title":"*snap*","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really can not believe that no one has drawn the Wizard of Oz reference here. Follow the yellow brick road, homey. ??? A journey from what some might refer to as Kansas to Lost Vegas? Did anyone actually see this film? Or, should i ask, has anyone watched an American movie in the last century? The last scene alone was a reference to anyone who couldn't catch it- the kid (as an wannabe adult Buddy) carrying his guitar down a path reminiscent of the yellow brick road, to a look-a-like emerald city. I would also like to add that the city was also an obvious back drop, such as used by the big Hollywood studios of that era. One of the more blatant movie rip-offs since Quentin Tarentino appeared in the cinema scene, it is still plagiarized in a fresh and enthusiastically new perspective. Isn't that what cinema is, nowadays? Overall, if you like kung-fu flicks, surfabilly, and a wistfully innocent by-gotten era, do it up! This movie just might be what you haven't been waiting for. "},{"Title":"Guitars and swords,  what could be better?","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really liked this movie and found it to be fairly entertaining. Most everyone that I have watched it with were less than thrilled, but a few liked it as much as I did. So If you do decide to check it out I recommend popping the .99cents and watching it alone before you spring it on anybody else. Most reviews don't mention the music in the movie and I think its one of the strong points. I am biased because I am a big fan of guitars and guitar driven music. The story is original and not the cookie cutter kind of stuff that you usually see. So if your into guitars, martial arts and low budget B type movies then you will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Best movie in the history of cinema","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" actually I don't think it's really the best, but i got nervous when I needed to come up with a summary. I actually really like the movie, one of the best things about it is the soundtrack, made entirely by The Red Elvises. the story, the dialogue, everything about it comes across in a somewhat skewed and surrealistic manner, which I liked. I also find most the movie very hilarious mostly in a conceptual sense, and at a lot of the cheesy tough-guy lines. (which I'm sure were intended to be taken like that) all in all I love the non-traditional way the film was made, I found it intriguing and fun. I a lot of other people didn't like it for the same reasons I did like it, and I believe that to be innappropriate. "}{"Title":"Way Cool, Must See","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have read a lot of comments regarding this film. All I have to say is, this movie is great. I never heard of it, but saw it in West Coast Video, and thought the cover was way cool. I was not disappointed. It seems that those who do not like this film consider Steven Segal a master of martial art films. This is not a mainstream movie. How can you accurately describe this? You just can't! I just tell people that if the like post apocalyptic/samurai/rock & roll movies, this is the one to see. From the moment that first sword fight broke out, I knew that I was going to enjoy this flick. And when the prostitute approaches him in the cantina, I laughed until it hurt.Bottom line, if you like movies that are a little (or possibly a lot) off-beat, you have to watch this one. I give it 8.5 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Possibly the greatest alt-history swordfighting spaghetti-western Elvis-Las-Vegas desert America-good-Russia-bad 50s-rock-n-roll adventure ever made.  Vegas is the last bastion of free America after the Russians dropped the bomb and invaded way back in '57 or so.  Elvis, the King of Lost Vegas, has died, and so all rock-n-roll king wannabees are on their way to Vegas.Among them is Buddy, the guitar-slingin' samurai hero of the story.  Along the way he has to battle evil bowlers, crazed survivalist families, the underground legions, and Death Himself.How can you not love it?Also, the soundtrack, largely performed by the Red Elvises, kicks some serious ass. "},{"Title":"eric clapton look a-like tries to become king","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie is completely insane and i love it. almost all the actors look like someone famous, there are a clint eastwood and eric clapton look a-likes, even death looks like slash. the actual sword fights are suprisingly good and well crafted. this movie has everything from a sweet, cannibalistic family to ending guitar battle. the basic plot is that buddy is going to a post apocalyptic las vegas to be proclaimed king, but he is not alone there are others going for the same reason, including death him self. buddy must fight through other hopefuls and eventually death. he also has a kid that follows him around and that can fix any kind of vehicle. go see this movie it is truley a satirical masterpeice, plus the red elvises are in it.  "},{"Title":"Clever and Quirky","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Six-String Samurai is an ingenious and quirky movie ~ you will enjoy it if you are accustomed to viewing art films. As an artist, I was engrossed by the brilliance of the cinematography, every scene is extremely well crafted with an amazing interplay of color, form and framing. This was surprising to me, as I know most independent films have a very modest budget. The film plays like a moving postcard - It is bold, slick, and sharply iconic. The story unfolds in a very free-flowing manner, more like a thought than a story. Oddly mesmerizing, I felt like I was watching someone's dream. If you look real closely there is an abundance of details layered throughout, which makes rewatching the film all the more intriguing. I was truly impressed! "},{"Title":"Five of the strings are in tune","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six String Samurai was a fine piece of filmmaking.  People have complained about the most inane things in regards to it, i.e. the whining of the Kid, or the poorly written dialogue, but neither are any worse than what you'll encounter in another action movie with ten times the budget of this film.Locations were well chosen and well filmed, the colors were vivid and the lighting (almost) always appropriate.  The camera stayed on Buddy and kept enough of him in frame to follow the action clearly, so we could see him kicking ass.  Costumes also added a lot to the characters and the aesthetic of the film, especially those of Death, Buddy and the Kid.  The editing kept the pace of the film in a good place, suitable for it's tone.  Having the radio show in the background served as a good way to introduce scenes, the soundtrack itself added atmosphere but didn't detract from the images, and the music by the Red Elvises provided good stuff for fight scenes and otherwise.Really my only problems with the film were little things, like when there are a number of lines of dialogue which were post-dubbed (most noticably when Buddy meets the Kid), or during a fight scene when the time of day suddenly changes for one shot...small flaws in the film.  The dialogue is bad?  So what!  It mostly consists of cheesy one-liners but in their repetition those lines gain some legitimacy.  If there had been serious dialogue for Six String Samurai it would have ruined the tone of the movie.Six String Samurai is, when all is said and done, a film which was pretty well put together with an interesting premise.  If the dialogue is bad, so is the dialogue to every other action movie that came out this summer. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  the movie does seem long and dragged out at some parts, but the movie as a whole is pretty good. jeffrey does a great job as buddy. i live in las vegas and buddy is right on the money when he says that vegas needs a new king. all hail buddy, the new king of vegas! "},{"Title":"How can anyone say that this film is bad?","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit that, to me, the little kid's screaming got a tad annoying by the end of the movie, but everything else was fantastic. The Red Elvises provided a wonderful soundtrack. The action sequences, though campy, were fun to watch. The Death character was extremely funny. The whole premise of the movie was funny. Yes, it's not very plausable, but that's the point. I would not say that it was a good bad movie. I think that it either tried to be a good movie and didn't quite make it or tried to be a bad movie and created something too good. I think it's somewhere inbetween good and bad. C'mon, who can't like a movie with lines like, Only one man can kill this many Russians ? If you don't get the movie, then it just wasn't for you, don't say it's bad just because you're too dense for it. I got this movie as a gift for Christmas one year, and I must say that it's one of the best presents I've ever gotten. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kaurismaki´s Leningrad Cowboys + Hong Kong´s martial arts + Cohen Bros + Mad Max + Jodorowsky´s El Topo = Six String Samurai. Utterly great entrertraining film !!! Don´t get people talking about comparing Buddy to Ash from the Evil Dead series.Thing you are not getting the point. See the original influences, then see this great film again and dig it. 2 thumbs up !!! "},{"Title":"Unique, crazy, amusing, visually astounding, and spectacular.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this film. The premise was insane and implausible, if not laughably fantastic, but that is part of its charm. Extremely well-acted (the little boy in particular was amazing), well written, with beautiful color and variety in the visual department, it is one of my new favorite films. It isn't the same old hollywood-esque drama, but something completely new and fascinating. Two thumbs up and one toe. "},{"Title":"classic!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not many films can pull off what they did here - looking good, fast action, large supporting cast of nut-jobs.It is true that this movie is not perfect. Death and his gang sound stupid, look worse, and with all the fine crafted supporting characters, you'd think that they'd have a better #1 bad guy.  But the story is original and the film doesn't waste time feeling bad for itself in the spots were weakness shows.It is one of my finest DVDs and I'm proud to explain the plot to all who pick it up! "}{"Title":"Follow the Yellow Brick Road, homie.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Is The Six-String Samurai a good bad-movie? Nope. It isn't a 'bad-movie' at all. It is, however, an extremely fun film to watch. A rockin' soundtrack provided by the Red Elvises backs up the age-old plot of a Hero Buddy, as portrayed by Jeff Falconon a quest to become the new King. Along the way he just happens to find himself in the company of a young sidekick, and the pair are confronted by Bowling Bounty Hunters, a cannibalistic 50s sitcom Family, and the Russian army. Oh, and Death and his heavy-metal band.Is Buddy a second-rate Bruce Campbell? Please. You'd think that b-movie fans would realize that not every sci-fi/horror/fantasy flick with a low budget is trying to be a Sam Raimi film. Likewise, every wise-cracking Hero isn't trying to be Ash of the Evil Dead trilogy. Buddy plays the part of the reluctant fighter, caring more about his music and ridiculous mock Buddy Holly image than slicing up barbaric mutants with his katana.There's plenty of pop-cultural references for all, and you may find yourself pleasantly surprised upon the first viewing. It's worth a rental, considering most of the other mindless waste that's out there now. At least this movie is mindless fun.  "},{"Title":"Great fun, inventive, and independent.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quite possibly the best independent sci-fi/kung fu/fantasy/comedy/set to rockabilly surf guitar music ever made!Ok, so its the only one, but it surely is a great film to watch. Every second of this film is packed with something entertaining, and has quite an amazing soundtrack. Totally worth watching at least once, i recommend anyone to buy or rent this movie on dvd. The red elvis score is also able to be bought as well, and its worth it! The soundtrack will stay with you long after you have seen the movie. "},{"Title":"Hooray!!!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time... For so many reasons... I would definitely shy from calling it the best movie of any set... But it still takes the cake in my book. Thats probably just because it consists of all of my favorite things... Guitar, Asian Action, The Red Elvises... This movie has it all. For one thing, I think any Hong-Kong action buff ought to appreciate the fight choreography in this film... not to mention the fact that it was done by an American... Its classic, with great pace and plenty of humour.. This is probably not a great movie... But It will always be great to me. "},{"Title":"Very cool movie","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This should be a contender for the whole gamut of Oscar categories. Awesome and unbelieveable, an all time great, up there with Ripley's Believe It or Not, Star Wars and Casablanca. Certainly better than LOTRTFOTR. While I was watching LOTRTFOTR very curiously I looked at my watch a couple of times. Now while I watched SSS I just laughed all the way. This is the kind of movie that I like to watch. I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"allusion laden history of rock and roll","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  thinly veiled samurai fightin' action movie that actually deals with the completely bad ass theme of the evolution of popular music. for geeks and action film lovers alike. saturated with great quotes, which i can't list for fear of giving it away. pure genius. "},{"Title":"Classic mythology with swinging beats","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six-String Samurai seems to be loosely modelled after Lone Wolf and Cub. Older, mysterious lone samuri with a mission becomes the reluctant caretaker of a young boy, who wishes to emulate him. On the level of mythic fantasy it works great... as a film it becomes a camp classic, one notch above Buckaroo Banzai, but not as classic as the Evil Dead series.   "},{"Title":"One of 2 films in this genre","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can think of only one other film to compare this to The Adventures of Buckaroo Bonzai Across the 8th Dimension.  Six String Samurai throws you head-first into a world with little to no explanation as to what's going on and demands that you allow yourself to believe its physics.  This explains the love/hate relationship viewers seem to have with it. If you enjoy an oddity, feel good, rock and roll-action-cannibalism film (don't let anything by Troma come into your mind; that it most certainly is not anything of the like) then rent this little jewel. *Bonus points for having a katana-toting elvis presley waging guitar-war with death in a *death*-metal band. 8/10 "},{"Title":"It Has A Style All Of Its Own","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six-String Samurai has become a classic favorite of mine, despite the ill-thinkings of others. This film really goes a long way on a barebone budget. You might not favor this film if you're extremely into films that deal primarily with special effects. Special effects do not make a film, and especially not a sci-fi one. You need more and Six-String delivers.The plot behind the film is about an alternate history of the United States of America. In 1957 the Russians launched first strike, and through a nuclear war, they decimated America and took over, all 'cept for Lost Vegas. Lost Vegas was the last free-state and Elvis was crowned king (Don't worry, if it sounds bad. It isn't, is it funny? Sure. This is a fun film.) The film takes place 40 years after the initial first strike. Russian supplies dwindled into near nothingness, if you want an example, they can't even afford bullets anymore. Elvis had finally kicked the can, and there was a competition for the thrown. Buddy (Jeffery Falcon) sets out to claim this prize, although he keeps being followed by a lone orphan he'd rather do without, but through time grows on him. Through most of the film Buddy appears somewhat emotionless and dark in nature, i.e. Boba Fett. He would hardly speak, and when he did - it was to the point. Jeffery Faclon does the best acting in this film, and rather nicely I might add. Buddy is confronted with countless distractions on his way to the competition, some of them include Death, who wants to fill the airwaves with his own brand of darkness (Metal), Bowlers, The Clever Family, and even a sect of people who live underground fearing pollution, titled 'The Windmill People.'  Lance Mungia establishes himself as a fine director through this film (as well as his numerous music videos). If you're a fan of nicely-done action scenes, a decent humorous plot, that low-budget flare, and a very cool soundtrack. I strongly suggest you check this film out, you won't be disappointed. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Best Bad Movie Of All Time","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Have you ever sat down to watch a movie that had you rolling your eyes in the first few minutes because it was incredibly, laughably bad, but you had to keep watching, and soon enough, you were cheering at the screen? Six-String Samurai is that movie in spades.This lovely little film starts with a fairly far-out concept-That in the 50's, The USSR nuked The United States, and a young musician named Elvis was crowned King of Lost Vegas *snicker*. 40 years later, The King has died and a new King is to be crowned. The movie kicks off from there, an exercise in bad-acting and set design that is attacked with such aggressive fun that its impossible not to get drawn into the antics of it all. It is easy to see that the film-makers had a big place in their hearts for Asian Action and Kung Fu movies. Not only does it have some of the standard cliches of Asian Cinema-Tough, almost monosyllabic hero, precocious orphan, leering, comically evil more-bad-then-bad-can-be bad guys, a near indestructible head villain-it also has liberal doses of Eastern Philosophy, tongue-in-cheek references to The Wizard Of Oz, and even a childhood monster made real.By the end of this movie, you are having such a good time that you can forgive all of the poorer aspects of the film because the dynamics of it all are just fun. Definitely works best as a film to get and watch with a group of friends, although you'll want to actually listen for some of the cheesiest line-readings in recent years. This is a movie that falls under the So Bad, its GREAT! Category. One of my personal all-time favorites, my friends and I sit around and quote this one incessantly. It's a little hard to find, but well worth the entertainment and cheese-factor. "},{"Title":"I wish I could dream this cool.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the best films ever made.  the visual imagery is outstanding.  The music is amazing, and the premise is original.  This movie needs to be in your collection, you should watch it 30 times until you've memorized every line and really, really understand what it is all about. "}{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The very idea that this movie takes place in the post-apocalyptic present is out of control. Take that setting and throw in some sword-swinging, guitar picking nomads, and you've got a movie that's so unusual and invigorating, you feel like you just took a shower. This movie is good especially during late-late night. Forget SNL, this is the movie to watch. Not only that, but the soundtrack is money. Pure money.  "},{"Title":"Rock Fairy Tale Added to American Mythos","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  _Six-String Samurai_ is an original movie creating a new piece of American mythos.  Particularly as part of the post-Cold War era, it shows a fanciful might have been.  Along with an almost anime quality to the story, characters, and direction we see real people, real fears, and a struggle to maintain hope.  A special appearance from the Red Elvises (Siberian surfer-punk band who created much of the soundtrack and had good shoes) simply gives more colour to an already colourful and wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Very, very colorful","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen a lot of movies...but this is one of the best ones that I've seen in a while. Ok, it's rather odd, and not going to win any Grammys, but this movie is so original, so imaginative...You are taken to a futuristic world that is depicted as none other that I've seen. It's a bit sad looking, but the dreariness is almost forgotten by the colorfulness of the many interesting characters. The main character, Buddy, is the embodiment of true rock and roll heroism. You shouldn't take this movie seriously, but it is just so much fun...It just sort of makes you smile. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies of, oh, say, ALL TIME!!! I love this movie! One of my personal favorites, this is a sadly obscure movie. I hope more people see and enjoy this massively cool and funny movie. My only complaint? I hated the ending. Other than that, open and shut, quality cut. A very good action movie, with some nice comedy and even a little bit of tugging on the heartstrings. GO SEE IT NOW!! "},{"Title":"I can't stop watching it!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time that I saw this movie it was on t.v.  I saw the last half of it and was like what the heck did i just watch?  I mean c'mon, he fought Russain army for Christ's sake!  So I found out the next time it was coming on and I watched the beginning in hopes that it would explain the end.  It didn't. But I understood the plot.  So I watched it again and got in to the music.   I watched it again and started doing the snap with him.  I'm freaking quoting the movie now.  If you were me....you'd be good lookin'! Holy COW!  Thats a great line!  I love the death character.  I cant get over how much he reminds me of Slash from Guns & Roses. Anytime someone is over when it's on I sit them down and watch the movie.  I love kampy films and this one is the king of kamp.  The immense number of sword fights and fighting scenes is great.  It's just a really fun movie to watch. I HIGHLY recommend it. snaps  Now flutter away little butterfly.  Just flutter away. "},{"Title":"one crazy head trip","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There had to be a lot of hallucinogenic substances ingested to come up with this movie. It's just too weird to think up without the aid of some serious mind-altering substances. Either that, or the people who made it were really, really bored.Either way, I really enjoyed this film. It manages to avoid taking itself at all seriously and still pass on one interesting idea by the end of the flick. But before all that, it is a treasure trove of crazy scenes and snappy dialogue set in a post-modern nuclear wasteland that was once Nevada. Try this quote on for sizeHave you ever tried a pink golf ball, Wally? Why, the wind shear alone on a pink golf ball will take the head clean off a 90 pound midget at 300 yards!Imagine that. Then imagine Buddy Holly dueling with Russian rockabilly bowlers, Death and the Four Horsemen (who vaguely resembles Slash...), and even the entire Russian army. Ultimately, this movie reminds us that change, youth, and good old fashioned rock and roll will survive anything- including Death. It will truly test your ability to suspend the need for rationality or sensibility in a film, but Six String Samurai is visually stimulating, has a great (albeit weird as hell) atmosphere, good dialogue, and a cool story. See it.  "},{"Title":"Excellent and campy post-apocalyptic movie","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Campy post-apocalyptic movie with great cinematography and excellent martial arts stunts.  Buddy (Jeffrey Falcon), a rock musician cum samurai, must battle gangs across the Nevada desert to reach Lost Vegas, the only city that provides a safe haven from the Soviet invasion of the USA. The dialogue is atrocious and the acting passable, but the journey Falcon takes to reach his final destination is filled with the most engaging sword battles and colorful of villians I've ever come across. Falcon revels in his martial arts hero role, twisting and gyrating with Bruce Lee reflexes and hurling his guitar around with great panache. This is a cult classic for all surf movie fans.  "},{"Title":"A funky, campy completely rock-n-roll good time with the BEST one-liners anywhere!!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you are in need of a silly film with a quirky boogie-inducing soundtrack then this film is for you!  Brilliant indie film that keeps you laughing and tapping your toe.  Hilariously entertaining!  My husband and 4-yr old son just can't stop spouting the one-liners!  Definitely a film you will want to add to your video/DVD archives!! "},{"Title":"Glorious originality","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just recently happened upon this movie, and was intrigued by the prospect of something original actually being produced in this country, so I rented it.  At first, I thought that it actually might be too weird to be good, but after a while, it all seems to make a twisted sense.  By the end, I was emotionally involved with these odd characters, and was awed throughout by Jeffery Falcon's grace and physical control. Overall, this was a wonderfully entertaining movie, which can be viewed either for mindless entertainment or on a fairly symbolic level.  Highly recommended. Oh, and Buddy is possibly the coolest person in movie history... "},{"Title":"Fun movie with Rock 'n Roll and Samurai fighting","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a fun little movie if you don't take too seriously you can have a great time watching.  This is certainly original and entertaining and never leaves you bored.  This movie is pure camp, the people making it know that but they don't care.  Any movie with The Red Elvises, Death, and a Spinach Monster has my vote of approval. "}{"Title":"a cult classic in itself while praising others","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  six-string samurai seems very reminiscent of many of the bruce lee, post-apocalyptic movies that i have grown to know and love. although it follows many of the formulaic styles used in said films (i.e. repeated scenes of kicking enemies down, dubbed & cheesy japanese anime-like dialogue, survivors mocking utopian models of perfect families, etc), it followed its own swinging tune with bad guy slashing and flowing sword fighting.although many might not like this movie, i recommend it only if you are having an independent/anime movie fest. "},{"Title":"good times, good times.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I honestly didn't think I would like this movie when I went to see it, but it ended up being the most memorable movie I have seen to date.  Parts were very strange, however Buddy is by far the coolest character I have ever seen.  Jeffrey Falcon was spectacular, the story was fun, and the soundtrack was awesome.  It is a great film if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Violence with Guitars","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Buddy's sword slinging was excellent.  Buddy is very cool, similar to Ash from Evil Dead.  Excellent movie with mind twisting storyline. Unpredictable, crazy, and cool.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Cool and Stylish","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" .....Ok this movie was just tons of fun...I thank the friend who took me to see it.  The fight scenes were well done and well shot..not much of that fast cutting and camera trickery that some American Martial Artist use to look better...*J.C.V.D* It also looked great for such a cheap film.  Some people are going to be scared off by the Camp and the Kid....Ah yes the Kid.  I tolerate the kid by imagining a new ending for the film. ****The kid getting torn apart by a hungry pack of Coyotes...fade to credits and applause****  "},{"Title":"Makes you wish for WWIII aftermath and not a la Mel Gibson","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great fun.  Mad Max, put up your dukes.Red Elvises rock!  "},{"Title":"HEEEEEEEYYYYYYYAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had the rare honor of viewing this movie on Sunset the week it came out...and watching what was the accumulation of massive amounts of hard work...I thoroughly enjoyed the film...It's so original it's frightening...The choreography and a perfect mix of acid surf music thrust you on this adrenalin surged ride..that has been influenced by everything...Buddy(our hero) is the love child of Clint Eastwood, Mr.Blonde and Stephen Dorf. The sword play is incredible...but Jeffrey Falcon's acting could use some work...but, hey...who's watching the acting... He slices!  He dices!...He goes through an entire hillside of Russian soldiers!...This movie is great following a night on the town...! "},{"Title":"Best live-action comic strip I've ever seen...","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, here's the plotThe Russians dropped the bomb on the U.S. in 1955, shortly before invading and taking over the country. The last vestige of peace, freedom, and rock and roll is the town of  'Lost Vegas'  (which appears like Oz on the horizon) where Elvis Presley is appointed King.    When the King finally dies, it sends shockwaves across the land, and every sword wielding, guitar playing, dreamer sets out for the shimmering city on the horizon, hoping that  they just might be the one destined to fill the fallen leader's blue suede shoes.  One of these dreamers is Buddy.  Another is Death himself (plus the other three members of his band) While Death wipes out the competition, and hunts for Buddy's world famous guitar, the four-eyed hero of the movie treks towards Lost Vegas, accompanied by a near-feral orphaned boy, who he saves from a band of marauding savages. Along the way, Buddy encounters everything from rival musicians and a Cleaver-esque cannibal family, to windmill worshipers, and the rock & roll hating Red Army.  The ending of the movie (which I won't give away) is an incredibly strange blur of 'The Highlander,' 'The Wizard of Oz,' and 'The Devil Went Down to Georgia.'Definitely one to rent when it comes out on video!  "},{"Title":"Movie Review","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It begins with a holocaust.In SIX-STRING SAMURAI, the Cold War climaxed in 1957 and resulted in the annihilation of American civilization.  The people who survived the nuclear attack found themselves under the rule of the Soviet Union.  All that remains of free society on U.S. soil is a place in the Nevada desert called Lost Vegas.  Here, Elvis Presley was crowned the King of Rock 'n' Roll.But as the movie begins, the King has passed on without naming a successor.  Warrior-musicians from across the land, including Death himself, trek to Vegas in hopes of filling the vacated throne.One such musician is Buddy (Jeffrey Falcon), a Rockabilly guitarist who totes a vintage 1957 six-string acoustic guitar and a samurai sword.  In the opening of the film, this Buddy Holly clone saves the life of a young boy (Justin McGuire) from a band of wannabe-neanderthals.  But after dispatching the barbarians, Buddy wants nothing to do with the child and tries to leave him behind.  Given the bowling assassins, windmill zombies, gumball-shooting barbarians, and the bullet-less Red Army that stand between the musician and Vegas, leaving the boy behind is a wise choice.  The Kid, however, doesn't think so and sticks to Buddy like an insect on fly paper.  Together, they confront horde after horde of misfit villains on the road to Vegas.Given the bizarre characters in this movie, one might think that the producers of the film just said, OK, we'll have a guy go from point A to point B.  To make it interesting, we'll have people dress up in whatever costumes we can get our hands on and have them attack this guy. Considering how strange and varied the characters are in SAMURAI, it is difficult to say which of them were a homage to other post-apocalypse movies and which resulted from budget constraints.  The small budget undoubtedly forced director Mungia to improvise in some scenes.What does not seem improvised are the many fight sequences in the movie. Jeffrey Falcon is credited as the stunt co-ordinator and he certainly does his best to make himself look good.  He slices, somersaults, and flips his way through the skirmishes, coming out almost completely unscathed with the exception of the climactic battles with the Red Army and Death, played by Stephane Gauger doing his best imitation of Slash from Guns 'N' Roses.  All of Buddy's kills are comprised of the action movie-style one-slash-you're-dead variety.While achieving realism was clearly not Falcon's goal in these fights, they do make for a good showcase for his abilities.  Falcon, in a higher profile movie with broader appeal, has the potential to become a martial arts action hero for the indie circuit.In SAMURAI, Falcon is as over-the-top as everyone else which may turn off trash cinema virgins.  The movie makes no apologies for going so far over the edge; in fact, it revels in its campiness.  A prime example is the cannibalistic family that appears near the beginning of the picture. The actors do not hold anything back in their portrayal of what the Cleavers would have been like after surviving a nuclear holocaust.  The mother mugs in horrific fashion for a close-up while offering cookies and the father zealously hammers Buddy and the Kid with questions without ever paying attention to their answers.The over-acting, however, seems somehow appropriate for this strange little movie.  The classic rock-inspired soundtrack that is as much a star as any of the actors is but one of the signs which tells the audience that this is a rock 'n' roll fantasy.  This off-kilter world has precious little room for normalcy as we know it.This movie will probably not gain the followings that PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE and THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW enjoy but it certainly deserves the attention of fans who wouldn't mind seeing an alternative to effects-laden Hollywood sci-fi blockbusters.  "},{"Title":"The best film I've seen all year!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was worth the 10 hour round trip drive I had to make to Denver to see it.  The story, music, and cinematography were so well blended.  I particularly enjoyed the way the Kid's theme developed as he matured.  The Wizard of Oz references were also way cool.  My only complaint is that there aren't more catch phrases from the movie to throw around.  But, what's there is as gold as I have a bad feeling about this from Star Wars.  I'm thinking of making another trek down to Sante Fe to see it there in November.  Don't know what else to say except if you liked Buckaroo Banzai or Mad Max, you should definitely get out for this flick!  I give it 12 out of 10 (two extra points are from the way cool soundtrack!) "},{"Title":"SSS An admirable blend of high quality with low budget","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those great movies that ought to be a must-see but is likely instead to get lost in the Hollywood shuffle and end up with a cult following.  A simple but classic story told on a shoestring budget, this movie is a textbook example for film-makers.  How many screenwriters, directors, etc. could successfully combine beginning-to-end action sequences, a post-apocolyptic setting, extremely tight dialogue, and a perfect blending of the buddy movie, the road trip, and the hero quest, all within the confines of independent film standards?  This movie has heart, with plenty of big-screen charm to back up.  Kudos to the entire cast and crew, and here's hoping for many more efforts from them in the future.  "}{"Title":"A post-apocalyptic Kung Fu Rock'n'Roll road trip that delivers!","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six-String Samurai, director Lance Mungia's first venture into feature film, and is definitely one of the year's best action movies. With no punches pulled, co-writers Mungia and Jeffrey Falcon dish up a Rockin' & Ronin film that is sure to give Hollywood the good, hard slap in the face it's been needing.A frenetically-paced, high-octane romp set in a post-apocalyptic world where the Russians have taken over a nuked USA and Elvis is king of Lost Vegas, Six-String Samurai chronicles the tale of Buddy (Falcon), a hero who's a '50s rocker and wandering warrior rolled into one, too-cool package.Armed with his six-string in one hand and his kitana in the other, Buddy is on his way to Vegas to succeed Elvis as King. Along the way, in what is one of the most exciting opening scenes you will find in any movie, he saves an orphan (Justin McGuire) who decides to play tag-along to his newfound savior.What follows this in-your-face opening is, as they say, the stuff legends are made of. From the very first slash of Buddy's sword, the audience knows that this road trip isn't going to be your average trip through Nevada, and they are right.They say the road to Hell is paved with good intentions. In Six-String Samurai, the road to Vegas is paved with plenty of danger, as Buddy is forced to fight his way through the Nevada Badlands. Buddy and his junior sidekick encounter a wide variety of weirdos and baddies, including King wannabe's, spinach monsters, cannibals, an annoying kid with an arrow in his back, and even Death himself (apparently played by Rob Zombie).The film's many action sequences, choreographed and executed expertly by Falcon, a Hong-Kong action veteran, give Six-String Samurai a high-voltage, catch-me-if-you-can rhythm that is fun and exciting to keep up with.Adding to the film's overall effect are it's often off-the-wall humor and many homages to  other films, including The Wizard of Oz, Star Wars, and the Mad Max trilogy (as well as many others). Done with just enough sarcasm, irony, and hipness, it all works perfectly.If all this weren't enough, the great surf-a-billy tunes from The Red Elvises (who also appear in the film) and score by Brian Tyler add perfectly to the movie's surreal, ultra-cool atmosphere.Six-String Samurai is cinema's biggest surprise of the year. It is what film-making is supposed to be a lot of heart, a lot of hard work, and most importantly, a hell of a lot of fun. And if a post-apocalyptic, Kung Fu, Rock'n'Roll, road trip movie isn't fun, what is?So, forget all the killer asteroids, giant lizards, renegade toys, and Spanish swashbucklers of the summer; if you've been needing a good, swift kick in the face that leaves you smiling, get on the road to Vegas, ya dig? I guarantee you'll enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"SIX-STRING SAMURAI is one of the hardest working independent films in years.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lance Mungia's SIX-STRING SAMURAI combines equal parts of post-apocalyptic science fiction, action styled after the best Hong Kong fantasy martial arts films, and just a dash of rock and roll. The premise In 1957 the bombs dropped, Russians took over most of America and the last bastion of the free world - Lost Vegas - crowned Elvis their King. It's now 40 years later and the King is dead. The word has gone out across the wastelands that they're looking for a new king and every guitar picking, sword swinging opportunist is on their way, including Death. Then there's Buddy - looks like Buddy Holly - who plays a mean ax and isn't bad with the sword either.Just like Mad Max, Buddy is one a quest, and when he isn't fighting bounty hunter bowlers, a cannibalistic Cleaver family or the Russian Army, he is learning what it takes to be a real hero. Mungia and Falcon allow Falcon's character to say more with screen presence and action than dialogue, and it works. Falcon creates this hip-rocker attitude that also conveys this pent-up inner rage of a Clint Eastwood character. All the characters are so comic book-esque that it enables the film-makers and actors to never take what they creating so seriously that they stop having fun. From the plot to the visual designs, SIX- STRING SAMURAI is a wonderful grab-bag of all these comic book elements. It's obvious that these guys are fans.The key word here is fun. The film-makers obviously remember what it was like to be a kid going to the drive-in or the Saturday Matinee. There's lots of sword play and action, but it lacks bad language and gore. I never missed it. The film has a positive message, but it doesn't try to hit the audience over the head with it. It flows naturally as an extension of the plot.Mungia and Bernier have done an amazing job creating the look of the film. While the cinematography is crisp/sharp, it definitely has a feel reminiscent of Planet of the Apes orRoad Warrior. Jeffrey Falcon, when he isn't acting, does an equally amazing job with the production and costume designs.SIX-STRING SAMURAI is one of the hardest working independent films in years. It achieves vision and style with hardly any money, and is obviously a labor a love. The film-makers hit the nail on the head, push all the right buttons and recreate the thrill of the Saturday Matinee. Oh God, please protect these talent film-makers from the pitfalls and vices of the Hollywood Industry, and allow them to make more great movies.  "},{"Title":"Campy fighting romp","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's Bruce Lee meets The Wizard of Oz meets The Buddy Holly Story meets Mad Max.  There's so many action/fight scenes you will lose count halfway through, each choreographed like a Peckinpah ballet.The film wallows in camp, and knows it.  Watch this with an open mind, and you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"Irresistibly twisted","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While neither the script nor the acting gain sufficient momentum to truly involve the viewer, the film's premise - a sword-wielding Buddy Holly on the road to a post-Appocaliptic Las Vegas is irresistibly twisted.The film feels ad-hoc and empty at times, coming up far short of a masterpiece. But never-mind - the deficiencies of the story and the lack of depth don't quite manage to sink Six String Samurai. They are balanced, at least in part, by the film's on screen presence and undeniable visual appeal.Six String Samurai is, above all, a film school kind of film (it is, in fact, a film school thesis project). Careful cinematography, surprising attention to detail and a love for the art make this movie memorable and surprisingly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Totally underrated!","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is a must-see; I simply love it! Don't take it too seriously, though . . . if you lack humor, you'd better stay away from it. This film tries to be everything at once - and partly succeeds. This film is your run-of-the-mill post-apocalyptic surf boogie rockabilly rock'n'roll martial arts roadmovie adventure. Complete with chase scenes, fighting, (lack of) romance, magic, army (in singular - the red army), Elvis-inspired boogie-woogie, exposions . . . the list goes on and on.Rumour has it!Great fun! "},{"Title":"Massacre and the rock and roll","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The film is set in a Post-Apocalyptic future. to the only surviving city of Lost Vegas going hero obviously resemblance to Buddy Holly. Along the way, he fights against evil with his katana and has taken to his ally, the orphan boy scout with a cap and pajamas. The film contains many references to Samurai films, and more. Great soundtrack from the Ukrainian American band Red Elveses. The songs used in Russian and English words in songs like Gogol Bordello. Soundtrack perfectly conveys the atmosphere of the film. Despite the abundance of the battle scenes you will not see here the blood and severed limbs. Like a musician Rodriguez, the hero mows enemies left and right, do not forget to play my movie characters guitar. Many weird, crazy, funny, as if taken from the movies of Terry Gilliam - Bunch of cannibals who hate metal rock and roll, the Russian Communists, the clan of astronauts , the dwarf leader and a horrible monster spinach. "},{"Title":"Fist of the North Star, Rock and Roll Swordsman Edition","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" During my pre-teen years, I regarded Six String Samurai as a fantastic science fiction thriller in the spirit of Hokuto No Ken (Fist of the North Star for all of you fellow Western Hemisphere fans out there). I first saw a trailer of SSS on AXN Action TV while I was living in the Philippines. I didn't see the actual movie until when I first moved to California. Ever since then, I grew fond of the Red Elvises band and the movie itself until Top Gun knocked it off my #1 list.The story follows four-eyed Buddy (a combination of Kenshiro and Buddy Holly equipped with a katana and a six-string guitar) and his child companion Kid (most likely inspired by Bat from FOTNS) as they venture through the post-apocalyptic wasteland in order to reach Lost Vegas, the last piece of paradise in the world. During their journey, they encounter countless thugs ranging from the Soldiers of the Fallen Communist Party (Southern Cross's Soldiers of God) to Buddy's ultimate rival Death (Raoh+Ozzy Osbourne).The fight choreography is magnificent along with the vibe that comes along with life in a world devastated by a great nuclear war, which excellently borrow Tetsuo Hara and Buronson's animated masterpiece. I would recommend this movie to any sci-fi fan anytime. "},{"Title":"Six-String Samurai","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The comical tale of a wandering warrior in the post-apocalyptic world of Nevada. While not an extremely deep film the rock and roll falls nicely in place with the martial arts making a surprisingly good action comedy. A lot of influence from Akira Kurosawa and Chinese action which surprised me the first time I saw this American film. The acting is fresh and fits nicely with the overall tone. Altogether Six-String Samurai accomplishes more than the average action and sticks out among the throng of post-apocalyptic movies. It has some beautiful images too. Six-String Samurai is worth watching for anybody looking for a fresh comical approach to Chinese/Japanese style martial arts. "},{"Title":"A movie you must see...but only once.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SSS is a very pretty movie, featuring good cinematography and editing.  It is lacking in a strong plot, and someday will be on MST3K.  Overall, I think its worth a matinee price or rental just for a brainless afternoon (team it up with Road Warrior). "},{"Title":"If you happen to dig samurai, Americana, Guitars, and a whole lot of surf rock","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a big camp-movie fan (A real one, rather than the people who only find the ones that get onto the shelves at Blockbuster), I am completely biased, as this is completely B-Rated.The only thing missing from this movie was zombies (and if they had been in this flick, I would have given it a ten). Six String Samurai looked great just from the description on the On-Demand screen.something along the lines ofBuddy, a fifties rock-and-roller must fight his way across post-apocolyptic US against pro bowlers, a cannibal Cleaver family, and even Death Himself in order to become the new rock and roll King!If that concept sounds even remotely interesting to you, you're in for a blast.if not, screw off. You don't need the indie movie scene, and the indie movie scene doesn't need you.The movie starts out with the little whiny kid seeing his mother killed, which you'll be happy for pretty soon, because the little bastard is annoying as hell.Anyway, a Buddy Holly-like character runs in with a semi-hollow Gibson and a samurai sword, and goes at the bad guys.Now, repeat this ten times, add in some of the best characters you have ever seen (The Carver's were sheer genius), and you've got a damn good movie.Not to mention that the entire soundtrack is made up of classic surf tunes such as Misirou.Overall, great camp flick, and as a fan of the low-budget underdogs, I am very biased. If you like Night of the Living Dead, Dead Alive, Evil Dead, or anything at all with Bruce Campbell in it, you will enjoy this movie.And just a note, this movie was really cool from the beginning on, and you may not think it could get better, and then BAM! Bruce Campbell cameo! Just because of that, the movie should get one million out of ten, but, I omitted that fact from the actual rating, so just go enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Bizarre - simultaneously derivative and original","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The 'Road Warrior' ties are obvious, as others have noted. Throw in some deliberate clichés from cheesy martial arts flicks, cheesy 60s rock-and-roll movies, Clint Eastwood westerns, some 'Wizard of Oz' references, and a dollop of 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.' And maybe a touch of 'Attack of the Killer Tomatoes' too.The plot, such as it is, is bare-bones simple and has been done a jillion times. In fact, it's more predictable than one would expect at several points, though I won't give away the ending. The story is really just a rack on which to hang lots of campy, cult-film-wannabe moments. "},{"Title":"An Underrated, Unappreciated Gem of Modern Cinema","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this film this afternoon on THE MOVIE CHANNEL, and I was stunned. I sat in a quiet and distilled awe as the final credits rolled. This is one hell of a movie, and a truly unique contribution to modern cinema. This film is most-definitely destined for cult status, and utterly deserves it.Unlike most modern films, this one had it all good writing, excellent, skilled direction, brilliant set-pieces, great B-level acting, some of the most kick-ass fight sequences in years, and a killer soundtrack to boot. That's not to say that this film doesn't have its short-comings, which are too few to even mention. For one to truly appreciate this film, one must approach it with an open-mind. This is a strange film (much like Cox's Repo Man) and is truly unique. I guarantee you haven't seen anything like this before. The only thing that this remotely resembles is The Mad Max trilogy.I recommend this movie for fans of The Mad Max trilogy, Repo Man, Kurosawa films, and any other combination of cult films.Out of a possible * * * * *, I give this one * * * * *! "},{"Title":"Very odd, in an interesting way...","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that never gets reviewed by regular film critics, its too surreal and requires too much trust that the audience can figure things out themselves. Films like this are great. Quick intro, and bang the movies is off and running and you the viewer are thrust into a world created by the writer. You watch and listen and work out what's happening yourself. The movie itself is a fun rock-n-roll-live-action-anime movie (not too many of those). Watch it twice or thrice, cause you probably won't catch all the puns and jokes and homages the first time around. "},{"Title":"fallout the movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  great great funny hillarions flick!  if you've ever played the computer game fallout, this would be the movie version.  (or if you liked the movie, check out fallout... its an old game, came out the year before this movie was released, so its cheap now)the movie is incredibly original, quite fun, blah blah blah.  an entertaining romp through the wasteland. "},{"Title":"A Pastiche of Cult Cinema","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine a Post-Apocalyptic Spaghetti-Western/Samurai/Kung Fu/Rock&Roll movie, and you've got at least a vague idea of what Six-String Samurai is all about.Within the first 10 mintutes, I counted nearly 10 direct references to other films Road Warrior, A Boy and His Dog, The Dollars Trilogy, The Seven Samurai, Star Wars, The Wizard of Oz, and others.  Six-String Samurai is clearly having fun with the movies it's stealing from, creating a pastiche of cult cinema.By the way, anybody who thinks the kid is annoying has most likely never seen Eraserhead... and probably didn't get that the kid character in this film is a ripoff of the Feral Kid character from Road Warrior.The only problem I can see with Six-String Samurai is that it was made by movie buffs for movie buffs.  That's fine for film historians like my husband and me.  But it might be alienating for more normal viewers. Still, how can you not love watching Samurai and Kung Fu action set to surf guitar? "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable camp action rock and roll film.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for something with the apocalyptic bite of Mad Max, this isn't it but if your looking for Beach Blanket Bingo meets a Boy and his Dog with a smattering of Thunder dome, you'll dig this wacky flick.The story is simple - man on quest to become king of a waste land, defends orphaned boy and fights off post apocalypse mutants - classic stuff.  The characters don't develop too far beyond the surface and the casting is pretty typical of a film of this kind but the photography quality, camera angle choices and most of the editing is excellent, right up there with the best of them.It plays like a  90 minuted Kids in the Hall music video skit with a few parodies of other classic films thrown in for good measure.To watch, disengage brain, nuke up some corn (maybe even have a few shots) and get ready to boogie on the beach, it's a fun romp. "},{"Title":"The best rock-n-roll fantasy since Rock-n-roll High School","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is excellent! The cinematography and music are some of the best I've seen, the story is strange and funny, and the Red Elvises rock. If you like heavy metal music don't watch Six-string samurai, otherwise you'll love it. If you liked El Topo or any Lone Wolf and Cub movie you'll love it.The Red Elvises rock! "},{"Title":"Somewhere, over the Wasteland.....","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I kept expecting to see Judy Garland start singing while watching this movie. It had a 'Wizard of Oz' By Katsuhiro Ôtomo, starring Buddy Holly and the world's most annoying boy, feel to it. I got the impression the actual writer had one of those freaky dreams and wrote his script based on it, especially the Wizard of Oz ending meets Motley Crue ending.This is not to say that I didn't enjoy the movie, I loved it to death and watched it 3 times in a week. It is a very low-budget film, but the money was used to great effect; it doesn't really look low budget until the matte at the end of Lost Vegas.The kid is annoying, but deliberately so. There is definitely a bond that develops between Buddy and the kid. We see it mostly when Buddy repeats his butterfly line at the end. He says it for a very different reason than when he said it at the beginning.The list of characters is interesting in the way most can be recognised as 50's rockers and other celebreties. The bad guys are also very different and interesting. (I rather liked the windmill people) and the Russian army (Listen again, that was NOT Russian they were speaking) had me in stitches till Buddy put them in stitches.There was very little blood, despite all the sword play, but that's OK. Splashing blood everywhere wouldn't have made this movie any better. Being a cult film, it's probably as good as one could hope it to be.Buddy is, of course, the ultimate hero. He defeats whole armies, conquers death, and his legend will live forever, (I won't spoil the ending by saying why this is.) just as this movie will be loved by fans for just as long. Or hated. That is the price of any cult film, after all.Steelblade "},{"Title":"Promising beginning, but","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It could have been quite good absurd action-comedy, but by the end it still manages to take itself a little bit too serious. There was some very good photography (especially in the desert) and some good music. Nice touch with the Russians (they spoke Russian flawlessly). If you like weird stuff then try this; if you don´t keep away!  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not bad. Had some good potential and looks great for a shoestring budget (or so they claim).However, the dialogue is awful. Is it supposed to be? Kind of but it is delivered awfully. If the actor's were better then they could pull off the bad  lines. Should of studied the master Bruce Campbell.The kid is painfully obnoxious. Is he supposed to be? Maybe, but bad acting couldn't pull that concept off.The story line is great. They do go in and out of abandoning it or rather not paying as much attention to it as they should.A lot of stuff doesn't make sense plot wise and the movie does drag.However it's a student film and it looks very impressive so some slack must be cut.One thing would of helped. No dialogue. Nothing anyone says in this movie helps the plot or is interesting or even funny. IN fact the movie can be completely understood without dialogue. Too bad us Americans probably wouldn't be able to deal with a movie without dialogue...Gasp.All in all some great ideas with some great production values and some shaky execution. "}{"Title":"About as cool as Pat Boone singing Metallica","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only part of this movie I enjoyed was when Death ripped off some heavy metal before he was nixed.  The fact that he played it on a Fender Stratocaster could have ruined even that part for me, but I closed my eyes.The real trouble with this movie is that most of the other screw-ups couldn't be fixed by extended blinking.  It was loaded with promise, but much like making death play a wuss-guitar, they weren't done right at all.First off, there's the fighting.  There was lots of it, and it could have been great.  The desert should have flowed with the blood of an entire Russian army, but that scene (among others) was handled in a completely dull manner, and the the blood managed to stay within the sword-slashed, dead bodies.  What kind of fun is that?  Who decides to make a movie about a guy who kills a million people and then figures it would be a good idea to keep it bloodless?  Go ahead and say that I'm part of the reason society is in decline, but blood would have made the movie much more fun, and for my 5 bucks, I wanted a lot of it.Then there's the characters and their acting.  It was cheesy and lame...but in a bad way.  A good writer who can't come up with intelligent dialogue will at least make their cheese funny, but this movie didn't have one decent laugh throughout.  Buddy was nothing, the kid was annoying, they couldn't even make  Mr. Heavy Metal, Leather-Clad Death cool (a strat???).All in all, everything that could have been good, wasn't.  Add in the dragging and seemingly endless feel and you have yourself a pretty bad night ahead of you.  The movie is an action packed comedy with cruddy action and no comedy. Save your money. "},{"Title":"cheese, cheese, cheese","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew that this was going to be a campy spoof.  As for how campy, I had no idea what they had in store for me.  Buddy is like a rock a billy Mad Max, travelling across an apocalyptic wasteland, laying out all those in his path as he walks to Vegas to claim the throne of the now dead Elvis.  On his trail is Death and his back up band.  Death is a great combo of Darth Vader and Rob Zombie (many of his lines are derived from Darth's) who is out to lay waste to the last of the Greasers and replace rock and roll with Heavy Metal.  In his travels, he will take on a lethal bowling team, a cannibalistic ozzy and Harriet type family, the Windmill People, and various other post-nuke mutants.I'd seen Jeff Falcon in his Hong Kong movies, and it's a good thing his lines in those were dubbed to Cantonese in those.  His acting is about as classy as Van Damme on a good day.  Most of his lines are Swell and Cool followed by a snap of his fingers.  The best line being Windmill person If I were you, I'd run, Buddy (pushes his glasses up) If you were me, you'd be good looking... (fight ensues).As for the action, it was done well, Falcon moves well (being a champion Kung Fu fighter), but the actual footage is jiggly and moves too quick to be awe inspiring.  But the sheer weirdness of it all makes up for it.Check it out, it doesn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Hilariously awful","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The key to enjoying this movie is to rent it expecting nothing more than a B-movie.  The concept is simple enough Wizard of Oz meets Don McLean's American Pie meets Interplay's Fallout series.  The fight scenes are repetitive and unintentionally hilarious, the low production values (such things as obviously rubber guns, etc) provide more laughs, and the end sequence is a complete gutbuster.  This movie is a testament to how bad an indie film can be.  Rent it for cheap laughs and you're set. "},{"Title":"Moderately interesting, but that kid drove me nuts.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It took me two separate viewing periods to watch this movie, simply because I was so annoyed by the co-star with the annoying whine from hell.I'm sure it was meant to be grating, pathetic and irksome... in which case the kid and the director did a fine job. However, it still makes watching this movie difficult, kinda like hearing the dentist's drill on your teeth and smelling the smoldering enamel.Too bad because the premise was quirky, original and very interesting, and the lead character is one of the better comic-book-style heroes of recent cinema. He is the personification of alt-country (as No Depression magazine would put it, whatever the hell that is), kind of a young Johnny Cash meets Elvis Costello with some Miyamoto Musashi thrown in.Death as an antagonist was interesting as well, although he looked too much like Rob Zombie to be a personifcation of heavy metal. Then again, I guess making your bad guy look like Ozzy Ozbourne wouldn't have been nearly as fun. "},{"Title":"strange punches pulled and interesting art photography","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, you might be surprised at this one. It's a low budget alternative film. And as topical as American films get...and the violence is totally like a cartoon (supposedly thru a child's eyes--which sounds like total patronizing bullshit to me). But the characters...Beyond the adult chauvanism, there's some strange punches pulled. It's almost as if the lone Samurai rockn'roller (white guy) is a homophile (gay). What with the fey umbrella he carries, and the scene of long cottony/feathery reeds at the beginning.And the way he doesn't respond at all to the female who takes him to her bed.And his soft spot for the 7 year old dude.Big soft spot that uncovers after awhile, after not having any interest at all...And the part where the dude seeks to sleep in front of the man (who's supposedly a drunk cuz he gets drunk once...and we might ask why...as where in the movie he does it is real interesting). Right after the scene of the guys sleeping together on the barren world (walking in desert), the art photography of the sand dunes is really erotic...! Watch for that, and tell me what you think. I mean, there's a line of footprints that go on an angle right down (or up?) from what appears to be the crotch of a hairless trunk-section. Is it all just my pervertedness?!!Okay, I MUST be going off the deep-end right?Heeeeeeeeeyaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!  "},{"Title":"One of the most intolerable movie-going experiences of my life.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I cannot say enough bad things about this film.  It was the most unpleasant theatrical experience of my life, never before have I so badly wanted to get up and leave the theater.  It was even worse than Kazaam.  The script was about 15 pages long, most of which consisted of Buddy (the main character) meets bad guys, they fight.  Buddy meets more bad guys, they fight, and the fight scenes are amateurish at best.  The acting is horrible, there is no plot or character development, and there isn't a single laugh in the film. I could accept all of these problems if the main character had been cool, like Ash in Evil Dead 2, but I spent the whole movie hoping Buddy would die.  I have read on certain internet movie news pages that this film is the next Evil Dead or Escape from New York.  Don't believe a word of it. This film is not funny.  This film is not exciting.  This film is not fun. Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"How can anybody enjoy this garbage?","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I enjoy cult movies. I enjoy them so much I watch about every one I can sink my teeth into. But this was just.. a joke? The cover of the film looked cool and promising but when watching the film you'll soon discover that it has people who are not familiar with the concept of acting, the storyline is unoriginal and boring. This along with one other film are the worst movies I have seen in my life. I remember having finished watching this movie that I kind of lost faith in humanity. There was just something wrong with being able to make that piece of crap of a movie that it is. For anyone to rate this above 2 stars is mind boggling to me. And oh my dear God I can't see how it's getting 6.4 stars, unless the director and his crew hacked into this site and changed the score. Makes you wonder. "},{"Title":"Vaguely interesting premise, but ends up being a snooze-fest","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching this film I've come to the conclusion that it's one of the worst I've ever seen. So you have a samurai with a six-stringed guitar on a quest to Lost Vegas to take the throne that the King has left behind on his deathbed. So does everyone else though - even Death himself!Now, that paragraph is perfectly accurate. What is described sounds like a pretty cool movie. But in a concept and a setting ripe with potential for making a standout movie on a tight budget, it was failure after failure after failure. On a few occasions, it simply snatched defeat out of the jaws of victory.So I'll list the problems in order of the severity in which they harm the film1. Pacing. It's God-awful. Fast when it should be slow, slow almost all the time - it just drags and drags and drags. A half-way competent editor could have been a lot of help here.2. Acting. Budget films don't have a lot of choice when it comes to choosing a cast, but there's no point in using people that just don't care about the role and couldn't act their way out of a paper bag. Pretty much every actor throughout the entire movie seemed to be thinking Hmmm... Hope we can finish this up quick and get some lunch. I'm starving. The SO is in town this weekend... Wonder what we'll do?And pay that more attention to what they were doing on screen. I felt like I didn't want to be there and it didn't look like most of them did either.3. Attention to detail There were jarring parts where you'd see a 1980's Ford 150 van, in a brilliant blue (probably normal blue, but brilliant in comparison to the super-dingy tonal palette around it).Or a modern windmill farm in a post-apocalyptic world; there were plenty of old-school electricity generating windmills from the 1930's they could base some designs on, but... No.4. Poor editing Non-synchronous sound? In a finished product?! This is not a hard thing to fix. It didn't seem like an 'artistic use of non-synchronous sound', to quash that idea before it can rise.5. Narrative structure Almost completely useless; a skimpy plot, random fight scenes, no build up, no pacing - pretty much the mayonnaise and American cheese sandwich of plots - bland and foul all at the same time, and it couldn't be filling if it tried.In conclusion, it seems like a student film with a slightly larger budget, but on all the things that count, it just becomes a waste in the end; a waste of the viewer's time, a waste of the money used in the project; and a waste of the director's time. This might be a turd that could be polished, or totally re-shot in the future, but as it stands... It's just a dog pile. "},{"Title":"A Big Pile of Awful","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...or should that be offal? The movie is so bad, it's hard to tell where to start. The premise is interesting, and there are parts that look good...or would, if the sound wasn't horrible.I realize that the movie is trying to be lighthearted, but the sound is so awful that it totally detracts from the movie. From poorly dubbed voices to a soundtrack that NEVER seems to stop, I felt several times that I would enjoy the movie more if I just muted the movie.The direction is bad as well. Camp is fine, Evil Dead shows how great it can be. However, there is no humor in the movie, unless you enjoy stupid fast forward type gags of people running around.The film could have been promising, but the director seemed to undermine the premise at every turn. It's unfortunate that it can't be accurately described here, but I'll once again try an analogy Live action GI Joe, crossed with really really bad kung fu movies, attempting coolness, but comes off as a high school level effort. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"what a bizarre movie","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ***Warning Contains mild spoilers***Well, what can you say about this picture? Does it have good acting? Certainly not. Does it have a good story? No. Is it watchable? Strangely, it is (once anyways).The micro-formula for the movie can be reduced to this Hero finds kid and tries to get rid of him. Kid is thereby brought into a position where he will be in danger from random weirdly dressed group. Kid screams. Hero returns and dispatches group with repeated (and repetitive) sword action. Hero wants to leave. Kid screams. Kid finds some random form of transportation, fixes it and is taken along by hero. Cut to 'Death' group, that chases our hero, killing some random guy.Rinse. Repeat. (Ad nauseam)So why did I not turn it off after the third or fourth repetition? Simply because I wanted to find out what weirdly dressed up group would enter next.The music is strange. Swordfighting to boogie or polka feels...weird. The music used in Quentin Tarantino flicks for similar scenes is 'fitting' by comparison. The dialog (what little there mercifully is of it) isn't worth listening to. Some of it even doesn't make sense given the 'history' they had set up in the opening credits. The kid, thank god, only screams and doesn't talk too much else.Not to spoil the climax or anything, but did anybody else think the resolution to the final fight was bizarre? At that point I might have suspected that the movie was supposed to be a spoof - if it had been funny at any other time prior to that.So I'll give it a 4/10. You can rent and watch it once. The movie will probably be -barely- worth the fee for you. "}{"Title":"91 Minutes I'll never get back","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is literally the worst movie I have ever seen.  I heard so many good things about it, and sat down expecting an awesome movie.  I stared dumbfounded at the screen, waiting for the good stuff to begin.  I waited until after the end credits had rolled and my vcr had rewound the tape on its own.  That was the point at which I put it back in its case and removed it from my property.The dialog was horrendous, the plot thin and without substance, the characters annoying.  I highly recommend you go watch something else instead.  Even grass growing.  Seriously. "},{"Title":"The worst indie film of '98","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew my hopes were way too high. I was expecting way too much outta this one. After reading numerous extremely positive reviews of this film I went to the theater expecting an action masterpiece ala The Road Warrior... and more. Boy I thought wrong.The Film opens up with a prologue, in the 1950s the Russians dropped the bomb on us, leaving the country barren. What's worse is that Elvis is now dead and lone musicians are trying to find their way to Lost Vegas to claim the king's throne, but wait! Death himself also has his sights on the throne and he's not gonna let  anybody stand in his way... Following me?Enter Buddy, The six-string samurai. He's chasing some raggedy-ass baddies through the grass when all of a sudden he pulls a sword out from the neck of his guitar and starts kicking butt. Well this is all dandy until a kid starts following Buddy on his quest.Now, normally this wouldn't be that big of a deal. But this kid is the kid from hell. I have not seen a more annoying character on screen since that damn Home Alone kid about 7 years ago. When this kid gives out that hellish moan (which happens several times during the course of the film) you'll swear you're listening to a damn banshee. I mean it. This kid is the essence of all things annoying. Take every bad hair day, every cold toilet seat, and every root cavity in the world... multiply  it by 10 and you'll come close to the annoyance factor of this kid.Well, about the rest of the movie... read the first few paragraphs of this review again about 3 or 4 times and that's it... Seriously. Buddy fights some guys, says something cool, the kid whines. Then it starts all over again... the fight scenes were OK but they can't carry a plot as empty as this.I feel that with a concept as creative and unusual as this they could've done so much more! They just seemed to think that as long as they had a cool concept, a real story wasn't necessary. It's a shame that something this unusual was wasted on a terrible storyline. Oh well, there's always next time.In the meantime I'll be watching The Road Warrior... to remind myself how these types of films are supposed to be done. "},{"Title":"Harry Knowles has over-hyped this picture","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this at SXSW in 1998 and thought, wow. Fun movie. Then Harry Knowles completely poured praise over this thing and I went and saw it again when it came to the Dobie Theater later the same year. You know what? It didn't live up to my memory or his hype. I had brought three friends to see it and felt like apologizing as soon as it was over. It's not a good movie.. The thing barely got made, and it shows. "},{"Title":"Weee-oooo, you look just like Buddy Holly","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Six String Samurai is OK.It's original with a Ulysses style quest story.I'm a little tired of the swing-dancing-rockabilly-hipster irony which this movie is full of.  Maybe it's because I live across the street from a vintage clothing store and my roommate spotted the actual Red Elvises in the coffee shop next door.  I just felt this movie was more into the cool-guy kitsch image and not into making an interesting story.  If you get your rocks off on that kind of cool-guy culture then watch this movie, for sure.As far as being humorous, there is a bit.  I wouldn't go so far to call this a comedy but it's definitely light hearted.  This is a great movie for those people at film festivals who bust a gut at even the subtlest joke just to show that they get it.  The I get it laugh, we've all heard it and probably want to punch the folks who do it.I wasn't really excited about this movie but I'm sure it was better than Rollerball. "},{"Title":"Intentionally hilariously awful.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One review said that the movie was unintentionally hilariously awful... it feels like it was all intentional.  This movie is beautifully campy and a whole lot o' fun, although it made me want to be insanely enibriated. "},{"Title":"Total Crap","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie in magazine one day and I was very curious about it. I love guitar and swords so I thought this is the best of both worlds. Little did I know that this movie is totally ignorant. I read reviews and they made this out to be a awesome movie with an awesome soundtrack. By all means this movie sucks. Okay just to give you an idea, there is supposed to be this big bad monster and come to find out it is a talking lamp. How dumb is that!! The movie is just to stupid and I've watched some crazy stuff before but this took the cake. The only way this movie could be enjoyed is if you where high on some crazy drug and even then I don't know if you would like it. Don't watch this movie you could be scared for life.  "},{"Title":"Good premise, but disappointing overall.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    **!!SPOILERS AHEAD!!**   I had heard so many great things about this film that i had to go out and rent it to see for myself what all the hype was about.  Well, I can't say I'm shocked that everyone involved in this movie has done nothing since 1998.  To begin with, the dialogue was AWFUL!  There is not one line of credible, intelligent dialogue in the entire film.  Everything that Buddy says is something like Groovy! or Let's go(with a finger snap) or Swell!, always with a tough guy tone of voice that Jeffrey Falcon fails to pull off.     They were obviously trying to create a character like Ash in the Evil Dead trilogy, but they fail miserably.  In Army of Darkness, while there are lots of silly one-liners, there is also the necessary amount of character development that Six-String samurai lacks.   The action was pretty lame, too.  Every action scene was exactly the same, with Buddy jumping around and swinging his sword at bad guys, obviously not really hitting them.  Nothing about the movie was exciting or suspenseful.  The only moment I was eagerly anticipating was Buddy's arrival in Lost Vegas, but he never even gets there, so that glimmer of hope dies as well.   I think the back story, with the Russians dropping the bomb, and Elvis becoming king of Lost Vegas, would have made a far more interesting story than this string of boring, virtually identical samurai fight scenes, but I guess they didn't have the budget for that.   So, to sum it all up, don't see this movie.  Read a good book or go to bed early instead.     "},{"Title":"really stupid","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From the start of the film, I was saying to myself OK, its about post-apocalypse, and I love post-apocalypse films. But when the intro was finished and the movie began, I was saying to myself What the heck is this?!  The movie is not too bad but the beginning would really make people just stop watching it because it is TOO STUPID. First, there is a kid and his mum chased by cavemen. Then this weird guy in a tuxedo jumps out and kills all the cavemen. He's the main character, but his looks and behavior are just TOO STUPID for anyone to believe that he is. The boy was even dumber. Every few minutes he lets out a really obnoxious scream that sounds TOO STUPID that it would just turn anyone off. The boy follows the main character everywhere he goes, letting out that really pain in the neck scream for no reason. Is he retarded? Is he in a trauma? It does not matter, because the main character and all the villains are just as questionable as the boy in terms of their stupidity. The band members the main character comes across early in the movie are just...just TOO STUPID that even the dumbest person on Earth would ask himself what kind of band would make music by using trash can covers and flapping their fat cheeks and mumbling really dumb words. Stay away from this movie if you prefer to watch films that are not STUPID.   "},{"Title":" I don't like it","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The biggest problem with this student film is how many movies itsteals from. They it's an homage , I say it's a rip-off ! The review in the paper says it's  blazingly originalWHAT ??? It steals from Mad Max , The Warriors , The wizard of Oz , Star Wars and bunch more. How is that original? Death sounds like Dark Helmit from Spaceballs  I am your fathers brothers cousins college room-mate Its not fun , it's loud, repetitive , boring , dumb , badly dubbed Oh , but it's low budget , give the guy a break  Wrong ! El Mariachi , Swingers , Res. Dogs , were a million times better and they were all low budget.This song by Charlie Daniels is everything this movie .... er..student film , should be !!! The Devil went down to Georgia He was looking for a soul to steal And he was in a bind Cause he was way behind And was willin' to make a deal When he came upon a boy playing on a fiddle And playing it hot And the devil jumped up on a hickory stump and said Boy let me tell you whatI bet you didn't know it , But I'm a fiddle player too And if you care to take a dare I'll make a bet with you Now you play a pretty good fiddle boy But give the devil his due I'll bet a fiddle of gold against your soul Cause I think I'm better than you.The boy said  my name's Johnny And it might be a sin But I'll take your bet, your gonna regret Cause I'm the best there's ever been "},{"Title":"Worst Piece of Trash in Cinematic History","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Pathetic that this was actually made. I don't even know how this had a 2 million dollar budget. I can appreciate a film that was bad but genuine in trying to create a original movie. This movie on the other hand, was vexing each progressive minute. I cannot imagine the person that green lighted this project to still have a career or a reputation. I can only imagine the judges at the Slamdance Film Festival were paid off or on drugs when they recognized this piece of trash. If you don't believe this review go on youtube and check clips of the movie yourself. You'll thank me before spending any amount of money on this truly God awful indulgent film. "}{"Title":"Should have clipped my toe nails instead.","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"      The problem with making a Tarantino-esque flick is that you have to have witty dialogue. Don't get me wrong, the dialogue in this is great (if you happen to like Eric Roberts movies.)    The story is about a Guy Pearce impersonator who travels to Lost Vegas to become an Elvis impersonator. Along the way he meets one of the children from 'Road Warrior.' The kid has fun grunting at him. Soon they meet some hoodlums that were cut out of Flinstones episodes for being too scary. These mencing cavemen throw gumballs at them and how can I argue with that. Whenever I buy a gumball at the mall, the flavor only lasts for half a minute. Instead of chewing, I often decide to throw gumballs at people to.    The antagonist of this story is Slash from Guns N Roses. Slash just wants to play metal and whenever he sees a simple rocker, he has to kill them. I guess Slash did too many drugs in the 80's and 90's.     This best sums up my review of the film When I went to return my movie from the rental shop, the owner asked me to keep the video. "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not really sure what to make of this film. On a boring Friday night my girl and I decide to have a bad movie night. After starting out watching some terrible slasher film from the 80's we decide that it would be a good idea to watch this film.What makes this film so terrible? Just about everything. I think they had to have made it on a budget of about $20. That is the only thing that could describe why everything from the props to the makeup was done on the cheap. And when I say cheap, I mean bottom dollar buy at the dollar store kind of stuff.The only thing that kept me from crying while watching this film is that the little kid was kinda funny. Instead of really talking like a normal person, every once in a while he would just shout ahhhhhhhhhhhhh. Or something pretty close to that.Overall this movie is terrible. One of the worst I have ever seen in my life. If you want something really bad to watch then you can rest either this or a league of their own........ "}]