[{"Title":"The Wedding zingers....","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"51 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For a while, I was getting concerned about the direction Julia Roberts' career was taking, after misfiring in such dismal duds as Mary Reilly and Michael Collins where she seemed so shell-shocked that her radiant smile was nowhere in sight.Thank God she rebounded for My Best Friend's Wedding.  This film, while not perfect, is a shining example of what makes Julia so radiant and desirable in the right role.  And she sure gets it here.As Julianne Potter, Julia gives the same sweet, radiant glow she offered us in Pretty Woman.  Seems she's fallen in love with her best friend for ages Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney) - unfortunately, it's on the eve of his wedding to an effervescent, perky girl (Cameron Diaz) who does her darndest to make Julianne her best friend...as well as her maid-of-honor.  Of course, Julianne does what any right-thinking young lady would do everything in her power to break up the wedding of the title.This is not as melodramatic as it sounds this is, in fact, one of the brightest, smartest and all-around funniest comedies of the decade.  All the lead characters make the absolute most of their parts and revel in the glory of love, double-dealing and flat-out lying.  Along with being extremely romantic, this has to be the most cleverly-plotted love story ever for every plot thought up by Julianne, there's a twist or foul-up that has everything to do with true love and/or blind devotion.There are great faces in the background, too.  Susan Sullivan, Philip Bosco, the great M. Emmet Walsh all lend able support and offer their own fine support.  But how can I mention them in the same paragraph without adding Rupert Everett into the fray?  As Julianne's gay editor/friend, he adds great color to all his scenes, especially at the dinner with the wedding party at the seafood restaurant (you've seen it, you know what I mean).I won't spoil anything by saying that true love wins out in the end; face it, would you WANT to see Julia Roberts as a BAD GUY?  Maybe you would, but not in a romantic comedy.  In fact, the main surprises lie in the twists and turns that lie throughout this film.  Every twist makes the story all the more interesting and (incidentally) funny.  Of course, the music makes the proceedings all the better (with a heavy assist from Dionne Warwick on two occasions).So to recap, what else can I say if you love Julia Roberts, love stories, comedies and weddings, here's your movie.Ten stars and a copy of Dionne Warwick's Greatest Hits on CD for My Best Friend's Wedding, where true love wins but true friendship comes in a close second.Keep up the good work, Julia. "},{"Title":"Say a little prayer for more movies like this one.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"41 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Julia Roberts gets a great opportunity to showcase her talent here, and she runs with it. Some of her physical comedy bits are reminiscent of Lucille Ball. She plays a character that could come off as a real jerk, but her natural charm and self-deprecating manner are endearing. She displays real acting chops, especially in the scenes on the tourboat and in the gazebo. Cameron Diaz turns in a real star-making performance as a ditz who becomes a wildcat when threatened. Her acting in the karaoke bar is fearless and really establishes her character's personality.Rupert Everett, is, well, fantastic. He acts as Roberts' conscience, and delivers some of the funniest lines in the whole film.This is one of the most uproariously funny mainstream Hollywood movies to come along in a long while. The script is packed with zingers, and the cast makes the most of it. At the same time, it has some genuinely poignant moments. Don't let it pass you by.  "},{"Title":"Unscrupulous maid of honour produces neither comedy nor romance","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a popcorn movie, a chick flick, that leaves a lot to be desired all around in the ethics department. Normally I am a huge fan of Julia Roberts but in this woeful tale, she fails to come across as her typical vulnerable and endearing self.The improbable plot revolves around a food critic, Julianne, who learns just days before the wedding that her long time best friend (and former lover), Michael, is about to be married to a lovely rich, blonde girl named Kimberly. In fact Michael invites Jules to be...no, not his best man...but the maid of honour. Jules flies from her home in New York to Chicago for the wedding, not to wish the newlyweds well, but instead to steal Michael away from Kimmy and make sure the wedding never comes off at all. She has four days in which to convince the unsuspecting groom that she herself, not Kimmy, is the bride for him.My first of many problems with this unlikely tale is that former lovers do not tend to make ideal best friends for all the reasons revealed in this movie, namely lingering passionate feelings and issues of jealousy. Furthermore, Jules's second best friend (as it were) is also a man...her editor, George, who conveniently happens to be gay. Does this girl not have any female friends at all, like most young women? Actually, George comes off as the character in the movie with probably the most integrity, which isn't saying a lot in this tale of immoral fluff. He's a true friend to Julianne, flying from afar to be with her and offer comfort. He indeed gives Jules sound advice, namely to just tell the guy she loves him, and later when it's obviously not working out, to graciously let Michael go. However, George is cast as the stereotypical homosexual friend, which has all been done to death by Hollywood. Jules pretends to be engaged to George in order to elicit jealousy from Michael (just one of her countless lies), but this fabrication doesn't seem to go anywhere. They never really officially undo the ruse. By the way, I love Dionne Warwick's singing but found the entire singalong at the rehearsal dinner just too silly.Jules is a stellar example of the old expression...With friends like her, who needs enemies? She's no friend at all to Michael (much less a BEST one), having no concern whatsoever for HIS happiness, until possibly the very end. Instead she's essentially nothing more than a jealous ex lover who lies, manipulates, and connives. Jules uses every trick in the book to split up Michael and his fiancée, including attempting to get Michael fired, allegedly at the behest of Kimmy and her dad. True, she repents of this horrendous deed, but it's hard to cheer for a heroine this unscrupulous. She doesn't get Michael in the end, nor does she deserve him. One gets the impression that this is not true love, but more a case of wanting what she cannot have. For some reason, Scarlett O'Hara came to mind while I was watching this.Michael is indeed handsome, but the description that comes to mind here is jerk. Frankly, Kimmy can have him! I wouldn't want to marry a man that reminisced ad nauseum about old memories with a former girlfriend right in front of me four days before our wedding. Is he too clueless here to perceive how left out and potentially jealous Kimmy feels? I was practically waiting for him to bring up past sexual escapades with Jules and expect Kimmy to politely listen! Michael is surely one of the most insensitive grooms ever to grace the big screen. Also, he sort of leads Jules on, dancing rather romantically with her while they recall their old song. Not to mention jocular references to her about having seen her naked in the past. Not my idea of a nice platonic friendship for a man about to marry another woman.Personally, I was cheering for the loving bride to be, played to perfection by Cameron Diaz. Except that it's a little hard to buy her passive tolerance of her fiancé's rather unusual close friendship with his ex girlfriend or her colossal stupidity in not seeing through Jules's motivations from the start. Otherwise, she's definitely the sympathetic character of the piece, as when Jules sets out to humiliate her rival by insisting Kimmy sing at the karaoke bar, despite her vehement protests. Of course poor Kimmy is made to look like a female needing liberation when she announces that she's quitting college in the interests of her future husband and his career. Oh dear me no, it would never do for anyone entering a marriage to contemplate any sort of personal sacrifice! I found the whole ladies washroom scene near the end tasteless and ridiculous, when all the women are cheering on the potential verbal cat fight between Jules and Kimmy. Surely the screenwriters could have come up with better than this.Just an aside, what is the point of the pathetic ice sculpture joke other than to be crude? I normally love the romantic comedy genre, but the quality seems to be sadly deteriorating these days. This isn't the absolute worst movie I've ever seen but really, it isn't that amusing a comedy nor is it much of a romance. Hopefully Jules experiences a bit of personal growth, but that's about all that can be said for this story. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the 90s..","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"39 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe some of the negative comments I read from other contributors reviewing this movie.I own this movie on video and have seen it many times and have enjoyed it each and every time. I think this is easily one of the best comedies to come out of the 90s and I actually place it on my personal best films ever list.I can't see what people don't like about this movie.First of all, these people who question how can they like a movie where the main character is so rotten just cracks me up. First of all, it's a movie people, it's not real life. Second of all, Julia Roberts' character is not a rotten person. Her character simply gets wrapped up in the moment and loses her judgment momentarily (it's a COMEDY people!!).Near the end of the movie her best friend played by Rupert Everett even asks her if she's sure she's acting out of love or out of some desire to win. I think the movie clearly shows that Julia's character and her long time friend and one time boyfriend played by Dermot Mulroney have had a long and deep friendship and that there are certainly strong feeling between the two. The fact that they made a pact years ago that if both were unmarried by the time they turned 28 they would marry each other underscores this. The movie plays itself out that Julia's character has basically always re-assured herself that if she weren't to find some knight in shining armor she would always have her old boyfriend who she does love (just not in a romantic way anymore, though she takes the length of the movie to realize this) to marry.The movie is extremely well directed. The blocking (where the actors stand in relation to the camera) and what is shown/revealed either to the audience or to other characters is top notch.The pacing is great with hardly a slowdown in the entire movie. Those times the movie does lessen the pace for a moment are to showcase a tender moment between Julia & Dermot. A particularly bittersweet scene is when Julia & Dermot share an afternoon taking a cruise through Chicago's downtown river. They share a song, a hug and look into each other's eyes and we as the audience wait to see if they profess their true love for each other, but the moment passes as they pass under a bridge and into the shadows and we realize that moments are fleeting and love can be fickle.The music is awesome in the movie with so much of it throughout the movie that the movie almost plays like a mini musical with various songs being sung in parts by characters throughout the movie.Rupert Everett is hysterical as the gay male friend and Dermot Mulroney is totally underrated in his thankless role as the put-upon groom.Cameron Diaz gives one of her best performances as the cute as a button bride.This is an outstanding example of what a mainstream, big Hollywood studio movie can be.Buy this movie. You'll enjoy it over and over for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"36 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. 2 of the highest paid actress are Julia Roberts and Cameron Diaz and they are both in this same film. As usual, Julia Roberts' acting was great. Cameron Diaz was charismatic. The story is funny and its something that you can relate to and learn from, like to learn how to let go of someone. This is a romantic comedy and if you are not into this kind of movies then don't watch this. I really think that this movie is great because it is realistic. Try to put yourself in Julianne Potter's shoes and see if you can handle it. I recommend this movie to Julia Roberts fans!! This is probably one of her best films!! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly amusing and interesting romcom","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was a pleasant surprise for me after hearing mixed responses from friends and acquaintances.  I can see why it wouldn't appeal to some people  Julia Roberts in a romantic comedy could be pretty slushy stuff; but then again if you watch it wanting that sort of thing you're likely to be disappointed.  Yes, so it is romantic and even a bit slushy at times, but has a sharp script and fast pace which keep you amused 95% of the time.One of the things which appealed to me was the way moments of melodrama were defused into comedy - check out the two girls' confrontation with an audience of women (gathered by the call Catfight!) whose oohs and aahs forestall any emotional reaction we ourselves may have to the scene.Some of the camerawork is also more interesting than one might expect, with particularly powerful close-ups where one or two faces fill the screen.  Julia Roberts' beauty comes through in a long shot which starts to look like a shampoo commercial long curly hair spills around her head as she lies in despair on the floor (the public safety message being, don't ever sit with your back against a door which an irate ex-lover might wrench open at any minute); nevertheless, the proximity gives us an intimacy with her character we might otherwise miss.Another effective shot of this kind (two heads on a pillow fill the screen) drives home the theme touched on here of the devastatingly attractive gay man who is made doubly so by his inaccessibility (as more fully explored in Object of my Affection).  George (Rupert Everett) is a fantastic character whose sense of fun, wisdom, sensitivity and English accent make him every girls' ideal object for unrequited love (or maybe it's just me ).The disappointing aspect for me was the film's final affirmation of sexist values and a rather superficial and one-sided view of real love - but you 'll have to watch it to see if you agree with me on that.  Basically in my opinion, some of the ending lacked the self-awareness and sharpness of the rest of the film.  However, overall I would recommend it for an amusing and sometimes clever 90 minutes of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was one of those movies, which had everything in it. Drama, tears, outstanding humor, you name it. I almost didn't watch it after everyone I spoke with, labeled it as a chick-flick. Forget about it. This is a grand movie. Probably one of the best from the 90s. If you enjoy movies that are made from the heart, you'll love it. I've seen some great movies like Somewhere in Time, Love Story and this one easily falls in the same league, at least for me. The guy with the British accent gave a great performance and did his humor outstandingly. Julia Roberts acted superb. Cameron Diaz, who I'd never see act before fulfilled her part decently. I can't digest a rating of 6.3 on IMDb. Leads me to believe how biased IMDb's ratings can be sometime. Forget about what any one says. If you like great movies with a message, Then see this one today!! "},{"Title":"cute romantic comedy","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this show. The acting was flawless, and the story was funny, believable, and lovable. A woman goes after an old boyfriend who is about to be married. She didn't want him before the engagement, but went to all kinds of troubles to win him back before the marriage could take place. With every shananagan she pulled, she dug herself into a deeper and deeper hole. Finally, her antics were found out causing bitter feelings. The movie remained light hearted all the way through, giving me great bursts of hilarious guffaws. Diaz and Roberts were perfect together, great comedic actresses. See this one.  "},{"Title":"What would Lucy do in this situation?","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts' considerable on screen charisma anchors MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, a romantic comedy with a twist that may or may not have you cheering for our girl to come out on top. Roberts plays a food critic named Julianne who learns that her ex-boyfriend Michael (Dermot Mulroney) is getting married and he asks her to come to the wedding and be his Best Man. Upon her arrival for the wedding festivities and meeting the bride-to-be, Kim (Cameron Diaz), Julianne decides that she wants Michael back and pulls out every dirty trick she can think of to break them up. This mission gets complicated when the fiancée asks Julianne to be her maid of honor. There are a lot of comic situations that arise from this premise, but it is a little unsettling as well because, deep down, we know that what Julianne is doing is wrong, but part of us wants her to win, whether we want to admit or not, because Roberts still manages to evoke our sympathies as Julianne especially when we learn that it is Julianne who broke off the relationship with Michael and that his new fiancée gives him everything that Julianne couldn't't...like the ability to be affectionate in public, but seeing Michael so happy ignites the Mr. Hyde in Julianne. She even asks her gay best friend, George (Rupert Everett) to pretend to be her fiancée to make Michael jealous. The scene where George tells Kim's family how he and Julianne met is hysterical. Whether or not Julianne succeeds in her mission should not be revealed here for those who haven't seen the film,but know that the film works for the most part thanks to some smart writing, a winning performance by Roberts and a scene-stealing turn by Everett as George. It's not PRETTY WOMAN, but if you accept that going in , it's a pleasant ride. "},{"Title":"Why Doesn't Julia Roberts Just Get Some Female Friends?","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An unpleasant comedic vehicle for Julia Roberts about a woman who realizes too late that she's in love with her male best friend and decides to sabotage his engagement so she can have him for herself.Roberts is game, but the movie is pretty bad. It makes the main character so sadistically unpleasant that not only do you not root for her and her buddy (played by an unappealing Dermot Mulroney) to get together, you hope bad things happen to her to punish her for her crimes. Not a great set up for the character with whom we're forced to spend most of the movie.Cameron Diaz plays the fiancée as a perfect little blonde, and Rupert Everett plays Roberts' OTHER male best friend, this one gay, who looks bored to be in the movie.Grade C- "}{"Title":"Yes Rupert !!!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think I like the movie most for Rupert Everett. His walk (which he describes as panther like) was amazing. he sticks to his friend, giving the only sensible advice possible. Say a little prayer for you was amazing, his story of his engagement with Julia was so delicious.Julia's mean streak was magnificent.. also her eyes when she sees her best friend being carried away.I enjoy this movie every time, and cannot miss the Rupert parts at all !Although if you look closely, the sudden love for Dermot Mulroney is not natural. Not for a minute would a character like Julianne be happy with someone like him. She could rough it in seedy hotels, but not be tied down to someone's schedules. So you are kind of relieved that Julianne walks free in the end. And she does have this magnificent friend like Rupert who drops everything and comes to her rescue. If he hadn't been gay, he would have been besotted with her and that is the kind of a man Julianne really needsI like it that Julianne remains single in the end. That is what life is like, sometimes you have to hand over your loved ones and deal with life on its own. There is no magic guy who appears the minute you are single. "},{"Title":"Plot is despicable, no matter how much you like the charming players","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I didn't like this film. The whole premise of a woman setting out to sabotage and destroy her best friend's wedding. Okay, so Julia Roberts plays the conniving woman - I guess that is supposed to make us fall in love with her and forget all the havoc she is wreaking. I for one didn't find it funny. In fact, most of the film annoyed me. Including, and especially, the stupid sing-along songs and those idiot twins.Okay, so they try to redeem the bad plot by having Julia not be successful in the end and we are all supposed to forgive her for being so ruthless - right? Wrong - it just didn't work for me. Not funny.Not funny.Still not funny... "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry, but aside from Plan 9 from Outer Space, which had a certain innocent redemptive charm, this may be the most stupid movie I've ever seen. My boyfriend thought it was cute, but only because he loves Julia Roberts; she reminds him of someone he's still half in love with, I think. Now, while I feel this way about Rupert Everett, even his elegance and charisma cannot salve the basic flaw of this film that the main character is absolutely despicable, and that I cannot possibly spare a flying expletive for the fate of any of the other characters.  I would have been able to just chalk all this up to yet another disappointing film viewing experience, except for the huge amount of money and talent expended in putting together this worthless stretch of plastic and the obscene commercial success it engendered.  It's a true shame; or you could just say it's truly shameful.  I understand wanting to like anything with a favorite actor involved in it.  Likewise, I understand the pressures of coming up with something new, sure-shot, and original.  Unfortunately, while this movie made a ton of money to justify its existence, a filmed revival of perhaps a Noel Coward play with the same cast and cost would have accomplished the same fiscal result with the felicitous side benefits that the end product would have been tasteful, intelligent, and genuinely witty, and that, for just a little longer, the shallow predilections of the producers and much of the American movie-going public (who just ate this up) might have remained unexposed. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"20 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hated it. I couldn't even focus on the plot, the characters were nauseating. Roberts' is utterly selfish, her boy friend is quite lame, and his fiancée is such a pushover that I wanted to shout at her every time I watched her. Sorry, but I cannot see the fun in an hour and a half of Julia Roberts tripping with almost any object she had near.I really hope that Hollywood will stop making movies with such awful stereotypical female characters. There are many movies with this male-driven kind of women who seem incapable of having a mind of their own. It would be great to see comedies with female characters that can be funny and smart at the same time. "},{"Title":"Really disappointing - poorly-written plot and skewed acting","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm horribly shocked that this film is considered a romantic comedy, let alone one with many positive reviews.Whoever wrote the script and plot for this film should be shot. Seriously, how does Roberts losing the man she love in the end make it a romantic comedy worth seeing? And while the general consensus was that she was 'evil' and 'selfish', Jules struck me as more love-silly and desperate than evil and conniving (if any staunch negativity from Roberts part was intended then it wasn't well-acted at all). Roberts' character and the opposing guy both showed flaws and imperfections, but such is often the case with troubled people trying to sort out their real feelings in order to make the best relationship decision(s). Also, up until the end her friend acted as if he was secretly in love with her as well so the ending, aside from utterly depressing, didn't really make sense (unless that was also poor acting). That being said, this film would've been much better if they ended up together. "},{"Title":"Bitter and crude","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friend's Wedding, really...Even though I don't dislike it, I can't say that I enjoy it either. This movie is intended to be a romantic comedy, but doesn't convince me because it fails.Yes, it has some humor and some funny moments (especially by Rupert Everett's character, George). However, the rest of this movie's humor ends up being ridiculous and somehow annoying. Besides, this movie isn't sweet or truly romantic for a love story.Also, the character played by Julia Roberts (Julianne or simply Jules) is pure evil, rude, jealous, selfish and greedy. Her intentions are dark. What she does is really mean she tries to steal her best friend's bride to get him back, but she (Jules) never let him love her when he loved her.Some catchy songs can be listened in this movie, especially I Say a Little Prayer. The marriage at the end is beautifully made and the final scene is comical. Rupert Everett is hilarious in this movie and I like very much Cameron Diaz's character (Kimmy Wallace) in this movie. She's enchanting, adorable, sweet and beautiful the opposite of Jules.Overall, this is a bitter and crude movie. Not a keeper or a movie to watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett and Laszlo Kovacs prop up an ordinary film","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everett's performance is great. He makes all others look like pygmies!Kovacs, whose Hollywood films do not reflect what he had achieved earlier in his Hungarian films, comes up with classic overhead shots of people moving like ants in office lobbies. Kovacs is a delight to watch, even in the winter of his career. "},{"Title":"There are much better Julia Roberts films than this","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately not really worth watching.  A pity, because it could have been much better, with its unusual take as a non-feelgood romantic comedy.  Any romantic comedy needs more likeable characters than are on show here though.  Gay George is the only really likeable one, he does have some standout lines and situations that are funny even when recounted in other IMDB comments.  The others however - dreadful.  Jules seemed not to be sure whether to be all-out cutthroat or intrinsically nice just playing at nasty.  Dermot Mulroney's character was far too boring and chauvinistic, and not charismatic enough to have believability.  And Kimmy could have been cute and likeable, but just look at her driving!  I would like to see her get banned for life (likewise from singing).  Jules behaved badly and nearly got somebody fired from their job, but that ain't even in the same league as Kimmy!  She almost killed people on the roads and carparks of Chicago, and undoubtedly would if she were allowed to continue like that.Can't recommend this, despite Everett's best endeavours.  Julia Roberts has been so much better than this in other films (most notably Erin Brockovich). "},{"Title":"Only movie i've ever walked out of...","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Granted, I should never have walked into this one but it was Tight-arse Tuesday so I wasn't fussy. The musical piece at the restaurant was nicely done, but I refuse to believe that the lead man would pass up on a smart, pretty Julia Roberts then commit to an annoying blonde whose beauty is not even skin deep (Diaz looked fantastic in The Mask but she must have been wearing one at the time). I soldiered on thru the obvious cigarette ad in the hallway, but as the wedding approached, i honestly didn't care who did what. Amazingly, my mate felt exactly the same and we walked out after nothing more than a nod and a wink. No spoilers here I still don't know the ending.. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett salvages an otherwise dreadful movie","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In his role as Julia Roberts' gay friend George, Rupert Everett effortlessly steals the show--he is urbane and witty, wise and caring, and of course uproariously funny and drop-dead gorgeous.  In contrast, leading man Dermot Mulroney appears crass, callow, and utterly devoid of charm or magnetism.  This movie, billed as a comedy, has an element of mystery at its core Why on earth would two such winners as Julia Roberts and Cameron Diaz fight for the affections of such a dolt?! If not for Rupert Everett's performance, this movie would have rated a 1 for me! "}{"Title":"stupid, boring and somewhat overrated","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Or at least the performance of Rupert Everett as the utterly cliched and beyond pointless gay friend was. I remember things acting like he was deprived because he was no nominated for an Oscar for his work and why? All he did was spout a bunch of nonsensical lines, sing a song in a restaraunt and fall down for no appearant reason. Gee, how many actors can do that? About a thousand. And many can probably do a better job than he did.And if this movie didn't have Rupert Everett being all pointless, it would have still gone on unaffected, but it would not have made me like it. A big waste of a free video rental coupon that I was stuck having to watch, the whole film was basically a chance for Julia Roberts to regain herself from a long string a flops. It was a hit, but it shouldn't have been. I've seen many better films than this, with it's dull and occasionally childish story of a Julianne(Roberts'), whose best friend Michael (the usually reliable Dermott Mulroney stuck with a wooden, charisma-free character if there ever was one) is getting married to the nauseating twenty-year-old Kimmy(Cameron Diaz, who is, well, quite nauseating and none too interesting herself), which makes her quite jealous. Roberts engages in a bunch of predictable schemes to get Kimmy away from Michael and everything goes just the way you would expect it to go. And sprinkled in this tired script are childish, ridiculous scenes, such as Roberts and Diaz having a fight in a bathroom with overdone extra watching, characters called The Slut Cousins(did a child write this?), and, well, all of the supporting characters in this one are quite ridiculous. I'm not sure who wrote this, but they probably thought to themselves, let's make a 'cute,' 'formulatic,' love story with a bunch of goofy characters and funny scenes. The entire film basically runs like somebody trying to do that. And not very successfully. "},{"Title":"The WORST movie of 1997","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For a while, I thought Flubber was the worst movie of 1997. That was before I saw My Best Friend's Wedding. I never cared for Julia Roberts, nor do I now. This film (like Babe 1995) is billed as a comedy but it's not funny. Another thing about MBFW is that Julia Roberts does not in ANY way deserve Michael. She had plenty of times to say she loved him, but she didn't! In that sense, you know a film has to be awful if you're rooting for Cameron Diaz "},{"Title":"could women be any worse?","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'my best friend's wedding' is, admittedly, a funny movie. unfortunately it is funny at the expense of women, and, being unintentional in this sexism, is highly irritating. the message this movie delivers to the viewer is that women are hysterical, manipulative, and needy. julia roberts comes across as a confident and strong woman with a successful life, that is until she find out her best male friend is getting married. faced with not having him to fall back on she goes berserk, and, with her attention focused on a man, allows her life to fall completely to pieces. along the way she does not think twice about trying to break-up the relationship her supposed best friend is in. who cares if he's happy, she wants him, and if the other woman gets left, well, you can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs? is that really what this movie wants to be saying about women and their ability to be loyal? "},{"Title":"A Frightening Comedy","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It was difficult to root for Julia Roberts. It would have been like rooting for Joan Crawford in Queen Bee or Gene Tirney in Leave Her To Heaven She's a latent nasty piece of work. A woman, we're told, intelligent, successful, but her feelings are of the lowest most ignorant kind. I didn't believe it, sorry. Not believing spoiled the whole fun for me. I though the premise was tapping into the worst in us and that in a comedy is really frightening. I'm sure the director, producers etc didn't do it on purpose but they obviously didn't think the whole thing through. The success of the film is another frightening aspect. Frightening on two counts - or audiences are blind and unaffected by the potential evil here or I'm raving mad and I'm seeing things. Whatever the case, I saw it and it frightened me. Two major saving graces, maybe three. The cuteness of Cameron Diaz's performance, the beauty of Dermot Mulroney and a smashing Cary Grantish turn by Ruperet Everrett. Go at your own peril. "},{"Title":"Repulsive","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found the pretext of this movie deplorable. The character portrayed by Julia Roberts is revolting. To glorify such underhandedness is inexcuseable for any reason. The entire concept of the plot leaves me nauseous.The fact that Julia Roberts cannot act doesn't help. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment from the director of Muriel's Wedding.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a rule, I never watch Hollywood mainstream movies, but this time I went to see this because I liked the trailer and because I was in the mood for some light-hearted fun.What's more, I knew it was directed by the same director of Muriel's Wedding (one of my favourite films of all times), so I had great expectations.But, alas, this film was a huge disappointment! I absolutely disliked it. The plot was boring, silly and inconsistent. Not even Rupert Everett could save this awful film. Definitely, Hollywood did no good to P.J. Hogan's work. This was so different from that little gem that was Muriel's Wedding.After watching this film, I made two resolutions never to watch another Hollywood romantic comedy and never to watch another film starring Cameron Diaz. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts was made for her role in 'My Best Friend's Wedding'","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Best Friend's Wedding (1997) Julia Robert, Dermot Mulroney, Cameron Diaz, Rupert Everett, Philip Bosco, M. Emmet Walsh, Rachel Griffiths, Carrie Preston, D P.J. Hogan. Roberts is a New York food critic who's best friends with sports writer Mulroney, and when he tells her he's marrying a rich blonde spitfire (Diaz), the best friend tries sabotaging their nuptials. Funny and smart romantic comedy gives a custom-made role for Roberts whose smile and infectious cackle make her sweet, and Everett steals the show as her editor/gay friend.Running Time 105 minutes and rated PG-13 for brief strong language and sex-related humor. RATINg *** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Subversive Giggly Fun","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julianne Potter (Julia Roberts) is a relationship-phobic food critic. Her best friend is her ex Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney). They have a pact to get married at 28 if there is no other prospects. She is about to turn 28. When he calls her, she thinks it's about their pact but it turns out that he is getting married to giddy bad-singing Kimberly Wallace (Cameron Diaz). Julianne is shocked and jealous. She starts to a scheme to separate the couple with the help of her gay editor friend George Downes (Rupert Everett).This could have been a darker subversive plot as the story follows Julianne's scheming ways. However Julia Roberts does it so adorably that it is a very light fun romp. If there is somebody more adorable, it has to be Cameron Diaz. Rupert Everett has some great joyous scenes. Dermot Mulroney is a little stiff but he fits the role. I am glad that it ends the way that it did. The songs are a hoot, and Diaz's laugh is infectious. "},{"Title":"A Refreshingly Entertaining Romcom","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friend's Wedding is a film that stars Julia Roberts.A woman realizes that friends can be lovers, but now has to convince the friend in question in this romantic comedy.Cameron Diaz, Dermot Mulroney, Rupert Everett, and Philip Bosco co-star to play key supporting roles.It was directed by P. J. Hogan.Michael and Julianne were romantically involved in college, and after breaking up, they have managed to remain close friends. For years, they have had a pledge that if both were single when they turned 28, they would get married. Shortly before her 28th birthday, Julianne is lamenting the sad state of her love life when she gets a call from Michael, who announces that he has important news. Julianne is convinced that Michael is going to ask her to marry him, and she is crestfallen when he announces that he's engaged to Kimmy Wallace. Kimmy seems like the perfect woman for Michael because she's sweet, pretty, bright, and adores Michael, and her wealthy family is just as fond of him as she is. But now that Julianne has realized how much she loves Michael, she's not about to give him up without a fight and isn't afraid to fight dirty. Julianne's uneasy ally in the battle for Michael's affections is her friend and editor George Downes, a cheerfully out-of-the-closet homosexual who is not prepared when Julianne asks him to pose as her boyfriend.One of the best romantic comedies of the 1990's, My Best Friend's Wedding not only gave Julia Roberts a delightful vehicle for her crowd- pleasing comeback, but it further distinguished itself by avoiding the conventional plotting of the genre.Thanks to her charming performance and a subversive spin on the genre, this movie is a refreshingly entertaining.Rupert Everett scored rave reviews for his scene-stealing performance as Robert's gay friend who goes along with her scheming, and even as she makes her character's needy desperation disarmingly appealing, Roberts wisely allows Diaz to capitalize on her charming time in the spotlight. As the romantic outcome remains uncertain, the viewer is held in a state of giddy suspense, and director Hogan pulls off some hilarious scenes that could easily have fallen flat in the hands of a less talented filmmaker.Also, Hogan does manage to make his attractive leads look like complete idiots, no mean achievement in image-obsessed Hollywood.No wonder it happens to be the second most popular film of Roberts after Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"Indeed, She's The Bad Guy","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How true was My Best Friend's Wedding? Well, I've lived it, and yes, I was the bad guy.Sure, I didn't sabotage a wedding, nor someone's life. But, I didn't partake in a lot of the jealousy and plots she did, sadly enough. So, I'm neither proud or ashamed of what I did in my own existence, I can safely say, what she did in this fantastic movie, was true-to-life.Let's get the synopsis out of the way non-committal Julianne (Julia Roberts) has a best (male) friend, Michael (Dermot Mulroney) she once dated and they made a pack if neither is married by a certain age, then they will settle (is that the right word &#x96; even though they didn't state that themselves?) and marry each other. Julianne receives a call/voice mail out of the blue&#x85;coincidently enough, close to the birthday of said age&#x85;from Michael. Immediately, she thinks it's a proposal. Close enough he's announcing his (quick) engagement to Kim (Cameron Diaz) and he wants Julianne to be there for him.While thrust into the wedding arrangements and best man's role, she plots to apply a large wedge between the happy couple in order to get Michael all to herself, despite her own spiritual conscience and a physical one, in the form of her (other best) friend, George (Rupert Everett) and his constant pleas for her to do the right thing be honest with him and let the happy couple marry.The movie is both extremely humorous and deep. It's heartfelt and real, while delivering fantastic one-liners with a great soundtrack. It could literally happen, and probably does &#x96; again, I'm proof.Okay, mine dealt with a best friend of mine that I was in love with for many years. Though we acted upon it multiple times &#x96; and I am surely downplaying that, my half of the relationship was built on pure love. Unfortunately, not only was the feelings not reciprocated, but I was told constantly, despite the repetitiveness of the actions, that this was anything but unemotional.I saw a lot in Julianne that I saw within myself. Hers, thankfully, ended in a weekend per the movie's timeline. Miserably, mine lasted seven years.Enough about me. Suffice to say, I KNOW WHAT SHE'S GOING THRU. And beyond that, the movie lifts me up, makes me laugh and definitely makes me cry &#x96; each and every time I see it. It's both lighthearted and deep. It has fantastic scenes individually and on a whole &#x96; such as the singing group, led by a wonderful Rupert Everett for I Say A Little Prayer. It's one of my all-time favorite films and soundtracks.Ever been through this? Have you ever loved someone so much it hurt? Physically? Ever act on it, even though you know that was the wrong course?WATCH this movie. Live it. Love it. And watch one of the most realistic endings Hollywood has ever produced. It may not be the finale you were looking for, but it's the most honest. "}{"Title":"Jules Potter is way too selfish to be in a relationship with anyone.","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was one movie ending that we thoroughly agreed with - and not because the couple got together, but because they didn't. Jules Potter is way too selfish to be in a relationship with anyone.Jules and Michael have been friends since college, and one year they made a pact that if neither of them were married by the time they were 28 (really? Did they go to school in Utah?) they would marry each other. When Michael calls on the eve (eve eve) of Jules' birthday she assumes it's to call in his marker. When she finds out that he is instead calling to announce that he's engaged to someone else, Jules suddenly decides that he's the one for her, and spends the next three days doing everything in her power to break up the clearly happy couple.Talk about wanting what you can't have. Jules doesn't want to win Michael over; she just wants to win. Is this really how you treat your best friend? Clearly not, as Jules doesn't win the guy in the end after all. Three days of sabotage - flirting, prancing about in her underwear, trying to provoke Michael's jealousy by pretending to be engaged to her best gay friend George, attempting to humiliate Kimmy, the bride-to-be, in a karaoke bar, sending manipulative emails from Kimmy's father, and finally - confessing her newly discovered love for Michael and forcing her lips on him - are all done in vain. Just when you're wondering how much farther she'll take it, Jules finally comes to the realization that Michael's love for Kimmy cannot be swayed by her cheap antics. And in the end it's Michael and Kimmy who get married and sail off into the sunset.We shudder to think what happens when George announces he's met someone. Will she prance around him in Gucci couture? Move to Chelsea? Have a sex change operation? We think Michael, Kimmy and George need to find some new friends.www.reel-couples.com "},{"Title":"For the love of a best friend","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It came to 27-year-old New York restaurant critic Julianne Potter's (Julia Roberts) attention when she was having a meal with her gay friend George Downes (Rupert Everett). Longtime friend Michael O'Neil had called her to say that he is going to get married in four days' time, to Kimberley Wallace (Cameron Diaz), who is a University of Chicago student from a wealthy family.It upsets Julianne, knowing that back in college, he and Michael had made an agreement that if they were not married by the time they reach 28, they will marry each other. But not only that, Michael had only known the 20-year-old Kimberley for a short period of time. Julianne realises that she is in love with her longtime friend and set out to prevent the wedding from taking place. While at the same time, to be Kimberley's maid of honour.It sets off a series of comical sequences like taking Kimberley and Michael to a karaoke bar after discovering that Kimberley is a terrible singer and asking the gay friend George to pretend that they are engaged, hoping to make Michael jealous of Julianne. Unfortunately the plans did not work.George then advised Julianne to do the obvious Tell Michael up front that she is in love with him. So on the morning of the wedding, Julianne finally confessed her true feelings to her longtime friend, asked him to marry her instead, and kisses him. Kimberley unfortunately saw it all and ran off with Michael chasing her, and Julianne chases him unsuccessfully...or so she thought. She spotted Michael at the train station and finally accepted the fact that she has lost Michael to Kimberley. She went to apologise to Kimberley and explained the whole situation, including that he did not kissed her back.The wedding did took place after all, with Julianne as Kimberley's maid of honour wishing them well. And she being consoled by George as well.To have Julia Roberts playing the role of the person to steal her friend's future spouse may be just wrong given one does not associate her in that kind of role, but one probably cannot help but wonder whether she can do it in the end. Whether one was rooting for Julia Roberts in her role as Julianne or not, there is also other reasons to like this film. Like the supporting cast especially Rupert Everett as George. "},{"Title":"Convoluted romantic comedy, watchable but flawed","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While this is a pleasant albeit convoluted romantic comedy, it could have been much better. Julia Roberts has great charisma but can't pull off a role that requires her to play a negative character. The script feels toothless and the dark elements are toned down. Dermot Mulroney is a bit too quiet though his acting improves towards the end. Cameron Diaz has loads of charisma and manages to hold her own in what is essentially a second lead. The film's best performance is given by Rupert Everett. The screen sizzles whenever he's present. Although perfectly watchable, the film is flawed and a little disappointing.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"I love it, I hate it...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to a Julia Roberts movie, I've yet to find a character that I can't identify with.  Her Julianne Jules Potter is so endearing not only for her humour or for her impulsiveness, but for her ability to come across as so undeniably real.  Caught in a situation that's unpleasant for anyone to be in (facing losing the man she loves to a insipidly annoying Cameron Diaz) is something we've all had to deal with in one way or another. Everything in this movie clicks perfectly-but the real unsung hero of this film is Rupert Everett as George.  His portrayal of the hyperactive gay friend who is quickly becoming Jules' last hope is fabulous.  Every line is delivered perfectly-so well that you wonder if he wasn't doing improv from the moment the camera was turned on.  Basically, he just serves to frustrate women worldwide by reminding them of his unavailibilty.  My Best Friend's Wedding is charming, and manages to escape the romantic comedy rut of just laughter.  Instead, you find yourself desperate to control the outcome of the movie, because if the people you want together don't end up together you'll find yourself caught in a vicious cycle-loving the film and hating it simultaneously. "},{"Title":"You'll either love this film or hate it!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films of all time.  There are so many occasions that you'll either adore or squirm at, which is why it is a love/hate film.Diaz doing karaoke is hilarious, an entire restaurant singing Say A Little Prayer is entirely unbelievable, but still one of my favourite bits.Rupert Everett steals the show for me. Right from when he meets Diaz for the first time in the church, the restaurant scene, & then the ending at the wedding reception, he just makes me smile.I admit that there are a few moments to cringe at, like the Roberts e-mail incident, but the good bits certainly out-weigh the bad.Take the movie at face value - it's just entertainment! "},{"Title":"With friends like Julia Roberts...","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	I think P. J. Hogan's My Best Friend's Wedding fails on a number of levels plot, motivation and characterisation. 	Julia Roberts play  a successful 28 year old food critic who ,we are informed, historically has shunned romantic involvement to maintain independence and professional freedom. However, we learn she takes lovers to fulfill other needs and discards them when the heat of passion must inevitably give way to something involving love and a relationship.	Naturally, all beautiful, successful women in Hollywood have a very close gay male friend - in this case, Rupert Everett, giving one of his best performances as Julia's editor. Rupert's lot in life is to tag along with Julia to free lunches at the swish restaurants subjected to Julia's feared taste-bud appraisals. But, of course, there is no such thing as a free lunch and Rupert must bear the brunt of the retelling of Julia's life story and provide the kind of deep and meaningful advice that only gay men can give - be it submerged in the characteristic witticisms and puns for which gay men giving counsel to straight women are renowned. It is at this latest gourmet freebie that we learn of Julia's deep and abiding friendship with her old Uni buddy Dermot Mulroney, a revelation sparked by the fact that Dermot has left a message on Julia's mobile(funny how people read letters immediately but leave mobile messages to stew). Just in case Rupert has forgotten since lunch the day before and the day before that, Julia had a brief fling with Dermot at Uni but instead of giving him the flick like all the others, before and since, she anointed him her &#145;best friend' and that's what they've been for about ten years.	When Julia finally finishes eating and gets back to Dermot she literally keels over with the news that Dermot has met someone and is planning marriage, pronto. It turns out it all happened so quickly just in case we wonder why such a close friend as Dermot hasn't confided in Julia all the way along - as one would expect of 'best friends'. It isn't made clear if Julia has an unrealistic expectation that she and Dermot will continue into old age as single best friends or, maybe, she is piqued at Dermot opting for something over and above a platonic friendship with Julia who only rings him when another lover bites the dust. What is clear is that while Julia has been hanging around with gay men, Dermot has not been hanging out with gay women - the odds of his meeting someone before Julia was always in his favour. However in spite of ten years of stagnant friendship Julia decides, like a kid with a toy that doesn't want to share, that she wants Dermot and she will break up his impending nuptials to get him. The credibility of the narrative hinges on the plausibility of Julia's assessment of the nature of her relationship with Dermot and this assessment as the motivating force behind her decision to take Dermot away from his fiancee. It just seems to be a quantum leap of logic that launches one into the other. It is hard to believe that she could convince herself that Dermot's proposed marriage is some adolescent folly on his part and that fate can be altered by mere whim. After all, she's the one who's been the strict adherent of friendship without commitment. We don't learn in the early part of the film if Dermot mirrors Julia's attitudes on love and relationships or if Julia's insights are actually delusions to avoid facing the fact that she has always been in love with Dermot.	From the outset, Julia's motives and values are somewhat shaky. It's not difficult to like her very little. It's not that she's  unlikeable, but more kind of wound up to the things she wants. She wants Rupert to listen to the never-ending vicissitudes of her life; she wants Dermot to be on hand for confidences that perhaps Rupert is not qualified to process; she wants to be a role model to other less-gifted women hidebound by marriage and parenthood - she wants an audience to her life as long as they don't want to come backstage. But now that Dermot is getting married she's expected to be part of another woman's audience and her total self-absorption won't allow that to happen.  Dermot's fiancée Kimmy, played with zest by former model Cameron Diaz, welcomes Julia with open arms but Julia interprets her friendliness as watchful uncertainty. Kimmy's super rich parents (but Dermot's not interested in money) love Dermot and accept Julia as his best friend. Dermot's relatives and friends all know Julia well and, unlike me, like her. Julia has walked in on one of the happiest domestic situations an anxious outsider could ever hope to find. But none of this deters Julia from her ill-conceived quest to win the man she loves. From that point on Julia stumbles over the sensibilities of other people, always out of step with what is the bleeding obvious but determined to reverse the irreversible at any cost. There are elements of Aussie cinematic silliness reminiscent of Priscilla and Muriel's Wedding, but ironically it's that kind of wackiness that keeps this film from spilling over into the realm of Hollywood schmalz. Although Julia Roberts dominates screen time, her performance is only okay. You get the feeling that she's not quite sure if she's in a comedy or melodrama, and this translates into a sketchy and unconvincing characterisation. Dermott Mulroney is not a charismatic actor, but at least his character has grown up and moved on while Julia's has bogged down in undergraduate nostalgia and failed to make an emotionally mature life for herself. You get the feeling that after the marriage Dermot will delete Julia from his life She has no part to play because, in reality, she plays no part. But this film is not the sum of its parts and on one level you can't help but be beguiled by some of the best complexions and dental work going around Hollywood at the moment. "},{"Title":"One of the better rom com's","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I recently saw Made of Honor in the theater and everyone said that it was just a rip off of My Best Friend's Wedding, which I had never seen, never had an interest, but I figured I might as well see it. So I rented it the other day and watched it today, My Best Friend's Wedding has all the ultimate cliché's of a typical chick flick, but I think the reason I'm so gentle on this movie is because it's one of the first's to have it, so it was semi-original for the time. I mean we got the gay friend, the over perky blonde, the guy who can never take a hint, and our leading lady who is actually a horrible person, but for some odd reason we like her anyways. Julia Roberts, as horrible of a character she played, she made the movie likable and something you'd just wanna see how the story will play out until the very end.Julianne has been best friends with Michael for 9 years, they tried dating, but it never quite worked out. But they made a promise to marry each other if they never found someone else, but when Michael found someone so quickly while staying in Chicago, a perky young pretty girl named Kimmy, Julianne realizes that she does want Michael. But obviously, it's too late, so she wants to break up the wedding and win Michael to herself.My Best Friend's Wedding is actually worth the look if you're into romantic comedies. I'm not really, but this wasn't a waste of time to me, it actually had some funny moments, back when Cameron Diaz was actually cute and funny, don't know what happened to that girl, maybe she just got cocky. But her and Julia Roberts made a fun pair and made the movie work. I have to admit that the most ridicules moment but some how cheesy funny was when the group at lunch broke into the I'll Say a Little Pray For You song, it was so random and unbelievable, but I think that's what made it funny. My Best Friend's Wedding is a decent enough film for a watch, if you're into rom com's, this is one of the better one's.6/10 "},{"Title":"Just your typical Roberts vehicle","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's something about Julia... I don't like. Although she played in some OK movies (Erin Brockovich and The Pelican Brief come to mind) her acting is just no good... That and the fact she plays in so many crappy romantic comedies AND the fact that everybody thinks she's pretty, while she clearly is not (come on, folks) just makes me dislike her. How she ever stole away an academy award that belonged to Ellen Burstyn I will never forget. It's just how I feel about Ms. Roberts.In My Best Friend's Wedding, it's no difference. The movie tries to be snappy, at times even a bit dark, but it doesn't work. The 'interesting' part of the movie apparently is that Roberts is playing the not to nice girl in this one. So what, that's how I always felt about her... The story's pretty lame and I couldn't care less for the characters involved. I'm sorry...There is a good sing-a-long somewhere near the end of the movie (I'm a sucker for those) and Everett steals the show in a funny role as Roberts' gay friend, but that's not enough to really make it work. 4/10 (and I'm being generous). "},{"Title":"Better than I was expecting!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So much better in fact, that I was compelled to laugh and enjoy a romantic comedy.  Now for a male, that's quite something.Opinion seems to be divided, but the haters of this film seem to have half-a-dozen main gripes1)	That Julia Roberts doesn't know whether to do comedy or melodrama.  Well, I think she needs to do both.  She's not a particularly nice character remember - quite a selfish b*tch.2)	But I want Julia to be lovely and the other one to be horrid!  Oh, and fall into the biggest cliché ever?  Get a life!  Can't you handle unconventional characterization?  That's why Jules grows up during the course of the film - normally she's a hard-nose but really can't sustain it against someone who is so nice and emotionally vulnerable!3)	The portrayal of Kimberly is sexist.  Yes, but she has squillions of dollars, so does it really matter so much?  If I had a squillion dollars, I would probably do the same!  She doesn't need to work and she knows it.4)	Dermott Mulroney was a plank.  I agree.5)	I couldn't spot the plot coming.  Well go watch a Disney movie fool!6)	 I didn't like the ending.  So?  Do you think real life always has a sugary ending?  The ending itself is reflective of the whole film.  I mean did she actually deserve to have a man?  No!  Cos she has to go through the film to grow up.  That's the point.  She's now a more mature person who will get her reward in good time.  That's the happy ending.  She's become nice and considerate.So as you can guess, I found the film bright and smart, not too mired in the woman-only scmaltz that surrounds these types of film and in fact subtly exhibited a darker side to the lead heroine that you wouldn't normally be allowed to see.Rupert Everett puts in a good performance, but the 'gay friend' thing is becoming as stereotyped as the 'high-fiving cra-zeee black man'.I would recommend this for men.  It's pretty watchable without falling into puke-inducing cliché to often.  And remember, take it at face value - 'it's just entertainment!'8.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett is fantastic!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this is the kind of typical romantic comedy that Meg Ryan & Tom Hanks usually does, but here it is Julia Roberts and Dermot Mulroney who is the lucky couple... or? The thing is, Mulroney is getting married with Cameron Diaz so Roberts is on the kill the weddingtour.It's predictable all the way, of course (well, maybe not all of it) and there are some good laughs here and there. But you don't see this movie for the lovestory, Roberts or Diaz. No, you, strangely enough, see it because of the happy gaypal Roberts has, Rupert Everett who is simply breathtaking. He has it all, charm, wit and joy.The scene where the entire weddingensemble takes up singing during dinner, led by Everett, singing, I sing a little pray for you, is so damn good I almost start crying of joy and happiness when I see it.8/10 A movie that puts you in a good mood. "}{"Title":"Recognizable, but too annoying","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a way this movie is quite recognizable to me. I also have made a deal to marry my best friend when we turn 30. She also has a boyfriend and I'm alone and yes, I do compare all girls to her. But that is as far as the similarities between the movie and my life go. No way that I would ever try to get between her and her boyfriend and certainly not when they decide to get married. Still, I loved the story and the idea behind it, but I can't say the same about the whole movie. There were so many things that ruined it for me. For instance what was all that singing about? Is it really necessary to hear Cameron Diaz singing out of tone for more than two minutes? Do I really want to see the whole family singing a song about love, in the middle of a restaurant? There is only one answer to these questions the fast forward-button. The same for Cameron Diaz' character. Damn, I start running, kicking and screaming for help if I ever meet a girl like that. I really don't see what is so great about an overactive, lunatic 20-year old with too much money to spend. Even though there were many things that I hated, I can't say the same about the plot. I admit that I didn't expect to see what I saw. Congratulations to the makers that they made the movie end in this way. If all the scenes that annoyed me would have been cut out, I would have loved this movie, although I don't know if much would have been left of it. Now it crossed the line too many times, annoying me just a little too often. I give it a 6/10 because of the good idea and the unexpected ending of the story, but if it hadn't annoyed me that much it would have been at least an 8 or a 9. Too bad! "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film starring Cameron Diaz.","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friends Wedding stars Julia Roberts,a woman who falls in love with her best friend(played by Dermot Mulroney). Problem is however he is engaged to be married to someone else called Kimberly(played by Cameron Diaz)who Robert's best friend is in love with. So Roberts teams up with her gay friend played by Rupert Everret(who also starred with Diaz in that 2004 animated film Shrek 2) to help her stop her best friend(and the man she secretly loves)not to marry Kimberly. But will she change her mind?Bottom line I really liked this film. The story has been done to death before as in 2008 Patrick Dempsey starred in a film similar to it called Made Of Honor,the cast is good I was always a fan of both Julia Roberts and Cameron Diaz and as for the rest it was pretty good too.Not Oscar material here but it is an enjoyable flick. B+ "},{"Title":"A Remarkable Romantic Comedy","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Robert stars in this unique twist on the typical romantic comedy and offers the audience a much more underlying somber and reflective look at relational conflicts and love and regret and reality. My Best Friend's Wedding incorporates the usual comedic embarrassments, but it is the edgy, almost biting, cloying element of uncertainty of how the end of the movie will turn out that becomes the star of the show. Rarely does a romantic comedy take a much more sobering look at difficulties in intimate relationships, lost loves, and regret, and somehow offer up realities that audience can truly appreciate. With both sadness and acceptance, and happy moments most of us can identify with Julia Roberts. "},{"Title":"A Wedding Worth Attending.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friend's Wedding (1997) Dir P.J. Hogan / Cast Julia Roberts, Dermot Mulroney, Cameron Diaz, Rupert Everett, Philip Bosco Great romantic comedy about penetration. Julia Roberts and Dermot Mulroney promise to marry each other at twenty-eight if both are single by that time. When she is invited to his wedding she plans to split it up. Cameron Diaz enters as the fiancée and hooks up with Roberts hoping to enhance upon friendship. The result is heart-warming with fine comic timing by director P.J. Hogan who previously made another wedding film called Muriel's Wedding. One of Roberts's best performances as she overcomes formula elements with a great sense of integrity. Mulroney torn between two women and avoids entrapment within formula by still being genuine. Cameron Diaz enters with a blast of enthusiasm and where many such films would portray her in negative light, it is a great spin here that she is not the enemy. Her sincerity provides tension when Roberts schemes. Rupert Everett steals scenes as Roberts's gay editor who is there when needed and while he provides many great laughs, he is also in the best place during the last scenes. Philip Bosco has a small role as the wealthy father of the Diaz character whom is used unknowingly within the schemes of Roberts towards the third act. It is not about love, but about acceptance. A very funny wedding worth attending. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Coffee anyone?...","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After Michael tells his best friend, Julianne that he is getting married in four days, she goes straight to Chicago to help him 'prepare'. But she has every intention to stop the wedding and steal the groom from Kimberly. Over the next three days, she tries everything to split them up. Finally, on the day of the wedding, Julianne tells Michael she loves him and kisses him, but unbeknown to them both, Kimberley is watching them. Now Michael has to decide whom he loves most.....Romantic comedy writers in the late nineties must have been running out of ideas when they came up with this, because the film doesn't work in any way, unless your some bitter friendless misery.Which is how I'd exactly describe Roberts character in this film. It's not Roberts fault, she's perfectly fine in her role, it's just that I kept asking myself whilst watching this 'how on earth am I suppose to sympathise with such a scheming, snobby, unhappy piece of work like her?'.And the answer was, I couldn't. Julianne is a totally unlikable character, similar friends,who are just as consumerist savvy as her and give her the wrong advice.My advice to her would have been, forget the wedding, get over yourself, get new friends, and come back down to earth and live in the real world for a few days, you are not that important really......But saying that,the rest of the characters are just as plastic and as false as each other and are a million miles away from 'real' people. It seems to me that the writers believe that everyone has to be rich, live in wonderful apartments, have jobs they love, and have dinner parties every night.Well, that's not the case for 98% of the population of the planet! a little bit of reality would be nice now and again.A horrible film, full of hateful, plastic characters, horrible scenarios, and embarrassing, cringeworthy dialogue.The most anti-romantic comedy. Would make an ideal double bill with Sex and The City 2, just to tell you that rich people can be unhappy too!!!!Thanks film makers.... "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies that i have see","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie so much I saw (my best friend's wedding) many times. It's The best comedies i have seen. Julia Roberts Was Amazing,Jealous and smart I have a little bit of her personality. This movie released before i born . Cameron Diaz proved that she can't sing very well, my ears has Bled when i hear her voice when she was sing. If i will be actress , i will play Julianne's role. Rupert Everet is Charismatic person, I can't forget his role , in the end he came to Julianne and appeared his love for her, She deserve him  Say a little prayer for you was amazing, history of his engagement with Julia was fantastic. Buy The CD For this Beautiful movie and enjoy it "},{"Title":"One Of Roberts Best Movies","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whilst light on laugh out loud moments, this movie has a certain charm that makes it irresistible to dislike.The brilliant Rupert Everett completely steals this movie, and that is no small feat given the fact that the three leads (Julia Roberts, Dermot Mulroney and Cameron Diaz) are all excellent.Plot In A Paragraph When a Julianne's (Julia Roberts) long-time friend Michael (Dermot Mulroney) says he's engaged to be married in three days to Kimmy (Cameron Diaz), she realises she loves him herself... and sets out to get him, with only days before the wedding, she finds herself as maid of honour with the bride determined to make her, her best friend. The movie does not take you down the road you think it will, veering off unexpectedly in places. You start off rooting for Julia Roberts to pull off her mission, but as she resorts to more and more underhand tactics, (the email was simply devious) you actually start to hope she fails and want Diaz to keep Mulroney and the wedding to go ahead.All the leads are superb, smiling that killer smile, Roberts has never been better, while Diaz is excellent in one of her first good roles and the handsome Mulroney makes an engaging romantic couple with both Roberts and Diaz. But even with that fantastic trio, Everett steals every scene he is in. The sing a long around the table is nothing short of fantastic. "},{"Title":"Good film; Julia Roberts is downright mean-spirited here","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a pretty good romantic comedy, though two things bothered me about it. Our heroine is Julia Roberts. Heroine??? She's actually being quite despicable in this role -- actively deceiving everyone in an attempt to steal a man who is her best friend from his fiancé, a rather sweet person, even though she had years to marry the guy! And, to a large extent, her actions are simply out of spite. I guess her turn for the better in the climax is supposed to restore her goodness to our eyes...but it didn't quite work for me. The other issue I had about the movie was that it seemed long, although it comes in at only 105 minutes...and I'm not quite sure what I would have edited out. Maybe it was just my mood that evening.Now despite my reservations, I still classify this as a pretty good film. Perhaps more because of the acting than the plot. Let's face it, Julia Roberts -- nice or not -- is pretty hard to beat. I was pleasantly surprised by Dermot Mulroney; I never paid him much attention, but he is REALLY good here! It almost seemed as he was living the part, rather than acting it. Cameron Diaz is surprisingly charming here as the fiancé; perhaps we have typecast her in other types of roles; I enjoyed her performance. And, Rupert Everett is along as the heroines best gay friend...I think he had a copyright on that kind of role. And the supporting cast does very nicely, although no one stands out (but there is an early role here as a bellboy for Paul Giamatti).Is this a great film? No. But it's good. Definitely worth a watch...at least according to its nearly $300 million box office. "},{"Title":"Julianne discovers that she is in love with her best friend on the day he tells her that he is engaged to marry someone else.","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although it is perhaps most well-known for its unconventional ending, My Best Friend's Wedding should be known, for its perfect blend of romance and comedy, as the definitive rom-com. Julianne Potter (Roberts) is a New York food critic, who, after receiving a mysterious voicemail from her former lover and long-time best friend, Michael (Dermot Mulroney), realizes her affection for him. Unfortunately for her, upon returning Michael's call, Julianne learns that the new-found man of her dreams has himself met someone and intends to marry her within four days.Unaware of Julianne's recently acquired feelings for him, Michael insists that she join the wedding party in Chicago and support him in his hour of need. After some goading from her other best friend, George (Rupert Everett), Julianne decides to go in the hope of breaking up the couple before they can say their I dos. The ensuing madness is both enchanting and hilarious, as Julianne finds herself being continually and innocuously bested by Michael's fiancé, Kimmy (Cameron Diaz), resulting in a series of hilariously irate phone calls to George, who always happens to field them at the worst possible times (i.e. his entire family gets an earful from the answering machine over dinner.)Diaz and Roberts are perfect comedic matches for one another as the innocently saccharine fiancé and the plotting best friend, and Mulroney is so suave and sexy as the man of our dreams (as Roberts puts it) that it's incredible more of the film's female population aren't fighting for his affection. Everett is equally well cast in the role of George, the gay best friend who plays it straight at one point for Julianne's sake. His scenes provide some of the film's funniest moments, particularly when George teasingly embarrasses Julianne in front of the rest of the wedding party by launching into his rendition of I'll Say a Little Prayer (For You).Aside from just its comedy, which is considerable, and its romance, which is unorthodox, My Best Friend's Wedding succeeds because its characters are fully-formed, dimensional beings who live in a very real world. Julianne, with all of her charm and charisma, is really just a desperate, wavering soul who fears what might happen if everyone finds happiness besides her. Kimmy, instead of being flat and static (as the other girl is wont to be in a romantic comedy), is a likable and endearing character that the audience can empathize with. Michael, however, is perhaps the most fascinating character of them all.Michael is both the perfect best friend- teasing and adoring, while never crossing the line- and the perfect boyfriend. He balances his affection for both of the women in his life and draws his own line regarding the ways in which he can love each of them. His decisions and character both break the traditional mold of a romantic comedy's dream guy by injecting a measure of reality and at the same time uphold it, by demonstrating that there is a way in which a strong, selfless, and moral man can exist without becoming a mere fantasy. "},{"Title":"cute little tale love and friendship","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was very cute and had a lot of funny little parts in it. It has Julie Roberts AND Cameron Diaz so who could go wrong? Good acting and storyline. The gentlemen in the movie are also charming and handsome. It has some heartwarming parts and other parts of suspense and comedy. A must see for the romantic at heart. I always imagine Julie Roberts as sweet and innocent and although adorable as always in this movie, she plays a somewhat jealous and sneaky best friend who tries to ruin the wedding because she hasn't ever had the courage to tell her best friend she is in love with him. Is she truly in love or is she just suffering doubts about her feelings for her long time friend? We may never know. I think she's a lucky lady either way her heart is turned because she has TWO handsome male best friends in this movie! That's another cute thing about this movie... to see two strong male roles that are not vulgar or hostile towards women but romantic and supportive. A refreshing change from some other stereotypical male roles we see a lot of these days. Cool movie.. I give it an 8/10! "}{"Title":"Wonderfully funny romantic comedy, but, it also has some very poignant moments, resulting in tears for most viewers","Date":"18 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julianne Potter (Julia Roberts) is a well-known restaurant critic, living in the Manhattan area. She still has not found Mr. Right but, she may have a back-up plan. Long ago, a close friend, Michael (Dermot Mulroney) and she agreed that if neither of them were married by age 28, they would walk down the aisle together. She confides all of this to work colleague, George (Rupert Evertt), who is properly skeptical. But, sometimes fate is unkind. As Julianne is telephoning Michael to ask him to honor their commitment, Michael decks her with a curveball. It seems he has recently become engaged to Chicago native, Kimberly (Cameron Diaz) and he would like Julianne's presence at the wedding in a few weeks. Thoroughly bewildered, Julianne realizes that SHE loves Michael, too, and that she will try her best to break up the happy twosome before the final vows. Flying to Chicago, she is greeted by both Michael and the lovely Kimberly, where, in short order, they ask her to be the maid of honor. Horrors! Smiling, Julianne can do nothing but accept. However, that still doesn't throw off her determination to win back Michael's affections. But, needing moral support, she asks George to come for a stay in Illinois, also, and pretend to be HER fiancé, even though he is gay. How will it all shake down? This is an absolutely winning romantic comedy, very funny and very touching. Sometimes, when one party finally realizes that friendship has turned into love, alas, it may be too late, for our beloved may now love another. The result can only be heartbreak and temporary misery, even though a friendship still exists. That is the rough plot line here, underneath a bevy of truly humorous scenes. Therefore, while viewers will laugh heartily at all the right moments, tears may fall at the end. The main cast members, Roberts, Mulroney, Diaz, and Everett, are all wonderful, as are the supporting actors and actresses. The scenes in and around Chicago are nice, the costumes are terrific and all of the other production values are quite high. As for the script and direction, they are skillfully humorous, energetic and poignant. If you are a devoted romcom fan, this one is not to be missed. It is, even after all this time, one of the best ones ever made. "},{"Title":"Julia's Madcap Comedy of Errors","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood movies have always dictated what constitutes model behavior. The Production Code of the 1930s kept husbands from sleeping in the same beds with their wives. Gangsters could live high on the hog, but they had to forfeit their lives in a blaze of gunfire at fade-out. And all movies had to feature heroines and villains. Movies still tell us how we should behave, especially if we want to be considered good. If you want to learn what constitutes appropriate social behavior in a Hollywood movie, consider the characters that receive rewards for good conduct and draw punishment for bad conduct. Lately, Hollywood's moral compass has gyrated. Nowhere has this moral compass gyrated more drastically than in the winsome Julia Roberts' comedy My Best Friend's Wedding, co-starring Dermot Mulroney and Cameron Diaz. Initially, My Best Friend's Wedding appears like just another chick flick, but Murial's Wedding director P.J. Hogan tweaks the formula for some innovative results. My Best Friends' Wedding easily qualifies as one of Julia's best roles. She plays the wicked wench who wants to steal her best friend Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney of Young Guns) away for the woman Kimberly Wallace (Cameron Diaz of The Mask) whom he has vowed to marry.The premise in Waiting to Exhale scenarist Ronald Bass' screenplay is that Michael and Julianne (Julia Roberts of Mystic Pizza) have agree to marry each other if they have not made a trip to the altar by age twenty-eight. As the deadline approaches, Michael phones up Julianne. He surprises her with the news that he is going to exchange vows with a 20-year old heiress whose father owns the Chicago White Sox baseball team. Julianne is literally floored by this revelation. She has dreamed always that Michael and she will wed. Anyway, Michael also wants to Julianne to fly to Chicago and help him get through the wedding. Afire with incendiary jealousy, Julianne wings her way off to the Windy City fully prepared to fight for the man she loves. Then she encounters Kimberly. Cameron Diaz resembles a peachy Michelle Pfeiffer. She conjures up one of the most giddy, vulnerable, fresh-faced performances in seasons. Kimberly drives like a maniac through traffic. She begs Julianne to fill in for her Maid of Honor who broke her hip while line dancing. Overwhelmed, Julianne agrees. What the filmmakers cannot salvage in this shallow script, they more than compensate for with their comedy of errors routines and plot twists. In My Best Friend's Wedding, Julia Roberts resembles poor Wily E. Coyote in the Warner Brothers' Road Runner cartoons because everything that she does to sabotage Michael and Kimberly's plans ironically strengthens their love. It's fun to see Julia play the scheming bad girl. Usually, movie stars prefer to play roles that make them look idealized. As the villainess, Julie has more to work with here than if she were the bland heroine. She is the character who goes against the grain. In Hollywood movies, you must go with the grain and embrace status quo values to emerge triumphant. I won't spill the beans about how Julianne tries to wreck the wedding because it is one of the movie's brightest scenes. Roberts delivers another attractive but sympathetic performance. Mulroney seems rather wooden as Michael, while Diaz bubbles with both energy and sincerity. Veteran character actor M. Emmet Walsh of Blood Simple sheds his slime ball movie image to impersonate a lovable old uncle type. British actor Rupert Everett provides the movie's major plot twist; he is cast as Julianne's boss George Downes. George is a gay character! Hollywood movies before The Bird Cage usually treated gay characters as lepers. Rupert Everett, however, stands out as the movie's number one scene stealer! Witty, urbane, sartorial, and charismatic, he is neither swishy nor limp-wristed. George is the kind of gay character that Hollywood doesn't classify as queer. The filmmakers emphasize this point when George is presented as the sole character with any common sense in this comedy of errors. Suddenly, gays are winning kudos for acting like heterosexuals! George's advice to Julianne never goes awry, but Julianne does nothing but make one mistake after another. Hogan never lets the frivolity frizzle. My Best Friend's Wedding doesn't waste time, and Hogan knows when to toss in some erotic humor, such as the icy statue of David gag. Upbeat musical interludes always punctuate the film at the right moments. Indeed, My Best Friend's Wedding may be the most easily sung along with movie of the year. The scene in the karaoke bar and the seafood restaurant ripple with genuinely infectious good spirit.Shallow but frothy, My Best Friend's Wedding emerges as certainly more than an average chick flick. Hollywood has experienced the kind of attitude change that makes Wedding look ahead of its time. Rarely do major Hollywood films embrace homosexuals as charitably as My Best Friend's Wedding. Ultimately, My Best Friend's Wedding seems to say that it is okay to be gay, but that nobody has the right to interfere with a marriage that is made in Heaven. Moreover, as financially successful as My Best Friend's Wedding has been at the box office, could this mean that gay characters will be lining up as the new sidekicks for straight characters? "},{"Title":"Something nobody's pointed out yet","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The thing that really got my attention in this movie was the use of music throughout ... specifically, music that was performed spontaneously by various characters.  The first instance, the kareoke showed that Kim Wallace (Diaz) had a lot more heart than Jules (Roberts) expected ... the second, the chorus of teenaged boys singing You Fill Up My Senses while huffing helium (I'm not making this up, folks), was kind of a strange underscore to the conversation that Jules was having at the time with Mike O'Neil (Mulroney); the third, begun by Rupert Evrett's character (and picked up by everyone in the room except Mike and Jules), was just devestating.I don't know if these instances came from the writer or the director, but as far as I'm concerned, these three moments really made the movie. "},{"Title":"Cute, clever romantic sitcom","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     My Best Friend's Wedding is basically your traditional romantic sitcom, but its smarter than most.  This is partly because its characters are likeable and realistic, and also because it doesn't hedge its bets on the heroine, played by Julia Roberts as a flawed woman but earnest in her desire to win over the man she recently discovered she loves.   The movie opens by introducing us to Robert's character, named Julianne, a successful food critic who is having a conversation with her editor, George, as she prepares her latest review.  She describes to him how she met her best friend, Michael, and how they had a brief fling and remained close afterward.  They made the kind of promise you make when you're young and drunk, that if they were both still single when they turned 28, they would marry each other.  She hasn't heard from him in months, but just got a phone message from him that he really needs to talk to her, right away.  She assumes, naturally, that he's going to propose.  He surprises her by informing her that he has proposed, all right, to someone else (she falls off the bed as she hears this).  He wants her to come to the wedding, and she agrees, reluctantly, and hysterically describes to George that she has four days to ruin this, she says, angrily describing how he was in love with me for nine years!  Later on, though, she realizes that she really does love the guy, and is desperate to make him realize that he loves her, too (if, in fact, he does).  Most movies like this would make the intended bride to be someone unpleasant, so that we would feel good about the way the heroine breaks things up.  But in this case she turns out to be nice; named Kimberly and played by Cameron Diaz, she has an attractive, sunny personality that we like immediately.  She gives Julianne a big hug when she meets her, asks her to be her maid-of-honor, and says I have four days to make you my new best friend.  She understands the way Michael feels about her, and confesses that she felt competitive at first but decided that You win.  He's got you on a pedestal and me in his arms.  This defuses any real way that Kimberly could be the villain, and indeed, even Julianne has a hard time scheming against her, admitting that I could adore her, if I didn't hate her so much.  But scheme she does, first making Kimberly sing at a karaoke bar, revealing how terrible her singing voice is, and later creating an argument for them.  Both fail to accomplish anything.  But she's only getting started, and soon has committed a deed so nasty (I won't say what) that we begin, surprisingly, to turn against her somewhat.  If she doesn't succeed, we'll feel that she is only getting what she deserves.   Julianne could save herself, and everyone else, a lot of grief if she simply took George's advice and told Michael how she feels but, of course, then there wouldn't be much of a movie.  And it's hard not to appreciate her fear to learn exactly how Michael feels about her.  On the other hand, rejection couldn't be nearly as bad as what Julianne does to try to destroy Michael and Kimberly's wedding, and their happiness.   The movie is interesting in the way it sets up its characters and the situation, and makes us really care about what will happen.  Because we like Julianne but can't condone her actions, and Kimberly comes off as such a nice person, we're not sure how the plot will work out.  That was a welcome surprise for me, since most movies like this are predictable right down to the ending.  I also liked the way the movie focuses on Julianne's point of view and didn't try to follow all the characters around on their own.  In one scene, when Julianne is pursing someone down a busy highway, we don't get a silly chase seen with external shots of the cars being driven by professionals.  Instead, the camera stays with Julianne and we get a better sense of her desperation.  The movie has good actors doing good work.  Diaz has the challenge of making us like Kimberly even though she represents an obstacle to Julianne's happiness.  Dermot Mulroney creates a interesting character out of Michael, making him intelligent and caring; at a crucial moment he is able to read a situation in two different ways, and chooses the one that is more understanding.  Rupert Everett is enjoyable as George; although he's gay, he comes to Julianne's aid by playing the part of her fiance, but understands how insane her plan is and states firmly to her that there is still a very small window of opportunity left for you to do the right thing.   But Roberts has the toughest role, because she has to play the heroine and the villain all rolled into one.  She is convincing in her ability to win us over even while we disagree with her tactics.  Funny, how we sometimes don't notice when we love someone until the opportunity to do something about it has passed us by.  Why are we wired like that?  Wouldn't it be easier to be aware of our feelings when it was still practical?  Ah, but then movies like this one wouldn't exist. "},{"Title":"The title's a little misleading...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A little spoiler, so skip if you don't want to knowJules & Mike are the best friends in this movie, which is a little misleading, because they were lovers previously, and hadn't seen each other for quite some time. So naturally she is a little, then a lot, jealous of his impending wedding.What guy would invite an ex-lover, albeit his best friend, to his wedding and have her be a part of the wedding party?I went into watching this movie expecting Jules & Mike to be just friends, with her only realizing her love for him. But with them being former lovers, this makes Jules' actions more along the lines of Fatal Attraction, and her actions more disturbing.  "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts saves the day","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a Julia Roberts fan, but I must say she's the one saving grace in this otherwise unimaginative and often tiresome comedy, which puts everyone to sing when it runs out of interesting ideas.  Dermot Mulroney must be the most boring leading man in recent memory and Rupert Everett is largely wasted, dropping in when things threaten to get too predictable. Go check out a Doris Day/Rock Hudson comedy instead!. "},{"Title":"A charming comedy....where we actually like Julia as the villainess","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie more every time I see it, I don't think I'll ever tire of watching it.  It's nice to see Julia Roberts out of her typical sugar-sweet roles, playing the semi-villainess, who stumbles through her undermining with such neurotic behavior and comedy that we like her.Rupert Evert is superb....despite the corniness, I love the musical at the restauarant, and LOVE the cell-phone scene at the end!  If only every woman could have a male friend like that.Cameron Diaz is endearing, just like her role in Something About Mary. The rest of the zany family is great. Dermot Mulroney plays the perfect, handsome, straight-man, oblivious to all the scheming going on around him.If you love zany comedies, with a touch of romance and wonderful young actors thrown in, this is worthing adding to your video collection.  "},{"Title":"Some great moments, thanks to Everett","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story itself is interesting enough, but if not for the characters' variety of personalities, the story wouldn't have moved on smoothly. In general, the cast is fine. Julia Roberts as Juls manages to elicit sympathy even when she's devious, Cameron Diaz is vulnerably adorable as Kimmy, it's impossible to not like her. In the leading men section, though, the contrast is ... ! Dermot Mulroney isn't the least appealing in his role as Michael ... how could he manage to have two girls crazy over him?? In all his scenes, his execution is just dull ... worse yet, there are scenes where he and Juls connect which could've been great, unfortunately he just doesn't have what it takes.Thankfully, the film redeems itself tremendously in the form of Rupert Everett as George. It does helps that he has some of the best scenes and lines, and his finesse and charisma makes it work so well - almost too well. He steals every scene he's in with ease, and created some great moments ... most notably the infectious dining scene where he leads the whole restaurant into a catchy song, and then near the end where he has his little talk with Juls and leads her out to the dance floor.Of course, films need good scripts, and this is quite a good one. It's probably not a classic, but it still carries off everything with self-assuredness. And the ending is beautiful, with a magical touch which shows the best of friendships in a dimension which, though undeniably platonic, somehow manages to feel romantic.  "},{"Title":"Inspired and well-executed romantic comedy","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Great rom-com.  I watched this with moderate expectations,not having liked Julia Roberts in the past (Pelican Brief, and that fake suicide w/mean husband) and was pleasantly surprised.  Bought the laser as an ex-rental, and he been more impressed revisiting it.I'm puzzled by the criticisms here, people alternately say it's too formulaic, or not enough.  I think the ending, and having the lead do bad things, were refreshing.  Cary Grant did as many underhanded things in His Girl Friday, and that movie is widely recognized as great.  That had even more dark side and was still hilarious.  Katharine Hepburn had plenty of unlikeable moments in Philadelphia Story, and that's a winner too.Casting and *pacing* were great, story just convoluted enough. So, I say lighten up and enjoy ! "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Worth Your Time!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the film with my fiance and it was superb!I loved the story, I love the actors & actresses and we went out of the movie house feeling romantic. It's funny too and you can't see so many films that touches your heart & your funny bone like what this film does!!! I recommend that this film be seen by the general viewers. You won't be disappointed!!! "}{"Title":"A dark piece with only glimmers of light shining through","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am going to have to say that this comedy was not one of the best choices for julia roberts to make. It soiled her image as she did her numerous misdeeds in this caper of a romantic comedy. I did not like this film for several reasons, the biggest being the let down of an ending, having endured the previous hour and a half of idiosyncratic situations, the ending just topped it all of as making the movie a huge disappointment. The only shining moments were with the wonderful acting of Rupert Everret as julia robert's gay friend posing as her fiancee. In my opinion he wa robbed of an oscar as he portrayed the gay man as strong and not weak as most hollywood films do. I applaud his acting and he was very exciting to watch. He illicited a strong emotional response from my point view, and that is hard thing to do. The only other ray of sunlight was the scene involving a hairdryer, one of the brides maids, and an ice sculpture of David. I can say that was a believable situation albeit in my eyes at least. All in all, not worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!!!!!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I think I've ever seen. The three main characters, though all somewhat exaggerated, are played perfectly by Dermot Mulrony, Julia Roberts, and Cameron Diaz. Rupert Everett is absolutely perfect as Julianne Potter's (Julia Roberts) gay friend. His lines were delivered perfectly and precisely timed to get the biggest laugh possible. You can tell that someone is a good actor or actress when they are able to create a character that you can ultimately despise and hate- something Julia Roberts achieves through the portrayal of Julianne Potter -- a woman obsessed with ruining the wedding of her best friend and the woman she believes stole him. Cameron Diaz is the perfect actress to play a sweet but spoiled billionaire's daughter and does so flawlessly. Last but not least, Dermot Mulrony plays the part of Julianne's best friend, Michael O'Neal, with great charm and believability, though sometimes his character seems flat. Overall, this movie plays on your emotions and tugs on your heartstrings. You'll laugh first, then cry (I did so for the better half of the movie!!!!!) and then smile again, and it will all be worth it.  "},{"Title":"Funny, but somewhat contrived...","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very funny at times, but somewhat contrived. On the other hand, I had to wonder if the screenwriter got the idea from the antics of a wacky friend who tried, in real life, to derail a romance.Rupert Everett stands out as George, the man who truly *is* Julia Roberts' Best Friend. He is so supportive, in fact, that he flies from New York to Chicago to lend her some moral support FOR A FEW HOURS!  Oh, to be that rich! Or to have that many frequent flier miles.Cameron Diaz is charming and it was refreshing to see her rich, powerful parents played as warm, down to earth people. Dermot Mulroney however, was miscast as the woman both Diaz and Roberts couldn't live without; it was hard to understand just why they were fighting over him.In a couple of scenes Roberts was once again busily at work displaying that trademark, infectious laugh (the scene in the Karoke bar where she deliberately excludes Diaz while reminiscing with Mulroney, and the final scene where she and George are dancing) but her braying laugh sounded shrill and forced. And did I miss the point of her being a famous food critic? It didn't seem to propel the plot unless it was, I guess, a ponderous attempt to show her as picky about men as she is about food.I was puzzled by the intrusion of one of the Vengeful Sluts into a scene or two where she wasn't really necessary, and then I realized (well, through IMDB cross referencing) that she is Rachel Griffiths, who starred in another PJ Hogan film, Muriel's Wedding. Guess he was getting her a bit of extra screen time.Ultimately, I had to admire a film (and a romantic comedy at that) brave enough not to have a lovable heroine and a standard cookie-cutter happy ending. "},{"Title":"Rupert carries the day.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you want a good romantic comedy or a good wedding film, try Four Weddings and a Funeral, or P.J. Hogan's other wedding film (Muriel's Wedding). Both of those are not so stilted, and have deeper character development -- one actually understands WHY people love or do not love one another in those films, which is NOT the case in My Best Friend's Wedding. Yet another case of Hollywood not giving a damn about characters, only about silly plot gimmicks and tired, trite heterosexual romances.Rupert Everett's acting and charm carried the film up from stupidity to moments of joy.  If you are eager to see him in another good role and don't want to wait for his upcoming roles, check out Another Country, in which he has a lot of love for Cary Elwes -- quite a good film of its sort.  Watch for the dappled deer line -- you'll see that he lifted that line right out of Another Country and put it (quite ironically) into My Best Friend's Wedding. A very nice touch. "},{"Title":"A Sparkling and Surprising Romantic Comedy","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a year of making art-house films with respected directors like Stephen Frears, Neil Jordan, and Woody Allen, Julia Roberts came back into the mainstream with the wonderfully smart My Best Friend's Wedding. This fluffy and witty creation is a testimony to the fact that even a genre like romantic comedy can be resurrected if it has some surprises up its sleeve. And director P.J. Hogan and screenwriter Ronald Bass are both full of surprises. The first is that MBFW refuses to cop out in the end, and supplies one of the most winning finales of a romance in eons. The second is the inclusion of plot developments that make the characters more than just two-dimensional stereotypes. And third is the original and charming use of music in the movie, particularly in a restaurant scene that has all the earmarks of a classic. The movie's look is as bright and cheerful as a wedding cake with Hogan making generous use of numerous upscale Chicago settings. And, finally, there is Rupert Everett, who is hilarious and completely winning as Roberts' gay buddy and manages to steal every scene he's in. When Everett's not on screen, the movie drags a bit, bogged down occasionally by plot contrivances and also by the fact that the leading man being fought for by two beautiful women is played by Dermot Mulroney with all the charisma of a floorboard. Luckily, the leading ladies fare better. Cameron Diaz, as Roberts' rival, is irresistible, but also gives her cheerful character a good deal of depth. As for Roberts herself, her character pulls some pretty mean tricks to get her man, but the actress is able to convey more comic flair, vulnerability, and screwball energy than she ever has. She makes Julianne likable, hateable, smart, silly, neurotic, and dazzling. If Pretty Woman established Roberts as a major comedic talent, then My Best Friend's Wedding shows how she's flourished. It's more than a skillful and funny turn; It's a work of art.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful and unpredictable movie","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm surprised to read the negative comments that this must be a bad movie if you root for Cameron Diaz to win the guy. I loved the unpredictable aspects of the movie.I loved that Julia Roberts allowed her character to be unlikable. This was a very brave role for her, after winning the man in so many of her past films. It was that aspect of her persona that kept me off balance throughout the film wondering if she would win Dermot Mulroney's heart, even though she obviously didn't deserve it.I also loved the idea of having her competitor be a likable person instead of a bitchy shrew, which is usually the case in this type of picture. Right when you thought you knew how the movie was going, the screenwriter throws in a curve to the plot and the movie goes in another direction.Not to mention the terrific offbeat opening credit sequence which helped set the tone for the film's unpredictability. This was a terrific film that had all the right elements for a fun flic -- great cast, great acting, and most of all -- great writing! "},{"Title":"Not funny or very romantic, but OK overall.","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a romantic comedy starring Julia Roberts as Julianne Potter, who falls in love with best friend Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney) - the day he decides to marry someone else (Kimberly Wallace). Therefore, Julianne decides to sabotage the wedding.Roberts did a fine job in her role, providing us with some light comedy in an otherwise crazy movie. Cameron Diaz plays bride-to-be Kimberly Wallace, who did an unconvincing and unappealing portrayal of the character. Mulroney did an equally unappealing job portraying the groom-to-be, making you hope that Julianne (Roberts) is successful in breaking up the wedding. And, it looks as if Rupert Everett was just thrown in the film for good measure, for he wasn't too into his role. But, he did make a good consoling friend for Roberts.Overall, it's not a boring or an awful movie, but it has some flaws in the acting and character development and is not one of the better romantic comedies I've seen.Grade C "},{"Title":"Saw this on TV recently for the first time in years.","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was one of the very first films to have sparked my insatiable love for film as a young teenager in the 90s, and my love for it has only grown over the years. I'm a sucker for a big overblown romance, and this is one of my favourites.Hogan's direction is exceptional, and elevates what easily could have been mediocre fare. The charm and sap are flawlessly integrated with the laughs (and there are plenty). Everett is incredibly charming, and is spot on with his line delivery - especially at the very end during the reception! Diaz is perfect as the infectiously adorable Kimmy. She hits all the right notes and gives possibly my favourite performance of hers here. As great as they both are in support, the film is anchored by Roberts' stellar lead work. She is impeccable - seamlessly maneuvering all the complexities of Jules' emotions.Incredibly well-executed romantic comedy and one of my favourite films of the decade. "},{"Title":"A Groom With A Rue","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From what I've read here on IMDb this one split the vote straight down the middle, seems you either love it or loathe it. I found a lot to admire and little to dislike. It comes out of a long tradition that dates back to the earliest talkies; attractive, affluent people, living in luxurious apartments/houses, wearing expensive clothes, dining in expensive restaurants and generally being charming and romantic. We've been there with Cary Grant and Irene Dunne, Grant and Katherine Hepburn, Grant and Ingrid Bergman, Fred and Ginger, Claudette Colbert, Audrey Hepburn, Franchot Tone, Bill Holden, Doris Day, Rock Hudson and now the new generation, epitomized here by Julia Roberts. The story is relatively unimportant, all we ask is twelve reels of escapism, a set piece or two, a song or two, lots of laughter balanced by the odd tear, a soufflé' that segues into a lemon mousse and sends us out into the night with a smile on our face and warmth in our heart. This one delivers as well as any and better than most. "},{"Title":"smart comedy","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" nice, sweet, intelligent, seductive comedy. sure, not great but perfect for be more than a new pink story. Rupert Everett is perfect key for tale, Julia Roberts is perfect choice for ex girl friend but the axis, the top and the heart of film is Cameron Diaz in one of her best roles. it is a good film because it is excellent puzzle. love, hate, humor, vulnerability, the bitch, the innocent young woman, the naive lover and slices of meetings are directed with precise and full of grace art. so, it is a comedy and little more. picture of choices and shadows of past, subtle nuances of dialogs and a wise cast are central pieces of a build in which all is basket of crumbs from a hided Shakespeare. "}{"Title":"Decently good romantic comedy","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of my mother's favorite films, My Best Friend's Wedding proved to be a fairly enjoyable romantic comedy. For one thing, it does not try to stick to the usual structure a film like this would have, in which the guy and girl live happily ever after together. Instead, this film strives for a more realistic ending, which, in the end, as the audience will realize, is really the most satisfying way to wrap up the story. There are a ton of very funny moments, such as Julia Roberts chasing after her true love in a truck while he chases after Cameron Diaz. The karaoke scene and Julia Roberts and Rupert Everett pretending to be engaged are also very funny and are some of the film's most memorable scenes. For me, it was Rupert Everett who really stole the show, giving a supporting performance Julia Robert's best friend that was, in my opinion, worthy of an Oscar. Cameron Diaz, on the other hand, can be a bit too annoying at times, and her role could have been improved upon in that way. Nevertheless, the film is still full of romance, laughs, and a great selection of music (one of the main reasons why my mom loved this film). It's worthwhile, since so few romantic comedies actually work as well as this one.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Classic Movie","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An almost perfect movie!!! First of all, the plot. Julianne (Julia Roberts) is a successful food critic who has had this best friend named Michael (Dermot Mulroney). They promised to marry each other if neither of them found their soul mates before they turned 28. Now that Michael has met Kimmy (Cameron Diaz), Julianne resorts to the funniest and tackiest schemes to win Michael back.I don't care if it's a chick flick, I love it. Julia Roberts is at her best here! Dermot Mulroney is good as the conflicted groom. Cameron Diaz actually does a great job as a woman who knows how to keep her enemies close when she asks Julianne to be her maid of honor. But Rupert Everett (Julianne's gay friend) steals the spotlight.The movie is too love love but other than that it's so amazing. "},{"Title":"Too overdrawn","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are so many better wedding films like Father of the Bride, etc. But this isn't that great.Like many others who have commented here, I had looked forward to seeing My Best Friend sWedding After hearing so much hoopla surrounding this film, I expected it to be wonderfully entertaining. I was extremely disappointed.The story was sweet and refreshing, the characters true and believable, but ultimately, I don't consider this movie to be entertaining. I'm not sure where all the great publicity started with this movie, but it apparently caught on with some and just snowballed.I consider myself to be a relatively open-minded male who can enjoy a good chick flick with her husband. Some of my faves are Much Ado About Nothing, Sense and Sensibility, Fried Green Tomatoes, Emma, Muriel's Wedding. This was nowhere near the caliber of those films. There were a few chuckles and a touching bit of sentiment, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Could Be Much Better","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie could be better. The situation is promising, but it never really goes anywhere. There are some good moments. Among these are the opening sequence, Cameron Diaz singing I Just Don't Know What to Do With Myself, and the I Say a Little Prayer luncheon scene. The movie might have done better as a fluffy 1950's musical. Unfortunately, there was little demand for that in the 1990's. Julia Roberts' character is thinly drawn. She hardly manages to be likable, and Julia Roberts' acting is nothing if not likable. Dermott Mulroney is equally bland. Nothing Julia Roberts does to stop the wedding is very interesting. However, Rupert Everett is very funny as the gay guy. "},{"Title":"Overbaked scenario is too animated and frivolous, yet the performances save it...","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A situation comedy with a serious center struggling to get out. Julia Roberts is at the top of her game here, playing a food critic who makes a snap decision to sabotage the upcoming nuptials between the male friend she harbors secret feelings for and his over-eager fiancée. Super-slick commercial package is lively and fast-paced to a fault, however the dark side of Roberts' character is never dealt with satisfactorily (and it's clear director P.J. Hogan hastens to make her likable despite her deceit). Those who normally shun ready-made Hollywood vehicles with practically no depth will still find Roberts giving a sparkling star-turn, and Rupert Everett is very suave as her gay best friend (every sitcom should have one). **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A tale about friendship","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It'd be easy to criticize this film - for a start, Julia Roberts spends most of it mercilessly trying to destroy poor innocent little Cameron Diaz's life. However, all ends well. This is not so much about the wedding, or the romance between Diaz and Mulroney - which we basically have to take as read. It's about friendship, how it's more important than anything else, and shouldn't be tampered with.Anyway, trying to analyse this would be to spoil what is a brilliantly played, very funny, and often touching movie. The four leads are magnificent, although Roberts takes the largest chunk of on-screen time. Whether she - or her character -deserves that is not important because she does do a great job. Personally I'd like to have seen more of Diaz, and maybe more of the excellent rapport between Roberts and Everett.What the heck. It's a warm, happy, beautifully directed story that will delight all but the stoniest-hearted. This movie doesn't take itself too seriously so neither will I. It's first-class entertainment, and it should be enjoyed for that. "},{"Title":"A romantic movie... that's not romantic.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sad. From the start, to the very last couple of words. This movie is based on a terrible mistake it *has* to be something it just cannot be. The idea of a woman who does anything to split a perfect couple might be suitable for a noir, or even a dark comedy, but not for a plain romantic movie which this tries to be in every way. It is not a comedy of misunderstandings, not a comedy of deceits. It is just a romantic movie, and thus fails completely. A sad film, with lots of empty spaces. None of the characters is developed; even the main one, Julia Robert's, is dealt superficially, but actually it is a superficial character she is simply insensible. I save Rupert Everett, always stylish. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Must-See","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'If you love something, set it free.' No film I have seen embodies this saying with such bittersweet accuracy as 'My Best Friend's Wedding'. Julia Roberts holds together this heart-wrenching romantic comedy as the oh-so human Julianne, a woman whose true love for her best friend is only realised when he finds true love for someone else.Despite its simplicity, this storyline rings true, and - I found - hits somewhere very painful in all of us. Julianne's struggle between her conflicting emotions is performed with seemingly effortless control by Roberts, displaying to perfection the central character's vulnerability, weaknesses and pain. This is, however, a comedy, and is lightened by frequently hilarious performances from Cameron Diaz and Rupert Everett in supporting roles. The film also boasts unforgettable lines, a killer soundtrack and, of course, that Julia Roberts smile.This is not the shallow Hollywood blockbuster it appears to be, but a raw, humorous, but very moving account of one character's vital learning curve - and a learning curve that we all experience at some point in our lives. Prepare to laugh, cry, and totally relate. "},{"Title":"Decent enough-Cameron makes the movie.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is about a 6.5. Like many movies, Wedding had both positives and negatives. I liked that the main story had a bit of originality unlike a lot of romantic comedies. It was a refreshing and interesting plot. But for some reason the movie didn't really capture me until the end. I think there were a lot of moments of boredom and I liked the realistic subject matter, where two friends promise to marry, better then the actual movie, or how it was played out, itself. In spite of that, I can see where this is a movie that will definitely grow on you and I recommend a second viewing as I plan to do, have a feeling I'll like it a lot better the second time around.I didn't think Julia and Dermot's characters had ANY chemistry till the end and it seemed Julia was in almost every scene(not to take anything away from her-she did a good job with this role.) The situation-two friends promising they'll marry at a certain age-is something I dug and certain aspects were very true to life but other situations seemed hopelessly contrived and very sitcomish. I'm a bit mixed on this movie, in many ways, it's your typical romantic comedy but in a few ways it's not. I think the characters really come into their own towards the end and I'd have liked to have been as into it before that, certain scenes as mentioned were a bit contrived and dull. But how I loved Cameron in this! SPOILERS I liked the way the movie veered off with the different type of ending and I think Julia Robert's' Jules became much more fleshed out and multi dimensional the more time went by, Ms. Roberts was very good in conveying the sadness and pain of not ending up with the man she loved. I've always liked Robert's movies, but since seeing this and 2004's Closer, I'm starting to think I've misjudged her and she has a lot more dramatic range then I initially gave her credit for. I think that this is an OK movie, but not great, had it's positives and negatives, was neither remarkable or dreadful and rates about a 6.5. "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett was the only good thing in this film","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rupert Everett was the only remotely interesting and convincing thing in this tedious romcom which I found neither very rom nor particularly com. I found the protagonists unlikeable from the start, but in contrast to many films I did not grow to like them as the action went on. Cameron Diaz was out of character and Julia Roberts' hair and lips annoyed the hell out of me - but then they always do. I found the male lead a complete pain and their friendship unreal. However, one good thing was that I couldn't guess the ending until it happened - so credit where it's due. The plot was really thin and spun out to the nth degree - a half-hour sitcom would be nearer the mark - or possibly two episodes as in Friends where Ross marries Emily. Don't bother unless you really like Julia Roberts. "}{"Title":"the ultimate i wish this will never happen to me film","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this film is really the best wedding film I have ever seen. the story is realistic and the sound track is just amazing. i just love this film. i just wish that i will not feel the pain that Jules felt when she saw Kimberly and mike happy. because that really hurts and i don't think i can handle that situation. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film. It was optimistic, funny and just a bit romantic. Cameron Diaz is HILLARIOUS in this and I love watching Julia Roberts chase people.She plays a spunky food critic with a lot of guy friends. Bottom line. I like it! "},{"Title":"One of the best Romantic Comedies of The 90's","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's no doubt about the talent of Julia Roberts in making good romantic comedies and this is the perfect example of it. It's the blueprint for Romantic Comedies A man, the ex-girlfriend, the new girlfriend, the gay friend, the regrets of the ex girlfriend, the wedding and the suicide with chocolate.No doubt it, rent it. 9 /10  "},{"Title":"Why Dermot Mulroney?","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, especially since one of my favourites, Rupert Everett was in it. Cameron Diaz was excellent and almost stole the show from Julia Roberts. My one problem with it was the casting of Dermot Mulroney as Michael. He was completely lifeless through the whole film, you just couldn't understand what either woman would like about him. The film would have been a little more believable had the character of Michael been played by a better actor. "},{"Title":"Death by minibar!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Romantic comedy Jules Potter (Julia Roberts) hasn't seen her best friend Michael (Dermont Mulroney)in months, but remembers that she made a blood promise with him that they'd marry by the time they were twenty-eight if they weren't already. Three weeks before her twenty-eighth birthday, she gets a mysterious message from him sounding desperate. So she calls him, expecting a proposal. Instead, he announces that he's met a beautiful girl, Kimmy Wallace (Cameron Diaz), and that they're getting married in five days. Jules wants to be happy...but realizes she may love him herself, and with the help of her other best friend, gay editor George Downes (Rupert Everett), sets off to break up the wedding!MY TAKE 8.5 out of 10 This is a cute and very charming movie. It's different--with the main character being the bad guy and (spoiler) her not getting the guy--but refreshing. The casting is world-class, and the acting is wonderful. Cameron Diaz is at her best as the beautiful and hyper Kimmy, Julia Roberts is dark but great as the main character/villain, and Rupert Everett is FANTASTIC and charming as George. But my one complaint is that they made George more desirable than Michael! Throughout the movie I had no idea why Jules was crazy for this seemingly wonderful guy when the only nearly romantic part between them is when he gets the wedding ring off of her finger with saliva. But after only five minutes of watching, you'll fall in love with Rupert Everett and be sorry he's gay. I like the ending, even though it's sort of sad, and even though Mulroney's character is boring and less than cute, this is still a great rental.     "},{"Title":"Good romantic comedy that will make you laugh, possibly cry, touch you, and make you feel warm inside","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, in my opinion, is a good romantic comedy that will make you laugh, possibly cry, touch you, and make you feel warm inside. If you ask me, Julia (Roberts), Dermot (Mulroney), and Cameron (Diaz) dazzle as a jealous food critic, a wandering sports writer, and a sunny-natured heiress! My favorite parts are when Julianne (Julia Roberts) chases after Michael (Dermot Mulroney) as he's chasing after Kimmy (Cameron Diaz) and when Kimmy and Julianne yell at each other in the ladies' room at Comiskey Park. The one thing I really hated about this movie was Cameron Diaz' singing. My friend, Brandon, covered his ears when she sang I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself. No offense, Cameron, but, you sang better in THE MASK. In conclusion, there is a moral to this story, and, that moral is, Never take your relationship with your boyfriend or girlfriend for granted. "},{"Title":" You came here pretending to be my friend!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Julia Roberts is wonderful in this lustry comedy. She is one of the best actresses ever. She is gorgeous in this movie. Dermot Mulroney is fantastic also. He is a babe here! Cameron Diaz lights up this film as well with her delightful smile and grace as the bride to be. Julia's competitive spirit against Cameron throughout the flick is astounding. She totally runs the show. All the same, the ending is a horrible disappointment. My love for Cameron is not that great! 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Here comes her worst enemy down the isle.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Julianne and Michael (Julia Roberts and Dermont Ruloney) were lovers from the start. They promised to marry each other when they turned twenty eight. But just before Julianne's 28th birthday she gets a call from Michael. He tells her that he is getting married in three days to Miss Kimmy Walace (Cameron Diaz). Now she has to get rid of her and win back her man! "},{"Title":"funny romantic comedy with disturbing sexist undertones","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has quite a lot going for it The script is nice enough, there's a lot of off-beat humour you wouldn't usually expect from a rom-com made in Hollywood and the acting is (with one exception) great although I don't like her that much, Julia Roberts is good as the plotting best friend, Rupert Everett is simply hilarious and Cameron Diaz sparkles, as usual. In fact, she's so sweet and unvain that she steals practically every scene she's in (especially of course the karaoke-scene, which alone is worth watching this movie). However, while Dermot Mulroney may be a talented actor (I've seen him in 'Living in Oblivion', and quite liked him there), he's totally miscast as the guy both Julia and Cameron are crazy for. As one user pointed out correctly, he has about the charms of a floorboard - even jerky Ben Stiller would have been more believable in that role! However, what really spoiled some of the fun in this one was it's sexist message Kimmy (Cameron) willingly gives up her career for her husband-to-be, as any good wife (in the fifties!) would have done - and Jules (Julia) never found love because she _didn't_ give up her career. And whenever Michael (Dermot) gets mad at her, Kimmy starts to cry and admits it's all her fault, although it isn't - come on people, don't you realise which millenium we're living in?! anyway, even though it has it's faults this is a pretty entertaining movie - watching it with your date might definitely be a good idea...  "},{"Title":"Like having the flu","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A 'surprise' ending (that was a bit of a disappointment) doesn't save this bland romantic comedy.  It reminded me of the last time I had a fever - I hear people speak, I see people doing things, but it just doesn't quite make sense.  Part of the problem is the acting.  Julia Roberts is a little too hysterical (not in the funny sense) while Dermot Mulroney underplays a bit too much.  Put the two of them in a scene together and it's just weird. Cameron Diaz is ok in the role of the rich but slightly dumb bride-to-be, but Rupert Everett really steals the show (although I would have thought the stereotypical gay friend role has been done to death).Harmless but unsatisfying - 4. "}{"Title":"Not that spectacular","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts out slow, gains some speed in the middle and ends slow again.The cast is good, though I really don't like Julia Roberts. But some of the scenes are really hilarious, like gorgious Cameron Diaz singing karaoke or Rupert Everetts sudden appearance at the wedding.But most time the movie just drags on and we really ask ourselves How can a woman be so vile like Julias character, and we hope that she won't succeed! "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was good, not great. I loved the fast pacing of the story, the beautiful shots of Chicago, and the performances of Julia Roberts and the rest of the cast. I didn't like the character of Michael and thought he was a spineless creep (he was opposed to his future wife finish her last year in college). The ending was refreshing. I give it a 6 or 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Distressing subtext","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was refreshing to see, at the very bottom of this list of comments, someone else who was distressed by the sexist subtext of My Best Friend's Wedding. Professional critics seemed not to notice, or not to care, that the best woman in this film is one who gives up absolutely everything to be with her man, including a college education.Even if Dermot Mulroney was the most handsome, fascinating man on the planet--which he's not, unfortunately; his casting is the other crucial mistake in this film--I wouldn't like the idea of Cameron Diaz quitting school to marry him. Especially when Julia Roberts' character is presented as a selfish fool who lost the perfect man because she didn't want to be tied down.A much better approach would have been for Mulroney to also realize that he needs to make some compromises, too, that although he has a right to expect a woman to give up *some* things for love, he shouldn't expect her to sacrifice everything. Couldn't Mulroney have settled in Chicago for two years or so until Diaz finished her degree? Then they could travel to their heart's content.But I suppose it doesn't matter, in this story, if Mulroney gets hit by a bus and leaves a young wife with no secondary education. She wouldn't have to take some horrendously low-paying job, she could just go back to Daddy's money. Hogan seems to prefer the idea that women should be cute and dependent, surprising after the strong heroine of his Muriel's Wedding.That aside, My Best Friend's Wedding is a fairly well-executed movie, with the exception of Mulroney's character. Poorly dressed and wandering through many scenes with a slack expression and his mouth hanging dully open, you wonder if he and the director were *trying* to make the character look stupid. There is no way on Earth that two beautiful women, one rich, the other highly successful, would fight tooth and nail for him. Cameron Diaz shines all the brighter for being next to Mulroney; in fact, her performance is the only one that doesn't pale next to Rupert Everett's.Everett is, of course, marvelous. His scenes have so much more panache and energy than the rest, and the dialogue is so much better, that I wonder if he didn't ad-lib a good many of his lines. Julia Roberts also does well, but she appears a bit low-class next to Everett. Especially when she rips loose with that braying, donkey-laugh of hers--I know it's one of her trademarks, but it's like fingernails on a blackboard to me. "},{"Title":"Was disappointing","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts in her worst. Dermot Mulroney, the after diet Stallone of 90´s. A lot of white and stupid jokes. Even the songs are of low density "},{"Title":"Great for a rainy day","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I put this movie under the title of mindless summer movies. They're fun, funny, silly - just for fun. I enjoy them. The only problem I had with this movie is that Cameron Dias' character gives up absolutely everything - college, job and even her family, to marry and live with her always-on-the-road hubby. I see divorce down the road for them when she starts to resent giving up her life for the life in one hotel room after another. Love does not conquer all. Julia Roberts' character is a little flaky, so it turned out best for her in the end. She'll always have her best friend because she didn't marry him. Put this movie in a collection for a rainy day, beach house, vacations, etc. In this collection I would have Any Doris Day/Rock Hudson movie, Shirley Temple movies, Better Off Dead, Midnight Run, This is Spinal Tap, Best in Show, Valley Girl, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Princess Bride, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Old School and most Steve Martin movies - to name but a few. "},{"Title":"The last wedding was better","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers follow ... and actually, what happens at the end isn't all THAT obvious, so you might want to heed my warning.The premise Julia Roberts is in love with Dermot Mulroney, who is about to marry Cameron Diaz, so she (Roberts) rushes off to disrupt the wedding by means fair or foul.  There are two complete mysteries here.  One is Julia Roberts's interest in Mulroney.  Her other friend (Rupert Everett) manages to be far more interesting, not that this is hard - so surely she realises she can do better?  Perhaps women see these things differently.  At any rate, I'm far more profoundly puzzled by the second mystery how could Dermot Mulroney possibly even THINK of marrying the milk-and-water Cameron Diaz when Julia Roberts is an option?  This is a film where A lusts after B and B lusts after C, when you'd expect it to be the other way around.Everyone makes the wrong choice at the end, including the director.  Clearly, we're meant to be wallow in Julia Roberts's tasteless amorality, such as it is, as she plans to split up a couple she doesn't want to see together - so we might as well wallow properly, by watching her succeed.  Why not?  There's no particular need for Roberts and her old flame to get married afterwards.  We'd be happy enough, probably more happy, to watch her fail to get what she wants, so long as she achieves what she sets out to achieve.  -I'm not saying this is the ONLY kind of ending I'd accept.  The main problem with the actual ending is its sheer arbitrariness.  The film reminds me of the mental processes of a poor chess player (like myself) who considers all the possibilities and then plumps for whichever one he happened to think of last.The really sad thing about this film is that its director is P.J. Hogan.  Hogan's previous film had been Muriel's Wedding, one of the best Australian pictures of the past decade (and in my opinion, of all time).  Then he went to Hollywood and made this ill-conceived thing, in a pedestrian, unremarkable fashion.  And he hasn't made anything since.  (Note I've just checked up on this.  He has another film coming out in 2002 - and anyway, it's not as if he's an old man, so perhaps no harm done.) "},{"Title":"Would have been a great music video","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rupert Everett is wonderful!  His character is charming and funny and believable.  The luncheon scene with him bringing the whole restaurant into the song is marvelous.  The rest of the film was silly and stilted and disappointing. "},{"Title":"Strikes a chord.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.Amidst a barrage of single desperate woman in the city movies, this one is not particularly unique, but has a few characteristics that set it apart and make it entertaining and more memorable than most so-called chick flicks.As is true of other films in this genre, the setting, personalities, wealth, and lifestyle of the characters feels irrelevant.  In spite of the fact that this element of fantasy is there to eventually create comedy, it leaves me feeling unable to identify with any of the characters in the movie, with one exception.  The characters all come across as immature and manage to limit their interpersonal relationships, for the most part, to other twenty-or-thirty-somethings of similar status.  Without the unique main character, this one would just be another in the heap of movies geared toward people who fantasize about this seemingly glamorous lifestyle.Is Jules nasty?  Sure.  However, the point of the movie is not to defend her -- if it were, she would have gotten the guy in the end.  Jules manages to pull through and become a dynamic character; the ending is all about her learning that you can't always win, and that you don't always want to.  I say this movie strikes a chord because it plays out a nightmare scenario that almost anyone can understand.  At the beginning of the movie, if you've ever feared losing the one you love to someone else, you jump right on the rollercoaster with Jules and feel the jealousy -- boy does Kimmy elicit that sore loser feeling!-- and by the end you're right there learning what Mom always told you -- you didn't *really* want the guy anyway.  It's this kernel of wisdom that sets this movie apart from others in its genre, and it proves to have a bit of substance in spite of itself.  If you're looking for a chick flick, this one is a gem. "},{"Title":"This is what happens when passion becomes friendship","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an ultimately disappointing film despite good performances from all of the leads, particularly Everett. The premise is simple, Jules and Mike have a passionate affair in their college days, this then becomes 'best friendship' in no small part due to Jules commitment phobia.  One day Jules gets a call from Mike to say that he is getting married in four days and inviting her to the wedding.  At this point Jules realises just how much she really loves Mike and determines to split-up Mike and Kim. The film follows her efforts to do this. However, at every turn she is thwarted by the happy couple who get back together. The film did not end as I had anticipated which was good. However, it is difficult to sympathise with Roberts charactor, which is necessary to the story, as she lurches from hard nosed bitch to contrite best friend. There are several funny moments and Everett steals the scenes that he appears in. "},{"Title":"Excellence in Acting","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not only is this a great movie in the first place, Julia Robert's acting far exceeds expectations for your average actress. She puts so much emotion and enthusiasm into this production, you feel that she is actually living what is happening in the movie. Rupert Everett is also excellent in portraying his character. This movie also had humor, romance, comedy and suspense, everything you could want from a movie. You must see this movie. "}{"Title":"A sweet film despite its dark side","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I was very impressed with Julia Roberts, she of the tousled red mane and wide smile, in a fairly demanding part that has her character doing bad things, yet keeping the sympathy of the audience. I just saw it again, and thought that the lovely Cameron Diaz was fantastic and nearly stole the show. This is at, its crux, a very sweet film, despite its dark side.  "},{"Title":"Romantic Comedies don't get much better than this","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts has defined herself in Hollywood. Not only is she one of the most wealthy, beautiful, sexy, coolest women in the world, she's also one of the most talented, whose talent gets treated a little unfair. She has declared herself the queen of romantic comedies, and when you hear Romantic Comedies....eeekk. Though she may have similar roles from time-to-time, she never fails to make her character real and inventive, as she does here in My Best Friend's Wedding. Roberts works her magic here again as Julianne. She's wonderful and brings Jules to life. She's given a lot to work with here thanks to the elaborate script, by Roman Bass. It was robbed of a Best Original Screenplay nomination at the Oscars. It carefully reveals the plot and the characters and works around the romantic comedy clichés. There is one scene that takes place in an elevator between Cameron Diaz (who is bright and fun as Kimmy). That scene is a huge metaphor that could easily go unnoticed. It's perfect. There are some moments where you genuinely laugh out loud. To laugh like that to a movie today is rare. Rupert Everett is has a supporting role here, but steals every scene he has. He's so colorful and charming, not to mention hilarious. Dermot Mulroney is the leading man here, though, and has great chemistry with Roberts.In the end, it's a humorous well-written film. You see four actors have a blast in comedy- dripping roles. Also, the ending, which I won't spoil, is original and unexpected which also paints a great portrait of what really matters; 8.5 "},{"Title":"A classic late 90's romantic comedy.","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe I haven't commented on this one. It's some sort of romantic comedy classic by today. I can't say it's a clever and genre defining movie but the truth is that it's very entertaining, has a funny and dynamic plot, and best of all, it tries to get out of the mold of generic romantic comedies.The plot is well known and works perfect as a bizarre love triangle. I mean bizarre because one of the three is aided by her gay best male friend.The humor is enjoyable and easy to follow and it's mixed perfectly by the bits of drama towards the ending with the wedding.Julia Roberts is sexy, and funny. She knows her work. Cameron Diaz is perfect as the dumb but charming blonde. Rupert Everett is very funny and you get to love his character. The musical numbers are quite entertaining.Oh and it also has a moral message at the ending. "},{"Title":"There's no accounting - why would this gorgeous woman want that immature twerp?","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" spoilers throughout........I unfortunately assumed that Julia Roberts would get her man so I was continually frustrated throughout this movie and at first very disappointed with it at the end and switched off feeling thorough cheated. But then I started to think about how lucky Julianne was to have avoided matrimony with the putative hero who is a total twerp and who in any case turned me off from the start. Pity I had expected that sugary ending or I'd have watched from the point of view of please let her get him right out of her system a.s.a.p and find someone worthy of her.The first time we meet Julianne's Best friend I thought, he doesn't measure up. He's wet and pretty silly. What does she see in him? Big disappointment if this is to be Julianne's husband eventually. How could she bear it? But I would give the casting director the benefit of the doubt and assume the guy measures up somehow. Well, he doesn't! Julianne goes through interminable heartbreaking frustration as she tries by fair means and foul to prise this jerk she so likes away from his chosen woman who's the deceptively sweet daughter of a billionaire and clearly both will harass the fiancé into doing what they want - such as force him to give up his chosen job of aimless sports commentator. It's very clear the guy isn't good enough for either girl but the parents will put up with their daughter's choice and the whole family will mould him to what they want for the daughter, whether he likes it or not. No billionaire's going to be happy with this aimless jerk as a son-in-law. The rich girl talks of abandoning her college career to bum around the country with her new husband but you can see this won't satisfy her for long. Julianne's underhand idea that the fiancée's dad should offer the bum fiancé a job he can't refuse makes the jerk fly off the handle and his fiancée placates him, but later admits she intends her future husband to work in the family business and you can see she'll ensure he does. His precious freedom as a bum is in danger but he can't see he's going to end up as a cypher. With Julianne he could have had his freedom - but he can't see that and for Julianne's future happiness thank goodness he doesn't! This jerk is going to get a tough awakening. His wife isn't the sweet malleable admiring young thing he thinks she is. Have I any pity for him? No! Julianne tries everything including introducing her gay friend George (Rupert Everett) as her boyfriend, which makes the jerk jealous - he is greedy, he wants both women under his control, is flattered to have Julianne chasing after him- and eventually Julianne tells the jerk how she loves him. Even that doesn't work, he now goes running off after his fiancée. So Julianne admits defeat, confesses her deceptions and wishes them well. I really didn't expect that and ended the movie feeling very disappointed, annoyed and feeling throughly cheated. But then I thought about it. The jerk isn't in any way worthy of Julianne. What on earth did she see in him? Thank goodness he didn't want her or she'd have been stuck in a bad marriage with this jerk who'd have soon let her down one way or another. He instilled no respect or confidence whatsoever in me. Whether the actor intended this or not, I don't know, but he hd to play a despicable character in the story. Diaz is good enough as the young girl though I couldn't possibly rate her acting in this as Oscar material. The actors completely outshining all the rest are of course Roberts and Everett, they are charismatic and splendid. The likely plot of Julianne finally seeing glamorous George is her man is averted since George is gay. The story ends with George assuring Julianne she's going to be OK and they are going to have a darn' good time together.I give this move 7 stars because of Roberts and Everett and because after reflection I agreed this is a good movie and it reached the right conclusion. I still would have liked a sugary ending (sentimental, me) or at least some sign of the right guy for Julianne turning up. It's worth seeing if you are happy with being irritated and frustrated time and again at the selfish jerk's behaviour and poor Julianne's despair, but I couldn't sit through it again because of Julianne wasting her time on the jerk and the jerk's stupidity infuriates me even though he needs to be stupid to ensure Julianne is freed of her longing for him! "},{"Title":"Rupert","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A charmer of a film. Loved it. Couldn't help but notice Rupert Everett, thinking he was a better-looking (gay) Hugh Grant. I thought he was headed for a great career as a comic foil, or the gay best friend (a la Sex and the City). What happened? He ended up sort of dropping out of sight. He'd pop up once in a while in an Oscar Wilde drawing-room comedy, but mostly he was in embarrassing turkeys like Inspector Gadget.Then there was the dreaded The Next Best Thing, in which he co-starred with Madonna. Oh dear. What's that thud? Could that be a promising career keeling over dead? It's too bad, but I can't help but feel Everett lacks something that Grant has been able to sustain for 15 years. I don't know what to call it a sense of irony? Not taking himself too seriously? Everett just seems like a narcissist, in love with his own looks. And about his looks he hasn't aged very well. He has that slightly pinched, Windsor look, as if he's third cousin to Charles. The aquiline nose is getting beaky, and the eyes seem to be migrating closer together. I know, I hate to be cruel, but his recent memoir reveals that he truly is a narcissist, more interested in partying than in landing decent acting jobs. "},{"Title":"My one chance at happiness","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three days before her best friend's wedding, Julianne decides that she actually loves her best friend and set out to make him want to marry her. It s do or die. This is my one chance at happiness. I have to be ruthless! It is quite unbelievable the extent of deception and the depths that Julianne would stoop to try and get her best friend to marry her. When the gig is up she confesses, I'm pond scum. Well, lower actually. I'm like the fungus that feeds on pond scum. Michael countered, Lower. The pus that infects the mucus that cruds up the fungus that feeds on the pond scum. On the other hand, thank you for loving me that much, that way. It's pretty flattering. Julia Roberts plays the part just like it's for real&#133; and Cameron Diaz is so sweet and naïve&#133; up to a point! It's a fun romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"my best friends wedding","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" movie My best friend's wedding I started to watch this movie ... and I have got to say it was very good ... I could almost say one of my favorite movies ... I love the plot... until the end I believe that has got to be the worst ending I have ever seen ... I believe that they should remake the movie just because of the ending it was inappropriate and Julie should of gotten the guy no questions asked! I do not recommend this movie to people who want to see a movie with a good ending! the ending was despicable. I hated it and I think it should be burned ... but the beginning was good so I will give credit there! but DO NOT WATCH IT i would like to put a complete ban on this horrible movie! very disappointed Taylor "},{"Title":"Wait...I thought you were supposed to *like* the protagonist of a movie...","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ah, My Best Friend's Wedding.  Add it to the compose heap of films which rely on Julia Robert's supposed charm to carry them.  I'm sorry, but I cannot figure out for the life of me what is so enthralling about Julia Roberts (see my review of The Runaway Bride for further elaboration). While I don't agree that this is just another romantic comedy, I greatly dislike the aspects which make it unique.  First and foremost, we are presented with a heroine who possesses no likable traits.  Jules, the female protagonist (Julia Roberts), is one of the most despicable creatures in film today.  Years previous, Jules and her male best friend made a pact that, if neither were married by a certain age, they'd marry each other.  When Jules finds out that her friend is about to be married, she shows up bent on sabotaging his impending nuptials.  Chaos, intended to be funny, ensues. Why does she do this?  Does she have some noble purpose?  Does she discover deep down that she is in love, true love, with this man?  No.  Does she discover that he's truly in love with her?  No.  Does she find out that his fiancee is all wrong for him, or is some sort of terrible human being?  No.  Perhaps she's old and dying, and has no other soulmate left in the world?  Of course not.She does it because, when she hears of his engagement, she feels a spark of panic, perhaps even jealousy.  Perhaps even fear at having no guy to fall back on.  Good reasons to wreck what is supposed to be the happiest day of her best friend's life?  Not by any reasonable definition.  So, who do you love in this film?  Nobody.  There are people that you kinda like, maybe even get a kick out of.  There were occasional laughs.  Mostly, this movie made me angry.  If I wanted to be angry, I wouldn't have chosen to watch a comedy.  I agree with a previous comment read a book instead.  "},{"Title":"Julianne fell in love with her best friend the day he decided to marry someone else!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I did not like this movie when I got around to seeing it, because it had a main character I did not care much for, or a story that I liked. Then when I learned that this movie had a bad time at test screenings, I just wish that I had had a chance to say what I did not like about it, at such an event. Thankfully I get a chance in this domain to show how much I hated MBFW, and be rest assured, I will be very harsh towards it.Julianne is a 28-year-old woman, who years earlier made a pact with her closest male friend, Michael, that if neither were married in ten years time they would marry each other. But when the phone call finally comes, Julianne must face the fact that her 'man' is about to marry someone else. He asks her to be his best man and she agrees, planning to go to the ceremony and then break up the couple before they exchange their vows. Now, with Michael unavailable, Julianne realises that she loves him and must stop his wedding!My problem with this movie has to be in its story, with the movie's screenplay written by Ronald Bass. While I might have the wrong idea towards it, I feel that it was totally 'nasty', and does not make for a truly great 'Romantic Comedy'. I am a fan of that genre, when the movie is romantic and has some comedy, but in MBFW, I did not find it that romantic or that funny for that matter. The other problem in this story is the creation of the character of Julianne Potter. I did not like her characters scheming ways through the entire movie, then by the end the audience are expected to actually like her, but that did not rub off on me.That being said, Julianne (Hollywood star Julia Roberts) did play her part pretty well. But not liking her character, made it very hard for me to truly appreciate her performance. Her character is summed up perfectly, at the conclusion of the movie, when she says to Michael, '`I'm pond scum. Well, lower actually. I'm like the fungus that feeds on pond scum. Michael then says `Lower. The pus that infects the mucus that cruds up the fungus that feeds on the pond scum.'However there are some likable characters in this movie. Michael (Dermot Mulroney) was a half decent guy, who got the short end of the stick from his supposed best friend. He is engaged to be married to Kimmy Wallace (played by the sparkly Cameron Diaz). Her character's bubbly nature did impress me, and gave me an avenue to actually like. Her introduction is quite dangerous, especially when she behind the wheel of a car. Kimmy and Julianne's confrontation at the end of the film, while it might have made most audience members contented, it was a bit too late for my liking.There are other stars such as George Downes (Rupert Everitt). I am truly amazed by how open he is about his homosexuality, with his performance in this movie, showing how obvious it is that he is 'gay'. What George says to Julianne about her plans to break up Michael's impending marriage is a valid point. When George asks Jules the question 'do you really love him (Michael) or is this just about winning, seriously?' That aspect of the movie is probably the most annoying thing about it, treating marriage with very little respect. Everitt was also part of another bad movie, the 1999 Disney farce 'Inspector Gadget', that movie was just terrible. There was one Australian girl in this movies cast, that of Samantha Newhouse (Rachel Griffiths), whose performance was noteworthy.The director of MBFW was P.J. Hogan (director of the great Australian movie, 'Muriel's Wedding'), who did an ok job I guess. I did like the way that Hogan presented us with many musical moments in the movie, such as the karaoke bar and the scene at the diner, when almost the entire cast burst into verse of 'say a little prayer', as that was directed in a fine way. The musical side of the movie was highlight for me, taken on by James Newton Howard, who also helped bring out those good musical moments. The other song that I liked from the movie's soundtrack is titled 'I'll be okay' performed by Amanda Marshall.The back cover of this movie's DVD, states the following quote from Peter Travers, Rolling Stone magazine `A sparkler of a romantic comedy! Julia Roberts glitters like gold dust.' Now Peter is entitled to his opinion, but I totally disagree. I am a big fan of Julia Roberts, as her career has gone from strength to strength. But I have seen much better romantic comedies than this one, such as 'The Other Sister', 'The truth about Cats and Dogs' and one of Julia Roberts's best movies - 'Pretty Woman'. But with this movie, I found myself left with a somewhat bitter taste in my mouth. Can I leave you with this final thought about MBFW? I am one person who was not (and still is not) a big fan of weddings and/or of getting married. Then once I had watched this movie, not liking it all, it only confirmed in my mind about the issue even more. Overall I give this movie the thumbs down!CMRS gives 'My Best Friend's Wedding' 1.5 (Bad-Ok Film) "},{"Title":"Made me a Julia Roberts fan","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a well crafted romantic comedy with superb performances by Julia Roberts, Cameron Diaz and Rupert Everett. Uncharacteristically for this type of film the characters reveal a certain amount of depth. I do not ordinarily care for Julia Roberts. I saw her in Erin Brockovich, which came out after this film and for which she received an Oscar. I was unimpressed. In this film, however, she turns in a finely nuanced performance as a scheming manipulator out to break up a marriage and yet manages to make us feel sympathetic toward her. I will not reveal the end of the film but will just say that it was appropriate and well done. "}{"Title":"Great movie song","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think everybody knows the big song of this movie by Dionne Warwick. *SPOILER* The part where everyone around the table just starts singing the song was absolutely hilarious. The movie on the surface was ok and a little funny, but the whole plot was too contrived for my tastes. Jules fall for her best friend the day he tells her he's marrying someone else and now she's trying to claim what's hers in the 4 days left of his engagement. The whole thing goes haywire from there and she does a bit of falling and making an a** of herself. Cameron Diaz was positively irritating as Kimmy, but that was the point. She eventually got to prove herself as being more than the reserved ivy-leaguer with a big crush. There were some parts where she seemed loud and obnoxious and it didn't fit her initial character, but I guess it was a preview of her more solid side. Mulroney seemed at a complete loss of everything going on and Rpupert Everett seemed like the gay side-kick up for a goof. His part wasn't strong at all and his humor is a little...not humorous. It made you feel as if you should laugh without knowing why. A silly movie to kickback and watch, but once every blue moon when nothing else is on and there's no money to rent something. "},{"Title":"Feeble","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bar the 'spontaneous' songs which are liberally scattered throughout, this film stinks like a Turkish wrestler's jockstrap. The plot has more holes than a Swiss cheese (sorry about the similies), each of the three leads (Roberts, Diaz and Mul-whatshisface) are utterly miscast and the contrived (IS THIS A SPOILER?) happy ending is so predictable.Rupert Everett thankfully underplays the every-girl-should-have-one gay confidante, but even his character is two-dimensional. It says a lot about the films makers that they had to write in extra scenes for him afterwards.Sorry to put such a downer on this, (I knew I should have got my missus to watch The Gathering Storm on BBC2 instead) - it's probably not as bad as some of the garbage released each week. I just feel that it's the kind of movie I would force myself to watch on a long haul flight to alleviate the boredom and forget the moment I leave the aeroplane. "},{"Title":"Different and Average","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A different kind of romantic comedy where in the lead character is the villian and we see things from her point of view.The story is quite simple all in all.The production overall is average despite the great cast and acting.The comedy was poor and there are some over reaching,annoying musical scenes.More complicatd plot twists and good slapstick could have made this movie a good one like one of those classic Katherine Hepburn screwballs.Only for romantic movie fanatics who do not mind an alternative formula and big fans of the lead actors....    "},{"Title":"overall a very funny light hearted film recommended","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My best friends wedding is over all a really good movie if your a fan of Julia Roberts and like comedy and romance in a film also a bit of a chick flick. I thought the ending was a bit dissapointing and dosent follow the usual the girl gets her guy happy ending but its very funny and the sad moments are always enlitened by humour. I recommend people too see this movie but you might be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Hell a lot of fun!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Best Julia Roberts, Rupert Everett, Cameron Diaz, the soundtrack, the karaoke sequence and the wedding hearsal The Worst Dermot Mulroney. Rating 6/10Jules and Michael had a pact, if by the age of twenty eight both weren't married, they would marry each other. A combination that pleased particularly to Jules, to whom whose compromises were only interesting if counted in days. Michael decides to honour the pact of proposing, to another&#133;&#133; overseeing Michael leaving her life, Jules weaves a diabolic plan. A plan where the word selfish reigns totalitarily, and where everything is worth despite revealing the most simple true love.If you want to laugh, go ahead and rent it, if you want to cry facing a love story, same tip,  want to see Julia Roberts, Rupert Everett and Cameron Diaz, &#145;you know the drill'! once more, Dermot Mulroney was a wrong casting choice&#133;..  "},{"Title":"Good romantic comedy that will make you laugh, possibly cry, touch you and make you feel warm inside","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, in my opinion, is a good romantic comedy that will make you laugh, possibly cry, touch you, and make you feel warm inside. If you ask me, Julia (Roberts), Dermot (Mulroney), and Cameron (Diaz) dazzle! My favorite parts are when Julianne (Julia Roberts) chases after Michael (Dermot Mulroney) as he's chasing after Kimmy (Cameron Diaz) and when Kimmy and Julianne yell at each other in the ladies' room at Comiskey Park. One thing I hate about this movie is Cameron Diaz' singing. My friend, Brandon, covered his ears when she sang I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself. No offense, Cameron, but you sang better in THE MASK. In conclusion, there is a moral to this story, and, that moral is, Never take your relationship with your boyfriend or girlfriend for granted.  "},{"Title":"Good romantic comedy that will touch you and make you feel warm inside","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, in my opinion, is a good romantic comedy that will touch you and make you feel warm inside. If you ask me, Julia (Roberts), Dermot (Mulroney), and Cameron (Diaz) dazzle! My favorite parts are when Julianne (Julia Roberts) chases after Michael (Dermot Mulroney) as he's chasing after Kimmy (Cameron Diaz) and when Kimmy and Julianne yell at each other in the ladies' room at Comiskey Park. One thing I hate about this movie is Cameron Diaz' singing. My friend covered his ears when she sang I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself. No offense, Cameron, but you sang better in THE MASK. In conclusion, there is a moral to this story, and that is, Never take your relationship with your boyfriend or girlfriend for granted. "},{"Title":"I love that pic!","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I simply love romantic movies like this! Julia & Cameron play superb role models in this classic! Ever felt love like this before? Bring an extra box of Kleenex with you! "},{"Title":"This is a musical that's too ashamed to admit it.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this otherwise wonderful film is that it's  ashamed to admit it's a musical. There are at least five or six numbers that are hidden in such away as to pretend that they don't exist. This doesn't count the opening credits sequence, which is out there for all to see  "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts at her BEST","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a charmingly hilarious comedy-romance comparable to Shakespeare in love (though not quite as good in terms of dialogue and cleverness.) It was much better than Something about Mary. The plot is unique in that the writers had us sympathizing with one woman in the beginning, but by the end, we are definitely not on her side. Julia Roberts was great, and so was Rupert Everret and Cameron Diaz. Mulrooney (sp?) was a bit too dry. There were many memorable scenes, both hilarious and touching. It could have been a 9 if the ending was a bit different. The final scene should have been of the wedding car pulling out, and perhaps with a Julia Roberts narration.But nonetheless, see this movie for comedy, romance and little drama.8/10 "}{"Title":"Muy excelente","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend and I have memorized the just about memorized the entire film. This is Julia Roberts at her best.  Dermot Mulroney (sic) was extremely good-looking.  Rupert is an up and coming talent.  It is good to have homosexuals in romantic comedies.  Cameron Diaz, well, I'm not a fan, but she played Kim best.  Cute movie for weddings! "},{"Title":"sweet","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only thing that would have made this movie perfect, would be if Julianne and Michael actually got together. He just didn't really seem to have the same chemistry with Kimmy as he did with his best friend Julianne. I thought it was a sweet movie and Rupert Everett was kewl as George, I thought the most romantic part of the movie was when they were on the ferry and when the moment passed them by and they danced. That was sweet, I think Cameron Diaz looked too old to play a 20 yr old chick, but she did a good job. Julia Roberts and Dermot Mulroney were cute !! "},{"Title":"First of all...I loved it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all...I loved it! Talk about a film that anyone will enjoy, this is it. For those close-minded movie-goers who think that this film is just for women-only or that you should go see it just to please your significant other, then you are completely wrong.You will like, if not love this film. The humor is funny, the acting superb, and story believable. Julia Roberts and Dermot Mulroney are excellent as best friends and Rupert Everett's character will make you laugh out loud.Anyone who has ever had a member of the opposite sex for a best friend will find that this movie hits a nerve...or should I say funny bone. It really is like banging your elbow on a chair arm and everyone around you begins to laugh, and then you begin to laugh, but deep down inside you are saying gosh darn it (or something similar) that really hurt.If you think the film is going to be predictable...then think again...there are enough twists and turns to keep you guessing on the outcome. One major criticism though, Julia Roberts utters one line that is totally out of place in this film...when you hear it, you'll know it...it doesn't fit, you don't expect it, and you have to wonder if she really said it. With the exception of this one totally-inappropriate remark by Julia Roberts, the film would be excellent for all ages.Bottom line...call up your ex, old or current, opposite-sex best friend, get together, go see this movie, and throughout it you can jab each other in the side and say yep, that's something you would do....and afterwards, you will walk away and know why you could never have married each other...for it could have ruined a wonderful friendship. "},{"Title":"Very satisfying romantic comedy","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very satisfying romantic comedy. Roberts gives a brave comedic performance, extracting laughter and tears with her not-so-nice character. Well-written and surprising, with a conclusion that pleases both the audience and the characters.  "},{"Title":"BUY THIS VIDEO TAPE","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked everything about this movie except the ending.  I guess you can't have everything.I singing scene was GREAT!  I would buy the tape just for that.However, there was much more to this movie and I got a lot of laughs out of it.9/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly, it works.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film in a hotel room while travelling on business.  I was bored but didn't feel like firing up my laptop to do more work.  So, I indulged.I must admit to being pleasantly surprised.  The story is not particularly complex but the execution is certainly fresh.  The addition of some photogenic and congenial characters like Robers, Everet and Diaz completes the winning formula.  I do agree with many of the other posts I read, Julia Roberts character is malicious, yet still oddly likeable. I am surprised that Rupert Everett did not receive an Academy nomination for Best Supporting Actor.  His screen time is somewhat limited but his performance is nonetheless priceless and a delight to watch.To summarize  My Best Friend's Wedding a fine film that will entertain and amuse, what the insipid Nora Ephron productions (You've Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle) only aspire to be. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Movie!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My Best Friend's Wedding is so good!  Julia Roberts and the entire cast are great, and this movie is so funny in parts! I recommend it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Gag me with a spoon!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awful! Am I from another planet or what? Everyone said this movie was hilarious and heartwarming, but I sensed none of that. Why? Could someone please explain one funny part of this predictable, inane romantic comedy?Well, the plot doesn't need to be explained. If a movie reveals its plot in the trailer, there's a chance it might also reveal the outcome. It did. However, I saw this movie for myself, and nothing really came to mind, except 1.) Never see a movie with Julia Roberts again, and 2.) Never see a Hollywood romance movie again. I made the same mistake by seeing the The English Patient the year before; I learned my lesson the hard way by sitting through 90 minutes more of annoying characters, uninteresting plot/unsympathetic outcome. Folks, if you want romance, find a person to be with, and not films of these caricature cretins of Hollywood! "},{"Title":"Hard to be disappointed when one expects nothing to begin with.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the wonderful things about film, is its unpredictability. Many times one looks toward a film like My Best Friend's Wedding and says Formula (or worse) comedy, vapid performance by one of film's least talented and unattractive female leads, wedged within too many audience &#145;treats'--weak, shallow set pieces using topical humor-so topical that they stale by the time of video release...........ONLY to be pleasantly surprised by a smart, strong film with good writing and strong performances.This is not one of those times.Bad idea, cheap casting and sanguine script combine with today's studio formulation  to make an indistinguishable mess.Not surprisingly, this movie will make the career of Cameron Diaz, revive the career of Julia Roberts, establish the career of Rupert Everett, and kill the career of Dermot Mulroney.At 105 mins probably 100 or so too long&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;..Next&#133;&#133;&#133;.. "},{"Title":"Funny and winning the whole way","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I get to why I really liked this, I'd like to clear something up. I've read a lot on how Rupert Everett's character is single.  He is NOT. There are two voices on the answering machine that Julia Roberts screams into in that scene (the other one is named Werner), and he says when he first comes to visit that he has to get back that evening because we have this thing with Werner's family back in the Hamptons.  Just wanted to clear that up.  Anyway...I thought this movie was really funny, and while it does get serious in the second half, for the most part, that serious part doesn't bog the movie down.  And when it's funny, particularly with the I Say a Little Prayer sequence, it's hysterically funny.  I also liked how, if you didn't know any better, Julianne's actions would seem, up to a point, as if a best friend would react.  Roberts was very good, Cameron Diaz as well, being the most un-self-conscious performers I've seen in a while, and Mulroney is good. But Everett steals the movie, and I'm upset he didn't get an Oscar nomination. "}{"Title":"","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard that Julia Roberts was playing a character that had to fight for the affections of a man, I had my doubts that it would work, after all this is Pretty Woman we're talking about.  Well not only does Julia pull it off, but you will actually feel pity for her. In a nutshell,  Julianne,  played by Julia Roberts, is best friends with Michael, played by Dermot Mulroney. When Michael decides to get married to Kimmy, played by Cameron Diaz, Julianne realizes she loves him and decides to try and break them up.Julia Roberts has never been better. Her combination of brashness and  vulnerability makes the character and the comedy work. Cameron Diaz's character, Kimmy, reminding me of my girlfriend Tami, comes across as unconditionally in love with Michael.  Unlike Julianne, Kimmy is not afraid to show her affections in public. Diaz plays the role with earnestness and purity. Julianne has her work cut out in trying to break this gal's hold on Michael. I was very pleased that director P. J. Hogan didn't go for the typical  Hollywood ending. Since I don't want to spoil the ending for anyone, I'll just say it gave a good romantic comedy the emotional depth to make it a  very good movie. RATING *** "},{"Title":"My Best Friend's Wedding","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the film that basically relaunched pretty woman, Golden Globe nominated Julia Roberts back on the star board, and quite rightfully so. Basically she plays Julianne Potter, who once had a relationship with now best friend Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney). After a phone call she probably thought it could have gone further, but then she hears that he is getting married. Now she is trying everything she can to put a stop to the wedding of Micheal and fiancée Kimberly Wallace (Cameron Diaz), and maybe get her man back. Along the way she gets help from another good friend, the great gay character played by BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Rupert Everett, George Downes. In the end though, she realises that Michael loves this woman and she allows them to marry, but she still gets a nice dance with George. Originally in the story she was meant to get her man back, but I and the test audience are glad they changed it. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for James Newton Howard, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Julia Roberts was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Rupert Everett was number 39 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"comment on my best friends wedding, with Julia Roberts!","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen Julia Roberts play in. she is a wonderful actress and a beautiful human being. keep up the excellent work and your beautiful bone structure on your face. I love watching her movies I own just about everyone she acted in. But my VERY favorite is My Best Friends Wedding. I love that movie and Julia Roberts. This movie will touch the lives of all married and non-married couples and seeking couples. It sure did touch my soul deep down in side. Thanks for starring in this wonderful movie Julia Roberts. love always your biggest fan;Skyra Haze "},{"Title":"Skip the first hour and watch the last 35 minutes","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie resurrected Julia Roberts career, however, it is Rupert Everett that brings it some life with irony, warmth, sarcasm, and intelligence. At it's best, the film is bittersweet, not a comedy or a romantic comedy. It actually doesn't kick in until the last 30 minutes. I guessed it touched a lot of people with it's memories of lost love, doing dumb things in the name of love, and missed opportunities. Cameron Diaz who has turned into an excellent actress does a decent job with a one dimensional role. Mr. Mulroney could have been one of any 50 handsome actors with a sneer. The supporting cast is wasted. The big give away that this movie could be overwrought are the opening credits with the never ending Dusty Springfield song. "},{"Title":"delightful and sweet","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friend's Wedding is and isn't your typical romantic comedy fare. It has far more feeling, and has a plot that may seem familiar to many of us out there, who don't realize what we have until it is too late.Julianne is a bitter, cocky, sarcastic food critic. Uncomfortable with love, her only real relationship is with her gay best friend George, who provides the outlandish, flamboyant yin to her yang. When her college ex-boyfriend who she refused to commit to calls her up, she is sure it is to cash in on their backup-marriage plan. However he has other news. He has met someone, who happens to be the polar opposite of Julianne. Kimmy is well...perfect. As his wedding date draws nearer, she begins to fall in love with him. Instead of cutting her losses, Julianne decides not to let the man of her dreams get away without a fight, and her plans to win back his heart become increasingly more outrageous.Julia Roberts really isn't that great of an actress, but this role highlights exactly what she does best whine and act like a spoiled, but lovesick puppy. I can't think of any other actress who could capture the desperation and jealousy as well as Roberts. Dermot Mulroney is charming as her love interest, and Rupert Everett takes George to a whole new level. He provides many a warm, funny moment. Cameron Diaz, who is also really not that great is wonderful here, exuding lovable charm and optimism.The best part of this film though is it's unconventionality. It's not a standard boy and girl meet, fall in love despite obstacles story. And even though Julianne is the main role, you can't help but root for Kimmy when you see the dirty, underhanded deeds Julianne performs. It's laugh out loud funny, but at the same time incredibly touching and warm. It's an adorable film, and one I highly recommend to anyone who has ever loved the one they can't have. "},{"Title":"Omg totally watch this!!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the best films ever made, like i totally fell in love with it. Julia Roberts was fantastic (her dress at the start- how amazing i want it!!)The two bridesmaids were hilarious but the best person in it by far was George. Oh how i loved him, he was so funny. If it wasn't for him the best scene in the whole film wouldn't have existed(the i say a little prayer for you bit). he was amazing. and that guy was hot! you know the one...Michael!! Cameron Diaz was totally lovable but I totally wanted to kill her for being too perfect. The ending was appropriate what with Michael getting married to whats-her-name. It was sad thought because Julianne and Michael were meant to be. The dance at the end made it OK though. 5 stars for this film well done!! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Reviewer Roundup 1. Steve Rhodes review follows 2. Walter Frith read the review 3. Andrew Hicks read the review Review by Steve Rhodes 2½ stars out of 4I've got 4 days to break up a wedding, steal a bridegroom, and I have no idea how to do it, laments the gorgeous protagonist, Julianne Potter.Nine years ago she and her best friend Michael O'Neal made a pact that, if they were not married by the age of 28, they would marry each other. It is three weeks until bachelor Michael's 28th birthday when he calls Julianne to invite her to his wedding. In just four days, he and Kimmy Wallace will be hitched. This starts Julianne planning diabolical schemes to come between Michael and Kimmy.I have not met anyone who has seen Australian director P. J. Hogan's MURIEL'S WEDDING who did not fall in love with the quirky story of the dateless girl from Porpoise Spit. For his second theatrical film, Hogan has been bankrolled by Hollywood and given a big name, Julia Roberts, for the leading part of Julianne. The resulting film, MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, becomes more of a star vehicle for Roberts than the second film of a talented director. Although there are many laughs, this frustrating movie has more missed opportunities than realized ones.Ronald Bass's script has promise, but not with Julia Roberts as the lead. Her ever sweet persona covers over what should be a character with some hard edges. Her actions are never credible, and the script seems to be trying to gloss over any evil intentions on her part. Even the chemistry between herself and her putative boyfriend has little oomph.Julianne's would-be husband Michael is played by Dermot Mulroney (KANSAS CITY). Mulroney's failing is that he is an extremely bland actor. In MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, he plays a bland character, and the result is, well, bland, which does not make for particularly exciting viewing.The actress with the most promise is Cameron Diaz as the annoyingly perfect Kimmy, the innocent, blond and blue-eyed, twenty-year-old daughter of a billionaire. Diaz is sadly miscast. As her brilliant and biting work in THE LAST SUPPER shows, she would have made a perfect Julianne. Granted, this would have decreased box office revenue, but it would have also decreased cost so the profit might be the same. On the other hand, Roberts could not have played Kimmy, but I suspect Hollywood could have found a truly brainless blonde for the role.In the story, Kimmy embraces Julianne immediately. As soon as Kimmy sees her, she calls her sister and tells her, I have 4 days to make you my new best friend.To counteract Michael's white bread personality, his two would-be wives talk about his alleged faults. Besides smoking cigars in bed, he sips soup through his teeth, but he sure can kiss, claims Kimmy. "},{"Title":"Want a headache?","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The silliest movie of the year. Who is going to want to marry a woman like `Julianne Jules' who is so constantly irritating, temperamental, malicious, abusive, jealous, selfish, liar, betraying and repulsive? Who is going to even LIKE her, stay aside marriage? The character is so repulsive and disgusting, she didn't even try to seem civilized in the least! And who could be better fit than Julia Roberts to play this role with her same same all the same attitude (acting?) ever since&#133;&#133;same permed hair, same messy look, all she did in this movie is the same monkey-business when not showing the same wide grin. Cameron Diaz (`Kimberly Kimmy') didn't even look attractive as she did in `The Mask' (1994). In this movie she is cast just as an empty-headed dollie. The two male lead roles in this movie are better, cooler, at least more normal and decent, though Dermot Mulroney in Michael's role is not even close to seem so madly desired and loved by women, it is practically difficult to believe when one looks at him! The Director and screenplay-writer vainly tried to give it a musical nature for some unknown reason.  "},{"Title":"A cute romantic comedy.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jules and Michael are the best of friends. When Michael announces that he's going to marry Kimmy, Jules gets really jealous and tries to break off the wedding.   Julia Roberts gives quite a good performance here as Jules, but Cameron Diaz who plays Kimmy does not and is really annoying here. Not as bad as Rupert Everett though, who is really bad. Everett is a terrible actor, who keeps playing the same role over and over again. Someone stop him!My Best Friend's Wedding is a good romantic comedy. The musical interlude at the beginning is nice too. I give My Best Friend's Wedding a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Julia and Cameron rules!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've already seen My Best Friends Wedding four times, and each time I see it again, I like it more. Julia Roberts as Julianne Potter is just perfect. I'm a great fan of her and, although she is the villain, she is the best character of the movie. The wonderful Cameron Diaz is also great as Kimberly Wallace, an irritating blonde, whose fiancé Julianne (Julia) tries to steal. Ruppert Everett, nominated to the Golden Globe, is perfect as the gay Julianne's editor and fake fiancé. Oh! And the songs are really exciting! The opening musical scene is very nice (as so as the song Wishing and Hoping). And the restaurant scene, where everyone sings I say a little pray for you... If you haven't watched it yet, go and see. You will really like! "}{"Title":"Charming comedy of belated realization of love","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts is Julianne Potter, the food critic for a magazine edited by her closest friend (in New York City) George Downes (Rupert Everett). Her very closest friend, since college, is Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney), a sports columnist. Julianne and Michael once were even closer as lovers, but when he proposed she said no. But it was a relationship that survived that rejection. Now she gets word that Michael needs her in Chicago. He is marrying Kimberly/Kimmie Wallace (Cameron Diaz), the daughter of a billionaire (Walter Wallace - played by Philip Bosco), and Michael needs Julianne to be there. The news of the on-coming nuptials upsets Julianne. She suddenly realizes she really does love Michael beyond the point of their close friendship. And so she goes to Chicago determined to derail the wedding, and replace Kimmie as Michael's bride.If one thinks of Julia Roberts from her performance in PRETTY WOMAN, where her poise and self-confidence did not hide a vulnerability from the criticism of others, then her performance in MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING is an eye opener. Basically, Julia's Julianne is a would-be villain. It's Cameron Diaz's Kimmie that we should be cheering on. From the real start of the film (the opening credits) we see how truly joyful she is about the entire on-coming marriage - singing about it with a chorus of her bridesmaids. But Julianne is not a mean villain - she's desperate as she realizes the blunder she committed ten years earlier in rejecting the proposal. Now she has to move heaven and earth to undo the error.We watch her try a variety of approaches at driving a wedge between the engaged couple, including trying to make Kimmie look ridiculous at a Karaoke bar (a small mistake here the Kimmie who sang in the credits sounded quite good, while in reality Kimmie has no singing voice as shown in her trying to sing in the bar). In her desperation Julianne even drags in George from New York to be her fiance in order to try to make Mike jealous enough to dump Kimmie. This is embarrassing to George (he is a proud homosexual), and he manages to partly humiliate Julianne by playing the gooiest and most ardent of fiancés in front of the main bridal party.Still she perseveres when she realizes there is an achilles' heel to the loving couple Mike wants to remain in his life on the road as a sports columnist, and Kimmie (who had plans for a professional career in Chicago) really wanted him to take a big job in her father's organization to remain in Chicago. Roberts uses this to make a serious dent in the relationship of the loving couple.But is this enough? As the ever wise George brings it to Julianne's attention at the end if she is chasing Kimmie and Mike, who exactly is chasing her?MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING works quite well, particularly in the performances of the four leads, and many of the supporting cast (Bosco, M. Emmet Walsh, Rachel Griffiths and Carrie Preston - the latter two as Kimmie's two bridesmaids cousins). Of the leads, Mulroney is the quietest (effective but not given many moments to shine - look at his dance scene with Roberts on a Chicago tour boat, and his referring to another character as the mucus out of the parasites on pond scum). Roberts and Diaz play well off each other, both recognizing the rivalry that is between them but not letting it get ugly. But best is Everett, playing a man who knows how to be convincing even when he hates being convincing. It is not (as some critics claimed) his picture - he did though dominate those scenes that he cropped up in. It is only fitting that he is there at the conclusion, to help pick up the pieces for Roberts. Radient with charisma, he rolls off his tongue at that point. And he is! "},{"Title":"Promising comedy turns into predictable mess...","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 5/26/2007, 5 out of 10(Dir-P.J. Hogan) Promising comedy turns into predictable mess ½ way thru the movie. Julia Roberts as Julian stars as a woman trying to break up the wedding of her former best friend, played by Dermot Mulroney, because she's decided that she's the best person for him. She gets help, encouragement and advice from her gay friend, played excellently by Rupert Everett, providing some of the best moments in the movie. Julia is initially irresistible as always and the first half of the movie is very funny, but all of the sudden the movie turns introspective and loses it's comedic flair and Julian starts making stupid decisions where we can't really tell what's going on with her. We start questioning whether she really wants Mulroney's character or not. She plays the movie out like she does want him, but writing a fake email from his boss that would ruin his relationship and put her in jail is the last straw. It's then sent accidentally and all hell breaks loose, as far as the movie's concerned. From this point on(actually a little earlier), we don't know who to route for and we no longer care. The problem is that the movie goes on and on after this point even to the point of trying to make us all happy by providing a funny moment at the end with her gay friend. This is one of those movies where you feel manipulated as the audience has to go thru all the ridiculous scenarios to get to the ending that you've lost interest in anyway. Too bad, because the movie definitely had potential but even Julia's charm couldn't rescue this one from mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Often likable, but just too silly","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film had a lot going for it, in particular a stand-out performance from Rupert Everett, but in the end, it was just too stupid for me to possibly recommend.  I must admit that it was generally enjoyable, but a few moments absolutely ruined this picture for me.  More specifically, I had a hard time liking this movie after the pitiful scene where everyone breaks out into song.  That is the best example of how this film occasionally stepped over the line and went from cute to dumb.  This film definitely has some good moments, but overall, it's a little too annoying for my tastes. "},{"Title":"To get married, you must figure all of the following ...","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie from the beginning to the end.The story is simple two ex's-turned-good-friends vowed to get married to each other if everything else fails by the time they are a certain age. On Jules' birthday (Julia Roberts), what's-his-name calls (Dermot Mulroney), and leaves a message that he needs to urgently talk to her. Her heart suddenly starts beating although she almost forgot all about that deal for years, but she literally drops down when all he has to ask her was to be the maid of honor on his sudden wedding! She charges up, and with the support of her best friend George (Rupert Everett, wonderfully gay and handsome), she sets a goal to win the guy, Michael, from the bride in the last four days prior to wedding. But, the young, rich and beautiful bride Kimmy (Cameron Diaz) isn't naive - oh no! She fights back -- flatters Jules, plays up her phobias and sets her up for failure as much as Jules sets up her. She uses all the charm and all the info she got from Michael, since Michael still talked about Jules in awe and respect. They are both jealous at each other. *** MILD SPOILER *** They are both good fighters, with some evil turns. They have totally different stands. While Kimmy is ready to drop out from college and follow Michael around, Jules, an independent, strong-spirited, and responsible woman with career ridicules both Michael's job and Kimmy's apparent lack of ambition. Kimmy returns strike with promise of unconditional love, which totally overwhelms Michael. However, we know that Kimmy is smarter than that she'll promise everything in a rather shallow way, knowing that sooner or later, her rich father will take care of both her as well as Michael's career, but that Michael's pride would most likely drive him away if she offered all that bluntly and immediately. *** TOTAL SPOILER *** Jules figures that out, and succumbs to dirty scheming in order to show Michael how it's all going to end up one day AFTER he's already married to Kimmy for some time. And that's where the movie makes it clear that she is the bad guy. When her scheming goes much worse then she ever wanted it to go (a fake e-mail is mistakenly really sent instead of kept in 'drafts' for Michael to see), she almost succeeds... But then, on the wedding day, it turns out that she can't win either... And all those things come clear to her... (With George's help, naturally)... That it was all about winning, that she just felt like she'll lose everything if she doesn't win this guy, that she was a chicken and never told him her true feelings until the last moment because she really didn't feel what she tripped she did... She can do better than this guy... She needs to really believe in a guy... And it's okay if she lets Kimmy win... But she can give them her blessing, and ... dance! *** END OF SPOILER *** The movie is totally hilarious at times, especially the karaoke scene, and when George comes to the rescue. Also pay attention to BOTH the leading ladies scheming --- the movie is made so that only Jules' are 1000% apparent... But don't oversee the rest! A must-see romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Dishonest 'romantic' comedy without wit or romance","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ever since this film came out, I have been curious to see it because of the premise the idea of a woman in love with a man intending to wreck his upcoming wedding and win him for herself was promising. What could be made of it? Furthermore, the premise is neutral either a very good film could be made or a very bad one. Well, this isn't at all very good, and if it isn't very bad, it came damn well close. Only big bucks Hollywood production values and a couple of big name actors prevented that. This film was on TV in the UK tonight and I made a point of watching it. Almost from the start I had decided what kind of film I thought it would be, but before sitting down to write these comments, I decided to skim through a few of the other reviews. And they only confirmed my worst fears. One said if you like this sort of film, watch it. Another recommended it highly to all Julia Roberts' fans. Fair enough. But if you enjoy good, intelligent, witty, truly romantic, funny and poignant films, I recommend you give this one a miss. I don't mean to get heavy, but, oddly, anyone IN the US who is puzzled as to why many, many people OUSIDE the US should regard Yankee narcissism as increasingly insufferable should spend a little time simply analysing My Best Friend's Wedding. It seems to encapsulate what is, to us non-US people, so offensive about that, in many other ways, admirable country. Apart from the Dead Hand Of Hollywood, which feels obliged to drown in sugar and schmaltz anything and everything that moves (the potentially very witty scene of Rupert Everett singing Say A Little Prayer is killed stone dead by the film insisting in that very American way of going way over the top &#151; quite probably the American producer's insistence overcoming the Australian director's good taste), we have a very, very curious morality. For example, this film is shot through with the idea that 'to confess it to be forgiven'. I've confessed, so I am absolved, and to hell with any consequences. This film has the good grace to make Julia Roberts character finally admit that she behaved like a semi-psychopath, but even then that confession is wrapped in pseudo-romantic humour which implies 'Aw, shucks, well that's OK then.' Then there is that peculiarly American - and thoroughly dishonest - trait of insisting 'we're all very basic and unpretentious at heart (the comparison by Roberts between creme brulee - Kim - and jello - her) while all the time exhibiting that odd and revealing American dog-in-the-manger worship and admiration for Big Money, Wealth, Prosperity. One problem of this film is that it begins to take one particular tack, then abandons it. Kim's choice of Julianne as her maid of honour in order to keep a beady eye on a love rival was quite a promising theme. But by pay day All Is Forgiven. Oh, yeah? Aslk a few women, while they are in their cups, if it really works that way. Then there was the Greek chorus of (two sisters? Cousins?), bitchy Southern belles both. They were very promising material, but for no particular reason are redeemed in the penultimate scene when they sing The Way You Look Tonight. The final judgment of this film is looks good - Hollywood has a buck or ten to hire extras etc. - and tastes good if you like jello and sugar, but it is far too dishonest to be in any way worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wonderful comedy.This movie encoporates comedy, drama and at the same time tells a story about a girl who has her dreams, her desires and all with a smile. The phrases not only give you a laugh but lets you see that looks can be deceiving and that a person should not be judged on their appearances or even what type of music they like. Julia Roberts's character works with a tear of laughter and also a tear of emotional exhurts.The cast, works extremely well to portray every character and they do this very well. My best friend's wedding is a rare American comedy and Drama that can be both at the same time. "},{"Title":"Romantic","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so romantic. I love the music in the opening credits, at the wedding scene, at the rehearsal dinner, on the boat, and I love the comedy like Julia Roberts falling backwards when Michael opens the door, Julia falling off the bed, and the whole movie was amazing. Julia Roberts is a great actress and I like how she works well with Cameron Diaz. Cameron was hilarious in this, driving down the highway, the elevator scene, the karaoke scene, Cameron was funny. Julia was great. The music is cool. And the whole movie is romantic, amazing, comedic, dramatic, perfect, terrific, and fantastic! Another thing I love is that it's set in Chicago. I love Chicago and glad they picked that for the location. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet and Touching","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Spoilers!!!! Spoilers!!!! Spoilers!!!I feel that it's hard to judge romantic comedies. They will never win an Oscar, right? Would you consider Shakespeare in Love a romantic comedy? It won an Oscar over Saving Private Ryan and that was quite a shocker. As much as I loved Shakespeare, I felt Saving was much more deserving. However, I think that belief just goes back to my initial comment. I'm not a professional film critic so it's hard to judge romantic comedies and know how to differentiate a mediocre romantic comedy from an amazing one.That being said, this movie might have been mediocre except for the endearing performances of the leads. Julia Roberts seems to have that rare charisma and likability factor that makes you care about her especially when she's in a sweet movie such as this one. However, I feel she's upstaged by Cameron Diaz in this movie. I'm not a big Cameron fan but she is so good in this movie. She makes her Kimmie character sweet and endearing that even though you might be insanely jealous of her character's youthfulness and money, you really want her as your best friend. I love the scene in the karaoke bar. That scene is totally due to Cameron's expertise as an actress. In fact, I've noticed her facial expressions and comedic timing. I hear that is the hardest kind of acting. Forget Charlie's Angels. Watch this movie and see Cameron's talent. One of these days, she will be nominated for an Oscar and may even win one. Rupert Everett is a joy to watch. His character is funny and honest and helps ground Julianne in reality. Dermot Mulroney is a little harder to judge. One piece of information I love about his character is that he loves his job which pays very little and gets no respect. I'm a teacher so I can relate to that except hopefully, teachers do get respect.This movie came out when I was 21 years old. I'll be 30 this year and after watching it recently, there's more that I can relate to. I understand Julianne's urgency to get married and her feelings of being threatened by Kimmie who is still a college student. I feel sorry for Julianne's character because she was never ready for Michael's love and when she was, it was too late. Love and relationships are definitely about timing and even though Julianne doesn't end up with Michael, it makes her a better person and even more ready for her true love.As for Kimmie, I can relate to her because I am a total romantic. When I love someone, I love him wholeheartedly and I see so much passion in Kimmie and Michael is really lucky to have someone like who;s willing to give up so much of her life for him. She may regret it later on in her life but that we will never know. How much traveling does she intend to do with Michael? I imagine it will get old and she will want to settle down. Throughout the movie, she brings up the fact that she totally doesn't want to give up her life. At this time, she is passionately in love and that's all that matters. If we were to see their lives on down the line, it may not be as rosy. Julianne may have lost Michael, but her character is better off than Kimmie, in my opinion.In any case, this movie is about a small piece of time in these people's lives. Most of us can relate to this in one way or another and it's an enjoyable movie to watch. It definitely deserves a higher rating in the IMDb. That goes to show that perhaps we don't know how to grade romantic movies.On a more serious note, a more dramatic movie dealing with lost opportunities and also romantic in its own way is Before Sunset. Check it out if you haven't seen it. It's definitely more thoughtful and dramatic than this one. However, it's definitely more meaningful for those about 27-32 years old.My Best Friend's Wedding is entertaining and undervalued. "},{"Title":"Julia is special","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Never been a big Julia Roberts fan until I saw the movie Erin Brockovich. That is a great movie. My best friend's wedding is better. I found myself rooting for Jules because I guess it's really easy to love Julia Roberts. If you lined up 100 good looking women and Julia was one of them you would stop looking the second you saw her. She just has that certain something that makes you want to take her home and take care of her. Enough about Julia. The movie is just plain fun. When Jules forces Kim to sing and she butchers the song but the crowd for some reason is kind to her really is cute. The acting is great and the omission of the F word but once makes this movie easy to tolerate. The actor who played Michael should play Elvis in some sort of way as his lip likes to sneak up just like the King's did. George was great and honest to Jules. I had to watch this movie a few times before I really enjoyed it. The wedding is not the biggie here. Getting to it is. Don't know how anyone would not like this movie. Must see! "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts was a star","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie! It's so funny! I love the fact how Julia Roberts kept her character so bitchy. That's what made this movie extra special. Cameron Diaz was really cute on how she acted towards Dermont Muroney. Julia made this movie happen. This and Pretty Woman were one of her best work. I love this movie so much and I always will. I remember i was five when this movie came out and my mom really wanted to see it when I wanted to see Hercules. LOL!!!!!! But I got older and understood the jokes more and fell so in love with it because of how much Jules loved Michael and she always did but never wanted to see the truth. So basically she goes out of her way to win him again. She trys so hard to sabotage the wedding. That when Kim found out it was heartbreak. Any ways I totally recommend this for y'all teens and adults to watch. Great laughs. Totally romantic. "}{"Title":"The best choice for a rainy afternoon.","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My Best Friend's Wedding seems to be the typical feel-good movie, where you have a little drama going on, but then everything works out, people come back on getting along and life's good again, but wait until you see the credits rolling it turns out to be a realistic movie, and not a feel-good one. But hey, that's not bad the film shows many moments that you can relate to your own life, you watch the scenes and go, 'hey, that once happened to me!'. So it's kinda comforting to see that even those bad situations that you kept for yourself actually happen to everyone, even to Julia Roberts. The story is based on this two friends, Julianne and Michael, that kept the promise of marrying each other if they never got married until a certain age. The clock is ticking and Julianne starts to feel that she's actually marrying Michael, her secret crush, but then, big surprise he got engaged to this blondie irritating girl. So that's pretty much her struggle, Julianne secretly trying to get her out of her way, so that she can live happily ever after with Michael. The film has great supporting actors, like Ruppert Everett, Julianne's gay friend, who is definitely a bonus. But, like I said, don't expect lollipop and rainbows at the ending. Again, relocate the story to your life and you'll figure it out it shows how, sometimes, things don't go our way, but that might be just for the best. "},{"Title":"oh my!!!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia Roberts is my Fae. actress, so i was excited to watch this movie. Julia was pretty good in this movie, but I wish she and her best friend got married. I love happily ever afters, and this certainly wasn't. what's up with her gay friend? she tried so hard to win her best friend over and make him love her and not love the other lady who he was going to marry, but everything she did was really to no avail, as she made a fool out of herself and he married the other girl. the beginning and middle were OK. the end, though, totally sucked!!!!!!!!!!! twas very very bad. disappointing... go see pretty woman again. or runaway bride. those were good. the pelican brief was pretty decent also. "},{"Title":"Very Unpredictable and amazing","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jules just found out the love her life ( who is also her ex-boyfriend/ best friend) is getting married. She decides to use all the tricks she knows to get him back. The reason I love this movie so much is because it takes and interesting turn that is so unpredictable and amazing. I would definatley recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Julia Oh Julia","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say the only one that saved this film from being a total sucker was Cameron Diaz. Rubert Everett was okay but annoying. It wasn not funny and Julia Roberts sucked big time. The plot was bad, it had a horrible writing and everything.  What was PJ. Hogan thinking he made such an excellent movie Muriel´s Wedding and then he directed this. Some scenes were okay and as I say before Cameron Diaz was good but otherwise a big sucker. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Roberts and Diaz at their finest","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite romantic comedy of all time, for several reasons.First, all the actors hit the right notes, especially the female leads. Roberts plays it just right to make the audience unsure if we should be pulling for her or hating her for what she's trying to do. Diaz comes across as a girl a little too flighty to completely like her, but just flighty enough that part of you adores her.Second, the silly music numbers are a riot.  I won't give anything away to those who haven't seen this yet, but the scenes in the bar and Barry the Cuda's make me smile with just a thought.Lastly, the ending left me feeling both happy and sad for Roberts.  I won't say how, lest I spoil it for anyone, but that mixture is hard to pull off.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not the type of film for me","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie to see what it was like.  I knew I could not assume that just because it starred a woman that it was a chick flick.  Let's take ERIN BROKOVICH for example.  That stars a woman and that is not a chick flick.  I found this movie kind of boring as I am not too interested in weddings.  So it may not be a chick flick, but it isn't a movie that I want to view again. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable romp","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts won America's affection with winning turns in Steel Magnolias & Pretty Woman.  She proceeded to film several flops and I figured we would never see her in another good film.I guess I enjoyed My Best Friend's Wedding because of the feelings it evoked in me.  Watch the scene on the boat where Julia has to decide if she should say I love you right then & there...it made me remember a time when I really loved someone and never told him.  I found myself tearing up.  The raw emotion in Roberts' eyes during this scene was just so touching.Roberts' battled emotions throughout the film, torn between her affection for Mike (Dermot Mulroney) and her growing affection for his new fiance, Kimmy (Cameron Diaz).  I felt Roberts greatly overacted in her confrontation with Diaz, but Diaz was so believable that I soon forgot Roberts' being over the top.  Diaz was a gem and held her own with Roberts, often stealing scenes.  Perhaps Roberts knew this and might be the reason why she overdid it in this particular scene.To me, the most hilarious scenes were when Roberts became angry, especially when she telephoned George (Rupert Everett)--I laughed out loud.  Where on earth has Everett been hiding?  He is a joy to watch and his scene at the wedding rehearsal showed his gift for screwball comedy.  His reactions, to the chaos around him, are truly priceless.My husband did not enjoy this movie as much as I did, so I guess I give this a thumbs up to women viewers. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts at her Best!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so funny --- Julia Roberts returned to what she does best and Rupert Everett stole the show!  This movie had it all -- comedy, tender moments, romance, and music (oh the music! =)I really hope Julia Roberts and Rupert Everett decide to team up again. "},{"Title":"Julia's back, and in fine form","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anyone harboring notions that Julia Roberts is treading familiar ground with MBFW will be pleasantly surprised. Unlike past projects that had her as the  centerpiece of semi-engrossing plots  involving vaguely-sketched characters, this time we are afforded a smart, well defined story (helped along by award winning screenwriter Ronald Bass, who also worked on the Julia pic Sleeping With The Enemy) and three-dimensional supporting players. One wonders how many times the Romantic Comedy format can be explored successfully. This film proves that with enough diverting plot elements, and a few laughs and songs thrown in for good measure, sometimes formula can be anything but formulaic.    "},{"Title":"Thinking of my best friends wedding part II","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie so much. I would like to see part II of this movie when this time Julia Roberts gets Michael. When after a year of marriage Kim realizes she is tired of being supportive of Michael's job.She is not happy with the way things are going.So she feels she would like to go back home and back to school to finish her career.She tries convince Michael to come work for father at his company but Michael refuses.So she is back now and in school and out with some of social friends. One she a handsome new guy who works for father they get to be friends they are seen together a couple times and Michael finds out and when they talk about it they decide they should get a divorce and they do. So Michael starts thinking about his best friend again and wonders if she is still single wish she is.So one day he happens to see her in a restaurant and it all starts there for them. "}{"Title":"Good romantic comedy that will touch you and make you feel warm inside","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING, in my opinion, is a good romantic comedy that will touch you and make you feel warm inside. If you ask me, Julia Roberts, Dermot Mulroney, and Cameron Diaz dazzle! My favorite parts are when Julianne (Julia Roberts) chases after Michael (Dermot Mulroney) as he's chasing after Kimmy (Cameron Diaz) and when Kimmy and Julianne yell at each other in the women's restroom at Comiskey Park. One thing I hate about this movie is Cameron Diaz's singing. My friend covered his ears when she sang I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself. No offense, Cameron, but you sang better in THE MASK, albeit your singing voice was dubbed. Anytime I watch this movie, when I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself, I Say A Little Prayer, or The Way You Look Tonight is performed, I always sing along. I also get this feeling that makes me feel good inside and makes me want to cry. In conclusion, there is a moral to this story, and that is, Never take your relationship with your boyfriend or girlfriend for granted. "},{"Title":"My Conniving Former Friend's Treachery","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I admit it. I really don't like Julia Roberts. That's the first problem. But in this movie, she's especially devious and despicable. Mounds have been written about it, but let me add my voice to the maelstrom what's up with a heroine who is a scheming, lying, conniving witch? And the ingenue-du-moment, Cameron Diaz, thankfully saves the day somewhat by being cute and perky as only she can. In fact, she even makes karaoke look good. But then she rises to the occasion by showing herself to also be a witch behind that kind exterior. YUCK. I hated the whole premise of this crap. I hated the oh-so-charming gay friend who is the only one with a clue (although Rupert Everett is fun to watch, and provided the only truly enjoyable moment in the singalong). Even though there were some nice Chicago shots, overall this is a movie to skip.  "},{"Title":"Thumbs down to Julia Roberts","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts -- one of the most beautiful women in the world??  Geez, humans must be an ugly race indeed.  Untalented, too. I am so tired of Julia Roberts and her perpetually laughing face; her big teeth; and her nasty attitude.  She always plays the same way, from movie to movie -- a jumpy, wound-up, hyperactive, attention-deficit-disorder-afflicted, amphetamine junkie.  Somebody please give her a course in acting -- or get her out of my face. "},{"Title":"Bad ending","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Again, this is a movie ending that disappointed me.  At least if she couldn't have the man that she loved, she could have someone available to her.  It would have been so nice if George was actually STRAIGHT...the ending..them hooking up..or..flush the ditzy airheaded blonde out of there. Cameron Diaz's character had no core, she was flighty and annoying...and the love could be seen between Jewls and Michael...I found this ending to be sad and disappointing..I would have loved the whole movie a lot better if they had ended up together at the end. "},{"Title":"Very good comedy drama","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Successful food critic Julianne Potter (Julia Roberts) gets a call from old boyfriend Mike O'Neal(Dermot Mulroney) telling her he's going to get married to a beautiful girl named Kim (Cameron Diaz). He wants her to be in the wedding party. Julianne realizes she still loves Mike and decides to sabotage the wedding.The film starts off with a GREAT opening (four women lipsynching and dancing to Hold Him, Kiss Him, Love Him) and just keeps getting better. Roberts gives one of her best performances; Mulroney is equally good--and drop dead handsome and Diaz does wonders with her underwritten role. The film does have its dark side but never TOO dark. Also Rupert Everett turns in a great performance as Roberts gay best friend and has some of the best lines. A particular highlight is the Say A Little Prayer number in the restaurant.This isn't perfect...it goes on a little too long; there is a real needless crude joke involving an ice sculpture and Roberts does something so incredibly stupid towards the end that I had trouble buying it. Still this is a very good movie. I give it an 8.The movie ends with Roberts dancing with Everett--originally the studio wanted that out--they didn't think an audience would be able to accept the lead actress dancing with a gay man! Turns out test audiences LOVED that ending. Times have certainly changed--it would get by without a problem today. "},{"Title":"Even if there is nothing else on, read a book.","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films ever made. From the ridiculously pink opening and insipid opening song to the pitiful plot, sooooo over rated Julia Roberts (one of the worst actors of all time who gets by on personality along IMHO), to the cast singing Say A Little Prayer spontaneously in a restaurant, it's one of the stupidist films ever made. Along with Highlander II, this is the bottom of the barrel movie making. I went to see this in the theater with my fiancee because she wanted to see it, and even she couldn't stand it. Bad, bad, bad, bad, badder, baddest. A horrible film IMHO. "},{"Title":"Amusing and fun.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The music starts it off perfectly, with a cheesy funny song sung overthe credits, and then Julia Roberts charm carries the rest of the film.A pretty standard plot driven forward by the chemistry of Roberts andRupert Everett as her gay best friend. Apparently, they had betterchemistry than Roberts and anyone else, so they went back and filmed anew ending involving these two characters. I'm not faulting them, Ienjoyed it very much. Diverting fun.    "}]