[{"Title":"Bleak raw movie that cuts to the bone with its sheer force","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"58 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is far from an easy movie to watch and is not really a good definition of `entertainment' (although it is disturbingly compelling). It's got about as much hilarity as `Monster's Ball', `Dancer in the Dark' and `Requiem for a Dream'.There's not really a plot here. What we're looking at is a family in council housing - a poor, distraught family, torn apart by the people. Kathy Burke is Valerie, the long suffering wife of Ray (Ray Winstone). Ray is a drunken abusive man, haunted by his demons. He fights regularly with Valerie's heroin addicted brother, who cannot escape his own life style. Over this watches Valerie's mother, Janet, in a resigned fashion, lost to any real hope of something different. We get to spend some time with these characters, seeing how their lives develop. Unlike traditional movie structures we're not really building to a giant convergence of plot lines, a climatic final scene. Real life is not like that - it's a series of events, marked by occasions. This is the view the movie takes and it works well because it makes it far more credible than a final showdown involving a gun and a murder. What's even more interesting is that while Ray is `bad' he could not be quite considered evil - there's a darkness in him that he's fighting against. There's a great scene involving a telephone which brilliantly highlights how torn apart these characters are and how nothing is ever quite as simple as you would like to believe.The acting is astonishing. I can't praise either Burke or Winstone enough. One of the reasons this movie is so unnerving is that the characters are believable - and this is due to the actors behind them. When Winstone's face becomes animated with range it really seems like he is ferocious, full of venom. You would race across the other side of the street from him, seeing the fury inside this man. Burke herself could have just played the demure wife but she adds far more complexity. Yes she is suffering, but there's a great hint of steel beneath her - shown in the delivery of a dialog, or the turn on a face. By not distracting us with pretty faces, director Gary Oldham manages to deliver actual characters. The energy - unflinching - delivered by them makes them seem horribly like people you know can exist within miles of your home.Oldham himself shows a good directorial view. The movie uses a lot of hand-cameras (and presumably some unusual film stock) to get a grittier realism. This is aided by some excellent cinematography - the lighting is bleak, subdued, in keeping with the movie. Even the sunshine is pale, as if there's never really any hope to be had. The sound design is crisp, and generally minimalist - instead letting the camera and acting tell the story rather than forced manipulation via a composed piece. The set design also deserves a nod - the house around which a lot of the movie resolves has a real `lived in' feel. Too often Hollywood directors décor their house in a few luxury sofas and leave it at that. Here there's a real sense of a home with condiments and grit engrained in the walls. It all adds up the power. Ultimately though it is Oldham's unflinching depiction of the events that stands in the movies favour - the camera is close, it's there, you cannot escape through some banal metaphor (which is typical of most movies).`Nil By Mouth' is more of an `experience' movie. It's a wrenching, arresting viewing that is sometimes very difficult to watch because you know there's a horrible shade of truth to it. It's not necessarily something you'd watch repeatedly (unless you've a shade of masochism to you), but it is something that will leave a little indelible mark on you as something to muse on. Definitely worth seeing - but be prepared. 8.1/10. "},{"Title":"No cockney gangsters, No Hugh Grant. Nuff said.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The words gritty, British and drama usually and rightfully condemn a film to the Guy Windsor Ritchie hall of excrement . Having seen these terms applied to Oscar contenders like Goodbye Charlie Bright, Rancid aluminium and Love, honour and obey, I wasn't really expecting much from this film. Saying I was wrong would be a huge understatement. Nil by Mouth is an awesome achievement. A razor sharp dissection of a working class south London family that delivers the required punch on so many levels that you need to have a wash after watching it. It covers a vast spectrum of emotions that will see you (especially if you're British) laugh, cry and more often than not, hold your head in despair at witnessing an all too true account of what it is to be at the bottom of the British class system. It is unflinchingly brutal and somewhat depressing, yet at the same time shows how with guts, determination and a healthy sense of humour, people can survive even the most bleak and hopeless of situations. Kathy Burke is outstanding and Ray Winstone is dependable as ever, but Gary Oldman's screenplay and direction are the stars of the show. This script could stand on it's own as a fine social commentary on par, and not dissimilar from John King's The Football Factory and Headhunters. Thankfully Oldman has also realised that in terms of direction, gritty does not have to mean the static, cold and quite frankly boring as hell style that so many British films have. The camera moves with a documentary feel energy, yet the slick cinematography keeps it from ever looking cheap. Quite simply one of the greatest British films of all time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Oldman cuts to the bone","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Sturges' classic Sullivan's Travels, a swank film director announces to his butler I'm going out on the road to find out what it's like to be poor and needy, and then I'm going to make a film about it. The butler snorts It you permit me to say Sir, the subject is not an interesting one. The poor know all about poverty, and only the morbid rich would find the topic glamorous. Love it or hate it, Nil by Mouth digs deep inside and never lets you go. Unlike Sullivan, Oldman had only to look inside himself to find his subject.  He does an honest and remarkable job. Of course a film of this type is not going to win any Oscars - Oldman didn't make it to please anyone. Most will find this nihilistic and depressing, and they're right. Suffice to say, Oldman is a natural craftsman. If he continues to follow his heart and gut, who knows what else he might accomplish. A remarkable debut. "},{"Title":"Hellish domestic drama","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is hellish domestic drama from director/writer Gary Oldman. It feels real because, for him, it was real, it was his life growing up in South London. Ray Winstone as the abusive Ray is amazing, as is Kathy Burke as Ray's wife and full time punching bag Valerie. Oldman employs a rough and ready style and gives the actors lots of room to move and react within the frame. The result is an incendiary experience, a film that leaves you gasping for fresh air and in awe of the superb performances, sharp cutting, great sound design and unapologetic subject matter. It doesn't angle for simple solutions to its powerhouse issues and isn't all misery, either. It's about strength and the the power of personal responsibility. Superb. "},{"Title":"An unpleasant slice of life","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have a very hard time watching this movie. This is not a movie to put in for a relaxing night at home, as its very painful to watch. This is reality. These are situations that are happening right now in homes across the world.This movie is extremely powerful in its portrayal of a working class British family, as the struggle with problems such as drug and domestic abuse. The acting is simply amazing. It practically transcends acting and you feel that you are watching real people struggle through these things. Its a reality show in which the people don't know they're being watched. This film is a tough journey to take, as its very painful and emotional, but it is ultimately rewarding to sit through it and reach the conclusion.Very highly recommended, but be warned, this movie pulls no punches and shows you life as it is. "},{"Title":"piercingly precise","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I WAS (allegorically) the Lil girl on the stairs watching it all, this film had me in tears literally, if you have been lucky enough NOT to have lived through this kind of abuse, rock on, but for those of us who have been there this is a shockingly accurate depiction, I cried all the way through (I used to have every Monday off school to get a new set of false teeth for my mother). This film is so close to the heart it is unbelievable, and I am only padding this out to make the minimum review length why should i need 10 lines of text why should i need 10 lines of textwhy should i need 10 lines of textwhy should i need 10 lines of textwhy should i need 10 lines of textwhy should i need 10 lines of text "},{"Title":"Sobering and shocking, although hope remains...","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a piece of debutant film making at its best.Oldman set about to create a gritty and colourful portrayal of the rough end of life in Saafff Lhaandan and in that respect he was f**kin sucessfull you bunch ah chaaaants!The camera work is disjointed and initially appears clumsy, but the expertly chosen angles and focuses soon become enthralling.  It is nicely gritty and rough around the edges.  Take a special note of the excellent sound design - it really adds to the overall atmosphere of the cityscape Olman so expertly creates.The narrative progression is pretty much non-existent.  Like all realist films its not really about what is happening, but the broader issues exposed by smaller events within the film.  These include some brutal moments from Winstone and also some heavy drinking/clubbing binges.The acting is so good and so believable that I forgot I was watching a film - it is almost a documentary and those not familiar with the actors within the film may be fooled into thinking that is what they were watching.Olman also introduces some subtle symbolism (the moment with the red balloon for example) but is never heavy handed or distracting.Winstone and Burke really are stunning in this film, and the ending is a brilliant piece of ambiguity and hope.  CHeck out Winstone's subtle touching moments with his daughter - it brings a tear to the eye.Classic in the modern sense of the word. "},{"Title":"Like a fresh breeze from England's gutters","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked this films' authentic look.I have middle class friends who describe this film as depressing.To me it was uplifting. It was great to see all these working class characters, even the horrible one, portrayed with a feeling of dignity and sincereness.Not your average plastic movie. Real life, real emotions. I liked it, because it at last portrayed the life of the modern underclass with realism. The characters take over the story in this film, so if you like that, take a look. Thank you, Gary Oldman. "},{"Title":"like a punch in the stomach","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this film is incredibly harsh.  it took a while for me to get into it - accent barrier and a little too close to reality make it a tough one to watch.  but it really is a great film - horrifying and depressing.  i don't think i could ever watch it again, it is too hard.kathy burke is great as is her terrifying husband.  cheers to gary oldman for doing good quality work. "},{"Title":"Family","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kathy Burke portrays the battered wife extremely well - taking it as part and parcel of being an east-end wide-boy's other half. It is inenvitable that she will go back to him (Ray Winstone) after her severe beating as that's the life she knows and as she holds traditional family views of marriage she wants her child to be raised by a mother and a father. She believes in love.The extended family plays a major role in supporting her, her mother (Leila Morse) is a hardenedwoman but with a heart. They are not shocked by the going-ons of thedestruction caused by alcohol and drug addition. They just get on with it and this is a powerful message that with family, love and support, you can conquer any mountain.People see it as a depressing and disturbing film but the finalgestures and actions of all the characters suggest otherwise. Gary Oldman has done a great job in directing this film and it was brave of him and his sister to tackle a very difficult subject which has obviously affected their lives so deeply. "}{"Title":"Dysfunctional doesn't begin to cover it.","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a sucker for Cockney films. I've got a few Cockney pals & I'm fascinated by their accent, slang & wit, but this is not Lock, Stock & Two Smoking, mate. Not even close.I first watched Nil by Mouth several years ago under the erroneous impression Gary Oldman acted in it; I disliked it & soon put it from my mind. Recently though, a friend talked me into seeing it again & I have to concur, it really is an intelligently conceived & superbly crafted film. It's totally & utterly real in every detail, from the mists of rage-blown spit during Ray's outbursts to the ambient pub noise & people talking over one another that semi-obscures the dialog. (English subtitles would have come in handy here.) But the very realism that makes this film so brilliant is what makes it so excruciating to watch.First-rate performances are turned in by Charlie Creed-Miles, whose Billie is so spot-on you never really notice the acting; by the ever-beguiling Steve Sweeney as Billie's geezer mate; & by Laila Morse as the quietly suffering mother of a junkie son & an abused daughter. But all of these are overshadowed by the extraordinary performances of Ray Winstone & Kathy Burke.Nil by Mouth is about family &#x97; & dysfunctional doesn't begin to describe it. Young Billie, who at first seems be shaping as the main character, serves more as a foil for the rest of the family than anything else. He leads the life of a junkie, scamming & scheming, begging & stealing, jones-ing & winding up in one jam after another. Predictable. Ray, on the other hand &#x97; in a tour-de-force portrayal by Ray Winstone &#x97; is so full of brooding violence barely held in check as to be totally unpredictable. We never learn what it is he does for a living, but we can make an educated guess that it's nothing on the up-&-up. The only good times Ray knows center on pubs & lap-dancers & even then he seems on the verge of rage half the time.Kathy Burke, in her quietly understated role as Ray's wife Val, is almost equally brilliant, drawing on hidden strength you never suspected she had after a horrific beating at Ray's hands. Perhaps the most moving scene in the film is when she starts dancing a bit at her grandmother's flat where she's recuperating. She dances clumsily, haltingly &#x97; clearly still in a lot of pain &#x97; but she embraces this life-affirming activity nonetheless, even assuaging the fears & anguish her gram feels for her by drawing her into the dance.Ray's chillingly restrained drug- & alcohol-induced psychopathy as he wakes Val from a sound sleep to interrogate her & his total savagery when he assaults her are outright terrifying. But his utter breakdown afterwards, the staggering lunacy of it, the verbal rehearsal to an empty flat of all his apologies & excuses, the glossing-over, the utter lack of remorse, his besotted attempts to woo her back over a phone he's too drunk to even hold on to... these add up to one of the best acting performances I've ever witnessed. His later revelations about his childhood as he sits drinking with his mate Mark leave you with a tinge of... not sympathy &#x97; you can't muster sympathy for an animal like that &#x97; but perhaps an inkling of insight into the tortured soul that makes him who he is.And this, I think, is the focus of the film, the unbroken chain of binge-drinking & father-to-son brutalization that breeds ever more of the same for all involved. In its realism, the only film I can compare it to is Martin Scorcese's Mean Streets, but Mean Streets never cut this deep.The ending is left open to interpretation. This isn't Hollywood; there never was a plot, nothing's neatly resolved, no comforting closure here. Is this a temporary truce or is it worse, a genuine rapprochement? It's impossible for the viewer to forgive Ray his brutality, and yet you're left with the sinking feeling that Val will & the cycle will go on. "},{"Title":"A British film that destroys the classless misconception of the UK","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not 'Four Weddings ..' and it does not star Laurence Olivier. What it is, however, is a true representation of the class distinctions that still exist in Great Britain. This film should be shown as a double-bill with all the Merchant Ivory films that depict the majority of UK residents as well-educated, carefree, Upper-Class dilettantes. With blistering turns by all the cast (and surely proof that Oscar nominations are a fix) this is a tight, head-lock of a film that has you gasping for air hours, days even, after you have seen it. This is England, take a good look America. "},{"Title":"Deeply depressing but wonderfully acted urban drama","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't recommend this film as a date movie. Gary Oldman's semi-autobiographical account of life lived on a South East London estate is a violent, Beckettian account of one of Dante's circles of hell, frankly. At the centre of it is Ray Winstone, who has done this sort of character before but never as well. The film opens with him ordering drinks at a pub bar - that's all - and you are already gripped with a sense of the frustration, self-loathing and barbarism that he exhibits in many different ways throughout the course of the movie. It's an acting masterclass.Of course the stymied and dispossessed need a foil in a drama such as this and Winstone is matched by Kathy Burke as his long-suffering wife, who absorbs and ultimately rejects his unbearable behaviour. Charlie Creed-Miles does an able turn as the fuse-lighting druggie son Billy although he must have wondered sometimes exactly what he let himself in for. Gary Oldman directs close up on the actors, maximising the claustrophobia of their council flat squalor. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Punishing reality","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nil by Mouth is not so much a story as it is a slice-of-miserable-life snapshot of the lives of a working class English family which brings new meaning to the word dysfunctional. Gritty and harsh, this film swirls like a cyclone of anger, violence, anguish, and regret around a handful of adult characters who suffer from alcohol abuse, spousal abuse, drug abuse, etc. presented in a drab and tightly cropped format with brutal reality. A worthy first directorial outing for actor Gary Oldman, this bitter drama offers some fine performances and startling reality but may not reward viewers with a strong enough plot to make the two hour watch worthwhile. For realists only. (B+) "},{"Title":"A must see movie-an Oldman masterpiece.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a well made and stunning movie of life on a British council estate of a family with a violent father and poor cow mother , one of the types of women that gets a regular beating from the old man and yet still go back to him. the performances by Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke should have got them award after award. with more cursing than I've heard in a movie, although its typical for a low class family in those types of situations, with a drug using , stealing relative and strong acting from Laila Morse (garys sister) a must see movie, but make sure the kids are in bed !! the movie also has a great soundtrack which I cant find anywhere ! "},{"Title":"Well made and successful in what it set out to do, but ultimately too bleak and grim for me","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" STAR RATING ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning Ray (Ray Winstone) has a criminal past, has had problems with alcohol and is now forming a drug habit that is making him paranoid and prone to domestic violence to his wife Valerie (Kathy Burke) who tries to hold the family together but ends up coming off more like a doormat. Meanwhile, her mother Janet (Laila Morse) is aware of Ray's son, Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles) and his escalating drug habit that is sending him off the rails. The film follows these despairable characters as they tredge along with their lives.It is said that the British seem to enjoy being miserable, and that would include watching films that entertain them this way. Films like Nil by Mouth highlight this. It's a tale of a broken family, torn apart by crime, poverty, booze and drugs, the kind Jeremy Kyle would lap up like a three course meal. It is also essentially a tale of self destructive men, three generations apart and each copying the other, tearing a family apart and women trying to hold it together, despite not being strong enough. If you pick up a little of what it's about from the off-set, you can see it doesn't promise to be cheerful viewing from the start and it certainly doesn't disappoint in this.It's true what everyone said about the performances, and the lead stars, Winstone and Burke, do deliver some great acting. We see Winstone lose it with his wife, beating her senseless after some more coke induced paranoia, breaking down during a phone conversation with her and unleashing a typical arsenal of f and c words when she refuses to let him see his kid. Likewise, in a private moment, we see Burke skillfully lose her composure on a staircase, the full impact of the night before kicking in.This is another of those films where there's no 'plot' to follow, as such, just a real life feel of these hopeless lives carrying on from one day to the next. It's been acclaimed by many (including the Baftas!) but it really was just too grim and bleak for me. I have no right to criticize it for this, knowing what I knew about it from the off-set, but sadly this is how I found it. ** "},{"Title":"Hard to judge it as a movie,impossible to ignore as reality...","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...and when I say reality,I mean just that. A universal reality. I've only been to London once for a concert and I stayed there for 3 days, so I'm not at all qualified to say that this is a slice of proletarian London life, and yet I felt the unequivocal and bland smell of real life right from the first frame.And that's because Gary Oldman manages to capture the universal drama of human life and emotion.He manages that through some really uninteresting dialog, some ordinary issues (poverty,macho-British style,hopelessness,addiction,abuse) and almost no cinematic thrills or gimmicks. The problem is that we are so used to those cinematic artifices that a movie like this one comes across as a flat line on a hospital machine. Not even when we have a climatic scene of Ray savagely beating his wife, I didn't feel terrified or like turning away in disgust because the by then the movie painstakingly tells the viewer that that's how it is and there is nothing to do about it, in other words, you're already emotionally numb and somehow not involved.Oldman considers this a semi-autobiographical movie. Add to that the way it is presented to us and it sheds some light as to why he's such a gifted, unconventional and unique actor, he clearly takes his energy, feelings and life experience from some unusual places. Absolutely shattering stuff. "},{"Title":"Not a great film but truly a powerful and engaging experience","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Much more an experience than a narrative-based film this project. Gary Oldman's directorial debut betrays some of his weaknesses but shows a lot of strength with a subject that he also scripted. From the very start we find ourselves in the type of pub/club that, as an educated liberal I find incredibly intimidating. I'm not trying to be elitist (although I'm sure it will come across that way) but the characters in this film are instantly recognisable to me and very frightening. People who carry their frustrations without knowing what they are angry at and ultimately are just out and out angry at everything whether it be just a minor bump in a pub. This is the world of the film and within it we have a loose narrative about a problem within the family of Billy, who is a junkie but the main thrust is less about a specific story but rather just putting the audience in the middle of this trapped and violent family and leaving us to find our own way.This approach makes the film a little weak structurally and does produce some scenes where Oldman relies on heavy use of music to just play over silent scenes but mostly it works. The way that it does work is that the experience is so visceral and convincing that the viewer doesn't care so much that it lacks a story with star, middle and end but rather feels the scenario and characters. Oldman directs in the grim and smoke of the environment and, while not technically impressive to watch, it works with the theme and content. What he does very well is draw some great performances from the British cast. Winstone has become famous off the back of characters like this and he nails not just the anger but the misplaced sense of frustration and inadequacy; he doesn't wear it like a badge but merges it really well into his character so that it is easy to just see him as an angry thug. Burke is better known as a comedic actress but she is tremendous here &#150; really convincing and full of fear, when she says she feels so very old I really believed her. Creed-Miles feels a bit out to one side but is also strong &#150; as are Morse, Morrison and others in supporting roles.Nil By Mouth is not a fun or pleasant film and the language is extreme and endless. Nor is it a great film in regards structure, flow or narrative. However what it is very good as is an experience which is convincing and uncomfortably real. Poverty is terrible in any place and being trapped in it for generations is worse; Oldman does not pity his characters nor does he blame others for their problems but he makes them both sympathetic but also repugnant and it is the overall experience of watching that make thes film one worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman's Nil by mouth... something to say...","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" by Dane Youssef Nil By Mouth is the very first film written and directed by the great Gary Oldman, a seasoned veteran actor who has still yet to give a bad performance. Oldman grew up in the poorest ghetto of South London, where this film takes place.And while rumored and believed to be a semi-autobiography of Oldman's childhood and family (who wouldn't watch this movie and believe so?), Oldman himself has said that this is not him or his family.Hey, I believe him. Although he grew up in this environment, he was not directly in the line of fire, if you follow me.Nil By Mouth represents many of the other families in South London, not Oldman's. We've seen many abusive types in movies--usually one-dimensional and sanitized. But Oldman refuses to white-wash. The fact that this is not a big-budget Hollywood star-vehicle allows this to be a real film-going experience.This is one of those frightening on-screen performances in recent memory. Ray Winstone deserves high praise and immortalization for his acting here in the role of Ray. He seems to be one of those unsavory, brutal characters in movies that stay with us. Like Hannibal Lecter in Silence Of The Lambs, Like Dennis Hopper in Blue Velvet, Like Norman Bates in Psycho, this performance haunts us like a ghost.Ray is not merely an abusive drunk; he is a horrible bastard, always prone to violent outbursts. When his wife hangs out with a casual male acquaintance, he suspects the worst. And does the worst.Ray Winstone delivers a powerhouse performance in the role of Ray, a working-class man who loves his family, especially his daughter. But this man has demons that are so numerous and deep, they cannot be repressed. He can be a likable, laid-back guy, like everyone else.But we see that without serious provocation, he instantly becomes raving and homicidal. A side that most movies (and people) tend to shy away from. He'll make your blood run cold and make you cry right along with him.Kathy Burke, best known for her role on Absolutely Fabulous takes an enthralling dramatic turns as Valerie, Ray's wife who's sole purpose seems to be to keep the family strung together while putting up with her husband's monstrous outbursts, almost sadomasochistic ally. This is an unforgettable performance.Whenever there's someone like Ray, there's almost always someone like Mark. Mark is sort of a sidekick or cheerleader for Ray and his violently domestic antics. He seems to be something of a drama queen, hitching his trailer up to the pain in Ray's life. It perhaps gives him an excuse to explode and go ape-s**t the way he does. It's mentioned at one point that Mark himself was worked over by Ray's father---maybe this explains the tie that bond these two.Jamie Forman is effective as Ray's little right-hand man. Apparently, Forman himself is the son of a real-life legendary London gangster.Is he just a great actor? Jamie may actually have some demons himself.And while Ray may be the black sheep of this family, all that really means is he's the blackest of the black. No one here is walking on water. Valerie smokes and drinks despite knowing full-well she's pregnant. No one around her really speaks up in protest about her indirect poisoning of her child.Valerie's little brother, Billy is a severe heroin addict. Despite the fact that he's occasionally allowed to sleep over at Ray and Valerie's, Ray even feeds him and gives him a banknote here and there, Billy steals a score of dope from their flat.You can only imagine how Ray takes to this. Billy is scorned, but although he is cast out, he still stays with his side of the family and even retaliates against Ray, stealing an irreplaceable family heirloom.Billy is a severe junkie and spends a lot of time with his friends. And since Billy is a junkie, there's only one kind of clique of friends he can afford more junkies.One of his pals, Danny is one of the movie's strangest characters. Danny is literally covered from head-to-toe with tattoos and body-piercing. He defines the term body art. His whole body is like a big collage explosion.But he's not the one-dimensional freak/weirdo/thug we'd expect just by getting a quick glance at him. He shows compassion and even sweetness at time like all the other characters, even Ray.Nearly everyone drinks and smokes. Nearly everyone says fuck and cunt on a far more-than-regular basis. And their endless stream of profanity and brutal violent mistreatment of one another is like a sad testimony to how tragically pathetic they are.And we can't help but think about the little five-year old daughter and the unborn second child of Ray and Val, how their parents impact will undoubtedly shape them. It is running rampantly throughout the world, and shows no signs of breaking.You can almost hear the violins playing on the soundtrack to their lives. They are the victims of their life, their family, their environment, each other and themselves.Oldman films using the now-traditional and all-too-common (but at the time, novel) hand-held camera technique and 16mm film, thus giving Nil By Mouth not the look of a polished, slick and lavish film, but raw, unkempt footage of very real life. As if we're there, in the heat of the moment. This is just one of those movies that&#x85; after it's over, you want to do something&#x85; something to make things better.The title comes stems from a medical instruction in the hospital not to give a patient food or drink as they're about to go into surgery. The connection in that this movie makes with that title is poetically heart-breaking, like the rest of the film.--For God, Empire and Oldman, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"An English Gem","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was unfortunate that at the turn of the Millennium we were subjected to a swathe of 'cor blimey g'vnor' movies spawned by Guy Richie that rather tapped into Kray Mythology more than really telling the truth about working class London life. It is the women in this film that make it what it is - although due credit goes to the powerhouse performance of Ray Winstone.Nil By Mouth is a staggering achievement, and unlike a lot of those that have commented on the movie - I have seen it countless times and find it a more worthy exportable commodity than the awful Four Weddings and a Funeral. I think this film should be played at sixth forms (public and private) all over the country as part of the National Curriculum - MP's and policy makers should look at it also. It portrays family life in a council estate where there has been no redeeming features, namely no education nor communication. But the love in it spills everywhere. Every time I watch the scene with Kathy Burke dancing with her grandmother, I cry. The scene where Burke tells Ray that she feels so old and that she will find someone else - someone kind, is amazing. 'Can't help Lovin' That Man of Mine' being sung at the close of the film adds important poignancy - Kathy does accept Ray back, a redeemed version we hope. A lot of what is said and done in this movie is actual truth. My mother was a singer in Working Men's Institutes in the North during the Seventies. Like Ray say's, women would come into these places and bring their men their dinner. I would wonder what sort of lives these women had - probably full of 'clumps.'It is a film (not dissimilar to Fight Club in this) that screams for the need of proper nurturing. Fathering in particular. The character of Ray had a traditional working class Dad who never spoke to him. Never gave him a cuddle. Ray's need for a cuddle is almost tangible. His Dad is the reason why he is the way he is. The only person that has taught him any better is the guy that gives him a taste of his own medicine outside the estate where Kathy's Mum and Gran live.For a long time, this movie wasn't available on DVD and was always out at the local video shop. I didn't know that the soundtrack wasn't available. It is fantastic. I do not think Sade is the artist of the track for the dancing scene I mention. Sade's Paradise was totally different and was the title track of an album of the same name brought out during the eighties. The music played in the background during the drug taking scenes of Billy is good as well. I am duly grateful for the information provided.If you loved this film watchRaining Stones /Ladybird, Ladybird /Kes /My Name is Joe /Scum "}{"Title":"Terrific film","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is absolutely striking. A very realistic account of the lives of a pack of very real people struggling to keep their world together. Oldman makes no concessions as to what the audience may or may not want to witness, but this is marvellously done, and as a consequence the degree of the spectator's involvement is so high that the story really strikes a chord inside. Unforgettable!.  "},{"Title":"A graphic, disturbing, yet interesting look at life.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have not always been a fan of Gary Oldman as an actor but his skills as a director blew me away.  I rented Nil expecting something much different but it didn't matter.  Nil by mouth is a graphic, disturbing, and unsettling look at a family in turmoil.  Some scenes were hard to sit through and the beginning was somewhat slow.  By the end I was left with an interesting experience.  Highly Recomended to those only with an open mind, who won't shut it off in the first twenty minutes.  Four Stars.  "},{"Title":"A remarkable feature...","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oldman does well by his actors and the audience is indeed engulfed in the lives of these characters for the duration of the film.  His relative restraint actually enhances the power of the events and every moment feels natural and the realism achieved is due to both his writing and the awesome work of the performers, especially Kathy Burke who won a well-deserved best actress Cannes award for her portrayal of an abused wife.If the film has one shortcoming it's that the drama starts at point A and basically stays there for the considerable length of the movie.  The audience learns everything there is to know about the characters in the first half hour or so and there's not much else to sustain dramatic momentum for the next two hours.  Maybe that's part of the point but it all becomes slightly monotonous and the film could have used at least a bit of editing. "},{"Title":"Arguably the best British film ever made.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film which I went to see on a whim, due to there being nothing else on at the cinema at the time.  It turned out to be one of the finest films I have ever watched.  The acting, especially from Kathy Burke is spellbinding and the direction draws you in, making the film all the more real and believable. I would recommend this film to anybody.  It is moving and very shocking and is a great example of how to film a difficult and often taboo subject. "},{"Title":"A Cacophony of Rage, Rush and Livewire Emotions","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There is no end to the impact of the likes of a film like Nil By Mouth. There is no end to the intensity of it. It isn't just a film about a bunch of people screaming basic, hateful, tremendously profane things at each other. It is those people screaming those things. And it is screaming them out on to grainy, restless cinematography, the camera always seeming as if it's an engine revving up for a race, a story as simple as one can possibly be, completely uninhibited by related strands or details, and characters as real and as much of an effort to face as the kitchen sink after washing dishes, just the sort of lower-class, lesser endowed people whose neighborhoods we lock our doors driving through. The film is a cacophony of rage, rush, and livewire emotions. It's like being confronted face to face with a barrel- chested, rock-headed angry barfly.The cast is wonderful, but for the most part, we don't think about that. There is something about Gary Oldman's direction, as an actor himself whose work has a tendency to be of an impulse-heavy, self-projected nature, that forcefully guides these actors to be what they are, be in the moment, and just be. Their characters build not be inhabiting another personality but by intensifying their own. Actors like Oldman, take Marlon Brando for example, have always puzzled me with the impassioned denial that becoming another character is real acting. Now, because of Oldman's loving control over his very personal, white hot film, I believe I understand what is meant by that primal and cardinal philosophy, and it really has a profound ring to it.The outstanding voice in the film's cast, however, is none other than Ray Winstone. He is an absolute force to be reckoned with in every way imaginable here. I have always enjoyed him as an actor, whose performances, dominant or submissive, always have us saying, Yes sir. As such an obviously powerful actor, he has the sensitivity to buckle under the weaker mortal side to his characters, as is the case in Sexy Beast and even in The Departed, and is as resonant as ever in Nil By Mouth. What a tough, intimidating man he is, what a shockingly violent man he is, and what a toll he must pay. There is a scene in this film featuring only him that stands firmly and equally beside Robert De Niro's scene in the jail cell in Raging Bull.The mindset behind a film like Nil By Mouth is a matter of telling the story that's right in front of your face. What is it about? How does one synopsize a free-roaming, acidy, jostling narrative like Oldman's? Look up from your computer, or lose yourself in the hypnotic state you must be in as you read this and let the screen blur, and take a subjective look at your life, the people in it, the anger you feel, what you feel it towards, whether that's something you can figure out or not, and think of it if you wrote a script about it, dramatizing it, building an arch of screen violence and cinematic flare the size of your most tangible furious passion for it. Then you've got what it takes to make a film like Nil By Mouth. That's what Gary Oldman did, and that is wonderful. That is what so many films should be made of and aren't.Nil By Mouth will always be held in a special group of films in my eyes, which includes Mean Streets, Faces, and Buffalo '66 as the starting few. It was imagined, written and directed with such a personal perspective, such an attendance of the emotional face that is the filmmaker identifying itself which flushes the entire film with a style and feel that is entirely its own. "},{"Title":"Britfilm at its absolute peak","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nil by Mouth would be an important film if only for the fact that it reminded the good British public that Ray Winstone isn't just an asset to a film, but a resource all on his own! However, Gary Oldman's directorial debut is so much more than that - a searing, affecting film that leaves a lasting impression.Exceptionally foul-mouthed, Nil by Mouth is a slice-of-life drama in the style of Mike Leigh or Alan Clarke (directors Oldman was very familiar with from having worked with them as a young actor); there is no classic Hollywood structure, no safety-net of a clear-plot through which we discover the characters. The cast of this film are never introduced, we are just thrown into the middle of their world and expected to adjust, treat them like people we have known for years. Because of this, the film's tale of domestic violence, alcoholism, heroin abuse and father-son relationship attains the kind of power lacking in most films. It helps that writer-director Oldman is writing about the world in which he grew up, and has populated it with real-looking (read unattractive) actors.Winstone is, of course, magnificent in the role of Ray, a marauding south London man on the brink of mental collapse, who takes out his unarticulated frustrations on his helpless wife Valerie, played with equal brilliance by Kathy Burke, who proves that she is far more than just a comic actress. Charlie Creed-Miles, Jamie Foreman and Laila Morse (now on TV as 'Big Mo' in EastEnders) provide sterling support.It is a difficult film to watch, but not just because of its often-disturbing scenes of domestic violence. Oldman's commitment to realism means that all dialogue is extremely south London specific (almost incomprehensible to non-London viewers), and un-coordinated in that characters often speak over each other, making some of the dialogue inaudible. It takes a while to get used to, but it becomes an ingenious way of tricking the audience into believing that what they see is the result of a hidden camera in someone's living room/pub/car/garage.Nil by Mouth is definitely worth seeing, more than once. It has hidden depths and sensitivity that become more apparent with repeated viewings. It is a genuine masterpiece of 'cinema verite' - the only question is why hasn't Gary Oldman directed another film? "},{"Title":"this is British movie making...","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Love it or loathe it this is what the British are best for. HARD, GRITTY dramas....The Hill, Scum, Trainspotting, McVicar, Twin Town, and many many more... the British film industry excels at hard, dramatic, down in the gutter harsh realities of life. Being British i obviously relate to the figures portrayed in any number of these movies, and whilst i am sure there are American movies of a similar ilk, Sling blade for one, it always seems to me that only the British can carry a true gritty drama with any conviction. Having just watched north country, which i thought was good, it does not even compare to the Welsh mining villages of South Wales and the hardships suffered there. I am not saying they did not suffer the same hardships but that the British film industry really does show it for what it is, no punches pulled, in your face, fabulous, harrowing realities of life... having being born in a miners hospital in a small mining town in South Wales i have seen hardships....this to me living in Dubai is a wonderful reminder of why we all strive for a better life.PLEASE any strangers to British society, watch any British drama to see a true depiction of life in Britian and do not waste your time looking at Hugh Grant thinking how 'jolly' the British are....UPDATE 2008 - having watched this film again, i can only reiterate the immensity of the realism displayed here. i fully understand people wishing to see entertainment from the movies, but for god's sake pick a comedy or action film if you want to be 'entertained' DO NOT watch this movie thinking the husband & wife after 92 minutes fall into each others arms and go for a beer with Hugh Grant. Yet again made me weep not only for my own upbringing, but for the millions who have, and are still experiencing this. Signed - A MAN "},{"Title":"Interesting and well done!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In movies that deal with unhappy subjects, I've tended to feel sympathetic toward the characters. I've tended to feel pity, and a desire to mother them and tell them everything will be all right.What I thought was interesting, and exciting about this movie, is that I didn't feel sympathy. I didn't like the characters, and I didn't want to hug them. In fact, I just felt the need to escape from their lives.This struck me as excellent because it seems more realistic. There are lots of people, not feeling sorry for themselves in the general sense, that have troublesome lives. Many of these people, if I met them, would not be the sort of people I'd like to know better. There are people in my life currently, who have troubles (don't we all!), who I love dearly but whose problems I just wish would disappear. I don't pity them, I'm more annoyed/upset by the troubles that I have no right, or ability to remove. This movie really gave a sense of that.Spoiler In particular, looking at Ray's marriage, I thought, gosh, that's hard. What do you do? Do you leave after the first beating? Do you try to work things out? And how? Is he really repentant? And what are the repercussions? Would he turn psycho if she leaves? How will their daughter cope? And throughout, you still see the love, laughter and human side of these well developed characters. You feel like their life is normal.I thought the acting was excellent. The directing/editing very well done. The premise and feel of the movie very good. The only reason I do not rate this movie higher (aside from being a hard marker) is that I found it not so enthralling. As I said, I felt like I wanted to escape from their lives. I wasn't anxiously waiting to find out what happened in their lives. In some sense, I think it may be that you couldn't have that type of pace/entertainment factor while having the slice of life/normalcy factor. More of a thoughtful movie. Maybe if I were less frivolous I would have voted higher.Anyway, those are my impressions. It's definitely worth seeing!) Alma p.s. I was drawn to watch this movie after seeing the interview with Mr. Oldman on the Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead DVD. It is a tribute to his acting that he comes across so differently in an interview than he does in his film roles. But, I had though he was more of a philosopher....so I became even more curious to see his writing/directing. It was very well done. "},{"Title":"Great drama!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great story of the love-less, oppressive, awful and violent society the director grew up in. Alcoholics and dopeaddicts are everywhere and there´s really no end to the misery and social problems. It is told in a very candid way with likable characters, especially the young man who seems to be the main character. These people are almost powerless to change their karma.  "},{"Title":"Point A; to point A; to point A and then a sudden jump to point B. Less-so Nil by Mouth, more-so Word of Mouth.","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nil by Mouth is proof that actor-turned-director for this piece Gary Oldman has an eye for grotty, grimy cinematography which he knows compliments his idea of raw; down-and-dirty, urban set films. His idea of dark, night-set streets and neo-realist inspired sets that encompass apartment flats, as the sorts of people that inhabit the screen are introduced to us, plunge the viewer into a world of anxiety; danger; near-poverty and a gross sense of unpredictability as we realise Nil by Mouth will not follow conventional narrative formula. Instead, it'll spend a lot of time with pent-up, aggressive males doing whatever it is they do. If there's a reason not to be blown away by Nil by Mouth, and this is linked to why I don't think Gary Oldman has directed much since, then it's because the film is a documentation; a hark-back to times and conditions of old brought into the 1990s. It's a basic re-telling of hostile people living amidst low-level living conditions more than it is a substantial study of anything.This is not an eerie look into the life and world of a drug addict alá Trainspotting and this is not a study of one man questioning his identity and role within a 'group' further still within society alá The Football Factory, although the look and structure of the film, particularly the opening, will remind you of these examples. I'm not sure what Nil by Mouth is; perhaps a faux 'grab the camera and shoot on street level' urban drama that utilises necessary acting heavy weights to carry it; perhaps a very straight forward and simplistic look at life in a specific place at a specific time as the proverbial bottle of fizzy liquid is shook and shook before opened and just exploding in a fury of anger, activity and mess.The film is about a collection of individuals living on a less than glamorous London housing estate, while it predominantly covers Ray (Winstone) and his no-nonsense, mess-about mate Mark (Foreman) with supporting turns from a number of others including Oldman's real-life sister Laila Morse, who he gets to swear a lot, (playing Janet) and Valerie (Burke) who's Ray's wife. Oldman peppers the opening twenty minutes, which turns into the opening thirty and then onto the opening forty before quickly becoming an hour; with a number of seemingly random and unconnected incidences. Characters go to a pub; some try to acquire drugs; others go to strip-joints whereas in other scenes, characters target and set up organised attacks on other men whom, in rather a sick 'in joke' on the writer's behalf, step out of a fast-food restaurant named 'Wimpy'.Ray and Mark drive the early scenes almost entirely on their own. The scenes are accompanied by the sorts of dialogue that land you in the world within a film, creating the illusion you're in the room with them, or that you've seen and heard people exchange words like this before. The things these people talk about are pithy, undemanding and feel improvised in their realism and the effortless delivery on the performer's behalf. We see, or observe, these people through the wary and watchful eyes of Valerie and a young man called Billy (Creed-Miles); we see them as they see them we are made aware of their presence and what sorts of people they are as they drink with us; dine with us; drive us and occupy our living rooms. But Nil by Mouth is one long, and I think somewhat deliberately, arduous building and building to a certain scene much later on. We are plunged into the fire of the world and these people that inhabit it, but it's a one note tune; setting up the characters and the setting and everyone's relationship to one-other and the setting; but we don't get much else afterwards.After an hour or so of Mark and Ray and friends standing around talking of things they've been up to lately; swearing a little; smoking and cursing the police whenever a siren revs up in the distance, we get a little tired. Nil by Mouth has no direction bar the scene it gives us involving Ray and Valeire nearer the end. Trainspotting and The Football Factory give us an equally street-set, low level look at a 'group' of people you would never, and I mean never, want to get involved with or interact with. But as it progressed its characters, peppering their journeys with light comic relief, towards an inevitable confrontation with their way of life (Was it worth it? in The Football Factory and Choose life in Trainspotting); we were interested and engaged with these low-lives as a seemingly random passage of events propelled them through their existences. If Nil by Mouth could be compared to a piece of this ilk at the time, it'd be 1999's Human Traffic; a film that nothing more than documents the lives of specific no-body individuals; the protagonist of which, horrifically, just needed a good sex session to figure everything out. Whilst it isn't as bad as Human Traffic, it's as disappointing.Surprinsignly and annoyingly, Nil by Mouth goes on a bit more after the 'scene' has occurred. It would've been better if it'd ended after we get the obligatory 'angry male trashes room' scene; a scene that carries no dramatic weight in cinema anymore. The film looses all interest and engagement after 'the scene'; descending into a series of nicey-nicey interactions around which one character is jailed for involvement in drugs giving off a false sense of actual closure. If the film is anything at all, then it's a few would-be neo realistic scenes that are carried by some great dialogue and some two dimensional characters being brought to life by talent that can do better anyway. The rest is somewhat of a chore. "}{"Title":"Crazy","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having watched Ray Winstone star in Tim Roth's directorial debut, 'The War Zone', a couple of weeks back - where he played an incestuous father abusing his daughter - I thought there was a good chance of something similarly shocking on the way in this, Gary Oldman's debut behind the camera. I wasn't wrong. As one destructive scene follows the other, it is really worth making a mental note of trying to avoid everything to do with Ray Winstone when he's in a bad mood. He's one scary fella.For all the epic scenes in this film though, there is some real indulgence on Oldman's part and cut should really have been yelled a lot sooner on a few occasions. The amount of times we see some loser addict shooting up gets ridiculous, Ray's breakdown scene with the phone and the mirror is well acted, sure, but goes on forever, plus Billy is allowed to talk AT LENGTH about some dog he had when he was a child. There are quite a few scenes which are dragged out similar to these - the editing just wasn't up to scratch, and the momentum drops sharply particularly when Billy is in the film.And for all the world it seemed as though the ending would come following Val's speech to Ray outside the flat where she puts him firmly in place. Such a fitting ending I thought. But no. There follows a scene in the kitchen where everybody's having a laugh and playing happy families. Didn't fit at all.I've given 'Nil By Mouth' 7 out of 10 - it is a heavyweight British effort that everybody should take a look at - but that doesn't mean I'd go near it again. Once is definitely enough. "},{"Title":"This film is so good","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is great, it really is. Its an insight into how people like this live, it takes us through hell, then brings us back, we go on a journey with this life. The film has many ugly and beautiful moments. In the first half i thought Billy's heroin addiction was bad but by the end of the film after we've seen Ray and Valerie's issues with domestic violence and alcoholism, i thought Billy actually had an easy life in comparison, so it just shows how bad people's lives are. The scene where Ray Beats Valerie to a pulp is heartbreaking and disturbing and the aftermath of what he'd done to her was just hard to watch. I felt so sorry for Valerie having to live and raise children with Ray, the drunk lunatic. However even Ray shows at the end of the film that he's capable of being a sensible, rational, family man - which is what I found most interesting about the film, how after such violence and madness, how the family was able to fall back to normality at the end. This film is a realistic picture of a dysfunctional and flawed family. Drugs, alcoholism, violence, crime, profanity is normal to these people. As an audience it becomes normal to us too. The cinematography and music are just fantastic, beautifully put together. The acting, especially Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke is some of the best acting i have ever seen... I wanted to cry about three quarters through the film after it had sunk in just how bad some of the problems these people had, despite such hell the film seemed to continue at its chilled out and steady pace, like real life does. There is literally no way anyone can say this film isn't authentic and outstanding cinema, its just an absolute gem. It makes you laugh and cry, and feel sorry for these poor people who are less fortunate than yourself. So touching and beautiful yet so hellish and sad. "},{"Title":"Nil plus 9 equals Oldman masterpiece","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you are heavily offended by the F or C word, or it's even taboo, forget about watching this film. Nil By Mouth is reality unfolding, before our very eyes. Ray Winstone gives a ferocious performance as a drug dealer ex parolee, also a heavy boozer, who likes to down a beer after a wine. Unfortunately his boozing leads to his habitual wife bashing. This time around it had devastating consequences. His long suffering wife, (Kathy Burke in a standout performance) has a heroin addict for brother, also an ex parolee (Charlie Creed Miles, who adds another A grade performance to this film). He's totally believable, especially in his desperation for another fix, mostly in scenes where he's having heated arguments with his mother (Oldman's real life sister). The montage song for this, I loved by the way. Nil by Mouth is not a plot driven movie. It's real life, and a kind of situation movie too. It's a movie based on Oldman's background, as a kid, growing up. Ray Winstone, who's got his career back on track after this 1998 film, has become one of my favorite actors. I'm glad he did too, as cinema has missed a movie great for far too long. The first half an hour has Winstone, and his best mate (Jamie Foreman) spinning gags and telling stories that you become involved with, one especially involving one of their mad crim mates. Even later on, after Winstone has gone berserk, tearing up his place, as if a buffalo charged through it, we have a scene with him spilling his sad childhood, about fatherly neglect onto his mate (Jamie Foreman), a patient and supportive listener, as shown in some other scenes as well, the kind of mate, everyone should have. The constant use of expletives, and I use constant with a capital C was true to fact from Oldman's perspective from what I heard. I've never heard a higher use of curses in film. At times the constant expletives become too much, but they're in those intense explosive scenes, Winstone's ones that work for it so darn well. E.g. like where he's trying to get his daughter back, causing a ruckus with other neighbors. You could see this happening anywhere. In life, we have our bad times and good times, one good time, clearly reflected in the last scene where everything's back on an evening keel, and Winstone's re-united with wife and daughter. It's cute, this scene with him, snuggling his daughter. These are moments you cherish and hold onto. It's one of the movie's best scenes. Another one is him, play fighting with his wife's mother, a tough steadfast oldie, who puts up her dukes. She doesn't have a bad singing voice to match, either, we discover. The other scene that's particularly impressive, is Winstone alone, liquored up, calling the wife. When he hangs up, he resumes a conversation, picking up his handset phone again, and banging it many times against it's receiver, while delivering an apologetic conversation, as if his wife (who's bashed face looks like a steamroller went over it) is there. This is followed by him defending himself, blaming the wife. This guy has really been torn in some of the most believable acting I've ever seen. We actually can't help feeling sorry for the guy, in spite of the consequences, prior to his violent acts, one murderous, which is most unforgiving. Winstone is one of those actors, like Ray Liotta, who can play rage and anger with brilliant believability, and also be threatening. Winstone's character is someone you wouldn't want get on their bad side, or meet in a dark alley. But it's Burke as the abused wife that rises above the other performances. That Kevin and Perry crap doesn't do her justice. The most effective NBM moment is near the start, during one of those stories, where Burke in the background, literally shakes for a couple of seconds while rigidly holding a coffee, as if the F words have become all too much, and too, this abuse has been going on for much too long. The bashing scene, where we see Ray's proud shirtless body, as he pounds on his wifee, who by the way is pregnant, will disturb some I imagine as it kind of did me, as he shouts the C word in a succession. One more scene I have to mention, cause I love it, is Charlie Creed Mile's friend, who looks Maori, his arm sporting all of this stuff, scrawled onto it, as if his arm's a blackboard. He recites that trademark Hopper scene in Apocalypse Now, in shouting form. Scenes like this are truly unforgettable. How Oldman got this project off the ground, in terms of script is an oddity. It's rough raw dialogue hardly leaves room for much else, although some of it, true to fact, hits you right in the nose. It's almost as if the actors ad-libbed. I would of loved to have read the written product. But there's no denying that this is a good movie, as it is an important one. Garry Oldman's only written and directed film. Funnily, Winstone went on to star in another controversial film, The War Zone, which was fine actor, Tim Roth's only directed film. Incidentally, some trivia Nil By Mouth hit Adelaide cinemas, on May 21'st, Oldman's 40th birthday. Also the movie was brought back by public demand. Excellent, and in one sense, a sheer masterpiece, that MUST be viewed. "},{"Title":"'Nil By Mouth' is a non-linear insight into a miserable cycle of violence, abuse and addiction.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Don't be mistaken, this is not another piece of British scuzzploitation, far from it. Although it appears comparable on face value, it certainly isn't within the lowly sphere of Rise of the Footsoldier or The Football Factory. The film concentrates on Ray (Ray Winstone), his wife Valerie (Kathy Burke), mother-in-law Janet (Laila Morse), brother-in-law Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles) and best friend Mark (Jamie Foreman). Winstone and Burke are both tremendous, they share scenes &#x96; one in particular &#x96; of harrowing intensity. Ray is a man consumed with rage and jealousy, emotions that have most likely followed him throughout his sorry existence. To summarise the film's premise/narrative, it is essentially a depiction of the causes and consequences of his latest brutal outburst. Winstone's performance is a piece of realist brilliance; some may say he's one-dimensional, but he really is a rather good actor. Nil By Mouth's portrait of a deeply violent, self-destructive man is one of the most frightening and brutal I've ever seen, more so than even Robert De Niro in Raging Bull (1980).In a film of hapless victims, Ray's wife Valerie suffers to the greatest extent. Burke portrays a woman completely servile to her husband who unfortunately enables his tyranny by interminably tolerating his wayward, selfish behaviour. It is Kathy Burke's moments that are the most moving, chiefly a scene where she desperately tells a white-lie it's genuinely upsetting.Another interesting character is Mark. Foreman's character is a vapid parasite, a little abettor of a man who's codependent on Ray and his tempestuous emotions.The dialogue of Gary Oldman's script has ample profanity, and I really mean ample, with a combination of in excess of 80 c*nts and 428 f*cks, it's the most profane film ever made. Amongst all the cockney bellowing however are monologues of real poignancy, most notably one delivered by Winstone in which he speaks of his awful, putrid father, reminding the viewer that the misery they've witnessed is a toxic generational cycle that's largely inescapable. One criticism of Oldman's script/narrative is that it is a trifle convoluted at 128 minutes, there are a few scenes that contribute little or nothing to the film, including an annoying Apocalypse Now re- enactment and an annoying shouty scene in a dry cleaners (both scenes feature this repellent little tattooed man with a grating hoarse voice.)The film is rightfully spared of romanticism, it's completely devoid of poetic licence, what you see is pure, candid realism. Ironically, the film isn't pure at all, it's gritty and unrestrained in its depiction of violence and vulgarity; one moment being particularly horrifying. To criticise the film for being 'unfocused' is missing the point. To me, it was an almost non- linear insight into the human condition, a film woven from the personal experiences of Gary Oldman and delivered with the utmost conviction from Burke, Winstone and indeed the whole cast.85%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"Painful, Disturbing. Bleak. Wonderful.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nil By Mouth is not a film made for enjoyment - or even entertainment, for that matter. This is a raw, gritty insight into the very real world of alcoholism, abusive relationships, and general dysfunction.In his directorial debut, Gary Oldman makes no attempt to sugarcoat his perception of life in South London. Utilizing rough dialogue, claustrophobic camera work, grim lighting, and a constant presence of violent tension, he has instead created a cathartic and uncomfortably honest atmosphere from start to finish.The entire cast is pitch-perfect for what this film is trying to achieve- that being to divert from the typical Hollywood 'art imitating life' and into the real, unglamorous, and painful lives that thousands of people world-wide have to face every day. They are not in this film for their looks or reputation, but rather for their ability to capture what it is to be human in broken circumstances. They don't make practiced faces into the camera. They don't spew out Oscar-ready monologues. They don't shed the single, pretty tear down the cheek. No. They forget about the camera's presence and do exactly what you and I would do in their given situations, making them better actors than most A-Listers that you'll see today.Nil By Mouth is a thoroughly unpleasant 2 hour watch, and it will certainly be difficult to sit through. Never-the-less, it is a film that needs to be watched. While film is a great medium for escaping our daily hardships, it can also be used as a means of opening our eyes to the crueler side of life - the life of our neighbours, our friends, or even ourselves. Oldman has achieved this without mercy or restraint, and as a result has created a masterful study of every-day horrors. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Realistic Movies You'll Ever Watch","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gary Oldman's, Nil by Mouth (1997) is a gritty, dark, bleak and powerful movie with constant extremely strong language and unprecedented realism. The Movie nails 522 F-words (The most from any official motion picture film) The documentary on the F-word isn't classed as an official movie. And has more C-words than any other film with at least 82 (Maybe up to a hundred) So I strongly suggest AVOIDING this if you can't stand bad language and all emotional viewers should steer clear as the film can be tough to watch at times. The positives are huge though,which is why I rated this film (My 1st official IMDb Review) as a whopping 10/10. The acting is so believable and convincing. It makes you feel like you are watching a documentary somehow with that amazing realism in the atmosphere. It's so gripping to watch and will leave you in shock after watching thinking WOW! What a film. It has that impact. The film received 2 Bafta's and deserves It's awards because It's a corker. Gary Oldman Excellent actor, writer & director. Ray Winstone's best performance (IMO) in any film by a long shot. And Kathy Burke was exceptional along with him. A real gem masterpiece. Take my word for it and watch it! "},{"Title":"Ugly, brutal, fascinating","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's always a fun experience to watch an actors shift to the director chair. Such is the story behind Nil by Mouth, the directorial debut of Gary Oldman, one of the finest actors working today. Oldman himself does not appear in the film, but a whole collection of fantastic actors do instead. The film is a brutal story of a dysfunctional family living in London. This distraught and detached family struggles to stay together, having to battle one brothers heroin addiction, anothers short temper and violent tendencies, as well as the general debauchery that occurs within the lives of these people. This isn't a pleasant film and it isn't a happy film. It's a brutal depiction of London working-class districts and it will certainly disturb you to your core.The brutality of Nil by Mouth is unheard of. The film is a non-stop stream of cursing, graphic drug uses, and despicable violence. The film never lets up on the atrocity, leaving you no time to catch your breath. It's a fast moving film; one that doesn't stop to explain things and doesn't spell everything out for you. It's a completely character driven story with more character development in it than actual events occurring. Yet, enough happens to make the film plenty interesting. It slows down towards the middle as it sets up for its somber ending that leaves you with a strange and uneasy feeling in your stomach.Now, I'm always up for a great character driven story, but you have to be prepared for a lot going into Nil by Mouth. The thing is, the characters in this film are not likable in the least. They are the most despicable, deplorable, horridly atrocious people you've ever laid eyes on. Apart from them being sleazy and unattractive, they all possess the most unflattering personalities. The film presents a very strange family dynamic, having the characters constantly switch between love and hate for one another. Billy, the brother with the terrible heroin addiction, has his own mother give him drug money and also provides him with a place to shoot up. This seems like the most brutal form of motherly love until the two scream at each other a scene later, throwing the most horrendous profanities at one another. It is indeed some of the strangest relationships you could ever observe, teetering on being farcical at times, yet being sincerely compelling at other times.Overall, it is hard to become attached to the characters in Nil by Mouth. They certainly tell a fascinatingly twisted story, but don't expect to find any sympathy left in your heart when it's all over. This film disturbs me more than entertains me, but that is obviously the point. It is so harrowing and so horrendous that I can't guarantee you will want to watch it again once it's over. I'm not sure that I do, but I don't regret watching it by any means. Gary Oldman needs to try his luck with directing again one of these days, because his first attempt has gone pretty well. "},{"Title":"London working class life at its bleakest","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" English actor Gary Oldman sunk $1.5 million of his own money into NIL BY MOUTH, a film he wrote and directed. It is an noncommercial film set in and around the London of his youth - a South London council estate where the sun never shines (these films always work best when shot in winter) and everything has a grey, washed out look to it.There's no real plot in NIL BY MOUTH. It focuses on villain Ray (Ray Winstone), his wife (Kathy Burke) and her brother (Charlie Creed Mills). The film often seems to consist of long scenes of people boozing, swearing and shooting up heroin. Much of the dialogue consists of the 'F' word used over and over again. Oldman does have an acute ear for discomforting dialogue (one character says of a woman he saw getting a severe portion right up the f**king Gary) - it never sounds scripted and the whole film seems to happening spontaneously in front of the camera.Winstone delivers a career-best performance as the drunk Ray and Kathy Burke (who won the Best Actress prize at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival for this role) wears an expression of down-trodden weariness on her face in every scene. When Ray beats her up in a drunken rage (she is pregnant at the time), it's a wince inducing scene complete with moans of pain from Burke. It's an astonishing moment that stays with you days, months, even years after you witness it. This is the underclass at its rawest and filmmaking at its rawest. It's grimness and imagery burns into your mind and once seen you'll find it difficult to shake or forget, a distinction it shares with Alan Clarke's SCUM - and Clarke was one of Oldman's stated influences when shooting the movie. "},{"Title":"Unflinching and Heavy","Date":"8 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is Gary Oldman's only directorial role. He is known for playing villains and difficult characters in a range of movies, and is known for having taken many integrity roles - not pandering to Hollywood-style movie star roles. His work as an actor is outstanding and suggests he loves theatre and film, and thinks seriously about the roles he accepts.So, his directorial debut should be judged by a high standard. Fortunately, it surpasses expectations. This is movie about working class London life. It is gritty, it is dark, it is heavy. It doesn't try to build up an idea of London Gangster, as other movies of this ilk seem prone to doing. There is no sense that the movie is an attempt to posture or create a British ghetto cool in response to American Gangster or Ghetto movies. It is unflinching in it's portrayal of housing estate life, heroin addiction, and families flawed on many levels. It doesn't romanticise any of this. But, despite the dark mood of the piece, and the coarseness of the characters involved, you do get a feeling that this family love each other and care about each other. Sometimes, this causes tension - as a viewer, you can't help feeling life might be better for each member of this family if they just went their separate ways. But, true to life, they stick together, in the face of continual betrayals, violence, angers, and destruction. And they keep a dark sense of humour throughout.As someone who has experienced the environment portrayed int his film, I found it highly realistic. The humour was twisted, but genuinely so - in times of such strife, gallows humour comes to the surface. And the continuing sense that the next crisis is only a lift ride away makes this movie forceful and unforgiving in it's portrayal of British street life. "},{"Title":"Domestic Abuse with Ray Winstone. Could there be scarier?","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quite a rare film in that Oldman concentrates almost solely on realism and spares little time for entertainment or humour.Not to the detriment of the film or Oldman's direction, Nil By Mouth is very much like a twisted Big Brother experience rather than a film to warm the heart.The realism demonstrated is breathtaking. Winstone is terrifying, Burke downcast and even Big Mo is downtrodden in the face of Winstones violent nature.Whether Oldman himself has survived such an environment is a poignant question, to think people live their lives in such a way is an upsetting prospect. Some have written that this film is depressing. Admittedly the themes of domestic abuse, alcoholism, the dim lighting, and lack of 'warm' moments make grim viewing, but it does not mean the film is not worth a watch (though at two hours it is a little over-wrought)Probably one for film fans only, Oldman has made an auspicious debut. There is a personal nature to his film that suggests either a dynamic imagination or direct experience in childhood. I would like to think the former but the scripting and claustrophobic intensity of his direction and characterisation suggests differently.As ever Winstone believable, and also a great soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Powerful stuff","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A truly harrowing film is a rarity in today's film industry. There's a difference between being brutally honest and just being melodramatic, and most films don't exactly get it right.Then you have Nil By Mouth.Gary Oldman's directorial debut stars Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke (who both deserve an Oscar) as husband and wife Ray and Valerie. The film is set on a council estate in New Cross, a particularly grim setting for a particularly grim film. The main issue of the film is domestic violence; Ray abuses Valerie both physically and emotionally, providing scenes that many will find hard to watch.What makes the abuse more tragic is that Ray is just mirroring the way his own father acted towards him and his mother when he younger. The title Nil By Mouth is in fact a metaphor for the lack of relationship he had with his dad.While Winstone is on blistering form as usual, Kathy Burke and Laila Morse (of Eastenders fame) steal the show as mother and daughter living under the shadow of Ray.It'll leave a lasting impression on even the strongest viewer, but it's one of the best films you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"The greatest British Film ever made","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For all those who believe that Four Weddings, Bridget Jones or any of the host of nice British films rules the roost then you have to see this film. It is an unflinching, violent portrayal of life in Working Class England in a concrete jungle. The script is superb and led many to believe that it was improvised due to it's accuracy. Not a bit of it, ever word spoken is as Oldman put it in the script.The look of the film is also superb, reminiscent of a high price continental art house film than a low budget British effort.What this film is not is entertainment. Expect to be dragged through this film by the scruff of the neck and expect to be emotionally drained and wiping tears from your eyes at the end. It's a hard film to watch, and so it should be. Ray's attack on his wife is one of the most aggressive and violent incidences I can recall seeing in cinema and a testament to Winstone and Burke that they were able to create such powerful feelings on screen. Yet, the high point of the film is Winstone's breakdown. This is truly painful to watch and leaves mixed feelings about the character. Recalling it later you will feel sadness, but at the same time awe that you have seen such a powerful piece of work.This film was given a hard time for its level of bad language. While it is true that the profanity is constant, this is a honest portrayal and no honest portrayal of these people would have worked without that level of language. If you are offended by that, don't watch it. For the rest of us here is a film which will blow you away, affect the way you see the world and open your eyes.Genius. "},{"Title":"superb love/hate Drama","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my view this is a very good movie; although it is crude and violent throughout it shows brilliantly on the other hand the feelings and emotions of the characters. Ray(Ray Winstone) has wounds he carried all his life from his troubled past with his father but the love for his wife Valerie(Kathy Burke)and his daughter make him see that light at the end of the tunnel. Of course the happy ending brought a smile on my face and I bet not only mine....   "},{"Title":"Best British Film I've Ever Watched","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're going to see this film, prepare yourself for a smack in the mouth. Sheer brilliant camera techniques, realistic dialogue and the monumentally commanding presence of the actors; And that's all the actors, not just the main ones. This is one of the few films I've ever given 10 out of 10 for. Burke and Winstone wowed me from the start. It's a must see. Watch for more by this Director - Gary Oldman. "},{"Title":"Blistering Directorial Debut from Oldman.  (SPOILERS)","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Gary Oldman has carried the confrontational nature of many of his characters to his first attempt at directing.  The result is a raw, honest and incredibly uncomfortable watch that pays dividends if you're brave enough to stick with it.  It is the scariest film I have seen, because honesty is seemingly etched into every frame.  First time viewers will almost certainly watch with fingers hovering over the remote control as the characters toy with destroying themselves and each other.  There's Ray (Winstone) and his savage thuggery, and there's the bleak despair of the heroin addict.  Few of these people are likeable, but they are recognisably human.  To claim that this faithfully represents Britain is perhaps hyperbole, but there is no doubt that it exposes a hitherto concealed facet of domestic life in some households.   All of the cast deliver performances of which Oldman himself would be proud.  A particularly chilling scene is where a sozzled Winstone rings around for his wife after she has left him following a savage beating.  The character seems almost childlike and innocent.  This can be hard to deal with after we have just witnessed his actions, but Oldman pulls no punches.  The film is like that as a whole; a brave venture which declares that you must take it as it is.  Not for this film the hypocrisy of 'test screenings' or 'romantic subplots'.  Oh no!  It's perhaps hard to judge fully the merits of 'Oldman the director' on the evidence of this, since large sections are obviously autobiographical.  What it most certainly does represent is an extremely promising start to his helming career.  I'd like to see him tackle a more offbeat project soon so I can evaluate whether all the hype really is justified.  He's very rarely let me down before.   Usually, when the British film industry attempt 'realism', it translates as insufferably pretentious.  Similarly, when it tries to ape the fads of Hollywood, the result is heavily diluted and invariably unwatchable.  Nil by Mouth falls into neither of those traps, and is much the better for it.  This is probably the film as Gary Oldman wanted it presented; accessible (barring accents) yet not infantile; honest, yet not exploitative.  The Cockney accents remain intact!  Please, if you find this disconcerting, I implore you to persevere; it's worth it to uncover this gem of a film.  It's probably the single most compelling argument for pouring more money into UK film-making that I've seen.  If output like this becomes commonplace as a result, it will have been worth it.   It's certainly not an easy watch, but for those who value gritty realism over glossy fantasy, it IS definitely essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Explosive performances by Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke!!!!!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nil by Mouth is a raw, unflinching look at a dysfunctional family as it copes with alcoholism, drug abuse, petty crime and domestic violence in South East London.Written & directed Gary Oldman.This film is good because it is based on real life its a brilliant story with great actors who are stunning.This is a film to not be missed!!! "},{"Title":"Hard to watch, but ultimately worth it","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had been wanting to see this film for a long time but never got around to it.  Finally caught it on cable a few weeks ago and was very impressed. Everything about this film demonstrates the skill of the film-maker in staying true to the gritty subject matter.  Use of hand held camera adds to the cinematic realism as does the way the family are never seen together in one shot until the very end of the film.  The subject matter, especially the drug abuse, is shot with gritty realism that I have rarely seen before. It looks like Gary Oldman knows his stuff about life in working class London. All performances are outstanding, Ray Winstone is always worth watching, but the lesser know members of the case also amazed me with the honesty of their performances.  Although this film is difficult to watch in some scenes, it is a must see for anyone serious about realism in cinema. "},{"Title":"Superb! Superb! Superb!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If European films strove for the depth, truth and honesty displayed in Nil By Mouth, then maybe European cinema could once again become relevant and vital to European audiences. Instead of imitating the sentimentality of Hollywood filmmaking, Nil By Mouth shows the inimitable power of a film based on superb acting and honest storytelling. There is hope, after all, for European films. "},{"Title":"Real life in 90's London Council estate.","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you can cope with the swearing that almost makes your ears sting, you should be in awe of the stunning performances of Ray Winston and Kathy Burke. The way of life seems almost hopeless, and if you think this is not true to life, think again. I never lived on an estate like this, but I did drive an ambulance for ten years in the areas that this film is set; believe me, people do exist in this way. There is a scene where Ray Winstone is talking to his best friend about what his dad was like, and how he felt as a kid. Gritty in the extreme and yet intensely moving. The ending is, at first impression surprising, and yet it leaves you wondering if this is just an uncharacteristic plateau in an otherwise downward spiral. Its worth comparing this film with another starring Kathy Burke as the mum, with Lee Evans as the dad. THE MARTINS. A similar life style but with a comic slant; it also contains a role by Ray Winstone as well! You actually end up quite liking this totally dysfunctional family!!Clive. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had some problems with Oldman's film, which shouldn't take away the real power it has.  It does avoid the repetitive nature of wife-beating movies (and books and TV shows) by creating real characters and a tone of anger, rather than just despair.  And Kathy Burke and Ray Winstone are as good as advertised.  Finally, while Oldman shoots it pretty starkly (the colors are somewhat muted), you don't get the feeling of being whacked over the head with a shovel.But I must say I had problems with the character of Kathy Burke's brother, the one who had problems with drugs; he seemed to belong to another movie. And the ending seemed too happy for such a downbeat movie.  Still, this is a good film "}{"Title":"A review almost 20 years later","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first watched this when it came out in 1997. It was pretty powerful to me, and I just couldn't watch it again for a long time. I was young and dumb then, but all I could remember was my boyfriend at the time fell asleep and I bawled my eyes out.So this week I finally geared up to watch it again...And it smashed my heart into pieces again, with no less impact... This film is so hard to write about. Tin-Pot dictators who are kings of their own castles, and the women who support them.... What broke my heart was our 'heroine' played by Kathy Burke, the victim of her nasty, violent husband... He beats the sh*t out of her, she throws him out, he begs to come back, and you are just f**king cheering her on.... The next scene, he's back, all's good, no big reconciliation scene... This could have been the movie of my childhood... Drama, police, strength, followed by some mystery process and everything back to 'normal'. I felt like Oldman was watching my childhood then put it on screen.... This film has stayed with me for 20 years and I have never seen a truer portrayal of casual domestic violence. Kathy Burke was f**king out of this world as a strong, yet ultimately trapped woman, and Ray Winstone was a tour-de-force, literally, as a man who doesn't understand his own motives, who never will..... For me this is THE definitive British domestic violence film "},{"Title":"brilliant - acting superb - heartbreaking","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is one angry movie, that never lets up, gary oldman has only directed the one film, and its a beauty, the script is one of the nastiest bits of writing, its just unrelenting, the acting is so realistic, extremely depressing but would have be in the top ten films of the 90's. it is heavy going, but like a car crash you cant keep your eyes off it..... kathy burke is sensational, boy she can act, she can do comedy, but the drama she does in this, is so deep and in character. if this is the only film oldman makes, he has made a minor classic 10/10 punk rock cinema, ray winstone is as ugly as it gets, one of his best acting roles ever...this movie seems to get overlooked. great cinema "},{"Title":"Style over substance","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When you're deciding whether or not a film is worth watching, you normally analyse the cast, the director, the plot and the audience reviews. All of which for this film came off very well so I was ready for a great, gritty, British drama about the realities of abusive marriage. I don't really understand why this film got all the praise it received, for one the plot line is a chewed up, over used and limp idea. What we are seeing here is a torn family, an abusive husband (yes with the pregnant wife), drugs abuse to an explicit extend and tough circumstances for everyone involved. This has been done before in so many films that when it comes to watching something like this you at least hope to experience something original and fresh. Instead we get the word c*** thrown around like it's your winning prize in bingo for no real reason - perhaps to add realism of the scenario and the families culture. It just doesn't flow - we then begin to realise that Ray's character had had difficulties relating to and getting on with his father, which could be reflected well in the story-line IF we actually met his father. Instead we have a half drunk Ray trying to paint a very vague picture of who his father was. It's these instances when we struggle to understand the characters emotionally. Instead we get a very narrow view of who they really are and who they're trying to portray. Aside from this, the editing and cinematography is great, and it depicts a very bleak world that the family and the characters live in. Using very low light and interesting use of scene selection has given the film an almost apocalyptic look. In conclusion, this film had so much potential to be a real hit (for me anyway) with a great cast, a great plot and an interesting premise. But unfortunately it misses the mark by ruining good ingredients to make an average film. Maybe you need to watch to make your own mind up? "},{"Title":"Cinema at its most raw","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When we are introduced to the various foul-mouthed, chain-smoking, poverty-stricken characters in Gary Oldman's one and only directorial credit, Nil By Mouth, they are gathered in a working club telling stories about people and events we are not privy to. Any establishing character introductions would betray the authenticity of Oldman's searing drama. These are real people, or seem like they are, so we get to endure their mundane and often repulsive conversations as if we've known them for years. And it feels like we have. The product of their social class means they're stuck in their routines; the men indulging in coke-fuelled benders, and the women are just happy to be out of the house.Dedicated to his father, Nil by Mouth is clearly autobiographical, or at least based on Oldman's experiences growing up in a council flat in South East London. Focusing essentially on three main characters - Ray (Ray Winstone), a booze-addled, violent abuser, Valerie (Kathy Burke), his bullied and terrorised wife, and Valerie's brother Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles), a young heroin-addict relying on his mother Janet (Laila Morse) to fund his habit - the film doesn't really tell a clear-cut story, but instead immerses you in it's environment. Dialogue is fast, naturalistic and often hard to follow, and long scenes often do little other than force you to listen to these people's everyday ramblings.Anyone looking for a pleasant experience may do better to look elsewhere, as no punches are pulled. Plenty are thrown, however, as Ray's jealousy over a man he sees Valerie playing pool with - innocently - erupts into a horrific scene of domestic violence. Even more heartbreaking is the next scene, as her mother sees her daughter's battered face for the first time and must listen to her cover story, being fully aware of Ray's violence tendencies. Laila Morse (an anagram of the Italian phrase for 'my sister') is Gary Oldman's sister, and although she had no formal acting experience before the film, she may just be the best thing in it. Her expression of helplessness at the sight of her son shooting up in the back of her van is incredibly powerful.As the film goes on, we do eventually learn more about these characters. Ray may be the clear-cut monster on the surface, but there is some sympathy to be had. In a scene following a particularly self-destructive bender, Ray explains to his friend Mark (Jamie Foreman) that he had no love from his father. Beneath the bulldog exterior lies a rather pathetic and self-pitying man, unable to communicate anything to his wife to the point where they seem to exist in different rooms in their cramped flat. Not since John Cassavetes has a film so successfully portrayed the tragedy of male machismo. With Eric Clapton's wonderfully bluesy score blaring throughout, the film is drenched in atmosphere while maintaining the sense of reality. It's by no means an easy watch, but Nil by Mouth is cinema at it's most raw.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Ugly people in the ugly neighbourhood","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Grey monotonous apartment blocks, unemployment with relative poverty, people with addictions and impaired physical and mental health - those phenomena are common to rich countries as well, but those who can try to avoid it, not notice it, and most different ones have no idea about life perhaps some miles away. Neither do I, all this was a kind of cruel documentary to me, apart from the fact that I recognised some great British actors (Ray Winstone, Kathy Burke). True, performances were great and realistic, but everything was nasty, even the weather, and following people with lost or vain hopes and odd forgiveness is frustrating rather than interesting. As for Gary Oldman's debut as a writer and director, it is good, but I would have preferred a plot instead of gloomy narration. "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and Very Good!","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nil by Mouth is a very striking and non predictable movie about absence of love or strange forms of love, agressiveness, addiction and other forms of self destruction and or the destruction of a family in this case. Here a poor family living in a working-class London district has too many problems to deal with that they don't see that they're living dangerously. Raymond (Ray Winstone) is a controlling man that starts to lose control of his acts after throws Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles), his wife's brother, out of his house after he steals some of his merchandise. Billy is drug addict and he returns to Raymond's house to steal some things and that makes Raymond even more angrier making of him a more violent person than he is even beating up his pregnant wife Val (Kathy Burke). In the middle of all this confusion there's Janet (Laila Morse) Billy's mother a very hard working mom who also has to deal with Billy's addiction, and the constant menaces of Raymond.The plot takes some time to mesh but when it does you try to expect something very predictable and that's not what you're gonna find here. In the beginning all we see is a amount of funny conversations à la John Cassavetes between Raymond and his friend Mark (Jamie Foreman, looks like a mix between Neil Jordan, Dr. Oz and John Michael Higgins) one completing each others story (they got some funny and strange stories, the best one is about Mark's heart attack). The introduction to all the characters is quite odd and a little bit difficult to follow but when the real deal starts it becomes more and more interesting. Actor Gary Oldman's first film as writer, director and producer is very impressive not only in his writing but also in his style as director. The screenplay is very surprising, alternating drama with a little bit of humor and towards the ending a very breathtaking thriller. Oldman included many things about his life in London. You may feel a little shocked with some of the things presented here. To me two scenes were very powerful in this sense First when we see Janet watching his son Billy using drugs in front of her, and she says to him Go to the back seat, I don't wanna see it! but then she looks at him injecting drugs with a expression of curiosity. Second scene is when Raymond freaks out, drunk and kicks his wife suspecting that she has an affair. This scene and the aftermath showing what happened to her face is very impressive, almost hard to look at it. Oldman's style as director is brilliant. He filmed the movie with a visual of a Brit movie of the 1980's with the language and editing with a frantic rhythm of the 1990's movies reminding Trainspotting in some moments. His direction of actors is incredible and you must give this guy a credit considering that almost the entire cast is unknown (except for Ray Winstone). He really must consider directing another movie because he's really great. It might seem that Nil by Mouth has too many clichés about dysfunctional and violent families and that sort of thing but I think the way Oldman presented the story was very original, a little different than the usual things. By the way the ending is one good example. It shocked me the way things worked between the characters and how their problems were solved out of the blue despite all the running tension throughout half of the movie. That surprise was good but it might seen non-plausible, non-realistic and very weird to some viewers. I loved the explanation of the title (the movie's title didn't get a translation here so it was a mystery to understand it but Ray Winstone explained it in one of the most memorable scenes of the movie). See this movie if you can and be patient with its imperfect moments and the long conversations in the beginning. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Oldman the director.","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not only is Gary Oldman one of the best actors ever, he is also a capable director/writer. this film is loosely based on Oldman's childhood. that fact is actually disturbing after watching the movie. i thought to myself, have i ever watched a movie with this much bad language? well i looked it up and here is a interesting fact The word fu.. and its variations are used 522 times, an average of 4.25 times per minute, a higher rate than any other film to date (March 2008), with the exception of the documentary Fu.. (2005), which holds the record with 824 uses of the word. The word cu.. is used 82 times in this film. Ray Winstone impressed me with his performance. a genuine force of nature , or destructive nature sounds more right. "},{"Title":"Horrific documentary-like picture about the sad lives of people living in the underground section of London","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gary Oldman dedicates this film to his father. I don't think that means anything good about Gary Oldman's relationship with his father. However, the film in question is one of the best films of the 90s. The stark reality of this film comes off all too strong and not forced at all.Ray Winstone has a talent of making his lines sound unscripted and improvised. It's so strange to watch him in NIL BY MOUTH. His character is simply a monster of a man, constantly drunk or high, constantly beating up the people around him, and ridiculing and harming his wife in increasingly extreme ways. The Charlie Creed-Miles character is a sad sap of a man. He's a thief, a skank, and completely untrustworthy, yet he's one of the most likable characters in the film. There's the wife, played by Kathy Burke in the film's finest performance, who displays such a unique range of passion and passiveness. She's simply a fascinating sight to behold.You may have noticed that I haven't mentioned a plot. Well that's because there isn't one to speak of. This isn't a film that you can simply explain. It's more the kind of film that you can just describe in hope that the people around you would find it intriguing. Truth be told, the concept of a bunch of people being miserable in a dank underground smutty portion of London doesn't sound as appealing as I would hope, but this is a great film to really seek out. It's a thrilling and completely unusual film than most would expect. It is extremely unflinching in it's graphic violence and drug use so it's not for the squeamish. For anyone else, however, who wants to see something that they've never seen before, this is definitely one of the films you will ever see. "},{"Title":"Literally striking","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Gary Oldman has only written and directed one film, but 'Nil By Mouth', a visceral and ferociously unsentimental portrait of south London's criminal underbelly, reveals a considerable talent in both departments. Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke won most of the plaudits, but in truth, it's an ensemble piece, and all of the cast are excellent. When the colour of the story turns from dark to pitch black about two-thirds of the way through, the viewer is it by a punch reminiscent of those being thrown on-screen. The film reminded me of Mike Leigh's Naked, another movie about a sociopath in London; but whereas Leigh's protagonist was fiercely intelligent and stubbornly attractive in spite of his monstrous behaviour, Winstone plays a man who, while very human, is too far gone to possess any possibility of salvation, and it's arguable that the film is a little too long, given the fact that the audience cannot like this man. But it's still a (literally) striking and horrific movie; and it's a shame that Oldman has not been tempted to get behind the camera since. "},{"Title":"Brutally honest. Watch with a serious head.","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A brutally honest, gritty, painful reflection on working class life in england. It begins as you would expect any film about working class citizens to begin... in the local, run down pub. But the 2 hour film takes you through honest and heart wrenching material which makes the text, as a whole, incredibly painful to watch. The characters are broken, yet we form a well rounded understanding of them while we watch the turbulent events of their lives unfold. The sympathy and distaste we feel for each character stems from a completely honest representation of them (and their situation) fed to us so truthfully by Gary Oldman. The story, whilst controversial in it's nature, makes for an interesting and turbulent ride through the back streets of London proving us with previews of drugs, violence a domestic abuse. A must see for any serious film lover. Not to be taken lightly. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" People have criticized this film for lacking plot and its rather liberal use of expletives, but the truth is that these are all part of what is a depressingly accurate picture of life for many working class families in London. Aside from all of the other great aspects of the film, the foul language is an accurate description of how people actually speak in South and East London. More importantly, the film perhaps lacks a plot or direction in the sense that it is going somewhere, not as a result of some directorial failure on Oldman's part but because the lives of the characters also have no real direction, people just live out their lives using drugs to escape the depressing reality of their own miserable existence, as is particularly shown when Billy sheds a tear in the prison cell. The best they can do is have as much fun as they can and have some stories to tell. Indeed, much of the conversation in the film is a nostalgic reliving of previous misdeeds. "},{"Title":"Most realistic depiction of estate life","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film does a better job of depicting the miserable end of English council estate living than anything else I've ever seen. I was a police officer in the 1990s, and spent 90% of my working life in the kinds of places, and with the kinds of people, that make up this amazing film. The never-ending violence, drug abuse and poverty is something I saw in real life every day. It was hard to express to people who have not lived in that world just how it really looks and feels. From now on, I will tell them to watch this film, which gives the closest look you'll get as an outsider to that side of life.I should also say that the language was spot on. People really do swear that much.... "},{"Title":"Is Scary To Think There Are People Like Ray Out There.","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ray Winstone is outstanding in Gary Oldman's powerful, hard hitting drama exploring the down-trodden lives of a working class family in the darkest parts of London. Painfully realistic and drawing on Oldman's own childhood experiences, Nil by Mouth is an honest and frankly nihilistic depiction of shattered existence. The intrusive camera work is all-encompassing and the dialogue, improvised and aggressive. The overall melancholy mise-en-scene is dark and disturbing and makes the film at times very difficult to watch. Despite this, Nil by Mouth remains an inaugural part of the recent British cinema canon, with the film delving into the violent underbelly of our contemporary society.7/10 "},{"Title":"The People, Places and Situations Displayed In Nil by Mouth Are More Than A Taste Of Squalor","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was throughout the late '80s and '90s that Gary Oldman rose to tremendous fame. A British actor famed for performing as villains and undesirables, while also often being mistaken as American due to his treasured ability of crafting a pitch-perfect accent. It was not until 1997 that Oldman decided it was his turn to shine behind the camera, and managed to have past collaborator Luc Besson produce the incredibly personal, Nil by Mouth. In some respects the film is a social-commentary, speaking to Britain's Labour government at the time and arguing that politicians are doing little to help improve such areas as those displayed in the film. On the other hand, it is merely a portrait an unthinkable lifestyle.Domestic violence, drug abuse and a general sense of depravity fills such a story, but none of it is in any way gratuitous because everything shown is the bare-knuckled truth. It is the stuff which is kept relatively quiet in the media, only glossed over and never showing the full perspective, yet Nil by Mouth directly tackles depravation from an insider's perception, someone who experienced the relatively unthinkable during childhood and adulthood. In such an environment innocence is destroyed at an early age and the realisation that life will be &#150;for such people- an endless struggle until death. It is a cynical take on life, which cannot be ignored, since there is little redemption and only a recurring cycle of the inevitable. Told through a first-person narrative; Oldman revisits his past through the photographic lens and finally lays his memories to rest through the art of still, long neglected scrutiny (but with unsurprisingly frantic camera work).Ray Winstone performs with the utmost level of conviction in the film's centrepiece performance. As per-usual, Winstone's ferocious mannerisms and contagiously aggressive language is a recognisable acting trait. The only performance in 1997 which surpassed the one at hand was Takeshi Kitano's performance in Hana-bi. It is the fragile self-loathing and longing for pity which makes Winstone's role all the more recognisable, let alone excitingly unpredictable. He pinpoints the moment of one man's realisation that his masochistic self is tearing apart the lives that surround him; nerve-shattering stuff. Then you have the leading female performance from Kathy Burke, who avoids &#150;by every means- a begging desperation (which would be deserved) for sympathy, but instead holds the ability to evoke such feelings due to her profound and defiant image of a mother caged by her inescapable surroundings. Both performances did not even receive the courtesy of even an Oscar nomination, and after seeing Nil by Mouth you may possibly loose hope in the academy (providing you have not lost it already).See the rain patter London's streets, see the tears behind the violence and see the sorrow disguised by the naturalistic humour. Oldman has rid himself of a demon and has allowed us to witness his fearless and sympathetic honesty. As with most work of such a fierce and uncompromising nature, Nil by Mouth is by no means an enjoyable experience, but rather a fascinating one, which should be admired and not indulged in. British cinema has &#150;partially due to culture- always been of the gritty kind because of its reoccurring focus on distraught lives, and Oldman's seminal study of urban squalor could easily be mistaken for a documentary. Alas, none of what is shown is photogenic, but there is beauty behind the void of hellish activity and the slow-burning cycle of immorality. "},{"Title":"Shocking and Provocative Exploration of Emotional and Domestic Abuse","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ray And I just touched him, you know? He was f__cking freezing cold. It frightened the life out of me. I was looking at him, you know? For the first time in my life, I talked to him. I said, Why didn't you ever love me? Wow! 'Nil by Mouth' just might be the most disturbing motion picture I've ever experienced. Gary Oldman (best known for his acting) writes and directs this gritty portrayal of life in a dysfunctional family in South London. There is Ray (Ray Winstone) the alcoholic/physically abusive husband and father. Ray's abused wife Valerie (Kathy Burke), Valerie's younger drug-addict brother Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles), Valerie's mother Janet (Laila Morse) and Janet's mother Kath (Edna Dore). The film basically explores the extreme level of dysfunction this family has to offer. It's a gut-wrenching, uncomfortable and hard-to-watch experience, but it's an incredibly well-made film. The finest aspect of 'Nil by Mouth' is without a doubt the acting. The two best performances of the film obviously come from the two leads -- Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke. Kathy Burke gives a difficult and emotionally charged performance. She succeeds in creating what is perhaps the only truly sympathetic character of the film. She won the Cannes Film Festival Best Actress prize, which doesn't surprise me one bit. On the opposite side of the spectrum, Ray Winstone creates one of the scariest and unlikeable film presences of all time as the boozy-eyed and physically violent Ray. The best scene of the film features Winstone's character delivering an undeniably powerful monologue about how his father never showed him any love during his life. This tragedy doesn't excuse Ray's abusive behavior by any means, but it possibly opens up an understanding to Ray's horrible actions. Laila Morse is perfect as the enabling mother of Valerie, and Charles Miles-Creed doesn't miss a beat as the desperate drug-addict son, Billy. Definetaly not a film for everyone, 'Nil by Mouth' is likely to disgust most of it's viewers into turning off the DVD less than half-way into the movie. But for those who can handle an extremely bleak, pessimistic and frightfully realistic motion picture, I highly recommend Gary Oldman's riveting debut film 'Nil by Mouth'. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Gritty Social Realism!!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was about 12 and I thought it was amazing and very realistic. Gary Oldman is a great director and the camera work makes it seem almost like a documentary adding to the realism. The domestic violence and strong language may offend some people but it once again adds to the realism. The acting from Ray Winstone and Kathy Burke is exceptional and Steve Sweeney has a great and funny role. This should be seen by every Brit. I also recommend Tim Roth's directorial debut 'The War Zone'. "},{"Title":"Never seen anything like this.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a varied structured film. Its not stuck on one person's mission to get from A to B, like most films. This is a varied film with one precise ending. This is what makes this film unforgettable!This films is focused on a family on a council estate living different lives. Kathy Burke is fantastic as Valerie and Ray Winstone plays Ray, her husband who is a drunk, abusive and is haunted by past demons. There's also Valerie's younger brother who is addicted to heroin and Valerie's mother, Janet (who is played by Lalia Morse who is Gary Oldman's sister and we probably associate more with Big Mo is Eastenders) This film is brilliant and incredibly graphic form beginning to end. According to the average, we hear the F word about 3.9 times per minute and we hear a lot of the C word. Theres a lot of violence and drug taking scenes that put Trainspotting to shame.Ray Winstone once said that Gary Oldman knew what he wanted on screen and I agree. Seen as based on Oldman's life living in London, this film is one of the few realistic films around. It does not succumb to Hollywood with a terrific and convincing British cast. The two stars of the film are Burke and Winstone as man and wife. The problem I had with this film was understand one of the Cockney phrases but coming from Manchester, I did find this surprising because Manchester and London are two different cultures. Well done Gary Oldman! Hope he directs another film soon!9/10! "},{"Title":"Realism","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie-i've not led a sheltered life-did not shock me particularly but i can see how it could have that effect upon certain other people.That said the film does work in that its portrayals of the subtle relationships between the characters are mostly, with the exception of the occasional bit of over acting, spot on.The film it reminded me of most in its overall feel was Scum (1978) and not just because there are a couple of actors (Including Winstone) who were in that who are in this. A must see movie, for sure. Btw i must take issue with the reviewer who said that most of the working class in Britain live like this, that is total nonsense although i will conceed that a sizeable minority do. "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC portrayal of REAL life in lower class Britain.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a gruelling film. What outstanding performances. How extremely painful it is to watch at times. Very unnerving. What do I like about this film? It shows me the bare facts (okay, it's fictional but it's supposed to be semi-autobiographical too) and considers I have enough intelligence to look at it and see what Gary Oldman is trying to say on my own without having to be led. Some people might say it lacks a story. I don't believe it's trying to tell a story. I believe this film is showing us how people really live without any pretty faces including Hollywood style sparkling white teeth. I grew up in an area similar to this (I am English and live in the US at the moment)and I, like many people the world over, have experienced physical abuse going on in the room next door. It's real. This is what it sounds like and feels like. Well done Gary for having the balls to show it like it is. "},{"Title":"Powerful British movie that exposes family reality.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nil by mouth without doubt is one of the greatest and most brutal british films ever made that explores a dysfunctional family living in central london.The family are into drugs,stealing and crime. Ray Winstone plays the father of the family,who beats his wife,is into drugs,and goes on robberies to keep them fed.Kathy Burke gives a convincing performance as the abused wife who is at breaking point.Charlie Creed Miles plays the son who is into his drugs and has to steal to keep up with his habit.Nil by mouth is more depressing and alot more harrowing than it sounds.It takes what goes on behind closed doors in London and puts it onto screen.The film seems pure reality,it goes on overlong but it is an assault on the senses purely.It might make you greatful for the happy life you lead or it might make you feel lucky for what you owe in life.If you're looking for something far more harrowing or far more disturbing I reccomend The War Zone,but this is well worth the see.I rate 4/5. "}{"Title":"this film left me shaking afterwards","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i will never forget the night i saw this film...i havent felt the same since. this film, along with THE WAR ZONE makes me wish i could be a british director, how come no one here in australia can make films as good as this?? it just doesnt seem fair.... even if you disregard for a minute the phenomenally realistic acting here, its the socio-cultural commentary of this film that really hits home. this is a portrait of a severely fragmented family with no real prospects or future, living their daliy lives in the slums of london, it makes me grateful for the upbringing i had (paradise, in comparison to this..). i really dont know what else to say about this that hasnt been said, except see it now!!!! gary oldman shows that he has a distinct flair for filmmaking and for reflecting the social problems of his homeland, i cant wait for his next film. ray winstone made me s**t my pants in this film, he makes vinnie jones look like a wimp. every film he has been in, he has been nothing short of sensational. the man is a legend and i hope to go to his restaurant in england someday, and demand that he threaten and insult me - id be stoked. a good companion piece to NIL BY MOUTH is a similar film by tim roth called THE WAR ZONE, which is even more bleak than this!! (no small feat there!!). see this now and you'll thank me later.final verdict 12/10 (personal highlight the orgy anecdote in the pub, the funniest scene EVER) "},{"Title":"absorbing family drama","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A well acted, absorbing family drama with some strong scenes. With the exception of a few overlong scenes of characters just walking around, and one or two scenes when people are overly verbal and explanatory in a way that is somewhat out of character, this is a very fine, chilling film.  "},{"Title":"This is Britain's finest.","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm sure the Americans will be horrified to see that the British do not sit around drinking afternoon tea with the Queen all day.  This is a British film about people who talk like me and live like my friends.  I would be this way too were it not for my education.  I can see that a movie like this is difficult to grasp by people who do not live amongst people like the ones portrayed in Nil By Mouth.Nil By Mouth is not making a cocky statement about nihilism.  This is a picture of how Britain really is - plain and simple.  This is how the majority of the British live, if not that, it's their attitude.The pain of this film is not that characters' violence or despair or anger, it is their total apathy for their own pathetic misery.  They have no desire to save themselves or treat each other kindly.  They don't care where they're going, or why.  The characters are lovable, despairing and vulnerable.  This is the soft underbelly of Britain, and it's only right that the rest of the world should see it.  We're not all like Hugh Grant, you know; it's time the cute American view of Britain changed.  Kathy Burke was incredible in this movie - I love her anyway but her performance in this was beyond brilliant.  She really is one of the most skilled actresses around (see her as Perry in 'Kevin and Perry Go Large') hehehe, no sarcasm intended - compare the performances.I cried, I didn't laugh, and I held my face in empathic pain.  I doubt I'll ever watch it again, but I know I'll never forget it. "},{"Title":"Powerful and gripping","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nil By Mouth's most shocking feature is not the non-stop barrage of expliit swear words, nor the horific violence, nor the drug-taking.  It is the fact that these features all represent life as it is in certain parts of Britain, where domestic violence, drug-taking and poverty is the norm.  Disturbing also is the ending (which I won't reveal) and how scary that semingly tranquil and happy scene really is, considering what happened before it, a bomb waiting to explode for thesecond time maybe.  Nil By Mouth grabs the mind and leaves it wondering aboutlife in general, and about those who's lives are scarily simialr to those on the screen.  this is reinforced by the performances from all of the actors and actresses involved, who are believable throughout.  Superb directing gives this film a documentory 'fly on the wall' feel, and the bustle of the street life adds to the tense atmosphere.Thought provoking, and scarier than any horror movie, Nil By Mouth is a must see movie and makes a change from typical recent British movies (Notting Hill, 4 weddings, Kevin and Perry, The Full Monty etc.).You simply must witness this movie, especially if you don't live in Britain. "},{"Title":"Not exactly a date movie.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No-one is going to rent this one for their auntie. It is however, a movie that will reward those who stick with it.Ray Winston and Kathy Burke are magnificent.In one scene, Winston takes Martin Sheen's 'drunk in the hotel room' performance from Apocalypse Now and trumps it. Burke's performance is simply spellbinding throughout.If you have difficulty with the accents, stay with it. The film is worth the effort.     "},{"Title":"One of the two best directorial debuts in the 90's.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oldman deserves every ounce of praise given to this picture. Just as Vincent Gallo did in his quasi-autobiographical film, Oldman has created a highly personal and painful examination of the human condition. The film's highly realistic portrayal of the life of an abusive alcoholic should have earned some attention at Oscar time. Ray Winstone's performance was easily the best of 1997. As much as I revere Scorcese, this film surpasses Mean Streets for cinema verite. Anyone who enjoys movies that can convey stark emotional impact shouldn't pass this one up.(be patient with the cockney accents-you can get used to them) "},{"Title":"Perfectly portrayed disfunctional family.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Good but Horrible.  Perfectly portrayed disfunctional family that never broke out of its cycle. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its very rare that I rate something 10 out of 10 but Nil By Mouth deserves it.What really really nags me is that this excellent film is poorly rated by Americans and Canadians etc that just don't get the lingo etc. Or the fact that Nil By Mouth is 'too grim' to applaud.I mean, had this been some less violent American movie by some A list actors then they would of gotten Oscar nominations and all sorts.The fact is this film is too real for most people. It has a lot of heart and reality to it. Its so gritty and raw and exploding with substance I cant believe how much Nil By Mouth is overlooked. AS far as I'm concerned this is the British Once Were Warriors, another great film but from New Zealand.I praise Gary Oldman for making such an honest, from the heart film. It is so rare nowadays to see something like Nil By Mouth.Kathy Burke is fantastic as the abused wife, and Ray Winstone equally as fantastic as the abuser and raging alcoholic. The supporting cast is fantastic as well.I really wish films like this existed today, sadly no one has the balls, vision or creativeness.Top film. If you think this film has no artistic merit then you really haven't got a clue. Its unique. "},{"Title":"Powerful and realistic depiction of South London in the 90s","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Faithful and violent depiction of working class south London family in the late 90s. A whirlwind of violence, drugs and an all-time record for the f-word (552 times overall) make this a very intense experience both in positive and negative emotions in which you get a hold of how - amidst all types of problems - people continue surviving through inner strength and occasional perversely dark humor. The performances all around are absolutely spotless, specially those of the three main characters Ray Winston, Kathy Burke and Charlie Creed-Miles do a stunning job and well the directing from Gary Oldman is top notch. I've heard this is loosely autobiographical and well if it is, you have to respect Gary for being able to pull it through the ranks of show business. Highly Recommended and you can't absolutely miss it if you have any kind of interest for the British culture. "},{"Title":"A  mediocre film from a Great British cast","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To call this film tripe would be an understatement. There are many good qualities in Nil By The Mouth. For instance an important factor being the east end cast selected - perfectly. Jamie Foreman plays his part, as always with great Londoners influence and Winstone portrays an abusive husband the best an actor can.However this is not to say the complete film was great. With a slow build up to the action and a lack of depth into certain parts there is a limit to the quality of entertainment which can be gained from this movie. Anyyone not British firstly would not understand it, perhaps subtitles would even be needed. This is due to the cockney slang used repeatedly. This Oldman cannot be criticised for. Because without this the film would not be whole and have the British experience which this film featured.As the storyline continues and we are introduced to the mundane and dangerous world in which the characters live in the audience (so long as they are British) can start to visualise areas they know or have heard of being identical.Although it can be argued that the film is too violent in terms of language and actual physical violence i feel this was essential here to portray the hardness of the characters and their struggles.Overall a pure British film, showing the everyday life of everyday people. "}{"Title":"In a word Gritty","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a true to life smash-mouth tell-it-like-it-is story.  No glamour. No glitz.  No bull.  Someone mentioned it's like a kick in the stomach. Boy, is it.  This is no feel-good movie.  But I felt closer to these folks than most movie people.  They're real.  Not pretty, but definitely real. If this movie makes it to your screen, see it.  You should be able to understand the King's English.  This film is not the best ever made, but Oldman gives you a solid story and an excellent directorial debut.  Great stuff.  7 of 10. "},{"Title":"technically excellent - but is it entertainment?","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to concur with some of the other commentators - Nil by Mouth is a strange movie. It's depiction of S London council slums is very gritty, the acting is very credible. It's the story or lack of one that I find hard to get my head around. It doesn't go anywhere - the ending is extremely weak, leaving more loose ends than ever. I was under the misapprehension that a serious calamity was going to befall one of them which was supposed to be pivotal, but without giving the storyline away, the pivotal part of the movie was knocked off balance by the disappointing ending. I found this movie strangely compelling- I kept wondering to myself why I was bothering to perservere with the excessively foul language and the dark photography but it was gripping for some unexplicable reason. However the ending spoiled a lot for me and that's why despite the excellent acting I could only give this a 7 - at the end of the day I watch movies to be entertained and while that can be achieved by a variety of genres, not all light, not all funny, this movie fails to entertain "},{"Title":"Nil by Mouth","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was the directorial debut from the great actor Gary Oldman, who based the story on many events in his past life, it is not autobiographical, but it is compelling enough to make you question what parts were from his personal life. I should start by saying that the title relates to something to do with not being allowed to eat anything before an operation, I think, it would make sense for scenes in the film. Anyway, basically it focuses on a working class family in the London district, with Ray (BAFTA nominated Ray Winstone), his wife Valerie (BAFTA nominated Kathy Burke), her brother Billy (Charlie Creed-Miles), and also Val's mother Janet (EastEnders' Laila Morse, Oldman's older sister) and grandmother Kath (Edna Doré). We see Ray on a night boozing in the pub, going to a casino and strip club, and taking drugs in the bathroom with his friend Mark (Jamie Foreman), and buying more drugs for a cheap price. Later he finds Billy stealing these drugs, and he savagely beats him with a bite to the nose and throwing him out, forcing him to live with Janet and Kath, and Janet gives him money to score more drugs. But then Janet refuses to give him money, even to stop come downs, and he is forced to steal from Ray and Val again, but she and her mother keep him out of furious Ray's way and Billy gives repayment money. One night Ray sees Val, who by the way is pregnant, playing pool with another man in the pub while with Janet and friends, one being Scottish Angus (Jon Morrison), and he orders her home. She goes to bed and sit up drinking, but he gets her up and ragingly accuses her of having an affair, and when she constantly denies his temper goes very violent and he savagely beats her, and when he eventually stops he runs out. Next day Janet sees her shocking injuries, but Val lies that she was hit by a hit and run driver, it is only when experiencing pain and told that she has had a miscarriage in hospital that she confesses it was Ray. He and Mark go back to the house and try to pick up his little daughter Michelle (Leah Fitzgerald), but when Janet refuses he start throwing stones through the window, and then they follow Angus to the hospital, but he stops Ray from getting to Val. At his place Ray tries and fails to ring Val on the phone, pulls the cord, and getting drunk makes a mess of all the walls, and he has a personal talk with Mark about how useless a father he is. Billy meanwhile and his druggie friend Danny (Steve Sweeney) are being chased by a man with a knife and get trapped and caught by the police in a laundrette, with drugs in his anus. The final scenes see Ray finally go back to confront Val and try to win her back, but she rejects him, it is obvious they still love each other, and in the end we see all the family together again in the repaired flat, Billy in prison, and everything seemingly calm. Also starring Chrissie Cotterill as Paula. Winstone gives a shockingly brutal performance as the most often drunken and extremely violent husband, and his high amount of C words is extraordinary, and Burke in a non comedic role is surprisingly compelling as the wife who has to suffer through his abuse. This portrait of domestic violence and dysfunctional family matters is very realistic, many moments difficult and shocking to watch, but there are also the moments of tenderness and poignancy, it is definitely a most watchable drama. It won the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Original Screenplay for Oldman. Ray Winstone was number 32 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"More concept than actualization","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is a simple, nebulous concept at the heart of Nil by Mouth people who consume all manner of things (drugs (incl. booze) and those around them are the primary examples) but who spout nothing but rubbish.  This is done more ambitiously (if more vaguely) during the film's first half  the sound is mixed so that conversations are only semi-intelligible, punchlines to jokes are cut off.  Later on, this is made more explicit -- particularly in the form of a story which literally gives us the film's title.  But this concept is all there is, aside from a rather lame tie-in to this being a/the root of domestic violence.  Oldman dedicates this film to his father (ironically or sardonically, I hope), and I think this explains the mish-mash  this film is a sort of catharsis, an attempt to account for his upbringing.  It's not bad art, but I hope he had more success with it as therapy. "},{"Title":"Some good performances, but a little lengthy..","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are some fine performances in this Gary Oldman writing/directing debut, particualrly that of Ray.  There is not much of a story, no main plot.  There is some degree of a plot focusing on Bill's drug addiction, but then the film switches gears.However, the movie is a bit too long for what it shows, and through much of it I was lost in the English dialect, trying to understand what the actors were saying.  THe constant fast talking, thick accent, mumbled phrases left me a little annoyed and frustrated.But probably an accurate portrayl of disfunctionality in South London by far.Rating 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Certainly not the best British film ever made!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I find myself strongly disagreeing with the other users. 'Nil by Mouth' was a bleak, desolate and ultimately nihilistic film. Gary Oldman is utterly self-indulgent and enjoys showing people wallowing in degradation. He also commented that the film was a study of 'machismo' and Ray Winstone's character is used as an attack on this supposedly masculine vice.The technical work is very good and the camera work skilfully conveys the grim reality of south London council estates. However this film lapses into cultural relativisation and contains few real insights into why people can act with such brutality. 'Nil by Mouth' has received such high praise for its focus on victimhood. At the end of the film the family are reunited as victims. Unfortunately today the 'victim' as opposed to the 'heroic' is treated as the most worthy cultural motif and the only thing we can aspire to be. "},{"Title":"Could not understand what they were saying","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this movie since the review last year by Siskel and Ebert was a big thumbs up.   I also was looking for something different by Gary Oldman.   However last night I tried, with my wife, as hard as we could to enjoy the movie but we just could not understand all the mumbling between the characters during the first 20 minutes so we gave up on it. This is a disappointment as I am sure that this was a good movie if only they spoke so we could understand them.     "},{"Title":"Oldman should stick to acting","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Were it not for the closed captioning, I too would have given up on this after the first 20 minutes.  British slang is overflowing throughout, and even if you understand the lingo, most of the dialogue is meaningless.  I don't think we needed that much dialogue to figure out what kind of people these people are - angry, desperate, and hopeless.The camera angles are very tight. I found myself hoping for the end of this 120+ movie.  You come out of most scenes thinking, What was the point of that?. When the credits roll, you'll be asking yourself the very same question. "},{"Title":"A distasteful tour of the depths to which people fall.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film should not be classed as entertainment. This is the guise under which it is advertised. If I was a socioligist doing a study of problem families this would be the best film to introduce the type of people I would likely meet. However I am a family man and I thought I would be seeing a film which covered family life albeit with a few problems. What I saw was an extreme view of an extremely dysfunctional family. I know that there are families like this - I would be an ostrich not too - but fail to see why anyone would choose to watch a film about them. Where the film failed so grandly was in it's failure to give the audience any background which might enable us to empathise with the main characters. I found myself dismissing it all as an un-representative extreme and surely this cannot be what the writers were hoping for. No good news at all in this film. If you want to wallow in the depths as some sort of hell then do so but don't expect to be entertained.  "},{"Title":"If you're not British, you may hate this film.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a screenwriter, you learn NEVER to use dialog as your main device to introduce your characters.  Don't TELL the audience who they are... SHOW them instead. Unfortunately, Gary Oldman did not learn this lesson.  The first half hour of this movie introduces his South London characters through nothing but London lingo (fast, cockney-esque, and completely unintelligible to a non-Brit).  I was extraordinarily disappointed with this film.  But, if you hold on long enough, the action will pick up...  but you may have to rewind during the first act (with the closed caption option selected) before you can really dig your teeth into what Gary Oldman is trying to show us in his brutally honest portrayal of how miserable life can be in South London (Oldman's favorite theme, it appears).     Good Luck! "}]