[{"Title":"One of the best-ever depictions of evil","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"59 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has no physical violence, but it's truly scary. Chad is evil. He hurts others' feelings for the pleasure of showing himself that he can. He has an explanation for his cruelty, but that's just to draw Howard in to play his game. Without that explanation, he'd still find reasons to be cruel, because his pleasure comes from seeing others in pain. Worse, he can get away with his cruelty, because he is charming, charismatic, and effectively manipulative in his dealings with people. Except in the central plot, he manages to hurt people without taking the blame, by making his victims blame themselves.Howard is both a victim and a willing participant in Chad's evil plot. Without people like him, people like Chad are much less able to hurt others. But people who are too weak to stand in the way of bad people are fairly common. Even those weak enough to be drawn into the plots of bad people are common enough. Even a person strong enough to foil Chad's plot could only have done so if he had known about it, and Chad knew not to trust his plans with such a person. Howard had a chance to be the hero, but he was too weak and became another villain.The central victim, Christine, started out suspicious, but was drawn in by Chad's skillful manipulation, and to some extent Howard's real interest in her. Chad was also good at choosing a victim who would fall for the plot, just as he chose an accomplice effectively. Other victims had other weaknesses that Chad found ways of exploiting, like the man whose speech he mocked in a way that made that victim feel like he himself was to blame.Most people have never met a serial killer, but many have met people like Chad, who enjoy hurting others. The fact that Chad is an example of a more familiar type of evil makes him much scarier. He's more chilling because he doesn't have a clear reason for his badness -- he just enjoys being cruel. What is scarier than an evil that one can imagine falling victim to in everyday life? "},{"Title":"A gripping, intense character-driven study of human nature in the corporate world","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"54 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil Labute's In the Company of Men is an amazing motion picture, one of the best films of 1997 and a shocking indictment of the ego-driven corporate world in which we live.  On the surface, the film, expertly written by Neil Labute in his first feature effort, seems to be a cruel tale of misogyny. Lurking beneath the surface, however, is the film's true message, one which depicts the business world as a battle of survival of the fittest, a harsh world where men sacrifice their integrity and compassion in favor of oneupsmanship and greed.Fed up with their failures with members of the opposite sex, two co-workers, Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) decide to play a cruel prank on an unsuspecting female victim.  They will both date her, and then after a six-week period, they will dump her, a plan they've devised after years of being tormented and unlucky with women.  They eventually choose their prey, a deaf typist named Christine (Stacy Edwards) and begin their quest, asking her for dates, sending her flowers, and sharing intimate moments.  All this seems like a pleasant surprise to Christine after years of no dating--but, of course, she doesn't know the plan the men have hatched.I don't want to reveal too much more about the plot than this.  I will say that the film has two climactic scenes, one expected and the other inevitable in retrospect.  The first climax makes the movie a success, the second makes the film great--only then do we see Labute's true intent.Labute's cast of no-names is uniformly excellent.  Eckhart, who has since become a Labute staple, delivers a fascinating performance as a truly despicable character, the smooth and fast-talking Chad.  Matt Malloy is excellent as Howard, the weaker of the two men, and Edwards is great as the hapless deaf typist, presenting her character as likable, intelligent, and sensitive, not just a stereotypical handicapped woman.  But the real star of the film is Labute's script.  Judging by this, and his three more recent films (Your Friends and Neighbors, Nurse Betty, and Possession--all quality films), Labute is a writer-director to monitor for years to come.A noteworthy comment about In the Company of Men is that it has been marketed as a comedy.  Those of you expecting slapstick humor and romantic charms might be better served seeing another movie.  In the Company of Men is NOT comedy.  There are elements of black humor, especially one particularly depraved scene involving one of the men and an office intern. However, In the Company of Men is more tragic than comic, a look into the tarnished male psyche brought on by years of corporate stress and paranoia. I couldn't help but think of David Mamet's Glengarry Glen Ross, another film about corporate greed in today's world when I was watching this one. However, while Glengarry plays as more of a character-driven mystery and morality play, In the Company of Men is much more insidious, and it offers no solutions in the end.  In fact, the final shot of the film is, in my mind, one of the most memorable in modern cinema.  Just who exactly has the upper hand?....9/10 "},{"Title":"Why was this movie so controversial?","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"50 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie my main motivation for seeing it was related to the controversy that surrounded it.  I had heard all sorts of things said about what a misogynistic piece of garbage this was, but not afraid of a few negative reviews I went and saw it.It's hard to say what impressed me most about this movie.  I thought the performances were excellent, the dialogue was sharp and inciteful and the story intense.  Aaron Eckhart's narcissistic, callous performance was amazing.I cannot understand how this movie is misogynistic in any way whatsoever, as the characters are so hideous there is no way known you could empathise with them or consider their behaviour as anything other than abhorrent.  I thought that the snapshot of the corporate male dominated workplace was fantastic and the picture it painted of testosterone charged males excellent.The ending was amazing and I recall leaving the cinema and not being able to speak for a full 10 minutes.See this movie.9/10. "},{"Title":"A portrait of the Alpha Male and how he got that way","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a riveting movie, but also an unexpected one.  I didn't see this until it came out on video, and I had heard a lot about it of course, but luckily I was in the dark on the twist LaBute throws in at the end.  Most people got that this was a study of male-female relationships from a wildly off-kilter view, and that was powerfully done.  But I think most people missed this is also about the workplace, specifically the Alpha Male in the workplace, and how he got that way.  Is it any wonder that Chad and Howard decide to make a game of their seduction of Katherine when it's clear they've had to plan their whole careers as if they were competing in a game of some kind?I think I agree with an interview I saw with LaBute where he said he thought Howard was actually the more despicable character, because Chad is only in it for the game, where Howard starts to take those feelings seriously. Nevertheless, Eckhart's performance makes Chad one of the most chilling characters I've ever seen in movies.  Where a lot of movie villains indicate to let you know they're just acting (which does work when it's done right), Eckhart gives away nothing, so you never know what he's thinking, even if he tells you what he's thinking.  I hope he goes on to bigger things. "},{"Title":"An ambitious & troubling film","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film begins with two men in an airport lounge, both discussing how they recently broke-up with their girlfriends. The first man is named Chad (played by Aaron Eckhart). He is seemingly cordial to talk to but behind the smiling facade lies a loathsome, callous, spiteful fellow - one who is ruthless without showing any sign of remorse - in fact, he seems to derive great pleasure and pride from inflicting anguish on others, especially women. The other man is Howard (Mike Mallory), Chad's colleague at work and also a former member of the same college as Chad. Howard is a quieter chap, and seems to just go along with Chad's comments. The two men have just arrived in a new town on a six week stay regarding their office work. Chad suggests that they date the same woman for the duration of the six week stay then dump her. Howard eventually agrees. The woman they pick is Christine (Stacy Edwards), a deaf woman who works in their office block. Chad thinks Christine is the perfect victim, with her being deaf, and mocks her distorted speech to Howard, and refers to her as a 'freak'. The two men start to date Christine, but problems start to arise when Howard bumps into them both in a restaurant. The film displays the start of each of the six weeks with a title and a burst of chaotic music. There are a few memorable scenes towards the conclusion of the film. The film focuses on the dog-eat-dog materialistic corporate world, and some of the envious and vindictive people that exist within it. I don't want to reveal any more, but I recommend you see this troubling film. "},{"Title":"This film is not a comedy!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I rented this film I had heard a lot of good things about it. I also heard that it was a comedy. It was in the comedy section. It was promoted as a comedy. IT WAS NOT A COMEDY! This is a very serious film that is sometimes very difficult to watch. Moreover, the ending is very depressing. Eckhart plays the biggest jerk in the history of film. A good movie that you will probably not enjoy watching. "},{"Title":"Fascinating and Important","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"      Neil Lebute's In the Company of Men is a film depicting emotional terror inflicted by two guys onto an innocent, deaf woman.  One is sleazy, self-absorbed and mean-spirited, but charismatic and socially powerful and popular.  The other is less than popular and tags along for his therapeudic plan to put a woman through romance-related stress to relieve them of their woman troubles.     The result is a haunting, realistic wake-up call.  From it's disorienting opener to a truly disturbing closing shot, In the Company of Men is a truly important motion picture. "},{"Title":"Harsh comedy that almost succeeds","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) are in a new town for 6 weeks on business. Frustrated by the women in their lives they decide to use the time to seduce an insecure woman and make her feel loved - only to destroy her before they leave. They pick Christine (Stacy Edwards), a deaf girl from their office and set the plan in motion.This is a fascinating black comedy looking at the macho world of American businessmen - although it is a look at the shallowness and competitiveness of men generally. The plot may sound simple but it is very powerful and insightful - although the men are exaggerated versions of reality in order to make clear points. The film doesn't totally satisfy but it is a great character piece.Almost to a man the leads are all excellent, Eckhart is almost pure evil as the man who we all recognise or know, while Malloy is great as the man who wants to be in the game but is getting to the point where he longs for simpler values. Edwards is beautiful as the vulnerable Christine who gradually opens up with confidence as she is made to feel more and more special.Labate's direction is spot on for this - most of the action is dialogue based and the sets are made like theatre sets. As such the direction is quite static but the camera is often set in very interesting shots. Labate's writing is the real strength with the whole dialogue strong, perhaps exaggerated and yet totally believable.A wonderfully harsh drama that will make you aware that will carry you along effortlessly. "},{"Title":"Who is the real victim here?","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most people I know who saw this movie thought that Chad was a total jerk; that Howard was a total sap (who got cajoled by Chad into being a half-baked jerk); and that Christine was the victim here. I disagree.Chad and Howard were deliberately playing a 'game' (albeit a nasty and mean one) to strike back at the opposite sex for what they perceived to be inter-personal injustices perpetrated against them by the female gender. In doing this both Chad and Howard pursue Christine, despite her handicap, but whereas Chad continues the ruse until the bitter end, Howard actually does let his better sense of humanity prevail and falls in love, for real, with Christine.But Christine chooses Chad over Howard, clearly because Chad was more cute and charming in her eyes. By contrast, she more than once breaks Howard's heart before anyone has a chance to break hers.So, I would argue that HOWARD, not Christine, is the real victim here he is set-up and manipulated by Chad, whom he reluctantly plays along with from the very onset, and has his true emotions trounced by Christine, whose vanity leans her toward Chad, who is heartlessly playing a cruel joke on her all along.The movie is an excellent social commentary and is impeccably cast and brilliantly acted, all the way through. The real victim here, though, IMHO, is basic human decency. "},{"Title":"Best Film of the 1990s","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That's a big statement, but I stand behind it without reservation. This is my favorite movie of the past decade and it easily makes my top five films of all time. First off, don't come in expecting a stylish, extravagant film with excellent cinematography. Neil Labute's direction is the epitome of minimalism, with virtually no camera movement and entire scenes played out in one shot. I'm not totally sure, but I'd say there are maybe two or three medium close-ups in the entire film, and that's it. The characters are always viewed from a distance, reflecting Labute's background in theater (if you like this, by the way, read Bash, it will blow your mind) and allowing his actors to be as realistic and naturalistic as possible. Contrary to popular belief, stage acting is more natural than film acting; Labute's distance and long takes create a realism that is rarely seen on celluloid.This film is pretty much all dialogue, but this is some of the best-written dialogue I have ever heard. I don't think any man can watch this movie without recognizing some of the conversations that take place in this film. Aaron Eckhart and Matt Molloy are pitch perfect as the chauvinist, attractive, and ultimately evil Chad and the nerdy, pathetic, and ultimately emotionally doomed Howard. Stacy Edwards as the deaf Christine is also very strong; in fact, when I saw her in another movie speaking normally I almost fell out of my chair. I won't say much about the plot, for this is one of those movies that's really better to go in knowing nothing and watch the sickening events unfold. Let me just say that this film has a twist ending that marks one of the few moments in film that truly shocked me. In fact, I challenge anyone to sit still through this scene; I've seen the movie five times and it still makes me squirm in my seat. If you're looking for a big shock, look no further than this masterpiece, but don't expect a cheap thrill. Next to Vertigo, I don't think any film has hit me with a greater psychological impact. Oh, and if you're a female, and you don't want to become a lesbian, don't see this movie. Period. 10/10 "}{"Title":"A challenging, yet rewarding film (spoilers throughout)...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Where to begin.  I have thought about the films I've seen over the last 5 years and tried to come up with some of the most significant.  This film is one of them.First of all.  First-rate acting from the three principle characters. Chad (Aaron Eckhart), Howard (Matt Malloy), and Christine (Stacy Edwards). Particularly on the part of Stacy Edwards.  Its very hard to imagine that she isn't hearing-impaired.Hopefully people will see this film and it will open their eyes to what happens in the corporate society we live in.  People like Chad and Howard exist in 90 percent of every office you have worked in and will ever work in.  If you and I walked into any corporate workplace, I could point out the Chads and the Howards in the office.  Chad that guy's a Chad.  Howard that guy's a Howard.  They may not fulfil the role exactly, but trust me it's them.  The difference between what I point out and what you see, is that they have adapted to their roles better than these caricatures in the film (I'll explain this further with my impression of Chad).  Neil LaBute presented us these simple characters, so its just a little easier for us to define.Chad.  Aaron Eckhart (poor sap -)) had to walk the streets for a year with people hitting him over the head about his role in this film.  He played it excellently, but over the top.  Most of the Chad's I've seen aren't so obvious about their intentions.  The Chads I know keep it hidden.  That is one criticism about the film.  Maybe LaBute told you to play it that way, so the blame may be elsewhere.  However, one criticism of this film is that performance.  Howard would have been a complete dimwit not to see through your machinations.  Heck, upper management(management doesn't like the obvious) would have seen through you and not given you that promotion that you so desparately wanted.  You are a sociopath.  You are a lion that feuds with the other alpha male lions to achieve status in the food chain. After the end of the fight, you are nothing.  You will be nothing.  The corporate ladder that you so desparately want to climb, will lead to nothing.  One hundred years from now, the Chads of this world.  They will be exactly that, nothing.  Just like the rest of us.  The problem with people like you is that you are too stupid to understand this.  This isn't a statement of Aaron's performance (which is very good).  It's a statement about that character and what LaBute intructed.Howard.  Matt, you played the role as well as anyone could have played it. However, you got what you deserved.  You allowed Chad to manipulate and ultimately control you.  Of course, this was the only way.  You are the weak.  You are the people that are stepped on each and every day of the week in this corporate world.  I would feel some sympathy for you, but you had selfish reasons for wanting Stacy.  My sympathy would be with you if only you weren't so pathetic.  Maybe LaBute wanted us to feel this way. LaBute was making this statement in the film, so maybe I'm justified in my opinion.Christine.  Wow.  Stacy Edwards you are a terrific actress.  I really, really hope you are able to shine in many other films.  I can't quite remember the way I was so entranced with any performance in a film.  I just thought you were totally capitivating.  I couldn't believe you weren't hearing-impaired.  Very good performance.  Pains me to say this, because I thought you were excellent.  However, you are far too beautiful for this role (I'm not complaining too much though!).  Maybe LaBute could have lessened your looks somewhat, although thats doubtful.  Its just hard for me to believe after 2 seconds of screen time that I (or any man) wouldn't want to date you -).  You were simply gorgeous.* Observations *I've read that this movie is misogynist.  This is very untrue.  It's clear to me that Labute's contempt was directed towards Chad and Howard.  True, Christine was devastated.  However, she is a survivor more than these men could ever be.  Yes, she learned a lesson at the end of the film, but it only made her stronger.  It was a lesson that Christine needed to learn. Howard learned nothing and will continue to be as weak and pathetic as he is.Where does it end?  There are no answers.  That is the truth folks, sorry. There are no answers.  Neil Labute gave us only a piece of our lives.  A piece of how we live our lives today in this society.  What you do with that life is up to you.One of the best films I've seen in the past five years.I very highly recommended film from me.If you are young and entering the corporate world for the first time, SEE THIS FILM.  THEN, WATCH IT AGAIN AND LEARN.  This is an important film.  "},{"Title":"One of my Favourites","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a totally unexpected find, a movie that you know nothing about when you sit down to watch it, yet totally engrosses you and blows you away. While the plot involves the seduction of a vulnerable female by two co-workers, the sub-plot is a dark look at the corporate world with an ending that will hit you in the gut.  In the Company of Men should be watched by men, only with other men, and not with their significant female others.  One of my favourites.  Highly recommended for those who like dark comedies.  "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Cruel and Wicked","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The executives Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) have just been rejected by their mates. While traveling for a six weeks temporary assignment in another office, they plot an evil game to get even with women. They plan to seduce a vulnerable woman and dump her with her feelings and self-esteem completely destroyed. When they meet the deaf secretary Cristina (Stacy Edwards), they find their perfect victim. However, things get complicated when Howard falls in love for Cristina.The first time I saw In the Company of Men on 08 April 2000, I was really disturbed with this movie, which has been recently elected the number 28 in the ranking of the best fifty independent movies promoted by a cinema magazine. I decided to reevaluate my first view, and I did not change my original opinion that it is a gem of cruelty. The character Chad is actually the personification of evil, not those caricatures that we usually see in other movies, but a very real one that we face in our jobs, clubs or social lives. Chad is charming, handsome and charismatic on his outside, but rotten, ambitious, cold and malevolent inside, manipulating and destroying other people for his self-satisfaction and promotion. Howard is also a very real character, that type of stupid guy with lack of personality and self-esteem that is easily used by others, becoming a loser in the end. And the poor Cristina is the innocent victim of this nasty game with her initial pure and later broken heart. The game is actually against Howard and she is the tool. The performances of Stacy Edwards, convincing that she is actually deaf, and Aaron Eckhart, with his cynical character, deserved a nomination to the Oscar. The debut of Neil LaBute could not be better. For those who liked this film, I recommend The Shape of Things (2003), from the same director. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Na Companhia de Homens (In the Company of Men)Note On 15 February 2015, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Brilliant all the way around","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *****************Possible spoiler******************Intense and sometimes shocking movie about two ignorant men who decide to rage their own private war on women. The sense of 'justice' our main characters employ taught me that two wrongs don't make a right. Be warned; the ending may leave a knot in your stomach, but a lesson on the way not to treat people who have done you no wrong. Brilliant film making.  "},{"Title":"Life is for the taking, is it not?","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Corporate America can be a very cruel place. The constant attention towards competition, survival of the fittest, and determination towards top performance can easily drive the sanest employee into an early stage of insanity. Thus, due to these pressures, employees are constantly found in a heated battle for the top spot or the illusive management position. Many will step directly onto your abdomen to ensure a promotion or pay increase. This form of random competition in Corporate America is very rare to capture, much less on film, but famed director Neil LaBute did a bit of the impossible. LaBute took the pressures of competition in Corporate America and camouflaged them using some stereotypes linked to men in the workplace. While some will argue that LaBute is doing nothing but exploiting male sexism/egoism and only built a stronger glass ceiling for women, I saw this completely different. Much like others, In the Company of Men initially enraged me due to the harsh treatment and depiction of women in the workplace, but then it occurred to me, that isn't what LaBute wants to show. As I watched this film a second time, I saw the real reason that LaBute created this picture. He wanted, and successfully accomplished, to show that you have to be smart both in your personal and business life if you want to succeed in this demolishing corporate world.LaBute's approach to this ingenious subject reminded me of how Soderbergh used sex to debunk his story in sex, lies, and videotape. From the opening scene, we think we know what this movie is going to be about. We think we understand that this is just going to be another dark comedy about how cruel the corporate world can be to women, but wildly LaBute (like Soderbergh) will pull the hypothetical wool over your eyes if you are not careful. This is not a movie about sexism (while it is used quite often to hide the real truth), but instead the power of manipulation, the power of emotion, and the ability to use your friends to reach the top. This is the ultimate betrayal film. After watching this film, I read some reviews that discussed how viewers hated LaBute for doing what he did to Christine, and that made me a bit angry. I too was disturbed by Eckhart's performance, but by being upset about what happened to Christine, you miss the truth behind this film. When I finished watching this movie, I was more upset with LaBute for what he did to Howard (Matt Malloy) than with Christine.How did this dramatic change occur? How could a viewer feel more sympathy for Howard than with the weeping Christine? LaBute has this amazing ability to cast believable actors that mold themselves well within their roles. Matt Malloy plays the perfect ying to Aaron Eckhart's yang. The two could not be closer to polar opposites, but the chemistry between them keeps us connected and glued to the screen. Their relationship reminded me of every Hollywood movie where the popular jock is great friends with the insecure geek. Malloy and Eckhart's relationship reminded me of the frat boy who happens to be a friend with the computer nerd. There is no initial understanding of why these two are friends or why they have anything in common. Sure, they went to the same college, but does that constitute life-long friendship? I believe from the beginning of this film, and possibly further into the pre-text, Eckhart has Malloy on a plan. We don't see the plan initially, but when it comes into light at the end, it hits us deep within our gut, giving us more pain than the Christine incident. How did LaBute set this up so well? Again, I state, Malloy and Eckhart. These two were methodical, malicious, and very close to perfection with their characters. We believed them. They sold us on themselves, which needed to happen for LaBute to make his point. Stacy Edwards is decent, but honestly LaBute could have had anyone in that role and we would have bought it. Why? Again, Malloy and Eckhart.LaBute did not just give us impassioned characters with devoted actors, but he also gave us an amazing story. He used the power of language to give us our opening, plot, downfall, climax, and twisty ending. It is not often in Hollywood that you see this technique used. It takes a combination of both a great (and engrossing) story with sublime characters. We already know that we had the characters, but what about the story made it worth watching over and over and over again. Having seen American Psycho several times, I felt like LaBute had read Bret Easton Ellis' novel over and over. He embodied the spirit and insanity of corporate America nearly as well as American Psycho director Mary Harron did. The pacing was tight, the six weeks seemed to fly by because we were glued to the results. LaBute kept us glued to the screen by shocking us with sexist remarks, macho thinking, and corporate taboos. Then, when he thought that we were not paying attention, he gave us the ending of a lifetime. The writing for this film was quick, powerful, and thought provoking, which nearly symbolizes this film. LaBute should have won an Oscar for this powerful and intelligent piece of cinema.Overall, I thought this film was vile, belittling, and grotesquely unsettling &#133; which is why I cannot wait to add it to my collection. LaBute proves to us once again why he is a master behind the camera as well as a commander with his pen. I read a comment that stated that Eckhart's Chad is the epitome of a villain, and I could not agree more. Neil LaBute has given us his first in a very long line of challenging, yet beautiful, cinema.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Monsters in suit and tie","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In The Company Of Men is a simple story that is told in a simple way. A lot of shots are still frames that last for about 10 minutes, which centers the dialog and gives the movie a realistic feeling. And as scary as it may seem, In The Company Of Men is very realistic.There are people like Chad and Howard out there. Even though few are really quite as devilish as Chad is, many who have a certain amount of power and income behave that way. That's why this movie isn't easy to watch.Aaron Eckhart, Stacy Edwards and Matt Malloy do a great job. The direction is appropriate in its simplicity and the topic is an important one. Whoever has worked for a company like the one in the movie one time, will recognize the precipices of the human mind. Everybody should see this and learn. "},{"Title":"A Great Character Study","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this film was in an ethics class and I found it extremely difficult to watch, not because I didn't enjoy it, but because it was hard for me to see how difficult it was for the two main characters Chad and Howard play their cruel game with Christine's heart.  This is definitely a very engrossing movie on human nature.  All the time I was hoping that Neil would get his in the end.  Too bad this film allowed the truly evil one to win in the end. "},{"Title":"The Horror .....","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are a few films that are so good at making us feel bad that they are hard to give the credit that they deserve. This is certainly one of those. What's really scary about this one is that it holds a mirror up on a certain faction of men that really exists, which is far scarier than any imagined evil of horror movies. In fact many successful corporate types are probably not that far from these superficial, self centered, insensitive characters we see here. I've read in many comments the reference to Chad as the strong one.  Only great weakness turns to prey on those most venerable and trusting around them when they themselves are feeling hurt or mistreated. He has a large ego and a good act, not strength.  Howard is just the type that goes along to be accepted or be part of the guys who appear to be cool. Very effective film at striking a sense of uneasiness and loathing in the viewer and placing a little palpable distance between men and women as they leave the theater.  "},{"Title":"Dark comedy my butt, horror film!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The cover read dark comedy. If this is dark comedy for you you need to seek psychiatric help. This was a horror film. I laughed twice in the beginning 30 min. and then sat with my mouth open in disbelief that someone would make a film like this. Then finally I reflected on what I had seen and would not recommend it for the faint at heart. Although, I am sickened to say I respect what I saw pieced together in front of me and found it hard to look away. I would be scared to meet someone who would do such a thing and then found myself taking inventory of all those I know who are capable. OUCH! Good movie, but go into it with little expectation, thats how they suckered me in ) "},{"Title":"Controversial Debut Film For LaBute","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Few films in recent memory provoke the polarized responses that first time Director Neil LaBute's In The Company Of Men does. From the early suggestion by Aaron Eckhart's character Chad to seduce and then dump a vulnerable woman to all the rest of his obnoxious comments, LaBute paints a picture of a vulnerable corporate ladder-climber afraid of losing control in his life. His bottom line is getting the one up on all the people in his orbit before they do. He knows how to play this game better than anyone around him also, especially better than his wimpy boss/friend Howard (Matt Malloy). Aaron Eckhart is absolutely astonishing as the corporate reptile with no conscience. Matt Malloy is just as perfect as Chad's boss/friend Howard, who has no idea that he's in over his head with Chad until it's too late. LaBute presents the wimpy Howard and the amoral Chad as corporate male bookends, who are finding it increasingly difficult to negotiate the corporate environment and female relationships.Clearly the Howards of this world will fall through the cracks, if they don't at least occasionally consult with their inner Chad. What disturbs some viewers is that LaBute is right and they know it. They just don't want to believe it. Surely, they frequently see exactly the same kind of behavior transpire unabated both in workplaces and in social circles. The Chads of the world win out over the Howards of the world a vast majority of the time; wimpy does not win in the workplace or in love. Perhaps if LaBute provided some introductory exposition, a la Michael Douglas in Falling Down, it would be easier to understand how Chad came to be. However, that would have lessened his impact in the film significantly and reduced him to a disenfranchised caricature. Maybe there is no reason for Chad being the way he is, and that idea is frightening.Admittedly, this is not a movie for all tastes, but there seems to be an abundance of misguided perceptions thinking this film is just some misogynist exercise. Perhaps the reason for this is those viewers' mistaken notions about who the real victim is in this movie it's really Howard, not Christine. He's a victim of his own weaknesses, not so much of Chad or Christine, and his inability to realize them. Christine is victimized, but if it wasn't for her willingness to simultaneously date two guys as long as she did, the plan never would have turned out the way it did. However, she is far more assertive and able to address her mistakes than Howard. The ending makes this very clear, utilizing her unique perspective to have the final say. The ending also disturbs many viewers, but it's very consistent with its characters, who they are, and how they behave. One problem with the film is that Stacy Edwards is too beautiful to be believable as a wallflower type, but she is very good as the deaf, shy Christine. As with many low budget, independent features, the film's strongest elements are the screenplay and the acting. This is a bold effort, especially for a first film, making no apologies for its provocative assertions that are all too real too often. ***1/2 of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil Labute's in the company of men is a misogynistic look at the way men has to conquer women in and out of the bedroom. Aaron Eckhart plays a womanizer who makes a bet with a fellow co-worker to seduce a young deaf woman, and dump her in order to feed their misogynistic egos. In their pursuit of this innocent woman, they wine and dine her, and ultimately humiliate her in such a way that can only be describes as inhuman.  Neil Labute's psychological masterpiece is a very sobering look at the game both sexes play, and the cruelty that we can inflict on ourselves.Prepare to be disturbed.  "},{"Title":"Grossly overrated, not shocking, controversial or emotionally engaging in any other way","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I felt cheated when watching this film because the comments were so promising, it was sure not to leave me unmoved while in the end that was all it did...The minimalist low budget style with very little music and only the 2 friends chattering filling up the entire movie made it a rather dull experience. This film is as interesting at times as listening to your colleague nagging about his pension or car insurance.Yes it's a sick plan these 2 guys agree on. And while I do get their anger towards women I don't get how their revenge would work if done against somebody (seemingly, but not all that) innocent. But of course the film is by that point not showing the real game that is being played.People should not treat the given plot line, random victim being chosen to be hurt by cynical men, as shocking or controversial...it's been done before and in more convincing ways. Watch Cruel Intentions or Dangerous Liaisons for viewing a more emotionally engaging manipulation story. Those films are not perfect but far more entertaining.I read about this film when reading comments about a much better film, Extension du domaine de la lutte, based on a Houellebecq novel. It had a lot more heart and soul than this waste of time, there is simply valuable in this movie that can make me recommend it. No new insights, no deep feelings, nothing impressive. Don't believe the hype about this film. "},{"Title":"There's no word for it except 'evil'","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow, Neil LaBute doesn't like people much, does he? Just a couple of days after seeing his superb 2003 effort The Shape of Things, I decided to watch his first film and Sundance hit In the Company of Men. This makes the bleak, misanthropic The Shape of Things look like Singin' in the Rain. The IMDb plot summary says it all Two business executives--one an avowed misogynist, the other recently emotionally wounded by his love interest--set out to exact revenge on the female gender by seeking out the most innocent, uncorrupted girl they can find and ruining her life.The avowed misogynist is Chad, played by Aaron Eckhart in one of the most subtly effective male performances of all time. Chad, this character, is probably the most purely evil character ever portrayed on film. Sure, there are psychos, sickos, nuts who chop people up, but they're really not all that real, and sometimes it's because they're not sane. Chad's real, and Chad's sane. When asked why he did it near the end of the film he says, coldly, 'because I could'. That's pure evil right there- a phenomenon we'd love to think is rare but which really isn't.The film is not a 'comedy' as the IMDb page suggests. I find the suggestion to be absurd and idiotic. Sure, there is dark humor here, and it is ultimately satirical, but it is at least as much a drama as a comedy and in my own perception far more significantly a drama. The film confronts head-on the male-driven workplace and its victimization of women, it confronts head-on the brand of misogyny that isn't uncommon among the white male businessman in North America today. That's not to say these characters, and the situation, aren't exaggerated. Sure they are, but that's a perfectly conscious, acceptable decision by the writer. The important thing is that the characters feel real, and that it is entirely possible for something like this to happen. Like The Shape of Things LaBute's screenplay is in-your-face and clear-cut about what it's trying to say. That there are people out there still having indignant 'it's so misogynist!' reactions to this film is amazing, they have to be either incredibly stupid or maybe they just weren't paying attention. Oh, I'm sure guys like Chad loved watching the film in spite of what it was trying to say because they supported his actions, but that doesn't change the fact that Chad is the villain in the film. Howard's a victim as well, not to the degree that Christine is, but still a victim. Without any overacting or psychotic antics, Eckhart embodies a significantly real, cold sort of evil which the movies rarely feature. This movie may feel a bit pointless in the end, because it's basically about how incredibly awful us human beings can be to each other, and how naive the victims amongst us are, but it's a terrific screenplay and film regardless. "},{"Title":"A Neil LaBute classic","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Taut, stylish, touching and disgustingly misogynist. LaBute's small-scale kitchen-sink parable about men in the workplace is a dead-eyed look at lost love and fads timeless truisms and modern trends that favour the unscrupulous opportunist. One might see it as a warning shot across the bows of the media-invented demands on men trying to decide between new-laddism and burgeoning 'metrosexuality'.Either way, Aaron Eckhart's vile, not-quite-alpha male Chad goes in search of promotion and kicks by luring the impressionable Howard (Matt Malloy) into mistreating a new secretary, Christine. Pulling these sorts of office stunts is bound to complications and LaBute has a beautiful twist for the mix as well. Quietly demonic and horribly accurate. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The first time I saw this movie...","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" was at a Brew-and-View that had lots of indies... young crowd... and over and over again, I found myself laughing out loud, not believing how horrible these guys were... and then I would be embarrassed for a moment... until I looked around and saw that everyone else was laughing! I couldn't wait to tell people about it, because it was so shocking and original. The genius of Chad as the villain is that he could be the guy in the cubical next to you at work... you don't need to be afraid of frothing, chainsaw-wielding villains... you need to be afraid of the ones that are standing in line with you to buy your movie tickets! You can run from a killer, but she had no way to know what was going on, and therefor no reason to even try to escape! "},{"Title":"Nice guys really do finish last!","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is a dark and disturbing story focusing on two corporate work colleagues who take advantage of a deaf typist while on a six week work related trip.Chad is confident, good looking, calculated and cold. Howard is unconfident,disorganized, short and overweight but intelligent and successful at the same time. Christine, the deaf typist, is vulnerable as her disability makes her self conscious of the way she speaks. The two men, both bitter about recent break ups with their girlfriends, decide to date Christine so as to build up her confidence (which due to her self consciousness about the way she speaks is understandably fragile in social situations) and then dump her in an attempt to break her belief once again. Therefore they will be striking back against the female community which they feel has wronged them. The results are fascinating and somewhat upsetting.As for my one line summary above.This is the moral of the story. It would seem on the surface that the conclusion is that Christine is the victim. But this is wrong. Howard is the true victim here. Chad not only gets promoted while Howard is demoted but illustrates his superiority over Howard in terms of sex appeal and in his ability to constantly gain control over situations in the work place. Chad can sit back in a boardroom and call everybody a c**ks**ker or f**ker behind their backs to everybody else's amusement and get away with it.Howard meanwhile struggles to even introduce himself to co-workers.I think it should be noted that as the relationship between the men and Christine develops, Howard begins to make mistakes and slip ups which lead to his eventual demotion. Chad though is able to maintain his cool exterior and continues to treat the relationship as a game.In the end Howard is a broken and lonely man with nothing. Chad meanwhile has become stronger and more powerful yet his attitude remains the same.Eckhart is awesome as Chad. Anyone who knows anything of acting will tell you that such characters are a joy for an actor to play but the role is executed wonderfully. Its no surprise that it is on such a performance that Eckhart has built a pretty stellar career. There are also some shades here of his excellent recent portrayal as a tobacco industry spin doctor in the wonderful 'Thank You For Smoking' but the difference is that this one is in no way played for laughs.Matt Malloy portrays a much more difficult role very well and the portrayal of Christine is also very impressive.The people who criticised the acting in the recommendation section must be watching the wrong movie. I found myself enjoying the performances as much as the material which was very basic and offered characters which we have seen before in other films with a 'big business' backdrop ie.-Wall street.Overall its a somewhat bluntly executed but engrossing portrayal of relationships in the workplace and how as much as we may despair some people are just plain no good. The ending is also worthy in that it contains a twist that you really won't see coming.You will ponder it after viewing and if you like Eckhart it is somewhat essential viewing. "},{"Title":"Women. Nice ones, the most frigid of the race, it doesn't matter in the end. Inside they're all the same meat and gristle and hatred just simmering. - Chad","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil LaBute's 'In the Company of Men' runs very much like a stage production. In fact I was utterly shocked when I heard it wasn't based on one. It should have been, and I would go so far as to say it should be adapted into a stage production. The reason I say this is because the film relies on the dialogue, acting and character's emotions to move the storyline, and not action or explosions or nudity. Nope, 'In the Company of Men' is like a 90-minute play following three key characters. The first is Chad (Aaron Eckhart - in his feature film debut performance), a young, good-looking cocky businessman who's a crude and cruel misogynist. His partner/boss is also his best friend, Howard (Matt Maloy) a semi-geeky quiet guy who's very shy, especially around women. Distraught about their incredibly back luck with the ladies, the two decide to go through with a plan (initiated by the devilish Chad of course) to find a woman, both target her and trick her into loving both of them, then just leave her with nothing. Howard goes along with the plan with doubts, while Chad warm-fully embraces the idea. During a six-week business trip, Chad meets a beautiful, kind, understanding and affectionate office worker who happens to be deaf (Stacy Edwards) -- Chad's perfect mark for this plan. The rest of the film is pretty much Chad and Howard trying to score this chick and zeroing in on their torturous plan. It doesn't sound very interesting and entertaining, does it? A lot of the film drags, but I really liked it for three reasons -- the three main characters.The characters in Neil LaBute's 'In the Company of Men' are miraculous -- the three are very detailed and the actors who play them are phenomenal. Malloy is great as the nervous sap that is Howard and Edwards is always a pleasure to watch, but Eckhart steals the show by a mile. Astounding doesn't even begin to describe young Aaron Eckhart's performance in this as the sadistic and menacing power-hungry creep, Chad, who makes Stalin look like 'Mickey Mouse'. Chad could be described as a socio-path in that he doesn't give two sh*ts about anyone except himself and sneers at the thought of helping anyone out. For me, Eckhart was 100% believable during the entire runtime of the feature and he does such a fantastic job of reeling you into his mindset -- in other words Eckhart should have received an Oscar nomination for his work in this. Like I mentioned prior, Neil LaBute's writing has it's ups and downs and some pacing problems, and his directing is nothing impressive in the slightest. I'd say after viewing 'In the Company of Men' I was more interested in the greatly talented actor Aaron Eckhart then I was the filmmaker, Neil LaBute.In conclusion, I recommend this if you could enjoy and appreciate a film based solely on superb acting. If not, don't waste your time with 'In the Company of Men'. If you can fully appreciate acting at it's best, be sure to check it out. Grade B "},{"Title":"Macho Macho Men!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As shown in Shape Of Things and in In The Company Of Men Neil LaBute seems to feel attracted by soul-less, cool-blooded, manipulative people... and that's nice, because I've always find evil characters much more interesting than the good ones. A couple of executives are sent to some middle-America city for 6 weeks in order to give a hand to their partners there. They both seem to be a little misogynist (especially Aaron Eckhart's character), they talk about how evil the modern women are, and how they deserve a real punishment... So they decide to take revenge on a deaf secretary that works in the office they're going to. They've decided to tear her limb from limb... and they will.LaBute shows no mercy. He's telling a story about real MF's and he doesn't gives us a break (nor to the deaf girl!) MF's have no conscience. The dialogues are just what we expect from a couple of women-hater maquiavelos cruel, sarcastic, politically incorrect... If I were a suspicious-minded I would think LaBute is just an especiallist in that kind of talks. Anyway, thanks God that there're some provocative filmmakers there in the Hollywood hills.My rate 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Cruel Intentions (Spoilers)","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is quite a dazzling little black comedy. It is a simple, cheap film with (like most low-budget indies) a small cast, but there is enough going on to really keep you enthused, and probably, with this arrangement of story and characters, really blow you away (if not disgust you at the same time).The story is about two different coworkers, Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) who are in town for some brief work at that office for their company. What looks like a regular business trip soon becomes a lesson in cruelty.Chad is quite a sadistic character who prides himself on being able to sell anyone, no matter what the cost. Despite appearances (and they're really hard to get past at times because he pulls this off so well), Chad is really a heartless character out to prove that he can sell anyone and in the end, do whatever he wants once he's in charge. He's not so much a control freak as he is a vicious character who simply partakes in trying to dominate others simply because he can (whether or not he really wants to doesn't seem to matter). Chad is one of the most hated characters that I have ever seen, and quite brazen and proud of his misanthropic attitude.The sickening thing is, that with Chad as a main character, I am not sure if the filmmakers intended the audience (probably males more than audiences in general) to allign themselves with Chad. To see Chad in themselves and actually, kind of enjoy what he can do. It's pretty sick to be tempted to find some of yourself in Chad, particularly if you find this the one moment you can openly bear that attitude, simply because the movie may encourage you to do so (through Chad's character). Whether or not the filmmakers intended this, or whether it just happens to some of the audience involuntarily (and you wind up agreeing or applauding some things Chad has done) is something I am not yet sure of.Chad's counterpart is the sometimes ambiguous, Howard. He is a weaker man than Chad, despite being his superior (only nominally speaking) at work. If Chad is the 'Id', Howard is, to some extent, the ego (and even at times, representative of superego). He doesn't seem very aware of Chad's cruelties, and sure isn't a strong enough person to put a stop to them either. Worse, we're never sure when Chad's games of cruelty end, or whether they're really games at all.Chad and Howard get together and plan to take out all of their revenge on life by hurting one person (psychologically and mentally rather than physically brutality) as much as they possibly can. Their target is a deaf coworker, Suzanne (Emily Cline). Howard's character, still attached to a conscious, isn't sure how far Chad is willing to go with this game (the way Chad talks, you can be sure he's in it for the long haul), and starts backing out after falling in love with Suzanne. He let his feelings get in the way, and so Chad is left to his own vices. And that doesn't seem to bother him at all.It is quite an interesting movie, as far as a character study goes, and quite a dark comedy that will you leave you feeling sort of detached and disturbed when it's all over (you might need a real comedy to recover) when you see just what an incredibly cruel person Chad is (in more ways than one) and how he is comforted and proud of it all. Though, Howard doesn't exactly come off as any sort of hero once he finally does come to his senses (though, he was always very doubtful of Chad). In fact, I don't know if Chad is supposed to look like some sort of hero towards the end of the movie when he reveals his true nature. (And I think it's pretty sick to say that he was). So, essentially the most interesting aspect of this movie is how we view Chad more than anyone else. What are your perceptions of him? Does it change as the movie continues along to the very end? The story is done quite well and simple enough to illustrate it's point and draw you into the characters (although it does go slow at points). The workplace setting is always convenient for black comedies such as these. I recommend watching it. It really is something quite different. "},{"Title":"In the Company of Men (1997)","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the past day I've been thinking and thinking about how I could possibly critique such a complex film as Neil Labute's In the Company of Men, and while I'm still not sure of my capability to put into words the multi-faceted and infinitely intricate experience of viewing the film, I will try my best. I suppose it wouldn't hurt to begin with a simple three-letter word wow. Wow, wow, wow. Out of the thousands of films I have seen throughout my life, very few stand apart as being incomparable -- but this may just be one of those films. It is one of the most powerful motion pictures ever made. Period. The story has an almost inevitable inclination to be mercilessly cruel, but set aside every preconceived notion you might conjure upon reading this synopsis a sexist businessman (played with cunning callousness by Aaron Eckhart) convinces his susceptible boss (a subtly brilliant performance by Matt Malloy) to play an unbelievably malicious practical joke. The two plan to seduce a deaf co-worker (a heart-breaking Stacy Edwards) only to dump her once she's fallen in love with them. The premise sounds like a Farrelly movie that went too far, but if there's ever a moment when the film (or its pitch black humor) is tasteless, it is only because the characters themselves (with the exception of Edwards) ARE tasteless. The first half-hour of the film was extremely uncomfortable viewing for me (as was the rest of it, actually), and at first I was worried that Labute was just doing controversy for the sake of controversy. But as the plot started to unfold as masterfully as a David Mamet play, the film's message became increasingly apparent. What exactly IS the message, you might be asking? To be honest, I couldn't really say. In the Company of Men belongs to that high category of art in which the message is so provocative and important that it cannot be expressed in mere words. But one of the most vivid points involves sheer cruelty why is it that some cruel things -- when presented appropriately -- we deem acceptable, while others -- such as the situation depicted in the film -- we find unthinkable? Labute isn't attempting to condemn his audience or exploit his characters, and anyone who tries to support this criticism will surely find himself without evidence rather, Labute exposes us for who we really are, and challenges us to become better. After typing that last sentence, I can't help myself from expressing yet another wow. The screenplay is ingenious. The performances are impeccable. The direction is elegantly simple. And the over-all experience is utterly unforgettable. In the Company of Men was completely ignored at every major awards festival -- proving, once again, that the Academy doesn't know ANYTHING about cinema. But luckily, enthusiastic critical support has helped this picture attain the larger audience it deserves. In his unforgiving portrayal of INhumanity, Labute has tapped into that other side of us that isn't nearly as popular the human side. Watching this film will undoubtedly be painful, but if your feelings are crushed, consider it a good thing. Because if you don't feel anything by the end of the movie, then you are just as heartless as Eckhart's character himself. In the Company of Men is one of the year's few films I believe will stand the test of time, and that is indeed something worth saying wow for.Grade A+ "}{"Title":"A different but truly good movie","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This great movie is very different from most other movies.An intelligent but also raw movie in the sence that it is cruel on a psychological level. The characters plays with emotions from a vulnerable person.It's a great dark comedy, a very interesting one. The ending is very powerful, a really good scene.For any movielover i truly recommend this great movie! "},{"Title":"Sick and Twisted is a light description","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best and worst movies ever made.  I think it shows the lengths that some evil men will go to just to get a laugh.  Chad is a guy who could be in the running for the title of the Antichrist.  He doesn't have any consideration even for other human males.  I was sickened by his behavior around Christine and Howard.  Aaron Eckhart portrayal of Chad is one of the most memorable in cinematic history.  The Chad character and his actions are the reasons this is one the worst movies ever.On the other side though, the performances, story, and dialogue are enough to give it Oscar consideration.  This movie is comparable to The Usual Suspects and Basic Instinct on the fact that one character manipulates every other character for their own means.  I loved this movie and I think it will go down in history as a minor classic. My choice words for this film are not only sick and twisted, plus morbid, wrong, vile, and antagonistic but well-composed, excellent, and a winner.  10 out of 10 (Don't watch this with females).  "},{"Title":"Good movie, but I didn't like it.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to give this movie a lot of credit.  The director accomplished what I think he set out to accomplish, or at least he did with me.  I felt as though I had been exposed to one of the darkest corners of the human psyche, and I didn't like what I saw there.  The movie was very unsettling, and I was grateful that we had rented another to watch after it that night, one to take my mind off of this one.  There are plenty of very disturbing movies out there with unhappy endings that I can watch over and over again, like Seven, for example, but I hope I never see this one again.  At least I can partly identify with John Doe's outrage at the moral decay of the society around him (although his reaction was less than admirable), but Chad... he simply delights in the misery of others.  He's an SS guard in a concentration camp using children for target practice.  No reason for it. It's just fun for him.  What's disturbing about the movie is that it reminds me that there really are people like him walking around out there, maybe even in my own company, one of my own co-workers or my own friends.  I didn't like watching the movie, but I think the director got just the reaction out of me that he wanted, so I gave it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Thanks, my wife now hates me!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is awesome. It is evil, cruel, hilarious, misleading yet true. I watched this movie, and then like an idiot watched it again with my wife and my sister. At the end they just both looked at me like I was Satan and had just clubbed a baby seal. If looks could kill, I'd be dead TWICE! Then the worst part was I started laughing. They just got up in disgust and walked out of the room. Which made me laugh harder. Oh GOD! It took weeks to repair the damage. I tried to explain that it was the kind of laughter that comes after a funeral. That did NOT help. I tried to explain that they were both looking at me like I had killed someone and it made me laugh. That didn't help either. It was the first time in my 12 year marriage that my wife called me a s**thead! My sister, thank god, later (much later) started laughing too, and she helped me out with my wife. Who by now was telling my children that I was Rosemary's Baby! I laughed so hard during this movie that I thought I was going to throw up. I also cried (yes cried). There are scenes that will tear your soul out. I think the reason why this movie hit me so hard, as funny and horrid was because I knew someone like Chad. A guy totally devoid of all love or morality. No compassion or kindness, but he was CONSTANTLY getting laid. I could tell stories about this guy that would make Chad look like Alan Alda. Whew. This movie is a tour-de-force, especially when you consider that this was Neil LaBute's first movie, which he wrote also. The sickest part about this movie is that there are guys like Chad out there. Hopefully only a few, but this movie will make women think there are LOTS more. Watch this movie, if you have the guts. But take my advice...DON'T WATCH IT WITH A WOMAN, unless you are trying to break up, because it will certainly help you do that if you wish.P.S. If any women out there watched it and liked it, would you mind talking with my wife? ;-) "},{"Title":"Did anybody get this movie?!?","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ****For people who seen the movie, because I give away the ending**** This movie is horrible in the good sense.  Unlike many comments I see, this movie is about a friendship, a friend betraying the other friend.  The women is secondary, the game the play with the woman is just part of Chad's plots to do his friend over, and take his job.  Is it possible that I'm the only one who got it. I mean, Chad tells his friend his wife left him, so he invented a game, knowing that Chad was going to most likely like the girl or love her, and he would be emotionally troubled, the Chad purposely messes up Chad's carrier, to have his Job.   In the end, when Chad's friend comes into Chad's place, he tells chad he's worried, and Chad thinks that he's worried about the job, but his friend his worried about the woman, and we discover that Chad's wife never left him, and just before the end she blows him, which also goes to show, that their relationship is fine, and there is no need to be angry at women. This movie is about a betrayed friendship.  I just can't believe nobody got it. "},{"Title":"Kudos to the director!","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kudos to director/writer, Neil LaBute! This character driven story showcases how evil mankind can be to one another.  I think some miss the point in the film by branding it anti-women, anti-date, etc. See this film and you'll see it really isn't against women or a woman hater film. Especially when you see the ulterior motive of Eckhart's distasteful character. "},{"Title":"More Than Meets the Eye","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The moral of this story is NOT Nice Guys Finish Last, but Know Thyself. The world is filled with human jellies who don't know who they are or what they want, who allow their actions to be directed by the wishes of others. Hence, Howard crumbles while Christine, well-grounded in her personality, apparently bounces back.If you've come this far, you already know the essence of the plot.  What most viewers miss is that Howard has a chance to live on his own terms and goofs because of a misguided need for male bonding. As a nerd, he just has to carry Chad's sweater. At one point he's at a fork in the road he is given the benefit of an outsider's perspective, but he takes the wrong path. A colleague, who, not coincidentally, is black, says, on learning that Howard is dating the deaf girl, You're a bigger man than I am. He explains that such a bold variation is dangerous in their corporate culture! Howard is taken aback at the man's admiration of his daring; this new perspective astonishes him. It doesn't sink in, though. He has a chance to be a real man, and he misses it through his own brand of deafness to the invisible man (who has just paid him the compliment of confiding in him and assuming that he's not a shark).There is a subtle implication at the end that Chad may indeed get what's coming to him. His live-in girlfriend has the upper hand emotionally; he explicitly asks her for love. "},{"Title":"We need to be bothered by Howard","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are already too many comments on this one, but ... As usual, lots of people seeing this movie were looking for characters to relate to, and feeling jaded because not only is there a dearth of such characters, but the film also forces the viewer to re-evaluate his or her personal belief systems. If the movie was not as successful as it is (in terms of stirring up deep-seated emotions), then there wouldn't be so many poor ratings on this BBS.The aspect of this movie I think gets overlooked is the character of Howard. Of course he is not the manipulative misogynist that Chad is, but in this manner his character reveals a more subtler objectification of women. He goes along with the wager, and although not as active a character as Chad, is every bit the misogynist Chad is. He just doesn't have the mettle to act on it, to utilize it like Chad. The fact that he falls in love with Christine in no way makes up for his earlier actions. If anything, his character is more repellant because his personality is not the overblown, cartoonish behavior of Chad. Howard represents the average man, the type who likes to think all people are equal, but in his heart things are always stacked in his favor. "},{"Title":"good idea, but left me a bit empty","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The direction was interesting; each scene was like a stationary camera shot with hardly any cutaways. I thought that the idea was to get involved with a woman who would be flattered and pleased by the attention Chad was bestowing upon her (they were talking about how she would start wearing make-up, etc) but Christine is lovely; what made them choose her? I didn't come away feeling like, all men are pigs! Just Chad is a pig! I don't know, I had sympathy for Howard. I wish Chad would have been the one to go crawling back at the end and have his heart get blown out of the water. The acting was pretty great, even if the movie was different than what I expected. "},{"Title":"Horrifying, Brilliant, and Unpleasantly Fascinating","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film a few years ago. I was so utterly disgusted and horrified (mostly because it was billed as a comedy), I never wanted to see it again. Ever.Then, recently, I saw it again. I was still disgusted and horrified, but (since I learned a lot about abnormal psychology during the intervening years), I saw how brilliant In the Company of Men truly is...I've watched it many times since.This is not a film for just anyone to see. This is almost a film I wish no one would ever have to see. I think there maybe ought to be a warning label attached to it. BEWARE EXTREME CRUELTY WITHIN!But for those who have the stomach for it, In the Company of Men is a fascinating excursion into the dark world of Sadistic Personality Disorder. The protagonist (Aaron Eckhart), is a perfect example of this psychological malady. His little buddy (Matt Maloy) is a study in Dependent Personality Disorder. The girl they decide to torment (Stacy Edwards) is nothing but a sweet, innocent bystander.It's a whole lot of tough going, emotionally...and I think that's the whole point.The way author/director Neil LaBute has crafted this disturbing, compelling work is how I wish creators of positive, heartwarming works would go about their business. I love a good, happiness-affirming movie. I'm a dork, I know. But I'd love to see a happy-inducing film grab onto my psyche the way In the Company of Men did. It's something.It's really something. "}{"Title":"I didn't see the reason for all the excitement","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought the movie was OK but not very plausible. Aaron Eckert was not very convincing at times and I can't believe Howard (Matt Malloy)or anyone with a high school maturity level would be seduced by the anti-everything Chad into doing something that was completely out of character. Howard was a successful business man who had risen above the BS to get where he was. He may have been inexperienced with women but Chad's peer pressure tactics wouldn't have taken 6 weeks to be resisted.The best part of the movie was Stacy Edwards portrayal of Christine. She was near pitch-perfect in every scene as the deaf object of Chad and Howard's disingenuous affections. "},{"Title":"Painful in a good way","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This isn't a strictly enjoyable film, but it's a film that should be watched. I found that (if you're a man) it's best to watch it through once on your own, then watch it again with (male) friends who haven't seen it before. That way you get to watch them try to wriggle out of their own skin.It's dialogue heavy and quite theatrical, so dark that it goes way past black and off the spectrum somewhere else, and features outstanding performances from Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy. You don't sympathise or empathise with the central characters in this film - at best you pity and you hate.It's an interesting and compelling film. If you're a man it will make you feel sick, make you feel ashamed. If you're a woman, it's probably just going to make you angry. But it is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Man's Inhumanity to Man.....and Woman","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A sturdy first effort from LaBute which elicited nods of recognition from this male viewer - who admittedly is more Howard than Chad. I once sat behind a group of men at college who were obviously on a 'compare and contrast' exercise as they argued over who had been out with the student with the biggest boobs - yes ladies, this IS how some men think! - and I saw a parallel with them in this film.Scene that will stick in my mind Chad's smug, self-satisfied grin in his final scene.Worth watching at least once, as is the rest of LaBute's small but perfectly formed output (with the exception of NURSE BETTY, of course, which LaBute obviously only directed in an attempt to avoid the 'male brutality' tag. Stick to what you do best, Neil - who else knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men as well as you and Lamont Cranston?). "},{"Title":"Pointless and drab...","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Businessman and master manipulator Chad (well-played by Aaron Eckhart) finds a male associate from work to help him carry out the ultimate scheme against women find a vulnerable single girl, have both men dine and romance her, and then pull the plug on the relationship, leaving the lady heartbroken. Chad is the '90s variation on cads from the past, only this time he's not just a sexist, he's anti-everybody! The setting in the world of big business has led some to believe this is a satire on corporate America, but the film is really too meager (in budget, production and ideas) to qualify for a title so ambitious. It's a black comedy with some good acting, but from a technical standpoint it really looks hideous, with confusing action and muddy color, unclear plot developments, and a background score that defies explanation. Obviously it is an intelligent, thought-provoking piece of work, but the execution is drab and the final result pointless--except to say there's a Chad in every city. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Sorry I watched it.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There aren't many films that I can't find *something* good about  to mention, but this is one.  Waste of an evening.  Story that is sometimes weird, sometimes just bad.  I can't be sure what point the director/author was trying to make with this one.  Locations, sets, dialog, plot, music, all lackluster.  At least it wasn't two hours long! "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really don't see what the appeal of this movie is for most people...I watched it, and i must say that i was honestly bored throughout most of the movie. I thought the acting was poor, the characters not believable, and the surprise ending wasn't really all that riveting.  After the ending, i just sat there saying that's all?  that's the ending?  It just didn't seem to end right. It's not like i was put off by the subject matter, it's just that the plot seemed aimless and I couldn't get into the movie.Overall, 2 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"awful movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. The characters are sick, hateful and sadistic.  Do not be surprised if the writer/director makes the same movie over and over and over again.  He has nothing to say except men are evil.This movie hates men, a particularly strong version of self-hatred.  Men are vicious, men are cruel, men are full of hatred, men are animals.  Women, on the other hand, are portrayed as virginal, innocent, gentle, gullible, weak, and finally victims.Oh poor little deaf girl!  Why not make her a bunny rabbit?  Oh, vicious yuppies!  Why not make them wolves?  Please.  This fairy tale is idiotic.The movie is more than just stupid and simplistic, however.  It is degrading.  You watch this movie and you want to take a shower.  You wish you had amnesia.  You are angry that you lost your money, your dignity, and 2 hours out of your life watching this unspeakable horror.Do you have a soul?  This movie will kill it.  Do you have a brain?  This movie will numb it.  A movie for sadists and masochists.  The Graduate is art.  Red is art.  La Dolce Vita is art.  This is a filmmaker dropping a psychological turd on paper and charging you six dollars to see it.  "},{"Title":"Avoiding bad company...","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (((((SPOILERS))))) IN THE COMPANY OF MEN is a stupid movie. Worse, it is a stupid movie that thinks it is a clever and insightful movie. Worst still, it is a stupid movie that somehow has duped people into believing it is a clever and insightful movie. The film features Chad and Howard, two corporate clones working temporarily at an out-of-town branch of some nameless, generic company. Griping about how badly women have treated them, they conspire to get revenge by finding a vulnerable woman who they both will romance and then dump. Showing not the slightest iota of logic, they conclude that this will vindicate men. How? Why? Don't ask; the film doesn't. Their victim of choice is Christine, a deaf typist who works at the company. So basically, they are saying they will prove they are not afraid of lions by abusing a kitten.The film got a lot of praise for its original premise, though in reality its plot is little more than a variation on the lady's man and the virgin plots (which were themselves drawn from The Taming of the Shrew), wherein Rock Hudson or Tony Curtis sets out to seduce Doris Day or Natalie Wood. In those sex comedies, the underlying theme is the same as in COMPANY OF MEN Men who resent women hope to put them in their place by seducing them and abandoning them. But in films like PILLOW TALK or SEX AND THE SINGLE GIRL among many others, the women represent a challenge to the men. That is the power and the magic of the traditional Hollywood sex comedy the men and women were portrayed and accepted as being on, at least, equal footing and more often than not with the woman being seen as socially, ethically and/or professionally superior. And whether it was Hudson and Day or Curtis and Wood or Tracy and Hepburn or Powell and Loy, the battle of the sexes was basically a battle of equals. And the irony and romance of those comedies is that while the male plotted to drag the female down a notch or two to his level, in the end the opposite happened, she transformed him through love into being a better person. And any one of those films would be a thousand times more honest and progressive than a tired and hateful piece of dreck like IN THE COMPANY OF MEN. Writer/director Neil LaBute is of the breed of contemporary filmmakers who thinks that if he strips characters of their basic humanity and shows them to be loathsome creatures then he has achieved some sort of honesty. Nothing could be further from reality. In COMPANY OF MEN, LaBute has characters who are little more than dreary post-feminist stereotypes man as sexist predator and woman as hapless victim. He does neither gender justice. He apparently assumes that in portraying the white American male as being morally sub-human he somehow absolves himself of the sin of being a white American male. (And in a heavy-handed aside, LaBute kicks in a totally irrelevant scene where Chad humiliates a black man, just to let us know that white American males are racist as well. Yawn!) Anyway, the film has been accused as being misogynistic, when it reality, it aims to pander to the Gloria Steinems of the world with its politically correct gender bigotry.Yet, the film is appallingly contemptuous of women, not because of the attitudes of the two male characters, but because of LaBute. In making Christine deaf, i.e., handicapped, the implication is that as a woman she is handicapped as well. If Chad and Howard are corporate everymen, than Christine is presented as an everywoman, and therefore the implication is that women in general, and especially in the business world, are vulnerable, defenseless outsiders. This may seem like a legitimate statement to proponents of victim feminism, but it should be insulting to most working women. Creating a character who inspires pity is not the same as creating a character who inspires respect. The film goes even further with a twist ending that reveals that the whole plot involving Christine's seduction was just a ruse, thus saying that she is not only handicapped and vulnerable but inconsequential as well. A film about sexual politics is suddenly revealed to be a film about office politics, thus further degrading a character who otherwise has been the film's moral center. It is to Stacy Edwards credit that she is able to create in Christine a persona that is warm and genuine, given that the film itself treats her as nothing but a sad little joke.   Perhaps if the film had been a genuine comedy or satire, it might have been able to use its anti-male/anti-female feminism for self-satire. As is, the film takes itself oh-so seriously, even though its plot is as absurd as anything found in the Hudson/Day comedies. But devoid of real humor, not to mention humanity, IN THE COMPANY OF MEN reveals itself to be a shallow, tiresome film about shallow, tiresome people,...no, it's about shallow tiresome caricatures.  "},{"Title":"Strong Dialogue Makes This Film","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two business executives -- one an avowed misogynist, the other recently emotionally wounded by his love interest -- set out to exact revenge on the female gender by seeking out the most innocent, uncorrupted girl they can find and ruining her life.This was the debut film for Neil LaBute, with a focus on hurting others, and the density of dialogue... my first experience with LaBute was actually reading The Shape of Things, and some similar themes are addressed there -- so we have at least two occasions where he has a story about singling a person out to ruin their lives.We can see this as sort of a parallel to Cruel Intentions or the older version of the story (I forget the name, Dangerous Liaisons?). Except here, rather than bored aristocrats a wealthy kids, we have people whose lives are so mundane that the only joy they can find is attacking those below them... there may be satire here, but it seems all too real. "},{"Title":"One of the ugliest characters","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two middle management on a business trip talk about their relationships. Howard (Matt Malloy) is a meek sweet guy but Chad (Aaron Eckhart) is a bitter mean-spirited misogynist. Chad convinces Howard to get back at womenkind by finding a vulnerable woman to romance and dump. Christine (Stacy Edwards) is a new temp that fits the plan perfectly and she's deaf.This is a disturbing movie. Chad is a psychopath and it's wonderful. It is original and compelling. Aaron Eckhart puts in a great performance as the douche. It's a shocking debut for Neil LaBute. He has written one of the most cynical disturbed ugliest human being on film that doesn't do anything that's actually illegal. Stacy Edwards is amazingly endearing and the reason why this works so well. But it's Eckhart's heartless performance that puts it over the top. "}{"Title":"Not About Glorifying Misogyny But More About The Evils Behind It","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After watching In The Company of Men it left me with an awful taste in my mouth. But at the same time it was a great movie watching experience as we examine the more lower depths of how inhumane we can really be as a society and yet still somehow manage to get with doing our actions. The strange irony is that this film runs at very unreasonable levels. The two leading male characters are couple of hateful humans that it in-spite of their wicked demeanour, I still seemed quite intrigued as what will transpire between these characters. Neil LaBute who wrote and directed this film gave freedom to the movie to just let things flow and avoids it from being preachy or overly moralizing. To me it makes this comedy all the more darker and at the same time more effective too.This tale focuses on a businessman named Chard (Aaron Eckhart), who without hesitation brutally confesses to his friend Howard (Matt Malloy) how much he despises all that is female. So then Chard persuades Howard into a scheming plot in which they're lead on a vulnerable woman and eventually when all is said and done, he will dump her. Chad's reason is a vicious plot at revenge due to the ways women have treated men. Chad assumes that their six-week hiatus to a satellite office is the perfect facility to carry this cruel scheme and while at that take the time to make a mockery on this poor victim at her expense. Howard himself goes along with the scheme feeling that this master-plan will backfire and through self-obligation, sides with Chad to see what will transpire. The plan starts to materialize as the lab rat for this scheme is a naive, shy secretary named Christine (Stacy Edwards) who works at the satellite office who is also deaf. The whole film, Chad and Howard take turns charming Christine, while that's progressing, their scheme starts to get out of control and takes its turns in expected turn of events.The manipulative schemes the men have on poor Christine are very deceitful that it's hard to watch at times. In the case of Chad, the plot is an attempt to emerge victorious as a ploy to further express his disdain to the female gender. Howard feels this scheme is unlawful, it more like to be aware of what's inside looking out instead of vice-versa. The audience and even Hoawrd himself know this plot will not work out. In most movies and T.V. shows they never do. But it's still intriguing in how this plan will come crashing down on them. And we hope that there might be a small fragment of humanity between Chad and Howard. Sure the outcome is predictable, but it's still fun to watch how it will backfire. The reason for dark comedy isn't the jokes or the action by the leading stars, but the laughter rests in the vicinity of what lengths people will go to to express how hateful we as human race truly are.The character-driven film scores high points in terms of depth. In addition to that it makes us reconsider our actions by what we say and do I'm glad that Mr. LaBute ended the film with a moral lesson or a perfectly wrapped happy ending. In the end in this case, the antagonist comes out the winner. And in the real world, bad people usually end up victorious in many situations. Granted Chad is a handsome individual and can wow the ladies with his charm quite easily. But at the same time time he's hypocritical, obnoxious and quite the condescending person who looks a nice person you want to punch in the mouth with. But he is still easy to identify with. There are a lot of Chad's out there And yet you feel sick to your stomach because you understand the psyche of this character so in the end I'm the jerk that has the egg on his face. The whole Chad, Howard and Christine love factor has some noteworthy things of interest here. You have two to put it loosely gentlemen of contrasting backgrounds. You have Chad, the handsome, suave ladies man, and then you have Howard who comes across as socially awkward who like most people of his kind in society are the one's who never come out on top (me included). And it's obvious Christine chooses the suave one over the awkward one. Matt Malloy was excellent portraying Howard. At fist he come across as an introverted individual. However, in the pivotal scenes in the end, it's a breath of fresh air when he lashes out when his buttons are pushed.Once the dust settles, we find these two jerks madly in love with Christine being the unlucky victim due to her being deaf. Both fall victim to the metaphoric love potion. Chad is at a loss of words to admit he loves her while Howard feels short that lost in a situation where he should have won. But in spite of the shortcomings within the characters, it is a wonderful character-driven story that might be hard to swallow in some situations. "},{"Title":"Review of In The Company of Men and The Shape of Things","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil Labute's In The Company of Men stars Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy as Chad and Howard, a pair of mid-level corporate executives sent to a boring regional branch for six weeks on a short term project. Frustrated, recently burnt by women, stuck in a career rut and high on corporate testosterone, the duo hatch a plan. Let's hurt somebody, alpha-male Chad says. Pretty soon they're cooking up a Machiavellian scheme to locate an insecure woman, date her simultaneously, and dump her in the most vicious way possible. The woman they set their sights on is handicapped co-worker Christine. Christine has a speech impediment, but what she says doesn't matter to Chad anyway. Denied a voice, Chad handles her like an object to be acquired, traded, owned and discarded.Labute is heavily influenced by David Mamet. Most of the film finds Chad spewing corporate maxims, strutting about like a Master of the Universe and forcing co-workers to grovel at his feet. Eventually its revealed that Chad's scheming extends even to his friend Howard. He's your classic Extreme Sociopath, charming but endlessly manipulative. Everyone's his puppet. And as with Mamet's workplace flicks, Chad's less a character than an extreme manifestation of a corporate logic whose drive for profit, ownership and expansion slowly infects how everyone around him thinks, acts and feels. Eventually Chad becomes both a norm and standard to aspire to. He's the new hypermasculinist ideal, for whom humiliation, domination, degradation, exploitation and suffering conflate with success. It's not only that aggressive competition in business affects masculinity, romance and sexual behaviour, but that corporate logic magnifies power, the ego and sanctions what is essentially various forms of rape. This stance is the opposite of how contemporary ideology is (mis)perceived, in which business is seen to be neutral and mutually beneficial.Chad's a character who's popped up in many films and stories. More interesting is Howard, a fairly meek guy who is corrupted and made to do things even more horrible than Chad. The real world is made up of Howards. Chad's the anomaly, existing always more as spirit or underlying drive.La Bute penned The Shape of Things as an attempt to reverse the gender roles of Company. Arguably his best film, it's also part of a tight trilogy by Labute about people's perceptions of physicality (Fat Pig, Reasons to be Pretty, Shape of Things). Massive spoilers ahead.The Shape of Things initially unfolds like a conventional romantic comedy. We're introduced to a dishevelled English Literature student called Adam, played by the always likable Paul Rudd, and an attractive art student called Evelyn (Rachel Weisz). The film then becomes a modern version of Adam's seduction by Eve. Eve ensnares Adam, manipulates him into becoming fit, attractive and healthy, and then reveals that she has never had romantic feelings toward him; she was merely using Adam as a sort of living art installation, a clay puppet, deceptively sculpting and moulding his mind and body. When Eve reveals her scheme to Adam &#x96; she invites him to an art installation in which he is quite literally presented as an exhibited object, her gaze now likened to the masculinist gaze of In The Company of Men - he's dumbfounded. Eve's tricked him into getting cosmetic surgery and altering his personality and physique. She's reconstructed him. Treated him as a chunk of malleable flesh.Unlike Company, we're then invited to work our way through the messy ethical minefield of the victimiser's actions. For while Chad deservedly gets no sympathy in Company, the relationship in Things is much harder to work out. Is Adam now a better person? Was Eve's love, no matter how virtual, beneficial to Adam? Was it ever real? How much authority should be given, or do we give, to artists? How much ethical responsibility do they hold or exercise? How do power relationships within romantic couples overlap with the power we grant artists? Don't Eve's actions echo the sexism of Compny? What is acceptable artistic material? Do the means, in art, justify the ends? At what point does creation become manipulation, is manipulation ever justified and at what point does creation destroy (see Vertigo)? Is Adam now a beautiful work of art despite Eve's actions? How do Eve's actions differ from other vampiric artists, who take from and/or abuse outside sources? What does the film say about romance and the lover's desire to alter their partner? Art may be made by monsters, but what about the audience who enjoys? And on and on it goes.The film features a shot of the sentence There is no morality in art. The quote's by Chinese novelist Han Suiyin, and is stencilled over Eve's art gallery. Throughout the film Eve articulates a similarly postmodern stance it's all subjective, she says, moralists have no place in an art gallery. The firm itself is structured, we think, as an artist's apologia. Its first scene portrays Eve as an iconoclast who thrice breaks the rules, stepping over a rope at a museum, taking an illegal photograph of a sculpture and painting a penis onto a statue which has been censored by uptight museum curators. You stepped over the line, Miss, curator Adam prophetically says when he firsts meets her. But as Eve makes clear, there should be no lines. We agree with her for much of the film. Afterall, hasn't she liberated Adam? By the film's end, however, we're asked to reconsider Eve's stance. Labute himself reconfigures Han Suiyin's quote. It's not that there is no morality in art, in the sense that morality should not apply to art, but more literally, that there is now, no longer, morality in art. Artists have no ethical compass, social feeling or attachment toward world, community or fellowman. Such art doesn't only exist in a vacuum, but is inherently selfish and nihilistic. You know, like Chad. 8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A Well Executed Film on the Inherently Self-Destructive Desire to Hurt Other People","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost every line and every scene in this tight, aggressive film is purposeful. Aaron Eckhart's performance as Chad is relaxed, controlled, and indifferently sadistic without being brutal. Matt Malloy's performance as Howard is absolutely necessary to the success of the film. The audience is never supposed to respect Howard, and Malloy commits unflinchingly to the role.Howard, in the end, discovers that he has been purposelessly led by his own weakness to want vindication for his ego--instead, he becomes a pathetic imitation of a romantic hero for a moral purpose he pretended to ignore.Some of the script suffers from believability. The beginning of the film, when Howard is slapped for asking a woman the time, is pretty unreasonable. If the film is (even an implicit) argument that women provoke men to be cruel, it proceeds from a false premise.The story boils down to the simple logic that Chad can manipulate and destroy Howard because Howard believes he's able to manipulate and destroy someone else.I envision Chad as a kind of false Satan--a man who pretends to be against God and morality solely for the purpose of seducing and destroying the lives of characters who believe in him.How does it feel to really hurt someone? "},{"Title":"The perfect example of how ruthless people can be...","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is a movie that makes one consider his or her actions after watching. The film puts the human conscience to the test by illustrating an exaggerated example of how heartless people can be at times. The film centered around three main characters. Aaron Eckhart played Chad, the arrogant, back-stabbing and ruthless bad guy. Christine, played by Stacy Edwards, was the first of Chad's victims of cruelty. Matt Malloy played Howard, a man who thought Chad was his friend.In early portions of the film, the theme appears to be revenge upon women by scorned men. However, as the plot thickens, the true theme of the film reveals itself. It turns out that Chad is planning to hurt anyone he can. The real theme of the film is that some people care about only themselves. Chad is a classic case of one of those people. Throughout the film, he carefully executes a plan to hurt Christine, a deaf woman who has not dated in a long time, due to her handicap. He uses Howard to help in the act of hurting Christine.Chad eventually accomplishes his main goal. However, Howard develops feelings for Christine and tells her that he and Chad had set out to hurt her from the beginning. He also tells her that he has fallen in love with her, although she never gives him a chance to prove that. As a result, Howard ends up being hurt as well.As the plan to hurt Christine comes to fruition, other subplots become evident. Smaller examples of the theme come to light. Chad organizes a series of events that lead to Howard being demoted from his position in the company he and Chad work for. It was no coincidence that Chad eventually was promoted to Howard's position.As the viewer watches Chad's plans unfold, certain elements of film production can be detected as enhancers of the theme. For example, the music between scenes is bold and loud. It gives one the impression that something ominous is going to happen. The music seems to create an element of building tension. One anticipates a huge event of a bad nature.The camera angles chosen for many of the scenes make Chad seem very powerful and evil. The scenes that use upward views of Chad and Howard together are particularly persuasive toward creating this impression. The various angles used in the date scenes between Chad and Christine further emphasize Chad's lack of conscience.The theme of this film, and the execution of the theme, is very similar to that found in The Usual Suspects. Both films focus on a character that is deceiving people purposely. They are also similar, in that the villain is not found out by the other characters until the end of the movie. The only difference is that Chad is not so eager to get away clean with his acts. He seems to be proud of his actions, and willingly tells Howard what he has done.This film's theme is one that makes some consider their actions, while it makes others strive to achieve such power. The effect it has on you should say something about the kind of person you are. It made me consider how awful it feels to be hurt. Those involved in making this film have put together a powerful piece that, while lacking in action, forces people to examine themselves and others. "},{"Title":"A picture of a psychopath","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Chad is a perfect example of a sociopath/psychopath, someone who is amoral, takes risks in his personal and work life, is utterly charming when he is working on someone, but cold and and cruel when he no longer needs them. I thought this film was a brilliant portrayal of the psychopath and how he draws in his victims. Lying is second nature to him, he takes everything in his stride because he has no emotional response to anything that transpires. Chad is in control and it is almost hypnotic to see him manipulate those around him.There was another thread running through the story, the office politics, and Howard appeared to have missed what was really happening - just like a real life victim, he would not have realised just how evil Chad is.Definitely one for my collection of films about psychos. "},{"Title":"Intensely Uncomfortable Movie -- But Just Try to Look Away","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Engrossing and fascinating, if uncompromisingly nasty, film from provocateur Neil LaBute.Two businessmen, one alpha male, the other paunchy wimp, play with the emotions of a deaf coworker as a way to vent their own frustrations about work, sex -- and just about everything else about being human. The resulting film is angry and predictably uncomfortable to watch, but the compelling writing and performances are enough to keep you engaged.This was the first film to introduce me to the considerable talents of Aaron Eckhart, a chronically underrated actor.Grade A- "},{"Title":"What It Means When You  Did It because I could ","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Early in the movie the premise of the story line is made clear. Two Yuppie businessmen away on a project in a branch office are discussing their relationships with women. They tell each other how badly they have treated them and how downtrodden they feel. This leads one of them to come up with a plan, which he convinces the other fellow to join in with him. They will find unsuspecting, susceptible young woman during the six weeks that are away. They will each wine, dine and romance her simultaneously and then both will dump her and leave town. As one of them puts it, in the future no matter how badly they are treated by girlfriends, their wives or even their bosses, they will look back and know that nobody treated them as badly as they were going to treat this women. Nice guys? Now what does this movie show us? What insight into the human mind or into the mind of some subtype of men can we glean? Well, they carry out the plan albeit with some complications. When she realizes what was done to her, the young woman says to one of the men, Why did you do this? He answers, Because I could? Does that line sound familiar? Although the line became famous a few years after this movie was made Bill Clinton is the person who immortalized those words in response to a question from Dan Rather in a 60 Minute TV interview as to why he had his affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky. Clinton replied, I think I did something for the worst possible reason-just because I could. I think that's the most, just about the most morally indefensible reason that anybody could have for doing anything. When you do something just because you could&#x85; I've thought about it a lot. And there are lots of more sophisticated explanations, more complicated psychological explanations. But none of them are an excuse. Those psychological reasons may vary from person to person and there were two male characters in the movie and of course Clinton is a character himself. In some there is a core of self-centeredness or narcissism, some of which may make you a good leader or a boss but too much of it will be a disaster. Then in some individuals there is a great insecurity, which can include jealousy and aggression. We saw a mixture of these in our characters in the movie. Director Neil LaBute made the six week time span move quickly and actors Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy were excellent. Although the performance of Stacy Edwards was also top notch, there was controversy in some circles who thought that a real deaf actress should have played the part. We should have mentioned that the susceptible attractive young women who was to be dumped had lost her hearing at age 8 and had a speech impairment. Some may find this movie very thought provoking. Hopefully it won't be too close to home. "},{"Title":"Let's hurt somebody &#x85; In the Company of Men","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here we have corporate culture at its worst in the 90s; two men, a decade out of college, going city to city and making their money by giving presentations and telling others what to do. It's a high-pressure job with what appears to be small reward. Both Chad and Howard are slowly becoming fed up as they see younger men rise quicker and with less work ethic; they see their wives and girlfriends leave them without warning, breaking their hearts as their souls are destroyed in the workplace. It has become too much for Chad and he is looking for revenge. What better way to do so than at the demise of a girl, the fairer sex in which he says is composed of women all the same, meat and gristle and hatred just simmering? What if they could lead on some poor soul who has reached a point in her life where the prospect of a relationship or a future full of love is unattainable and than destroy her for sport to watch the reaction? Hell, they'll always be able to tell each other afterwards, They never got me the way we got her.The writing is cynical and witty; this is one of the blackest comedies you will ever view. I literally felt bad laughing at times, but it is constructed so smartly, you just can't help yourself. Howard is a wormy romantic who knows Chad, the epitome of alpha male, from college and has stayed close through the years. He would never partake in a game such as this if not for the tale of his stronger buddy being cleaned out by his girl, even having the frame around his American Gigolo poster taken from him. If the sort of heartbreak Howard feels can happen to his friend too, well than maybe the female race deserves to be taught a lesson; unfortunately for temp Christine, that exercise will be brought upon her in full. She is the perfect fodder for their six week revenge plan, not only is she attractive, but she is deaf. Handicapped to the point where she wears headphones to appear distracted when unable to hear someone walk by, she is so far removed from the dating scene that the advances of two successful men in the office may just be too strong for her to pass up. Both men work together to show her so much affection that she will have to fall for at least one. Love, however, wasn't anticipated to play a role in the proceedings.As the weeks advance, the dates become more intimate, the bonds stronger. Sitting and watching the advancement starts to make it tough to discern true motivations. Are Chad and Howard really falling for her or are they that good at pretending in order to make the breakup as devastating as possible? Howard may not be getting as close physically to the girl, but his actions express a longing and need to be with her. Chad, on the other hand, working his magic and getting her in bed, has acquired the phrase he's been working towards, having her tell him she loves him. He responds in kind, but is it real? We will have to wait and see in week six whether the game has gone too far or whether it has gone just as planned. That statement may seem cruel, because the fact the ruse began at all means it went too far&#x97;they are playing with an innocent's emotions and heart for sport&#x97;but in the context of the film, you do start to buy into it and want to see what kind of fallout will result.LaBute does come from the stage and it shows here in his first film as most scenes are constructed from long takes and static setups. One moment on the rooftop has Chad almost flub a line, but they keep going, either to keep a sense of realism or save money on reshooting the exchange. Definitely shot on the cheap, it becomes the job of the actors to perform at the highest level, and they do not disappoint. Stacy Edwards is amazing as Christine, both in her portrayal of a deaf woman and in the emotional turmoil she must go through from start to finish. Also remember too, see is deceiving them by going out with both at the same time, selfishly keeping her own happiness above them knowing the truth. But it is Matt Malloy and Aaron Eckhart, as Howard and Chad respectively, that really carry the film. Malloy is a ball of nerves and insecurities, yet when he needs to be, either lying to the girl or venting to his friend, can compose himself to a man of power and force. Needing incentive to be confident, it is in him, but the moments where his insecurities rear their head shine above all else; never able to control the situation, he slowly devolves into a version of Chad.Chad, conversely, doesn't have a weak bone to his name. He says at the end that he can sell anyone, and it is true. The lines he utters are pure gold and I can see why it was hard for him to get work early in his career. Eckhart played a prick so well, no one wanted the controversy surrounding this role to take anything away from the new work. He is so conniving, so manipulative, yet with a smile that can charm us all. This film exists due to his performance and the revelations at the conclusion only cement him as one of the best screen villains ever. I'd love to see this story on stage, because The Shape of Things blew away its brilliant screen counterpart when I saw a college production, and I can only imagine watching this acted out in front of me would do the same if not more. "},{"Title":"Bad man, down boy.","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In an attempt to strike a blow for every man that has been wronged by a woman, Chad and Howard plan to seduce the same woman and then simultaneously break her heart........Bleak in its satirical portrayals, In The Company Of Men has proved to be a highly debatable and controversial movie. Splitting critics right down the middle, it's been called everything from a misogynistic rant to an astute modern day masterpiece, the truth is that it's neither of those things. Tho the crux of the story suggests misogyny is its central axis, both men here are painted in less than favourable light, and in fact the central female of the piece wonderfully played by Stacy Edwards is far stronger than most female characters in modern day cinema. Cheaply made and set in some nameless corporate company, director Neil LaBute crafts what is in essence a black comedy about corporate suits who backbite with carefree abandon, the men versus women arc is merely a strand in LaBute's intriguing picture.It's a film that most definitely is memorable, if not just for Aaron Eckhart's portrayal of Chad, one of the 90s most despicable characters, but also for its cheeky and unexpected finale. The performances are strong and those who enjoy a dialogue driven pictures will revel in what is on offer here. It also serves as an interesting reference point to LaBute as a director, this being his debut feature, it showed a great deal of promise, but has that promise been realised? Nurse Betty, Possession and the ill advised remake of The Wicker Man suggest LaBute may need to stick to the basics of his talent, I shall be an interesting observer of Lakeview Terrace & the upcoming Death At A Funeral. 7/10 "},{"Title":"In the Company of Men","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From directorial debut of Neil LaBute (Nurse Betty), the premise of the film sounded a very interesting black comedy drama, and being five stars, I wasn't going to miss it. Basically work buddy junior executives Chad (The Dark Knight's Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) are on a six week business trip, and have both recently been hurt by women. They plot an horrible to find the most naive and vulnerable women they can as revenge to all women, to find her, date her, romance her, and then dump her, with her feelings and self-esteem being completely destroyed. They choose their perfect victim, deaf secretary Christine (Stacy Edwards), who can only understand people by reading their lips. It goes according to plan, especially for Chad who she is most smitten with, however it is complicated for Howard who has genuinely fallen for Christina. Howard cannot stand to see Christine being hurt and tells her the game that he and Chad has formed, and she obviously tells Chad she knows, only slapping him, after he leaves crying on the bed. Weeks later, Chad's real girlfriend Suzanne (Emily Cline) hadn't actually left him, like he had told Howard earlier, so no real change to his life, and the last thing Howard does is try to talk to Christine, but she ignores him, and the film ends with him constantly shouting listen. This independent black comedy drama is brave, hard-hitting, controversial and in some moments deliberately uncomfortable viewing, so I would definitely recommend it. Very good! "}{"Title":"Not Your Usual Fare","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a typical film, it looks more like a play. A series of set-piece dialogues in which it is very rare to see even three people in any given scene. Set in a non-specific 'corporate' world in nameless locations the film suggests that these people could be living near you... Chad and Howard are colleagues and friends, embittered with the world. Women, work colleagues, the system have all conspired to hold them back, nothing is their fault, they just haven't got them breaks. Chad decides to play a cruel game in which while on a six week relocation they will both 'romance' the same woman then dump her. Break her heart just for the hell of it. In their dotage they can bask in the glory of her humiliation. Though Howard appears the weaker of the two men he agrees to play an active role. These are not easy people to like, but the sad thing is they probably *do* exist somewhere near you. Chad is charisma and charm while spitting venom in private. Is Howard simply more easily led? I cannot decide, but he is no saint. They want a 'vulnerable' woman so a deaf typist is to these men ideal, they look down on women, a disabled woman even more so. I will not go any further with the actual story, it is worth sticking with despite it being at times difficult viewing. Refreshingly different. "},{"Title":"A cruel and mean-spirited film that's worth watching","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is a cruel and mean-spirited low budget film about a man playing playing a prank on an innocent deaf woman with the aid of a fellow co-worker, just for the sake of it. The movie's screenplay is very well-written. This is Aaron Eckharts first role of any relevance. He is chilling in his role which boils down to a sociopath, although one who blends into society extremely well. He cares about no one except himself and will hurt others for an easy laugh attempting to feed is own ego. Director and playwright Neil LaButes' first film. He would unfortunately go on to direct Nicholas Cage in the horrible Wicker Man remake. "},{"Title":"black comedy??","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Others seem to have categorized this film as a black comedy. Perhaps I'm not clear on the definition of a black comedy, but I don't understand why ANYTHING in this movie is funny.Chad's character is detestable and sadistic--although, sadly, probably a realistic portrayal of some people in the world. This movie is a drama pure and simple. I don't see any satire, just a brutal, Hobbesian, Machiavellian, portrayal of corporate life and love as a game.Howard's character suffers a kind of ironic fate. He seeks to feel better about his own suffering and losses in love by gratuitously hurting another. In the end, he is the one who is again suffering. I suppose this might be considered satire, but I don't really see it.For those who disagree, please be sure to provide a definition of black comedy as well as any examples of scenes you think are funny. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is an incredibly disturbing exploration of men, woman, relationships, race, and corporate America. Neil LaBute's debut film as writer and director was billed as an independent dark comedy but may just as well been a Monster Movie. Chad played by Aaron Eckhart is one of the most haunting characters ever put on film. He is no creature or serial killer however but far more frightening. Chad is a good-looking, successful, charismatic, businessman who has absolutely no regard for anything or anyone in his life. Eckhart's portrayal is extremely convincing. You believe him when he is trying to be sincere and are sickened when he reveals his true nature. The film takes place when Chad and his introvert friend and coworker, Howard, have to go away on business to a small town for 6 weeks. Chad having just gone through a break up along with Howard decides the two should simultaneously date an innocent unsuspecting woman while on the trip. After they both win her over they will break her heart and go back to their normal lives with the satisfaction of hurting a woman the way they have been hurt. Chad finds the perfect candidate almost immediately in the quite pretty deaf girl Christine at their temporary office. The plot seems so translucent at this point. The two will obviously start to have real feelings for Christine, she will find out about the game they were playing and leave them before ultimately realizing she really loved one of them and then they will kiss on a beach in the last shot. Sounds like a job for Zack Efron and Hillary Duff. Fortunately this film is not all the way it seems. There is layer after layer of development. The friends and their disgusting plot of misogyny is only the surface of this film and without revealing any details it is far from the happy ending I expected. The film delves into the world of corporate America and the class and racial structure of business. The employees shown on the big project are white males and the lone young black businessman is forced into a brutally humiliating act to prove his worth. The women are secretaries or typists. It is also fitting that the company and there actual area of business is never even mentioned. The filmmakers disclose no details on the project or even the locations. This story isn't meant to show a small minority of a certain type of company or employee but a broad depiction of the structure of American business. Neil LaBute is brutally effective in this film and it should not be missed. "},{"Title":"I can't believe my eyes.......","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't believe my eyes........to have watched such a brilliant and witty film just now.It is certainly an excellent teaching material on the dynamics of office politics that everyone set to join the masculine corporate world should really see, to see how everything can be traded in such harsh and competitive environment and how quickly the weak can be preyed and encroached upon by the stronger. A realistic and entertaining black comedy that will set you smiling and thinking during the watching, and with an excellent screenplay too.Certainly worth your while to spend one and a half hour on no matter what. "},{"Title":"Fun, Disturbing, Sexy","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the movies that captures your emotions. There are some inconsistencies yet Aaron Echart carries this film into a must see. He plays Chad a sociopath and mind f*cker. Evil yet seductive in more ways then one. It is interesting because Chad is not so seductive by the what he does rather the way he carries himself. The film would not be of note or had any impact if Chad would have been portrayed with the usual Hollywood flair. A must see!OK now I am just typing because the minuimum content for comments of 10 lines is way too long. Good reviews are lost because some film buffs are not windbags. "},{"Title":"(Human) life at its most basic level","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I could write a litany of observations, meanings, and impressions of LaBute's screen writing and directorial debut product, In the Company of Men (ICM). I had seen the film a few years after it came out and, to be honest with everyone, because of my habit to gloss over a lot of things in years gone by, I really only extracted from the film what it superficially displayed hardened corporate men doing cruel things. However, very recently I re-visited this film while it was making a glorific return via cable TV and am now more cognizant of the incredibly diverse layers of psycho-dynamic dissection one could perform on the characters, especially the main ones, of this film. Since then, I have written intently on various ICM message boards, trying to sort and clarify the incredible amount of controversy and confusion this film sometimes elicits. One thing is for sure even though this film has been billed in various circles as being a comedy, nothing can be further from the truth. This piece is one of the purest dramatic character studies set on film - truly a masterpiece. Many people can easily be turned off, even repulsed, by the frat-like shenanigans the two lead male characters attempt to pull off in the film. However, if you can get past this most superficial perception of the film, you will find, in a stepwise fashion, progressively deeper insights of how human behavior is successively governed by innate human needs and emotions. Many themes and messages should be easily conjured by the viewer of ICM including, to name a few, corruption of power, psychological control and manipulation, and the accountability and culpability of human behavior. People could debate ad nauseum who the most evil character of the film was - and interestingly, in a very uncharacteristic-of-a-film way, all would be right. The main characters presented in ICM are certainly flawed in various ways and certainly some have lost any semblance of a societally acceptable moral compass. LaBute goes to great lengths to make no bones about this; in fact, perhaps the only criticism I have of this film is that at points some the acting is a tad over-the-top but, in retrospect, I see now why this was necessary. I hope that people that get to watch this film (and, in my humble opinion, I believe every adult should watch this film, no matter what station in life they're at) will ultimately use this dynamic presentation to discern, at the most basic levels, what the human interactions portrayed in this film are all about. Biological needs and drives - preservation of the body by food and shelter facilitated by work and preservation of the individual genome facilitated by sexual relationships - are, in fact, the most powerful life forces on this planet (in front of the psycho-dynamic and socio-dynamic forces). Societally, we see intensely cruel and evil actions being perpetrated in this film which I'm sure most non-sociopathic people would agree are just that. However, let us not forget that at the most basic levels, humans are biological creatures that, on an individual basis priority, fervently work on self-preservation - whatever it takes. Sometimes, as portrayed in this film, this really involves extending beyond the bounds of what society would deem as morally and ethically acceptable. I guess this is probably what has laid the foundation in creating that very memorable, and, I believe in the particular instance of this film, very appropriate saying All's fair in love and war. "},{"Title":"In the Company of Creeps","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Since I can't foresee the typical audience at the Sundance Film Festival being overly attached to anything resembling blue-collar reality, it isn't much of surprise that In the Company of Men earned such glowing accolades in '97 and sparked a minor controversy for its subject matter. Perhaps it's just my familiarity with films that take misogyny to a more disturbing plateau (I Spit on Your Grave is a standout example) that Men comes across as neither revelatory nor a masterpiece. That's not to say it isn't a good film. The plot centers around Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy), two handsome white-collar office guys who have been consistently spurned by women; Chad hatches a sinister plan that will take place over the course of a six-week company trip wherein the two men will seduce one woman for the sole purpose of crushing her at the end. Their prey is deaf secretary Christine (Stacy Edwards). Writer-director Neil LaBute's film is filled with incisive observations on the male manipulation of power and the shifting dynamics of relationships in the name of business and pleasure--Chad, Howard, and Christine become three-dimensional participants in a 'game' where the cruelty incurred is hardly one-sided. While In the Company of Men is impressive in that regard, one almost wishes LaBute would have pushed things to an even lower level of emotional devastation and degradation...I didn't feel as hurt as the characters, and I felt that I should have. "},{"Title":"A decent dark indie flick","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A decent indie drama-comedy from labute, it tells the story of two cruel men who work in the corporate world together and due to various pressures decide to pull a practical joke on a innocent random girl. I thought Stacy Edwards was over the top and only mediocre, while Eckhart was good (better than his lackluster performance in erin brockovich). The highlight of the film was Matt malloy for me who gave the best performance i think. I liked LaBute's direction, although it could have been better in order to better compliment the great crude and dark script which i liked a lot. This film is good, but not great in my eyes, has its flaws both in plot and acting but is still enjoyable and has a seriousness is thought-provoking. 8/10 #238 on my list of all-time favorite films "},{"Title":"Dull dissertation on misogyny that would've worked better as a play","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  IN THE COMPANY OF MEN is a dull, stodgy and tedious film reminiscent (in all the wrong ways) of those low-budget educational films they showed at school to raise our awareness of the difficulties faced by the handicapped. The final scene (which I won't give away here) is particularly heavy-handed and crass. This film doesn't so much make a point as beat you over the head with it. LaBute seems intent on using cinema as a vehicle to show everyone how precious and sensitive he is. You can picture an arthouse cinema full of beard-stroking twentysomethings all shaking their heads grimly and muttering Oh, how awful as the events on screen unfold before them.Undoubtedly, the behaviour of Chad (and, to a lesser extent, Howard) is disturbing, but the characters in the equally reprehensible AMERICAN PIE were far, far worse, and we're invited to laugh at those dummies. In the words of the late Bill Hicks, I'm getting mixed signals here. No wonder some people think this is a dark comedy.LaBute's script is full of clunkers. That is the key to the entire universe. What the hell? Life's for the taking, is it not? Well, yes it is, Mr LaBute. It's also too short to waste on pompous, self-conscious dissertations on the behaviour of macho louts who want to boost their egos by treating women like garbage. As hard as this may sound, the antics of Chad don't amount to a hill of beans when you consider that there are neanderthal slobs out there whose idea of a fun night in is beating up their wife and sexually assaulting their own children. Wake up and smell reality, Mr LaBute.The film also *looks* bad. The photography has a strange, grainy, 'shot-on-video-and-transferred-to-film' look about it, the direction is practically non-existent, and the actors often seem terrified of making any kind of movements in case they slip out of frame. I sat there playing that ever-popular game, If only I was the director, constantly visualizing more interesting angles and shots in my mind. Also, notice the heavy symbolism when the camera zooms in on yellow construction tape with CAUTION printed all over it. Subtlety isn't this film's strong point.In all, this was a wasted opportunity. Think what stronger meat David Mamet would have made of the admittedly interesting idea. Check out OLEANNA or GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS, two films on similar themes that are far more compelling and troubling than anything you'll find here. "}{"Title":"Dumb plan","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent journey of psychological introspection and emotional sabotage. As soon as you get what's really going on, your heart is left cold, high, dry, and itching, and the flick has just started. Men, locker room stories, superficiality of the corporate world, under the belt scoring techniques - too see how far one can get. Of course going much further than a physical conquest, the real aphrodisiac stimulus comes from the mind and the heart of the target.  There is one smart clown and two dumb (no pun intended) clowns. Very well done, and very sad.  "},{"Title":"A former BYU student's thoughts","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When this film came out, all of BYU, especially the Mormon community was shocked.  Those who dared view the film despite its rated R label came away shaking their heads.  The film's language and content are troubling to say the least.  After hearing all the talk I finally broke down and rented this film.  While viewing it I tried very hard to forget what I had heard about it.  I wanted to judge the film based on its content as opposed to a rumor mill.The film was fascinating to say the least.  The idea that people would do such awful things is enough to keep anyone awake and attentive throughout the film.  My biggest problem with this film however is the way it made me feel.  When the film had finished I felt physically sick. This film created one of the worst and most evil villains in cinematic history.  In addition, it ended on an incredibly sour note that made it hard to accept.I am not saying that I have a problem with films that end on bad notes, I am simply saying that if a film is going to end depressing than it probably needs to have a strong point.  In the film Requim For a Dream there is an unhappy ending and the film leaves its audiences with an unsettling feeling. However, there is a strong anti-drug message.  In this film, you are left unsettled but are unsure as to what the message/point was.  What are you supposed to take away from this film?  Anything?The low budget aspect of the film did make it look cheap at times but overall, the film was well done.  I just didn't like the way it made me feel and didn't like the fact that I took nothing from it but discomfort.  Who likes to feel like crap for no particular reason?  "},{"Title":"Witty and chilling","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is one of those films that just comes right out of nowhere and totally blows you away. It's a very dark film, about two men, who have been dumped by their girlfriends, who devise a cruel scheme to find a vulnerable woman, simultaneously date her, then dump her quickly and unceremoniously. To reveal more of the plot would detract from the film's gut-wrenching power, for some of the scenes are the most emotionally painful scenes ever put on film. A true masterpiece. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A journey in the the darkest part of the male psyche.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is the tale of two yuppie office guys who have experienced bad luck with the opposite sex.  For fun they make a pact to date a deaf woman and then break her heart.  An absorbing and very realistic film with great performances, primarily from Eckhart.  With a twist that will leave you disheartened and talking.  You most likely know at least one person like these characters. Look around you and check out the flick! "},{"Title":"Disgustingly good.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite this films' terrible black humor and imagery, its morbid theme is quite sobering. Plus, being a native of Fort Wayne, I thoroughly enjoyed seeing the sites and attractions of a 'bustling' northern Indiana town used as a shooting location for such an award-winning cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"It's Just A Movie, Kids","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the actions committed by some of the characters in this film are truly evil- but that's no reason to say it's not worth seeing.  If it were, Schindler's List wouldn't have won any awards.And no, this wasn't Schindler's List, but it was an interesting hypothetical look at the reaction of two men to their changing roles in the workplace and relationships in the wake of 1990's political correctness.The dialog was good, and there were some genuinely funny moments that had nothing to do with the primary plot line.  Also, the story's a fair amount more complicated than most people make it out to be.  Good viewing for those who can tolerate occasional doses of filmed emotional abuse without being distracted from the bigger picture. "},{"Title":"The Dark Side Of The Human Condition","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	A film that reads like an essay on how to get ahead by laying waste to everyone and everything in one's path, while giving no quarter and taking no prisoners, `In The Company Of Men,' written and directed by Neil LaBute, is a starkly brutal movie that examines the darkest side of the human condition and the depths of evil to which an individual is capable of descending without knowing remorse.  Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) are business associates, ten years out of university (they attended the same school), and are about to embark on a six week special assignment in another city for their company.  As they wait to board their plane, Howard reveals to Chad that his girlfriend has just dumped him; aboard the plane, Chad shares with Howard that his girlfriend has just dumped him as well, in a quite insensitive manner, at that.  No warning, no note, just one day&#150; gone&#150; end of story.  Chad muses to Howard that things seem to be getting out of hand; women have the upper hand in relationships, and even worse, seemingly in the workplace, too (not to mention the competition from the younger guys coming up and already snapping at their heels, career wise).  `You can't even tell a joke in the workplace anymore,' he tells him.  And it's time to do something about it.  Toward that end, Chad hatches a scheme through which they can get back on top and `regain their dignity.'  And for the rest of their lives, no matter how bad their relationships go or what `they' do to them at work, they'll always have this one thing, something that's worse than anything anyone will ever have done to them.  At first Howard isn't sure, because it's so `out there,'  but Chad sells him on the idea, and they go to work.  Their plan is to do it over the next six weeks, then it's over and they're on their way home.  Back on top.  Forever. 	So begins what can only be called a study in abject cruelty and humiliation and, moreover, of a sick mind that in many ways is more telling than anything gleaned from movies such as `The Silence Of The Lambs,' or `The Cell.'  What's so unsettling is the fact that Chad is so `normal;' the young, clean-cut, charismatic all-American role model type, and to discover that such a person is capable of such unconscionable behavior is enough to awaken the paranoia in even the most jaded observer.  The mere concept of Chad's scheme is so despicable even to contemplate, that to see it actually played out becomes almost unbearable at times to keep watching.  But you can't help yourself; LaBute's deft handling of his own material makes it so engrossing that you simply can't look away.  He takes you right down the path to where he wants you, and knows exactly which buttons to push along the way to keep you there.  Even against your own will. 	Aaron Eckhart gives a remarkable, almost chilling, performance as Chad; to be able to create such a loathsome character, someone who can evoke such utter contempt, bespeaks his ability as an actor.  This is a guy you will not soon forget, and  may make you think twice about more than a few casual acquaintances and co-workers, while wondering if things or people are ever actually as they seem.  That Chad is someone with whom you can so readily identify (at least on the surface), makes this brush with him all the more disquieting.  To have to acknowledge his perverse power over others is even more so.  As ultimately one of the pawns in Chad's game, Matt Malloy gives a good performance as Howard, but it's a character for whom it is hard to muster much sympathy.  The most notable performance in the film, however, is turned in by Stacy Edwards (Christine).  It's a tough part, and she plays it to perfection with just the right touches of strength and vulnerability that gain her the empathy of the audience while making her an entirely sympathetic and memorable character. 	A hard-hitting drama punctuated with a driving score (that is especially effective during the transitions of the passing weeks), `In The Company Of Men' will get your adrenaline pumping and make your blood boil at the same time.  It's a sad commentary on society, but a wake-up call with a moral just the same.  It's a case of acquainting oneself with ugliness, that one may then recognize and appreciate true beauty.  Be forewarned, this is a movie that will get under your skin; but at the same time, it's going to make you know you're alive.  You may not like it, but you're definitely going to feel it.  I rate this one 8/10.        	               	   	 	   	                  "},{"Title":"What Evil Lurks in the Hearts of Men","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is an unrelenting and uncompromising film about two junior executives (Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy) who decide to seduce and then dump a woman who they feel is vulnerable.  They do this because they are sick of failed relationships and are sick of everything in general.  Eckhart comes up with the scheme and Malloy reluctantly agrees with Eckhart's twisted views on the opposite sex.  The target of their assault is a beautiful young secretary who happens to be deaf (Stacy Edwards).  The game starts and Eckhart proves to be a merciless competitor.  However, Malloy still cannot help but feel sorry for the young woman.  He continues with the game anyway.  As the game progresses, the stakes get higher and the costs become greater.  Everything will come to a head at the end and there will be a twist that will both shock and sicken the audience.  In the Company of Men is an intensely strong film that is hard to watch because it is so realistic.  The screenplay is amazingly insightful.  I have been around men who act and talk just like Eckhart and Malloy do in this film.  The first time I encountered people acting this way was in high school, with what I always referred to as locker-room talk.  However to be fair, there are some women who play this sick game as well.  Neil LaBute's direction is just as sharp and intelligent as his writing.  The three key players are all superb.  Eckhart is so menacing and evil throughout, he plays the part to the paramount.  Malloy has a very difficult role as he plays the man in the gray-area.  He is not totally gone like Eckhart, but he is not totally there either.  He is walking a dangerous line that is going to change his life forever.  With all that said, it is Stacy Edwards who is the revelation.  She plays a deaf woman perfectly.  Many people thought that she was really deaf after seeing this film.  Her performance enhances everything else that is going on in the film and she should have received an Oscar-nomination for this role.  Heart-wrenching and difficult to sit through, In the Company of Men is an intense character study that was easily one of the best films of 1997.  4.5 out of 5 stars.              "},{"Title":"This movie stinks and you wont be sorry if you don't see it.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is bad in every way. Subject, Acting, Script, Direction. It was completely without any redeeming qualities. It was one of the few movies I have seen that I genuinely regret not walking out on. Why would anyone want to sit through a movie about 2 men mentally torturing an innocent woman. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest arthouse films ever","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why do people put this movie down? It is one of the greatest stories told on the screen. I think people who see this movie and hate it think it is true but are too ashamed to speak it.The movie centers around two businessmen who have to go to another city to start up a new company.  While they are there they speak of how they are sick of women screwing them around so decide to do it to a women.  They pick a young Deaf women who is lonely.  One goes out with her then the other. The plan backfires when one of them falls in love with her.All I can say is that this is one of the best movies (IE Script, directing, actors) I have seen.  "}{"Title":"One of the greatest arthouse films ever","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why do people put this movie down? It is one of the greatest stories told on the screen. I think people who see this movie and hate it think it is true but are too ashamed to speak it.The movie centers around two businessmen who have to go to another city to start up a new company.  While they are there they speak of how they are sick of women screwing them around so decide to do it to a women.  They pick a young Deaf women who is lonely.  One goes out with her then the other. The plan backfires when one of them falls in love with her.All I can say is that this is one of the best movies (IE Script, directing, actors) I have seen.  "},{"Title":"Odd","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really odd.  I wasn't sure if I was going to like it at the beginning, seeing as their plan was evil.  Evil, evil evil.  Disturbing.  But that can make a movie interesting, and it certainly did with this one.  This movie is interesting from start to finish, and I really wanted to know how it turned out.  *Spoiler* However, as the movie unfolds, cliches are spread everywhere, and by the end, I really felt like I was watching She's All That meets Cruel Intentions.  This was mostly evident in the scene where the guy tells her that it's all part of Chad's game (but I'm really in love with you CAN'T YOU SEE!), and in the end where it turns out that Chad was just trying to see how far the guy would go.  This doesn't necessarily make the movie worse, it's really didn't really seem to flow well with the mood of the movie.  I really liked the final scene, though.  Most of the movie was good, and it's obvious that this writer/director has talent 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad....not good either","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I won't judge this film because of it's cruel story. But I gotta say it hurts watching this film. The actors, though, are good and the up'n'coming Aaron Eckhart is shining. Matt Malloy aint bad either. If you wanna see something you won't like, but will make you think, then see this one. If not there's no reason to.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Emotionally & psychologically riveting- puts Hollywood movies to shame!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some erroneously call it misogynist, or misanthropic.  I think the opposite is true- though certainly there are those elements embodied in the film.  It is so brutally real, up front and honest that the viewer is actually challenged to genuinely think and fee.Like any good tragedy, if you really commit to engaging yourself, you can't help but be changed for the better.This is the kind of quality stuff that American directors films are capable of, but are so rarely allowed to achieve.Some of the most riveting scenes I have ever seen in a film, vividly memorable even 3 years later.> "},{"Title":"Pure Evil","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sick, sick, sick.  And a little slow going at times.  And at times quite interesting and fresh.  The director of this flick didn't have much of a budget so consequently a lot of the camera work is pretty static.  There are lots of shots where the camera doesn't move one iota and the actors just sit and do real long takes.I think this film could've worked better with a bigger budget.  It's an overrated movie I think.  But it is a pretty original idea and for any guy who's been dumped really bad by a woman or is fed up with all this nonsense about guys not being able to make an off color joke at work, on campus or in public without fear you will offend some helpless little female and face possible prison time or a lawsuit it is sweet revenge.  It will keep your interest but it could've had a better screenplay.   "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining - Recommended","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be very entertaining. Clearly I did not agree with the behavior of the two men in this film but that is not the point. The movie, for what it is intended, is well made and never boring.The women who are dogging this film might want to take a look around them. In the 90's everything was about women belittling men. Every commercial had women being condescending to their poor stupid boyfriend/husband. Women have brains...men are clueless little boys. Enough already. I think women have got their revenge on men now. One movie comes along where women are not treated like queens and everyone is freaking out.Loosen up a little.This movie is an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sad","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie was like watching two 13-year-olds torturing a handicapped child.  If the objective of this director was to show how modern corporate society reduces its members to the level of junior high school kids, then I guess he succeeded.  Still, I despised this movie.  I hate all cruelty.  And the cruelty these two showed to that deaf girl was indefensible. "},{"Title":"A Very Disturbing Movie","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Evil has not been better, or more devilish displayed than in IN THE COMPANY OF MEN. This is not the evil of the sociopath, or war criminal; this is evil in the humdrum everyday white-collar world of America. It's not a physically destructive evil, but is emotionally and socially murderous. Nobody's going to jail, but people are being destroyed. And it's subtle, almost humorous until the final realization of what has really been going on.Set on a six-week business trip by two vain, egotistical thirty-something middle managers. These two yahoos devise a plan to revenge their female-battered psyches by both dating the same woman, then simultaneously and viciously dumping her at the end of their trip. Cool, huh? You think how dumb can you get, but as the movie unfolds, you begin to realize something else is afoot.IN THE COMPANY OF MEN is not very professionally made, but it packs a wallop. Recommended. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Character Study","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil La Bute may well have intended this to only be for the stage, as it has that feeling.I get the impression from some of the comments that the film was probably better received in Europe, where it received very good press reviews, than it was in America.Clearly, its first intention was to say something about the nature of men's ambiguous relationship with women, which it does very well.However, what it also does very well is comment on the soul-less nature of being an executive in a modern corporation and the fragmented nature of modern society which allows the protagonists to do what they do. "},{"Title":"Difficult Movie","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Movie is quite disturbing and difficult. I do not recommend for people who have problems with plots to watch this movie. It is extremely difficult to understand. The movie is also disturbing and shows emotional abuse as fun. The movie is disturbing and difficult. I recommend this to people 30 or over because of its difficulty  "}{"Title":"Well-made, but not worth sitting through...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was out renting a movie and came across this one in the comedy section.  I had heard OF it, but not any details about it, and figured I'd go for it.  I got it home, popped it in, and was totally unprepared for what I saw.  The film was beyond disturbing (I guess I should have read the  summary before watching).  The characters were so  soulless and pathetic, I went away from this feeling drained and depressed.  Comedy?  Hardly!  It was actually  upsetting that such a thing would be anywhere near the comedy section!  So, while I did feel it was  well-made--good directing; very good acting for the most part, it was not at all worth watching, or worth the way you feel about humanity after seeing it.   "},{"Title":"Very unique and risky movie","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Definitely a movie about the sexes from a male point of view, well, somewhat. This movie really shows how cruel people, mainly bored, self conscious people, can be.Two corporate clones having water cooler talk, discover they have a lot in common, about being dumped by women that is.  With a six week business trip coming up, they plan a little attack on the first woman they can find with the right stuff.  When they put the plan to action, they get more than they bargained for.As a woman, this movie p***ed me off, but it was really well done.  A man will probably feel the same way. No matter what you feel this movie is a great tale of how people can really be. "},{"Title":"take that Hollywood!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant! I don't get most people's reaction to the works of Neil Labute. His writing is hard-edged, powerful, and unflinching. Most people reacted to their hatred of Chad by projecting it onto Neil LaBute (and, as I understand, Aaron Eckhart as well). Well, guess what folks that means they did their jobs well. You're supposed to hate Chad and what he does (and Howard as well, I think). This movie is meant to make you think. If you don't want to think (and I realize that that's not the strength of most mainstream moviegoers), then go see whatever Tom Hanks is in that's playing, and leave these artists alone. (And if anyone wants to discuss this with me, my address is listed.) "},{"Title":"survival-of-the-meanest","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is cruel and mean-spirited--and rightly so, for it takes place in Corporate America, where survival-of-the-meanest is the rule. A tyrant rules by consent of the governed, and characters like Chad and the weaklings (like Howard and the black intern) who make a Chad possible are splendid representatives of the sort of people who are produced by a materialistic worldview. And then there is Christine; kind, innocent and vulnerable. She doesn't belong in that world. "},{"Title":"Frightening","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie last night in my film class at the University of Kansas, where Labute went to school.  Chad is, by far, one of the scariest characters in all of movie history.  I would take 10 Jasons and Freddy Kruegers over this guy.  His complete lack of feeling (and putting others through pain to observe their feelings) is truly chilling.  The worst part about it is--most of us know someone who just might be a Chad... "},{"Title":"great movie, Aaron Eckhart is the best","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that gets to you. It makes you angry, but then again you can't help liking Chad and his friend. The actors are doing a great job as a team, and Aaron Eckhart is just outstanding! He's disgusting and mean - and unfortunately you probably know someone pretty much like him. Just to see another glimpse of Eckhart (in a very different type of character), you find him in 'Erin Brockovich' too! "},{"Title":"Cruel & Evil is an understatement.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With no blood, no sex, just the mighty power of words slithering out of the two main characters. Previous comments has tried to analyze and disect this films intentions, but after being recommended this film, and stumbling upon it while looking for a film for the night, I was for sure not disappointed at the slightest bit. After just watching the first 40 minutes, I had to stop the film just because it was so tough to sit through. After getting back to it, I had my mouth opened and was just dumbfounded and stunned as it continued. Then, at the end, it was truly one of the cruelest things a so-called friend could do. While at least Cruel Intentions had a semi-happy ending, this was one of the most malevolence (and everything else in the Thesaurus with similiar synomyms, because I could fill this entire page with synomyms) films I'd ever sat through, and not one business shirt was stained with blood. We all say OMG & OMFG a lot on the net to some things, this film gets that abbreviation. You will appreciate it like I did, or will think this is one of the worst films you've ever seen. Gritty, honest, evil.  "},{"Title":"brilliant examination of modern evil...","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film takes a terrifying premise, two men devise to manipulate a deaf woman(played realistically by Stacy Edwards)and spin it on its head by the end.  The film's message don't trust your heart makes the movie hard to watch at times, but who hasn't felt that they were being told exactly what they wanted to hear from someone before.  A must-see for anyone who thinks there are no good villains left, Aaron Eckhart's Chad exudes cold malevolence, with an emphasis on male.  "},{"Title":"It's Horrible--Yet, I Can't Look Away...","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is brilliant, but gut-wrenching to watch. Perhaps its reputation proceeds it, that being controversial, shocking. It deserves both. Even if the viewer is prepared for what is going to happen, which, if nothing else, the first few minutes of the movie do for us, it is painful to watch. No physical violence, no gratuitous sex, but nevertheless the most disturbing movie I've ever seen. Try not to be affected. "},{"Title":"Priceless","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not for the caring and sharing crowd. It does not contain characters who will hold your hand and tell you everything is OK. Dangerous Liasons looks like child's play compared to this one. No scabs go unpicked. No wounds go unsalted. Great if you just broke up with your girlfriend or if you just have a general malaise. "}{"Title":"WOW, WOW, WOW!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love films that portray life in a realistic manner, and this one nails the coldness of the business world perfectly.  Add a brilliant, shocking script and the wonderful Aaron Eckhart, and you have a volatile picture.  I have heard people complain that this film is anti- women, but I think that that is overlooking the point.  Without giving too much away, in real-life, handsome Chad, (Eckhart), would get it all.  It's an unfortunate thing about our society, but we probably have all met people who remind us of this slimy guy.  Kudos to Labute for showing how mean people can be to each other...  "},{"Title":"The most excellent and truly disturbing movie I have seen in a long time.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a movie like this before in my life.  It takes a truly familiar setting, an office, and uses it like a weapon.There is not a single cliche in this entire movie, a claim that even Quentin arantino can't make.  The performances are truly superb, and the haracteristions are truly believable.So many films of late give happy endings when you kinda want the bad guy to get away with it.  In this case there is no pat Hollywood ending and I almost wished there had been, because the film is so frightening.  But the fact that it doesn't fall to that temptation is just a testament to how great this film is.Fantastic. "},{"Title":"Rabid evil corporate wolves","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The shocking, sad fable about male cruelty.  Chad (Aaron Eckhart) convinces his tag-along buddy to help him destroy a deaf woman emotionly.  Why?  To get back at women as a whole!  Painful, fascinating, and brutal.  But honest.  The ending is priceless An angry man yelling at the deaf woman to LISTEN TO HIM!  Great great great movie! "},{"Title":"What evil lurks in the hearts of men....","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the signs of a well-made movie is often it's ability to make me think. This film made me take stock of myself...is there a part of me that is capable of the kind of selfish manipulation of other people evinced by the main character(s)? Am I vulnerable to being manipulated myself by such smooth operators? To what levels are people willing to go to achieve their desired ends?  "},{"Title":"Uncomfortable, but worth it","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a deceptive tale from the corporate jungle. Chad (Aaron Eckhart) is a virile, handsome middle level manager capable of some charm. However he doesn't relate to other people the way most people do. He has some superficial tricks for getting close. He tells women he likes the way they smell. He knows they love that. He bonds with men by appealing to their prejudices. He tells sexist jokes What's the difference between a golf ball and a G-spot? Answer I can spend twenty minutes looking for a golf ball. He likes to get close to people to use and exploit them. But he goes further than that. He likes to hurt them. Why? Because I can, he says.In other words, Chad's a sociopath who specializes in humiliating people. He gets a black worker to pull down his pants and show him his balls. He says he needs to see if he really has the stuff to be recommended for a promotion. He tells him, the guy who wins is the guy who has the nastiest sack of venom. In case the guy doesn't know he's been humiliated, as he pulls up his pants, Chad tells him to get him a cup of coffee, black.Christine (Stacy Edwards) is a pretty girl in her twenties, a lightning fast typist in the secretarial pool. She's very nice and caring. Problem is she's deaf and talks funny. Chad spots her and decides she is perfect for this little game of broken hearts he wants to play with Howard (Matt Malloy), his slightly nerdy friend, co-worker and sometime boss. We'll both date her, he says, and then dump her. That way we'll get back at all the women who have done us dirt. He has an ulterior motive as well. He wants to destroy Howard, just to prove he can.What makes this film work is the sheer brutality of Chad's bloodless methods, and Director Neil LaBute's suffocating depiction of predatory life in the corporate structure. LaBute, who also wrote the script, is uncompromising in his desire to make us see that people are animals. He succeeds.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Most viewers miss what this film is really about...","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you haven't seen the movie yet, move on to another comment.This is a movie about power through manipulation. What makes this film work, and makes it impressive, is that even La Bute manipulates the majority of his audience into seeing it as a film about something that it really isn't. Aaron's character is not a misogynist. Jason Patrick's character in La Bute's second release (Your Friends And Neighbors), now that's a misogynist!. he's a manipulator. The director has demonstrated quite effectively how to get people to believe what you want them to. Chad's true target isn't even women. Even though the movie highlights two instances where his character reveals his true target (in the office spouting off all kinds of I hate that guy. lines about other workers in the company or when he uses his power to make a mgmt trainee candidate drop trow to prove he has what it takes), so many reviewers and viewers tend to focus on how this guy has a vendetta against women. Wrong. What's the title of the movie again? Doesn't it have something to do with work/job/career? Remember the line about the brass ring being there for the reaching? Chad manipulated Howard even more than he duped Christine, and La Bute subtlely manipulates his audience.Watching the film from this angle, coupled with Aaron's believable performance make this one worth seeing. However, I think the director showed more skill in his follow-up, where the characters are better fleshed out, the dialog more biting & thought out, the comic undertones more cynical & apparent, and La Bute has some fun with the theme, conversation .or rather, the lack of. If Chad gave you the creeps, check out Patrick's over-the-top performance as someone you should really find appalling.  "},{"Title":"i like it ,why don't you?","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i love neil labute... most don't but i do. he makes movies about real people and real situations. he doesn't candy coat life like most movies do, instead he shows us how mean and thoughtless people can be. in the company of men is very smartly written and acted. give it a try, you might like it. oh and don't miss his your friends and neighbors. i ever liked it better! "},{"Title":"Proceed with Caution...Alone","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    During much of 'In the Company of Men', I grimaced and fought the urge to look away. But I kept watching; the film, much like its central character Chad, tortures and punishes you but keeps luring you back for more.   Chad is a modern, corporate Iago deceitful, manipulative, cruel, and charming. Watching him interact with Christine, and knowing his intentions, will make you squeamish.    His motives? Anyone's guess. During the film's opening sequence, he sickly rationalizes his eventual deception of Christine by expressing a desire for vengeance against a former girlfriend. As the story unfolds, however, you realize (slowly at first, then with shocking clarity) that Chad simply enjoys making innocent victims suffer.    I recommend this film with trepidation. Not pleasant viewing (it will surely dampen any social situation), but should leave you thinking. Probably best seen alone (or in the company of men).    "},{"Title":"Well done, disturbing look at a misogynist","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film with trepidation &#150; its reputation as a misogynist hate-fest made me leery. Well it IS a misogynist hate-fest, but it is still a good, albeit very disturbing movie. The script does not walk away from the cruelty of the subject matter two thirty-something up and coming executives decide to emotionally destroy a young woman just for laughs. But it does not play for laughs. Aaron Eckhart as Chad, especially, is one of the most disturbing character portrayals I've ever seen. He shows a different persona to everyone, the persona that will get him ahead. He is simultaneously charming, convincing, cocky and revolting, a narcissist screaming from an empty shell.Good script, direction, and acting. Recommended, but not if your Prozac prescription just lapsed&#133;  "},{"Title":"Repulsive.","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's like watching a plane crash right in front of your eyes, you don't wanna watch, but you can't take your eyes from it. It's horrifying, but it's pain of it all is part of reality.Spoilers Might FollowIn the Company of Men is a film I rented and shall not see again. While I give it 10/10, I cannot bear to see it again. The level Chad goes to, is not acceptable. Howard is a pawn in Chad's game and only at the end does Howard realize that. Christine is given the ultimate blow and wheather she would trust men again is a question that I ask as the film ended.I'm too young to know wheather this is a realistic look at the corporate world or not, but the sheer horrifying precision of Chad's game is enough to know that this isn't your average person. He's out for revenge, revenge for what, nobody knows but's it there. I know guys like this, but none as evil as Chad.Howard is just a guy that at first look like a good friend of Chad. They went to school together, talked, hungout...ya know friends. He's not as slick as Chad and he's a bit nerdy, but are they really friends? In the end we learn the truth and I personally feel terrible for Howard in that he had to have a friend like Chad.Unlike most films that I think are great, I won't be seeing this again anytime soon. It's good for a one time viewing and that's it. Not recommended for people who like happy movies, of course after this one you'd think Braveheart is a happy movie. "}{"Title":"Brilliant and painful","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant and painful film.  Two men who have had set-backs in their love lives set out to intentionally ruin the life of of a young woman by simultaneously romancing her, and then simultaneously dumping her.  (Not giving away any secrets here -- this plot is clearly stated at the beginning of the film.)A harsh look at how men interact with each other in the workplace, and their misguided feelings about romance.  Often insightful and on target; beware the man who swears that this movie is unrealistic.  (I'm not suggesting that ALL men are like the ones in the film, but SOME certainly are -- look for some of these characters in your office!)A fine movie, but possibly one of the world's worst date movies unless you are VERY secure in your relationship. "},{"Title":"A great representation of Relationships","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't a happy film.  We aren't meant to laugh along with the characters (If anything laugh out of disbelief).  I didn't enjoy watching this movie, I didn't like what these men did (to each other and to others), but it is a good movie.  Contrary to what Hollywood ties to make us think, we don't have to feel good afterwards for it to be a good film.Some films, well maybe most films today can be taken at face value...  what you see is what you get.  But this movie seems to be more of a representation of what a lot of relationships are...    "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film embodies all the reasons to watch independent films. In the Company of Men is a sharp-as-a-razor black comedy that takes a disturbing look at the darker regions of both the male psyche and the corporate system.This film will challenge and disturb some and totally put off others, but if films that dont just whip out tired old cliches are your style then don't look past this little gem. "},{"Title":"Depressing and thought-provoking - recommended with reservations.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie ably demonstrates the worst that the myth of corporate culture can bring to bear on interpersonal relationships.The story is all told in the following two paragraphsTwo men, apparently successful, are sent into the field to oversee a project for their company. As they progress, one character initiates a game wherein they will each date the same woman with the intended goal of emotionally wrecking her once their time in the field done. They select the most defenseless of women, a deaf girl who wished no harm to anyone, and upon whom the attention they lavish is welcomed doubtfully, then completely.Then, as per plan, they break her heart.The movie, however, is about more than the plot. The plot serves as an allegory for the whole of male relationships and the way corporate culture breeds monsters. Monsters that feed on the appearance of control, the appearance of power. The two men can be defined in the simplest of terms - the stud and the geek. The stud controls the geek through subtle manipulation (the stud lies about the status of his current relationship to gain the geek's confidence and compassion), and the geek goes along, seemingly out of fear of appearing 'uncool' to his friend.The movie is technically sound - nothing special, nothing less than quality. The acting is very good. The two men fit their roles aptly - which is somewhat scary. The stud is a horrible man, the worst of men; the geek is the weakest of men, striving to find his own power somewhere, anywhere. The woman is window dressing - anyone could have played the part.My curiosity is whether Labute, who wrote and directed, hates men or women, or both. When I finished watching, I knew one thing - I disliked him. "},{"Title":"Neil LaBute says it best","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I look over the reviews for In The Company Of Men on the site, it makes Neil LaBute's comments about this film seem right on the mark.  His observation Women take this movie as documentary; men take it as science fiction.  Yep.  That about sums it up. "},{"Title":"Brutal and Funny","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    A great combination of tight direction, flawless performances, and stinging dialogue.  The plot Two men pick and date a girl, and then dump her.  Why?  To prove they can.     The lead, played by Aaron Eckhart with brilliance, is a cruel suit, working on a temporary job.  By the end of the movie, we absolutely loathe him.  Everyone else is great, but Eckhart gives the best performance.Neil Labute's direction is amazing, and his script is sharp and incisive. I doubt everyone will like this movie.  It may be seen as sadistic and manipulative by some.  However, I think those adjectives don't describe this movie entirely.    It came fifth, of my top ten of 1997. "},{"Title":"I know but","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wanted Chad to get his just desserts and he didn't. I know. But I want to see the downfall of people like Chad. But in real life they do exist and they do achieve. And they are truly heartless. Many CEO's wear this same tag. Power and control and as long as I come out on top, the others be damned.I am tempted to exercise my writing abilities and pen a script where Chad literally goes to Hell. That is what he deserves. That is where he belongs. And yes, Howard ,the weakling, right along with him.I gave this a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's pretty good","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every comment here seems to be trying to analyse this film.  Don't.  It is a sickening film.  The whole premise that a man (and you could probably have inserted a woman in a similar role) can purposely go and commit such emotional horror is soul destroying.  that's what makes this such compulsive viewing.  There can't be a person out there who hasn't at one point deliberately taken an action that has had similar repercussions. Emotionally cruelty is the worst cruelty of all.The performances are straight out of reality and when coupled with the direction it made me feel that I was a fly on the wall.  That's what hurt. Chad's character is not over-the-top as suggested elsewhere in here.  You can pick a Chad out in plenty of places.  Unfortunately the stereotyped male leads (superstud and nerdy) spoil the film a bit and whilst a deaf girl isn't exactly a character you can despise, her deafness becomes increasingly irrelevant as the film goes on (as seen by the emotional bonds that develop between the nerd and Christine).Ultimately it doesn't say anything about the male psyche or relationships, but it does show an extreme version of the kind of emotional cruelty of which we are all capable. "},{"Title":"Take a second look","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men is not a criticism of all things male. Far from it! It is a social commentary that takes a good hard look on what we in society like to call relationships. It's about the way women really do set themselves up for disappointment when they always fall for the bad boy. It's about the way men aren't really men unless they are hard-hearted, unemotional, and unreal. Let me explain.In the end, it's Chad who starts and ends the entire ordeal- it is he who drives the final stake into Christine's heart. And yet it is also Chad who makes his way upwards through the corporate ladder, Chad who charms his way into Christine's life, Chad who goes home to loving wife. Why? Because he is what society looks for in a man. And the only one to ever figure it out is Howard. The only one who really feels anything for Christine is Howard. The only one who ends up alone and broken (throwing up in a stairwell) is Howard. At the end of the movie, he screams at the top of his lungs, trying to get Christine's attention- but he is not heard. Neither are we.The truth is, any man who has the independence not to become a cold, unfeeling b*****d gets the short end of the stick from society. And in modern society, it takes a man of great will not follow Chad's example and come out on top. The moral of this story is simple nice guys finish last.The entire movie is thus built upon a central metaphor. In essence, the modern corporation is a manifestation of LaBute's Company of Men, it is an entity that calls for fundamental male-ness. The corporation is a modern day battlefield, and there's no room for  politeness. "},{"Title":"Harsh but brilliant","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This searing depiction of the male psyche taken to an extreme was one of the most underrated films of 1997.Like the film Pi, In the Company of Men is an example of the true spirit of independent film, a movie no major studio would touch.  People who were put off by the premise -- two men date the same woman, knowing at the outset that they will break her heart -- should give it a look.Aaron Eckhart's character gets the most attention, and his performance deserves the attention, but when you look at the overall film, it's the other characters that are revealed more fully.  I don't want to give too much away, but rent this movie.  You may regret it in the short run -- you have to be in the mood -- but not in the long run.  "}{"Title":"This movie isn't misogynistic, it's misanthropic!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a startling, disturbing and generally unpleasant tale of the darker side of the psyche. The cruelty and manipulation exhibited degraded both the giver and the receivers. Nevertheless, it was thoroughly convincing as a depiction of the few central characters and absorbing in its unremitting sadism. Although previous movies have begun with a similar premise, they have always ended with some form of justice or redemption. Not this movie, which somehow manages to become even more loathsome. The story is intriguing, the acting is convincing, the dialogue is intelligent, and the direction basic but apt. In all, although this was a thoroughly nasty movie, it was still quality. My vote 7/10 "},{"Title":"Insightful, and Truthful=great movie","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was all too real. People get burned bigtime, and there are two categories of people, the winners and losers. It's sad that this reality exists. This movie portrays the deceit and humiliation that occurs in separating the winners from the losers. It also says something about how intrinsic love and affection is. We crave for it in almost desperate ways. So desperate that we do strange things, issues of power and other dimensions of life are also brought to light. The acting was decent, and the dialogue was great. Men can be cruel, we already know this. Women can be too...But to see what happens in the reality of male watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Harsh but funny look at the cruel world of relationships.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the kind that makes you feel ashamed to laugh even though you want to, because the jokes are so cruel. It feeds an inner instinct in all of us to laugh at someone else's expense. I enjoyed the small cast, it helped develop the characters that were there. It seemed at times though, that the director held a shot for a little too long, and the movie did seem slow at some times. All in all it was a fascinating look at how selfish, mean and heartless people can be. 3 out of 4 stars.... "},{"Title":"Guerilla filmmaking at its finest.","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No budget, little film stock, and only 3 (central) characters are the only things limited in this inventive indie-shot in Ft Wayne, Indiana no less.Last year's version, `Swimming with Sharks' showed that an innovative idea, combined with some first rate acting can provide a wonderful alternative to big budget, high efx fare.As with Sharks, the subject matter here, that a venomous young man might engage a co-worker in morally and emotionally degrading a young deaf woman, is extremely edgy and, at many times, difficult to watch.I appreciate greatly the efforts of all the principals, particularly writer-director Neil LaBute, and actress Stacy Williams, who's performance as a hearing-impaired woman is phenomenal.LaBute's follow-up (Your Friends and Neighbors) will be highly anticipated, and likely put under a finer microscope, but enjoy In the Company of Men for what it is, simple excellence.  "},{"Title":"A work of true cinematic art!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a great work of cinema. In the Company of Men will definitely go on my list of the best films of the 90's. This film tells us so much about power differences and manipulation in corporate America. On the surface, many people see the film as a misogynist tale of two men who want to emotionally abuse a vulnerable woman for the pure enjoyment of it. But the film digs much deeper than that. It is more about manipulation in general. Chad is symbolic of this manipulation. His real motives seem to be to manipulate people just because he can. I mean he gets Howard, a weaker man to go along with his ruthless scheme even though it is quite obvious that he really doesn't want to. Overall the film illustrates the lengths that some people will go and use their power to get ahead by feeding on the vulnerability of the weak. "},{"Title":"Great idea, great movie","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This terrific movie is one that I'll be thinking about for quite some time. It's great in every way, especially the acting of Aaron Eckhart, who deserved some serious hardware and even more recognition for the performance that he gave.  While this is certainly not a film for everyone, it is yet again refreshing to see the chances that independent filmmakers will take. This is the kind of film that would never be made in Hollywood, for they would be too afraid that people would be offended.  I actually liked the fact that I was laughing at jokes that were completely tasteless and politically incorrect in the extreme.  We need more films like this. "},{"Title":"Funny, disturbing, fresh tale of a calculating seducer.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At long last.  Great script, marvelous acting, moving tale.  For those that suggest not watching this with a woman - don't listen.  This film is not about misogyny.  Aaron Eckhart's character is equally unfeeling and calculating to every person he is in contact with, male or female.  Howard is as much a victim of Chad's seduction as Christine.  A wonderful almost Nietzschean depiction of an individual who does simply because he can. "},{"Title":"disturbing, excellent, unforgettable movie","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rarely you see a movie that sucks you into it's world, makes you  think of it's characters as of real people, force you to contemplate on human relations, the worst aspects of the relations, that is.I don't remember the last time I saw a movie with such scheming evil male character as Chad was. Usually villain women are evil plotters, villain men are simple brutes.There's a wonderful scene in the movie, where Howard and Christine ride around a Zoo. We don't get to see the animals, we just look at two of them. The nature is tamed, but people are still predators - whether in office or in relations.**** out of **** "},{"Title":"Cruel yet entertaining!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent black comedy on the harshness of the American corporation and some of the villains that work for it.  I appreciate any film where it is difficult to predict what will happen next, and In The Company Of Men was definitely one of those films.   A great acting job by Aaron Eckhart as the man you love to hate.  This one is not for the weak-hearted or sensitive types.  10/10 "},{"Title":"The masterpiece of deception","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've read all the comments prior to posting this, so now what I am saying will sound a lot more different than everyone else. I think that In the Company of Men (ICM) is a great movie. Everyone gives their reasons, but I think people did not pinpoint it. I will try to do just so.First, it is a movie about men. Not that the movie would have been any different if the leads (Howard and Chad) were played by female. The point is that the movie would have been much more complex and probably too difficult to comprehend if not for flat females. Basically, there are only three females in the movie and even though Christine (deaf girl) occupies quite a lot of screen time, she is just a filler.Second, the movie is anti-political correctness in the most intelligent way. Nobody gets killed, there are no unnecessary profanities but it packs a punch to PC and to the whole Hollywood machine of producing happy movies. The movie says things that we all already know Sometimes the worst people get everything. With the sense of escapism surrounding most American movies, this is a refreshing movie that actually plays by the rules of Hollywood. It makes people feel bad because they got used to feeling good. This duality of screen and real life became so much the part of our lives that we are shocked when we are shown the life as it is.Third, the camera work, editing, music, dialogue, etc. are not that great. You do not see great effects, there is no edge in editing, the movie has a sleazy-tv-soap-opera feel to it. Nothing more. And this is the whole point of the movie. The surrounding, the people, anonymous bars... we unconsciously associate with all that. There is nothing to prevent us from doing so. Gummo, Kids, Tetsuo... even Blade, they are all non-PC, but their plots leave an element of escapism, the situation seem unreal or at least too far away to worry.But ICM scraps all the escapism in order for you, the viewer, to finally engage into the movie that actually makes you feel bad.This, I think is the greatest achievement of ICM. "}{"Title":"amazing, different and daring movie, a director to watch next","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the most amazing I ever see. I didn't expect so much from it and I was really surprised by that movie, which is totally different from what we usually in american cinema. Here we are with the story of these men, Chad and Howard who have to spend 6 weeks far from their home sent there by their firm. They decide to have a revenge on women and will both seduce one, they will expect her to fall in love with one of them and they will give her up. We spend our time asking why they really decide to do that, do they really want to hurt someone like that for such reasons ? we try to find a concrete reason to their evilness, but we can't, we want to leave our seat because that's too disturbing but the questions we're asking ourselves can't let us leave it. The conclusion is very hard, but we've got there a reflection about power in general, not only about men and women,about those who have power (like Chad and Howard) and those who don't have the sanme power (Christine and Kif). we're also amazed to see this kind of men, the white collars, be shown that way while they usually are shown as example for the american dream of the individualism and economical liberalism. I told many people to watch it, they all liked it, I even watched it with a feminist, who loved it, but it provides you a big big headache. That's a movie which dares to show things. Neil LaBute is a director to follow. "},{"Title":"Meanspirited, but I'll be damned if it didn't get Neil Labute noticed.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not a great movie, but remarkable given the budget.  I don't think the final plot twist (the wife who never left) was jarring enough, and I wish all of the TV reviewers didn't describe the film as unrepentant, so I knew how the film would end before I saw it.  Nonetheless, it was unrepentant. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in years!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie's popularity is an mystery to me. I saw it with four other friends that usually enjoy unusual films and we all hated it passionately. The acting was horrible and none of us could associate with the characters or their behavior. In some ways, this movie reminded me of The Last Seduction, yet I quite liked The Last Seduction, while I gave In the Company of Men a '2'.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant On Every Level The Best U.S. Film of 1997","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An indie film with no publicity whatsoever, save the trumpets of each of the major legitimate critics, writer/director Neil Labute's debut is not merely triumphant it's startling, perverse and daring all at once.Brief synopsis two men, reeling from relational setbacks, are sent on a 6-week business trip.  The way more cynical of the duo, Chad Aaron Eckhart, in a despicably-inspired turn, convinces his long-time friend, all-around nice guy and current boss Howard Matt Malloy to take out their joint frustration on the females of our species.Chad's plan is simple  more or less randomly select a fragile woman, which both can date, slowly involve intimately... and then unceremoniously dump at the end of the trip.The selectee is an attractive deaf woman, Christine Stacy Edwards, who is equally excellent in her role, who falls ~ as hoped ~ for both of the men.Saying more about the plot would spoil it, apart from saying that this is decidedly NOT a comedy although many have called it a dark comedy ~ it's a drama, perhaps what could be called a social drama.The cool things 1. The cynical dialogue, and the time spent on it 2. The utter lack of any soundtrack at all during any of the dialogue 3. The amazing soundtrack between the weeks ~ the film is split into all six, plus a finale 4. Every leading performance 5. The total humiliation of a black intern named Keith Jason Dixie by the dreaded Chad ~ Is your name 'Keef' or 'Keith?' Let me give you a professional tip the word is 'ask,' not 'axe.'  Note to the reader of this this is not racism on my part, but IS on the part of Eckhart's character 6. The fact that Labute fits this incredible film into one hour and thirty-seven minutesGrab it.  Fast.4 Niro~Stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"A STARTLING EXAMINATION OF MEN, WOMEN AND THE DATING GAME!!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THIS IS A GREAT FILM WHICH RANKS UP THERE WITH FILMS THAT HAVE A CENTRAL THEME ABOUT CARELESS PEOPLE.  THESE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN STUNG BY LIFE'S BITTER REWARDS AND WHO TURN AROUND TO HURT OTHERS AND COULD CARE LESS ABOUT THE CONSEQUENCES.  THE MOVIE'S CENTRAL CHARACTER, CHAD (AARON ECKHART), PLAYS A CARELESS, SLEAZE BAG - A CAREER MAN WHO WAS JILTED BY HIS FIRST WIFE.  THEN, HE PLOTS REVENGE AGAINST WOMEN.  HE SETS UP A SCHEME TO GO ON A DATE WITH A DEAF SECRETARY, CHRISTINE (STACY EDWARDS).  AFTER A FEW DATES, THINGS GO WELL FOR STACY AND CHAD. SO WELL, IN FACT, STACY BEGINS TO FALL IN LOVE WITH CHAD.  THEN, ALL OF A SUDDEN HE DUMPS HER.  WHAT FOLLOWS IS EMOTIONAL TURMOIL, ESPECIALLY FOR STACY.  THE ACTING AND THE SCREENPLAY WORK GREAT.  "},{"Title":"What an unexpected film!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How the heck did Neil LaBute think up this one?  This is a film unlike any other that I have seen.  When I heard about it, I figured that it was going to be a more realistic version of the television show Working.  What I got completely blew me off guard.  This is a wonderful film, filled with realistic dialogue, top-notch acting (especially from Stacy Edwards as Christine), and a plot that kept me more at the edge of my seat than any recent suspense film.  This isn't a film for everybody, but for people who like to watch people making fun of other people, this is a wonderful film to see.  That's all I have to say.  ****.  A 10.  Two thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Startling","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In reference to Anonymous (Earth)'s anti-recommendation, I believe the writer/director is trying to expose charlatans like these for what they are worth. I hardly think he is endorsing that behaviour any more than films about any sort of abuse are. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  a gripping portrayal of evil in a realistic modern-day corporate setting. "},{"Title":"probably the best movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lots of people didn't like this movie because it made them feel bad.  I LOVED In the Company of Men because it did that.  It takes a very special, very powerful kind of film to evoke a universal state of pain in nearly all audience members. Neil LaBute gives us a frightening story of manipulation and betrayal in this movie.  No one loves Chad's character for what he does, but I'm fascinated by his need to control others and how effectively and audaciously he succeeds in controlling the other characters.  I reserve my disgust for the character of Howard, who is never really into this 'game' but lets himself be pulled along because he is weak.  Howard ends up saying far worse things to Christine than Chad does.  Re-watching of the film provides insight into the motivations of the characters that are often missed by a first-time viewer because the viewer is so taken aback by Chad's final scene with Christine.  Every character in this movie seems absolutely alive and real. People can actually be this cruel and that's an important thing to realize. Neil LaBute has his finger on a pulse that no one likes to admit that they have.  That's what makes many people so uncomfortable with this film the most despicable traits in all the characters are ones that we've seen in ourselves.  Not that anyone would ever ADMIT to wanting the ability to control people the way Chad does.  In fact maybe Chad is a better man than many of us because he isn't ashamed of that desire. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil Labute's In The Company Of Men is considered by most people who have seen it one of the most sadistic films of all time.  I think it's because Labute took away the idea that you have to show empathy for your sick characters.  There's no shot of Chad or Howard with an expression of guilt, or we don't find out that they were abused as children.  But what I think Labute was showing was that the business world is so much apart of me, myself, and I that they never have an urge to say you.  "}{"Title":"excellent and disturbing","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best thing about this movie is that characters are just mean, mean, mean. There doesn't need to be psychological underpinning, childhood trauma, etc -- some men are just jerks, and these are those men. Not your normal Hollywood fare, which is a pretty high recommendation. Also good/different from a filmmaking perspective -- lots of long takes, fixed camera, and the music is perfect. "},{"Title":"Shockingly brilliant or brilliantly shocking.  I loved it.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant, shocking film.  The acting is superb, the script is great, what more could you want?   "},{"Title":"Good movie?  Yes!  Feel-good movie?  No!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Must one leave the theater with a smile on one's face and a spring in one's step in order to have enjoyed a movie?  No !IN THE COMPANY OF MEN is a wickedly clever look into the social intercourse (or absence thereof) between two male co-workers and the object of their... affection.  If you're looking for a feel-good movie, look somewhere else. If you're looking for a smart, satirical look into the dark side of relationships, check out IN THE COMPANY OF MEN. "},{"Title":"No Picknick!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Several critic wrote that this was black comedy... I think not. It`s just black. But damn it`s good.  "},{"Title":"An awesome movie that offers something DIFFERENT","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie for the open-minded and those who wish to watch a non-formulaic movie.  For a movie with a tiny budget that this movie had, it is easily one of the most important movies of this decade.  Obviously this is not a movie for the weak of heart.  It portrays the evil inherent in all man and puts that evil in motion in dramatic, and cinematic, fashion.  I strongly recommend this film for everyone who are bored with the same old love stories where the ending is as obvious as the build-up. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1997","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what the previous comment meant, but this was definitely one of the best films of last year.  The writing was hard-edged and insightful, and the acting was superb, especially by Aaron Eckhardt.  It's sometimes hard to watch such cruelty, but it is a very affecting film. "},{"Title":"If you're tough enough, an unbelievable movie","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A tough movie to watch and a tougher movie to recommend to a friend. But if you're not easily offended, then this is a miniature masterpiece. Crackling dialogue, vivid characterizations, and an interesting plot made this my favorite movie of 1997. People who say this movie is misogynistic aren't paying attention -- it's misanthropic, which is a quite different thing. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up what?","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bizarre at best, a waste of time at worst.  The lack of stimulating conversation or action was overwhelming.  The story, while mildly interesting at times, was far too lugubrious for my taste.  It was an effort to sit through the entire film. "},{"Title":"How come evil looks so good?","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best films of 1997.Labute's script and direction are virtually flawless, and the actors draw you in completely with their performances.  The material is not for the faint of heart (emotionally, not literally -- this film has no explosions, gunfights or special effects whatsoever), but you won't be able to turn away.I highly recommend the DVD, with its commentaries by the director and actors that give you a good peek into the trials of making low-budget films that don't look that way.  But even the superb direction and cinematography aren't what really draw you in -- it's the writing that makes this one work perfectly. "},{"Title":"sick movie","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has got to be the sickest movie ever made two guys one who's literally god's answer to woman and one who's pretty much a wimpy guy get together to burn a woman to the ground physically, emotionally, and sexually and they pretty much succeed and they do this on a deaf woman who by the way falls for the athletic AH who is god's answer to woman they both date her and the wimpy one falls for her I have seen this movie twice and I thought it was sicker the second time I wanted to jump in the screen and kick bot of their butts but the girl does get somewhat smart in the end but it leaves you with a big ? mark over your head It is worth watching to see how sick dating can be or how Hollywood can exaggerate things "}{"Title":"NOT a Comedy.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is an excellent movie for people who enjoy a mind-screw. It is a twisted film of a twisted man (Chad) who cares for no-one, convinces another man (Howard) into emotionally ruining a woman (Christine), and succeeds in ruining both of them.Rare is the movie where the villain is the central character; rarer is the movie where this actually works. In The Company of Men is one of those rare movies.Now, this movie has been called a comedy. If it is, it is a joke far too bitter to laugh at. It is though-provoking, it is sweet at times, it is indeed amusing at times, but in the end, this movie is VICIOUS. Chad is cruel beyond description, and enjoys nothing more than twisting people for his own pleasure, simply because he can (he even brags about this).My personal opinion? I utterly despised this movie. It was well-done, and I hated every minute of it. This must be the ugliest film I have seen in my life, because I know Chads, I know Howards, and I know Christines. All Neil LaBrute need to do is make In the Company of Women, and show how women destroy men.No, this movie is no comedy. Not because it isn't funny, but because in the end, it is profoundly UNfunny. Movies that are not funny simply have their intended humor fall flat; movies that are UNfunny are quite simply never intended to be humorous in the first place (or at least seem that way).And I cannot see any way this movie was intended to be funny. "},{"Title":"Misogyny Etched Memorably in LaBute's Feature Film Debut","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This brutalizing 1997 character study of the misogyny among competitive males still stings with its spot-on accuracy of the corporate male psyche. With an obviously limited budget, this first-time feature from writer/director Neil LaBute really turns its characters inside out with a visceral potency that could not have been attempted by the major studios. The plot focuses on two middle management types, Chad and Howard, who are on a six-week project in the company's Midwest branch office. On the surface, Chad is a smooth-talking braggadocio who after breaking up with his girlfriend, claims to be fed up with the neediness of women. But underneath is a dark sociopath who is unfathomably cruel to anyone in his path. Watch the scene where he makes a black co-worker pull down his pants to prove he has the balls for a higher profile assignment.Having just been dumped by his fiance, Howard seems like the more benign of the two and looks toward the cynical Chad for guidance at the office and with women. However, his insecurities reveal an innately pathetic figure who wants to be able to exert power over someone defenseless. Realizing their mutual bitterness toward women, the two decide to make a disreputable pact to romance the same woman during their business trip only to dump her at the end. Enter Christine, a pretty office secretary who happens to be deaf. You can figure out the rest, but the way LaBute relentlessly reveals the characters' weaknesses, including Christine's, is piercingly honest to the point of painful. Even the twist at the end is well-justified, as LaBute's perceptive script makes the situation hauntingly cathartic.In his first important role, Aaron Eckhardt, with his square jaw and cocksure manner, is superb as Chad, and it took him several years (probably until his heart-of-gold Hell's Angel in Erin Brockovich) to recover from this impermeable persona. In fact, he tweaks it as the unapologetic tobacco lobbyist in this year's Thank You for Smoking. As Howard, Matt Malloy certainly makes a most convincing dweeb, while Stacy Edwards (who is not deaf) elicits the right emotions with Christine, obviously the only sympathetic role in the movie. The DVD has two commentary tracks - the first with LaBute, Eckhardt and the crew, and the second with the three principals and again with Eckhardt. Both are quite insightful with the latter particularly entertaining for the contrast between the actors and the characters they play. Be forewarned that this is in no way a feel-good film, but it does make for seductive viewing. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing!","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is not a comedy as its presently listed. It's not even a dark comedy. It's a drama and not a very good one, in my opinion.It's very slow and drawn out. I kept waiting for it to become interesting.It's about two sick characters. This is not a spoiler since that's been indicated in the plot outline. The acting may have been good, but the plot had nothing enjoyable in it for me. And I don't think Howard's character was believable, especially the way he acted at the very end.Also, I work with people who are deaf and I watched carefully for Stacy Edwards to mess up on Christine's character as mentioned in goofs and I didn't see it. She was the best character in the movie, but if you're deaf, I wouldn't watch it for the rare good depiction of a deaf character, because it's just depressing. "},{"Title":"LaBute's characters is so bold that it's impossible not to be affected.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is one of those rarest of rare breeds -- a movie   that doesn't just ignore Hollywood conventions, but openly flouts them.   The film, which premiered to great critical acclaim at 1997's Sundance   Film Festival, initially had trouble obtaining a U.S. distributor (for   the record, Sony picked it up). The reason is simple because of its   brutally-direct depiction of certain aspects of the current North   American social climate, In the Company of Men is anything but   entertaining. It's virtually impossible to sit through this film   without suffering bouts of intense discomfort, and therein lies its   power.    The picture begins as something much different than what it concludes   as, and the metamorphosis occurs so gradually that it only becomes   apparent in retrospect. Shortly after In the Company of Men opens, the   intent appears to be to center on the conflict between the sexes.   Ultimately, however, this only a small piece of the much larger pie   into which Neil LaBute's directorial debut slices. In the Company of   Men widens its focus to encompass the falseness and gamesmanship that   underlies many aspects of everyday human interaction. It's a cynical   perspective that's all the more disturbing because it's grounded so   deeply in reality. The characters here aren't cardboard cut-out   stereotypes -- they're the kind of people you can find anywhere inside   or outside of the workplace.    Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and Howard (Matt Malloy) are two very different   guys with a great deal in common. They attended the same college, work   for the same corporation, and have a history of bad relationships with   women. Their combined romantic record reads like a litany of injustices   perpetrated on them by females. They have been duped, rejected,   neglected, and intentionally misunderstood. Chad, ready to go to war   against the entire gender to restore a little dignity, has a simple,   vicious suggestion for revenge. They will find a woman who has trouble   getting dates, both take her out, then, after duping her into falling   in love with one or both of them, they'll dump her at the same time.   Howard is initially reluctant, but Chad talks him into it before   locating the perfect target an attractive-but-deaf typist named   Christine (Stacy Edwards), whose disability has caused her self-esteem   to erode.    Have you ever seen anyone leap from the top of a skyscraper? Or perhaps   watched as two cars collide head-on? The revulsion and horror are   indescribable, but the compulsion to look is too great to ignore. No   matter how deeply the experience tears at the soul, we can not avert   our eyes. It's a base reaction, but that's human nature. Sitting   through In the Company of Men is a cleaner, more guilt-free experience,   but it's not entirely dissimilar -- much as we dread viewing what must   happen, we cannot tear ourselves away. As painful as this film can be,   it is never less than engrossing.    The film doesn't follow a linear path; it evolves continually, which is   untrue of many lesser motion pictures. At the beginning, everything   seems deceptively simple, but there are layers of complexity underlying   each move. As the story unfolds, it becomes difficult to discern a   genuine action from a duplicitous one, and once-clear motives grow   murky. Slowly, however, the truth begins to assert itself, and, for   those who really understand what drives these characters, the ending   will be inevitable, not surprising.    Much of LaBute's script is about manipulation and deceit, but he's   smart enough to show the characters manipulating each other without   turning that manipulation on the audience. Nevertheless, because we   become so involved in the interaction between these people, it's   impossible for us not to be enflamed by what's transpiring, or to hope   that justice comes from heaven in the form of a lightning bolt. Part of   us wants a deus ex machina resolution; however, LaBute's solution is   more true, albeit less cathartic. And, considering the overall impact   of In the Company of Men, it's hardly worth mentioning the   writer/director's few rookie mistakes (static camera placement,   occasionally stilted word choice).    The lead actors, none of whom are well-known, give impressive   performances. Aaron Eckhart, who has slightly more camera time than his   fellows, brings a surprising depth of humanity to the   charming-but-vengeful mastermind of the plan. As Howard, Matt Malloy   does a good job emphasizing his character's internal conflict. The best   member of the trio, however, is Stacy Edwards, who brings fire,   passion, and fragility to Christine, and wins our hearts in the   process.    If you want every movie that you see to be Sleepless in Seattle, avoid   In the Company of Men. This movie doesn't take prisoners, and feel   good is a term no one will ever use to describe it. But In the Company   of Men deserves high praise because what it does, it does   extraordinarily well. Finally, here's a film with the guts to tell this   kind of the story without turning it into a fairy tale. It's rare for   any motion picture to generate such a profound sense of disquiet, but   the path traversed by LaBute's characters is so bold that it's   impossible not to be affected. "},{"Title":"Horror fans should love it...","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing as how it disturbed me to the core I guess this film achieved its primary aim. Man, what an unsavory experience! It may also make one think about the deeper underlying issues. The question of what kind of cultural, social or family circumstances could possibly breed this specific brand of monstrous behaviour towards a fellow human being. In Chad, we truly get a completely different sort of a movie villain. Are there really people like this out there - sporadically engaging in such elaborately horrific acts and then happily resuming their regular, socially sanctioned activities without as much as a second thought? And if so, what made them that way? Without intention of getting all sociological on yo' ass the answer to above question depends on which popular theory of human behaviour you subscribe to - biological determinism or its opposite, cultural determinism. The former locates the key to explaining human behaviour in some aspects of human physiology (that is, anatomy, hormones, genes, and so on), while the latter identifies contact and interaction with our surroundings as things that over time make us into people we become. In reality, human behaviours are a mixture of both these concepts - result of a complex interplay of biological drives (nature) and social learning (nurture), with each feeding back on and altering the other in a never-ending process.Truth be told, in Chad's particular case I'm leaning towards nature. To reach that level of evil, I think one has to already bring a lot to the table in terms of his/her brain's faulty wiring and other such built-in hereditary features. No amount of gray-tiled corporate corridors, cramped cubicles or lack of love as a child can mold you into a beast this cold and calculated. Or at least, for the sake of humanity, I hope so. Then again this IS a movie and these ARE fictitious characters created by Neil LaBute and as such are probably greatly exaggerated.If nothing else, 'In the Company of Men' will definitely give you something to talk about.PS Movie was made on a $25,000 budget (IMDB data) and, oh boy, does it ever show. Boom mic made so many unwanted appearances it should have gotten an acting credit at the end. Extremely poor sound quality is another par for the course.  "},{"Title":"Felony fraud","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While Todd Solondz is routinely mocked for the correlationbetween his ubergeek appearance and his churlish filmmaking,why has no one pointed out that Neil LaBute is a fat, ugly swinewho has taken out his disappointment with that fact on audiencesthe world over? This porcine Mormon takes his audience'ssquirms as proof of his unimpeachable integrity and aestheticdaring. Here, a weak man and a strong man take on a deafwoman in their office to get payback for all the sins of womankind.If the thought of prolonged scenes of humiliation--generally menhumiliating a tenderly squeaking hearing-impaired beauty, fragileand yearning to trust--unredeemed by any human insight fills youwith anticipation...then rent CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST. Or  GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS. Or just about anything but this painfullyself-conscious taboo-smasher, which features subsidiarysquirm-moments such as a swaggering white guy mocking anunpaid black intern for his use of Ebonics.LaBute seems to think that by inventing stylized cruelty he'steaching us a valuable lesson about the human condition. Ininterviews, he pretends that his work is about his hope that wecan all do better, but it isn't; it's a sadistic (or maybe, for some,masochistic) wallow. One thing LaBute's tantrummy bile is betterthan his attempt to make nice in NURSE BETTY. "},{"Title":"Awesome debut for Neil LaBute","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute entered the realm of Hollywood  with dark and seedy film about male revenge  on women. Disturbing in its context, the fact  that the film is over stylized is what makes  the actions of Chad and Howard (played by  Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy) so troubling.  LaBute proves words are much mightier than  tension packed music and camera angles.  This film proves how talented LaBute is in  regards to dialogue, fully mesmerizing the  audience with dialogue so realistic, one almost  has to blush over the circumstances. I  commend LaBute for creating a film so dark  and displaced, for the film industry feels a  little better now that some ingenuity has been  placed back in to the system. "},{"Title":"Where's Gloria Steinem when you need her?","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was very hard for me to watch this movie. But it was also very hard for me to take it seriously. Cruelty in any form is never acceptable behavior. I have seen enough of the world to believe that no male, or female for that matter, would ever set out to do what Chad and Howard do. Contrary to what others have posted these are not real people. Quite simply, I don't think anyone who did what Chad did would be alive for very long. Doesn't Christine have any relatives? I also can't believe I was the only one who saw the big plot twist coming about half way through the film. A bit obvious because if I can figure it out then anybody can. The entire cast was excellent and I felt really bad for Christine. But I was also glad to see that she survived. Howard got what he deserved. He should have told Chad no at the beginning. As for Chad, what goes around comes around. He will get his but the audience won't get to see it. "},{"Title":"Manipulates people well.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is presented as cutting edge, and it has some nice actingmoments, but at it's base it is a pretty boring flick about things thatdon't really happen in real life except in Jr. High school. And thenit's usually girls doing the mean things to other girls. Yes, boyssometimes rate girls on who has the biggest boobs. And yes,there are men out there who truly hate women (probably aboutseven or eight less than the number of women who truly hatemen,) but the simple fact is that guys like the ones portrayed inthis movie just really aren't out there any more than a rich man likeMr. Burns who wants to make a coat out of puppies is. I was in theMarines and I've worked in academia and athletics and have seenthe biggest variety of guys anyone could come into contact with.And never in my life have I heard any conversations between guys,that sounded anything like the dialogue of this film in its plotting,moments. To me this is manipulation at it's very best---using themost base, nasty fantasies and then presenting it as sort ofartsy, (when it's really not...the dialogue is like something out of90210)--and hoping that geeks who don't actually know any betterwill call it real life.     "},{"Title":"Not misogynistic or any other adj. synonymous w/ disturbing","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While I agree that the film was mildly entertaining, it's worth watching for its genuineness.  If the maniacal feminists (I'm female, btw, but dont' stop reading) could see past their agendas, they'd realize that this film isn't misogynistic.  It's a study of human nature.  It's an interesting depiction of the corruption that a professional sociopath can reek. (Note this is not your rabid-eyed Hannibal, but your average cold-hearted manipulator, which makes it much more realistic.)  It's centers around a one corporate guy who cons another man into playing mind games with a deaf typist.  All his reasons to toy with her are lies, and he is just doing it for kicksothe other guy is led into believing his lies, therefore being conned himself.  At the end of the movie, the nice guy who was conned is left guilt-ridden and the sociopath isn't phased and is rather annoyed by his sensibility.  The movie juxtaposes two different personalities through the backdrop of this conning.  Looking deeper into the movie, it is the study of one sociopath.   "}{"Title":"Excellent, but very disturbing","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I see a lot of movies, but this film might be one of the most disturbing ones I have ever seen. Meaning of course, it had it's desired effect on me. It's just an excellent film, but ironically, I don't know if I can ever watch it again, at least not all the way through. As I read in an interview with Neil LaBute, he notes that everyone has a different take on the characters, meanings, etc. based on their own experiences. I think this is true, as I MADE some of my friends watch this movie, and they all had a different take on it. For me, I found the scene in the restaurant with Howard and the woman extremely upsetting. First she lays her soul out bare, and then in the drive home, he stops the car and says incredibly awful things to her! I was just extremely upset by it all, and realizing what kind of character Chad is made it even more disturbing. This film stayed with me for days. "},{"Title":"Depressing and Deep","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so well written and perfectly acted that I couldn't help but believe every minute of it, and feel somewhat depressed.  Every guy who has ever been in a locker room has heard dialogue like that spoken in this film, and has known people like the villain.  The scenes with Christine are very hard to watch because they are so malicious, but she is such a good actress that you can't turn away.  This movie is so powerful because most people can relate to more than one character or aspect of the film. This movie joins the ranks of so many others that are great films that deal with disturbing subject matter.  Although I really appreciated the movie while I was watching it, I probably won't see it again for entertainment value.  Definitely well worth seeing for the dialogue and the acting, however, In the Company of Men paints a disturbing picture that is so shocking because it posseses so much truth "},{"Title":"**Spoiler included**  Not as good as the reviews I read.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the Company of Men.  When you look at the picture on the cover of the video and combine it with the title of the movie, your imagination conjures up an image of powerful men in the corporate world with far reaching influence.  And although this movie does deal with the power of the strong versus the weak, it does not carry the impact of those characteristics home to the viewer.  The overall script was weak in dialog (too much of it) and the  production sets were not appealing or interesting.  The camera angles and stage lighting lacked creativity.  There was too much redundancy in Chad's (Aaron Eckhart) dialog although I can appreciate his role as a deceiver.  When Chad admitted the truth to Christine (Stacy Edwards), that scene fell flat.  It just didn't work. No real tension and not enough drama to make you feel Chad's pompous victory nor Christine's crushed emotions.I could only give it a four.  A BIG disappointment. "},{"Title":"Amazingly dichotomous; delightfully sinister","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is an excellent example of social existentialism...the antisocial (read upwardly mobile)are portrayed as the central figures in this unique film.  The ultimate Antisocialite, Chad, is a dashing, flagrantly chaffing, type A modern sociopath.  To laugh at the things he says, and, in essence, stands for, is a mark on the plus side for the screenwriters...ideals and actions so hideous, we picture the repercussions of the acts of our OWN defiance to everyone/everything that angers/abuses/neglects us.  This movie adapts the shape of the male id and uses this cerebral skin as shellproofing for social bullets that have fired at us for almost an entire century.  We find ourselves both pitying the deaf heroine and cheering the wantonly antiestablishment Brad.  That very dichotomy is what makes this film work...to see it twice is to leer into the grand scheme of Brad, to view his quest not as a single act against a single woman, but as an iconoclastic opportunity to undermine several strati of his environment  his hated embodiment of female, his friend (symbolic of passive-aggressive jealousy), and, ultimately, his true love, unknowing of his previous actions.Truly the ultimate ironic movie experience, when viewed from outside the box. "},{"Title":"Most have missed the point of In the Company of Men entirely.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, this was not a vivid depiction of young male corporate types. Although scenes and dialogue were quite believable, you probably have not been out long enough to know that there's worse people out there. If you think these guys are bad, watch the news more often, do an observation on the conversation topics in male frat houses, maybe even sneak into an office place. Trust me, you'll see much more negative activity.Like trying to portray a war, or historical figure, this was only a movie.And since it is a movie, the characters in it were fictitious, just as if they were if portrayed in a play.And I really doubt Mr. LaButte made it so you would hate him or the actors. According to an interview, he's actually married and has kids.Outline (Review, i.o.w.)Angry, venom spiked story about a couple of businessmen buddies, Chad (Aaron Eckhart) and his boss,  Howard (Matt Malloy) who gab on and on about how they've been dumped and how much they hate women. This conversation goes on, until Chad develops to scheme revenge towards the female gender; They're going to pick a vulnerable woman, both will date her, and then dump her. The object of this plan is a deaf, sweet natured secretary (Stacy Edwards). One of the most controversial independent movies ever made, this caused an angry following, first time director LaButte questioned, and a variety of insults directed at Eckhart (`Chad') from women on the street. The film is difficult to take on many standards, and has a huge potential of causing more angry viewers, but many forgot that this was only a film, and that the subject wasn't meant to rile, but a character study on what unscrupulous male businessman have a potential of doing. Edwards' (who isn't deaf) delivers an excellent performance.The confusing finale is the only element that degrades the movie. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the similar 'The Shape Of Things'.","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is going to sound strange but...you will not like this film! Is it a terrible film? No, but there are no (or almost no) characters we can empathize with. The film that closest resembles this one is 'American Psycho'. Both films about Sociopaths=basically a hollow shell of a man. No emotions at all. I will certainly not ever watch this movie again, since it really made me sick at times (it's disturbing). I do have some complaints the budget was really low and it shows. It's one of the cheapest looking color films I've ever seen. Really hard on the eyes. Also the acting...far from decent.I guess this film gets such a high score because for the budget...it's a pretty amazing film. But out of that context...it's a very mediocre film, based on good writing.I wouldn't recommend it. Watch Labute's 'The Shape Of Things' instead. Similar but much better IMO. And American Psycho is also much much better.5/10 "},{"Title":"How depraved can people be?","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This story of two men who set out to break the heart of a deaf girl at work reveals how low people can go - yes men, but isn't it in human hearts without respect to gender or ethnicity?  Conclusion is powerful, poignant.  While definitely slow at times, the story keeps you guessing the whole way and really strikes a cord, leaving the audience in a state of silent incredulity.  "},{"Title":"If it once shocked, it no longer does","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film reminded me how different our current culture is to the one in which this film was made in 1996.  Today we have shows like the Man Show and movies like Fight Club and talk show hosts like Tom Leykis to cheer on the 'male backlash' community.  Back when this film was released, there was none of that, so this film must have felt extremely fresh and new -- hence it received extreme praise from all around.I first saw this film today, though, January 19, 2004, and both me and my girlfriend found it hopelessly dated.  Dialog that wanted so much to sound shocking and new, sounded clicheed and stilted.  Basically, what this movie was trying to do has now been done so much better by other people that this film just seems lame.  What really stands out now is how poorly written the dialog is.  The writer has no ear for the conversation, so we are instead forced to watch two characters deliver long monologues to each other.  This gets very tiresome after a point.  It actually felt more like a two man play than a movie.  Something of a Rosenkrantz and Guildenstern for the modern white collar worker.  Throw in bad lighting and a hopelessly contrived plot and you have a film that I found extremely hard to watch or care about. 3/10 "},{"Title":"In the Company of Moral Idiots","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Who dreamed this thing up? Somebody who had just come out of a theater having seen Dangerous Liaisons or Valmont and thought, hey, let's do something similar but make it more socially relevant, and without any of the sly wit of the original? As it is, it's like watching Joan of Ark burn at the stake for an hour and a half.Two guys decide to get even with all the women who have hurt them by finding one innocent bystander, pretending to court her, then abruptly dumping her. One of the guys, Chad, is the instigator -- clean-looking, smooth, a moral idiot -- who succeeds in dethroning his friend, bedding the victim, and winds up happily ever after lying back on his bed, staring at the ceiling, and wearing a big smirk as his girl friend goes down on him like some Yemeni hooker. The other guy is something of a schmuck, looks a bit like Tommy Dorsey, and goes along with the gag at first. Then he finds that he is actually falling for the victim and tells her the truth about the game being played on her, handling the whole nasty business very badly. I mean, when you're giving someone the bad news like that, it's generally not a good idea to grab her by the shoulders and shake her vigorously back and forth while screaming at her, Can't you understand? Are you stupid? Stacey Edwards as the girl is not at all dumb but she is deaf. And innocent and helpless. And when the two guys begin hitting on her at the same time and one of them plays hurt, she blames herself for it. (My kind of woman; where do you find them?) She's attractive too, and is able to generate just enough of the sort of voice that hearing-challenged people use as to be believable yet comprehensible. Her head darts birdlike from side to side as she tries to follow a speaker's lips so she can read them. At the end, Tommy Dorsey comes back to her and begins to shout at her again because he's still in love with her -- Listen! But from her point of view, all we see is some unprepossessing little guy flapping his mouth in silence. The oily, bitter guy, Chad, by the way, is really a no-goodnik of the first order. Once he has displaced his friend and assumed charge of the project he calls in a black guy for an interview for a possible promotion, and humiliates him by making him drop his pants and reveal what kind of testicles he's got. Well, it's ridiculous, sure. That's where any normal job interviewee would say, This interview ends right now, and would walk out the door. But the whole low-budgeted talky film is ridiculous. Men and women don't act this way. Oh, some women may act as gracefully as Stacey Edwards does here; and some guys may be as dumb as Tommy Dorsey. But anybody of either sex acting like Chad would be found out quickly enough for the psychopath he or she is. It's unrealistic in another sense. I'm not sure any human being would flay a hearing-challenged person with such venom. You'd have to comb the ridges.And although if he's handsome, like Chad, and a convincing enough liar he might have a plenitude of girls around him, he would have no depth on the bench in the way of friends or job prospects. The movie is unpleasant from start to finish. These two guys aren't as physically brutal as Richard III but they're not nearly as interesting either. "},{"Title":"Highly intelligent, highly subversive","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While many of the stock emotional issues have been covered by others' comments, I feel many have overlooked the film's acid satirical wit and its anti-capitalist undertones.In the Company of Men is not, primarily, about the way men and women behave but rather is about exposing the deep hypocrisy inherent in the way corporate culture and modern Western society essentially rewards precisely those characteristics which in the same breath it purports to censure. If these men are 'evil', they are simply doing what they must to survive. As the last line testifies, 'I can sell pretty much as well as anybody' - selling is about winning at somebody else's expense definitively so.The strong emotional response to the film that many viewers have is entirely controlled - not only is it intended to generate a localised disgust for the behaviour of the protagonists but it is further intended to satirise the culture that rewards such behaviour we are being encouraged to generalise our moral disgust.So every scene is shot like a glossy sales pitch, smooth surfaces, corporate anonymity, we buy the dream, we become complicit (if we are not already) so become as morally decrepit as Chad, as Howard.It is a mistake to see Christine as the final victim - she is not. She is merely a victim. The ultimate victim is of course Howard who Chad deliberately played in order that he might triumph, in order that he might take the other man's job, in order that he might win. The suggestion is implicit he destroyed his colleague's work so that he would be demoted, he 'played along' with his heartache so that he could be rendered mute.So we see Howard and Christine through the windows of a card, through the windows of an Office, as animals in a zoo. Just as when Howard first entered he looked in the mirror, so he is left finally blinded, muted, destroyed. All those tall buildings with all that glass and we can't see inwards perhaps that is the reason why.Show me your balls. Sadistic only as far as any of us are 'responsible' for our own selfishness - that here is portrayed as another myth. Rather, such selfishness is exposed in a highly intelligent and thought-provoking film as no more than a manifestation of the behaviour necessary, expected and highly rewarded in a fundamentally amoral capitalist system.As a work of cinema, the film suffers, as do so many good films, from being too clever by half for the majority of its potential audience. If his film is emotionally bleak, LaBute is seeking only to reflect the amorality of his subject. "}{"Title":"Don't Bother","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a waste of time! I had high expectations for this movie, and it turned out to be just another commentary of yuppie assholes, just like the real life ones I see around me everyday here in Silicon Valley (Northern Calif.) These guys are just garden variety jerks,thirty-something adolescents who have a mommy complex. Why is this movie considered a comedy?! I only found two things humorous in the whole movie. One - when one guy loses change out of his pants in the bathroom stall, and the other picks it up for him, but first pockets some of the change for himself. Second - when one guys corrects another about the use of the word ask, as opposed to axe! Other than that, the movie was a snoozer. Better off renting American Psyco for real yuppie scum. "},{"Title":"mean-spirited, empty, and unsatisfying (1 out of 10)","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes movies exist solely to push the emotional buttons of its audience.  Even if that is what this film is doing, it still fails for several reasons. First, it asks its audience to root for a sociopathic protagonist. Second, there isn't a single surprise that takes place in the movie -- had there been a twist of some kind, it would have made the otherwise interminable first 90 minutes somewhat bearable.  Third, there wasn't a character in the film that I liked. And finally it has a most unsatisfying ending.Now none of these things in and of themselves would doom a movie for me -- heck, I enjoy film noir -- but the real test for me here is that at ANY moment during this movie, if my friends had stopped the tape, I would not have cared at all to find out what happened.Enough space wasted on this vile movie.  It was actually unpleasant to sit there and endure it. "},{"Title":"Normally, I prefer it&#x85;however&#x85;","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing In the Company of Men a very long time ago&#x85;not sure exactly when, but it was when I began noticing independent films verses big budgeted all-name films. And I loved it. It was a refreshing change from explosions every few minutes.Unfortunately, times have changed.Yeah, I still like the film &#x96; I am a sucker for super-human characters, and Chad (Eckhart) certainly is. But, now my eyes opened, recently, to pacing and movies that overstay their welcomes.Don't give up on this movie, however. It's a somewhat original idea with excellent acting from Eckhart as an, excuse my English, asshole whose main purpose is to see people suffer for mere amusement.Here we have two gentlemen, Howard (Malloy) and Chad who work together &#x96; one being the boss, though they graduated close to each other, and are sent for six weeks to an undisclosed city to set up their sales business. In a little down time &#x96; as few and far between it is, Howard admits to his buddy that he's been recently dumped by his girlfriend. Chad retorts with his story of love-lost with his girlfriend and then proposes the idea of the movie revenge against women.Chad wants to find that special nobody, and have both him and Howard date her, romance her, make her feel like she's on top of the world and then simply pull the rug out and laugh as she falls. Sounds cruel? Well, yeah&#x85;there's no other way to describe it. However, it gets worse; the one they pick, Christine (Edwards) is deaf.They do what they set out to. But, unfortunately for the movie's sake they make it painfully obvious that one will fall (for her,) one will rise and the end result is what you expect.What holds the movie together and makes it worth a viewing is Eckhart as Chad. He's evil. He's borderline Catherine Tramell (Sharon Stone from Basic Instinct) but he's somewhat more despicable than Stone, because he makes this all the more real. Also, they both smoke like a chimney&#x85;not that it's relevant &#x96; it's just probably thrown in as you simply can't trust a smoker I'm assuming.In addition, the end revolutions, when both Chad &#x96; who explains his motivations, and Howard who, well, shouts his, also make it worthy of a complete viewing.And finally Edwards who plays Christine, is really NOT deaf in real life, so her acting and speech is truly impressive. Listen to the audio commentary. This is real acting.It's not fast paced and it's based on the stereotypical movie lie approach that always leads to the clich revolutionary scene, but it's interesting as a yeah, this could really happen story and the actual climax is quite fulfilling. Eckhart is so good in this role; you almost root for him, despite his evil intentions. The writing is good enough to see he did place his pieces (people) in the exact locations he wanted them and that's not pulled off by most actors.I do love super-human characters that use people as pawns. Stone did it brilliantly in Basic Instinct and Eckhart proved he could almost (give it about 80%) match her. Only, some of his scenes &#x96; such as, show me your balls &#x96; were a little off-kilter. As was his character. "},{"Title":"A small film quite like no other","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a film of complex layers, of the toxic slings and arrows of both the corporate world and intimate relations between men and women, and one of bitter, hardcore irony. The film is as much an indictment about the pathological pursuit of corporate profiteering as it is an indictment of modern day misogyny. In fact, it enables the viewer ( if he/she is perceptive enough to see) to understand the horrors of corporatism ( horrors many people are, sadly, paralyzed to) by presenting an account of the horrible, malicious trick they play on a deaf woman (something most people will readily feel for) as the horrifying intimate male/female relationship equivalent. The women&#150; really only represented by Christine&#150; are not represented harshly in the workplace but are only treated, obviously, very harshly by Chad's scheme. It reveals the misogyny that some men are capable of, but also depicts the juggling of men's emotions that Christine and many other women, whether you like to hear this or not (and I don't know why you wouldn't because unless you are completely deluded you know that it's true), are capable of, as Christine leads Howard&#150; the other male lead who is lured into the scheme by Chad, and is just as a much a victim in the story as Christine&#150; on by toying with his emotions, having him spend money on her, and dating him long after realizing she did not want to be with him. While the viewers are not expected to sympathize with the male leads at all but actually abhor them (certainly this is appropriate for Chad), Howard shows that he has human concerns and feelings toward others and is more of an inadequate, easily led whelp than abhorrent, and remember that he is being led on by Christine (although certainly not as deceitfully, and not maliciously).Chad is not at all what the majority of men would want to identify with, at least in any ultimate or meaningful way, and if the director and screenwriter were intending to make the viewer believe that Chad in this film is some kind of ultimate man then this is more sexist toward men collectively than sexist toward women, which this film is, of course, an indictment of that very sexism (indeed any film made in 1996 would probably not even be allowed to be released if it were actually advocating misogyny). Overall, an original, thought provoking, and daring indie pic that shows some definite guts (yes, I deliberately avoided balls) among the creators. You have to admire a film for that. "},{"Title":"some guys will love this (but for the wrong reasons!)","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film for the same reason i enjoy a good vigilante film. It appeals to exactly the same sense of gratification. Although i certainly do not condone or endorse misogyny, i do frown upon promiscuity which seems prevalent among both men and women in modern society.Is everyone forgetting that the so-called innocent woman in this film was two-timing the male leads? In this sense, their plan was foolproof from the point of view of revenge. They set it up in such a way that they would not be hurting just an innocent woman. She may have been physically disabled, but a fine upstanding ethical character she was not. As a man, i can honestly say i would have been equally satisfied had the set-up worked with the genders reversed. This would have been a bit too unrealistic though.Women who find this film objectionable are missing the point somewhat. Its not supposed to be man vs woman. It explores the dark side of the love-hate relationship between the sexes and the reality of the sometimes unpleasant consequences for both.However, that Chad comes off totally unscathed at the end makes me wonder about the integrity and motives of Neil Labute when he made this film. But what a beaut' it was Neil. Well done on offending half the world's population. I couldn't have done better myself! To all you Chads out there..... give women a break.... they're not all bad!  "},{"Title":"not so much a black comedy as it is a depressing tragedy","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (possible spoilers)Am I the only one who found little, if anything, to laugh at?No matter. This film works without living up to its dark comedy tag. But I think it could have been more amusing if it poked more fun at the corporate players who are so well-mocked here. Aside from that, this was what I felt during ITCOM...Wanted to enter the scene during the second week or so and threaten Howard at gunpoint to leave Christine alone.Wanted to use the same gun to blow off Chad's kneecaps and then bludgeon him past the point of recognizability.Wanted to go out with Christine.I think most guys would agree with me on these points. That about sums up the characters. I have to say, though, that Chad's real motivation was hinted at during the first few minutes of the movie and was therefore pretty easy to pick up on before the halfway point. Other than that, this was a decent story, and worth watching, if the accolades printed on the box don't hype it too much for you.   "},{"Title":"Simple, linear, raw . . .","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, like its direction, is pretty simple and straightforward but fails to follow through on the material it presents. For one thing, the victim woman character is nothing more than a cardboard cut-out and has hardly any dialogue -- while I think she comes across fairly realistically, no effort is made by the director to see things from her point of view, so we really don't gain much of an attachment to her besides basic pity for her situation. There's a few laughs and 'Ooooo's at the audacity of the characters, but not much more. The filming also seems bad, like it was shot with video or something. The sound is sometimes poor. There's nothing high-concept here and that it received such great reviews and accolades is beyond me. It feels like 'half' a movie, as if only about half of what should be there is present on film.  -- CRTF  "},{"Title":"Good directing but near nihilism","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil La Butte loves to go deep in souls to see how cold it's down there. This happens to be deliciously funny (Your friends and neighbors) but by lack of the necessary humoristic discrepancy it reveals too gloomy. Such is In the company of men.Dark humor is not that easy to lay on the silver screen. If everything is distressing there only remains the dark side, not the humoristic side. The choice for the audience at this first feature is 'you can count me out' so you just wait the end / 'how horrible' and you feel unwell for the rest of it; unless you're strong enough to leave. Anyway you're by your own when the end credits roll in down the business. "},{"Title":"simplistic, hysterical tract on the corporate mind","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anybody describing this poorly photographed stage-play as a bleak, chilling and troubling dark comedy has got to be pretty new to movies. And probably life itself.Populating his unpleasantly claustrophobic rant with completely unlikeable, impossible-to-relate-to characters from the off, writer/director LaBute stacks all the cards in his favour but still ends up a loser. Even the put-upon female is never defined as anything more than a victim. And because we feel nothing for these cut-outs, the would-be 'emotionally devastating' twist barely registers, revealing the whole thing as little more than an overlong 'Tale of the unexpected'. Rather than the supposed exploration of males in the workplace alluded to by the punning title. Indeed, it appears that the film-maker sees this not as merely just an expose of the corporate mentality. But of men (bad, insensitive, manipulative creatures) in general, and throughout adopts an irritatingly detached god's-eye-view of events in an attempt to lend his work some authority. This approach merely makes the whole thing seem rather hysterical and smug. We can almost hear the director congratulating himself on his own cleverness during the unintentionally hilarious finale. A finale which renders LaBute as misogynistic as his creations. Watch the powerful 'Glengarry Glenross' for some real insight into the theme. "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies ever made","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know, I know ... that's quite a bold assertion to attach to a movie with no violence, no gore and practically no swearing.  Yet horrify this film does and that's why it's so beautifully brilliant.  It will absolutely chill your blood because it's about the thoughts and deeds of a character (Chad) who is so evil that he is revolting to watch, repugnant to contemplate, yet we can't tear our eyes away from the screen.  Messirs LaBute and Eckhart show us every pustulent boil on this man's psychological behind and they do so in such a familiar way that we soon come to realize that we all know Chad.  We've met him.  Chads walk among us everywhere we go.  Perhaps you work with him or went to school with him... hell, you may even be married to him.Most of my friends think that Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lecter is the most evil movie villain ever created.  While he's a baddie allright, my vote goes to Eckhart's Chad.  Put the two together and I think Chad would eat Hannibal for lunch and let his little ones chew on the bones-o's.This film is an absolute must see.  10 out of 10.  And if it doesn't creep you out enough for one night, rent it and watch it back to back with LaBute's equally fine and doubly disturbing Your Friends and Neighbors.  "}{"Title":"Misogyny Inc.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute has cut a near flawless gem, mined from the deepest, vesicant bile pumping heart of the corporate male psyche.Aaron Eckhart and Matt Malloy evoke a creepy 90's version of Laurel & Hardy, here in starched white collars & ties at a generic -- name one -- smallish corporate field office, wickedly snaring a wisp o' the woman, deaf and only a temp, miraculously played by Stacy Edwards, in a dare of contrived retribution.What ensues is at turns horrifying and wrenchingly funny. You nod because you are in their midst any day you dare to enter a place of business. Dashing monsters like the one Eckhart nails in his performance continue to earn medals and money and office . . . and -- women!Hell, I was envious of the blonde girlfriend painting his broad bare chest and hardened torso with her tongue, down out of the shadowy frame near the end of the film. And I consider myself a radical feminist . . . but I'm queer.     "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A total generational look at corporate American thirty-something men in the worst sense.  Cruelty is the underlining theme, yet you are laughing through most of the movie at what, unfortunately, can and does happen in the business world.  Back stabbing, sexism, betrayal and lies somehow make this a very entertaining movie.  (are we sick?!)  Most everyone survives at the end of a six week roller coaster ride in treachery. "},{"Title":"Recommended","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think someone should reply to the previous comment and so I guess it should be me. I don't know who this other person is but their comments are reactionary and small minded.  The film certainly is tough going and very nasty in places, but that doesn't mean that the director has a problem.  People just like the two main characters exist, I know people like that, and it's refreshing to see a film that looks so unflinchingly at how pathetic men can be.  In the same way that Saving Private Ryan showed us the horrors of war in uncensored fashion for the first time, this film shows us the horrors of maleness in a similarly shocking yet compelling picture, it's impact really is that intense.  If you think the film is at heart, misogynistic then think again, the two male characters come across as weak, petty and at times evil, whereas the female protagonist, though wounded and vulnerable is the only character with any goodness.  I also found myself laughing throughout, thus calling into question my own misogyny, something I didn't want to admit to, but I think all men must own up to in at least some small form.  If you want to watch films that are original, uncompromising in their vision and thought-provoking I thoroughly recommend this, to both men and women.  If not, go and rent my best friends wedding or something. "},{"Title":"Not to be seen by angry women with sharp instruments","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very depressing film but also very intelligent. It made me want to get out and start spitting on every man I see. I like to think that not all men are the monsters portrayed  here. It is a good movie but it depressed me almost as badly as Glengarry Glen Ross.  The performances are great, > especially by Aaron Eckhart and there is a sardonic sense of humour. In general I wouldn't recomment it to anyone who needs to be cheered up but it's the sort of movie that stays with you and really makes you think. Not that that is necessarily a good thing.  "},{"Title":"some guys will love this (but for the wrong reasons!)","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film for the same reason i enjoy a good vigilante film. It appeals to exactly the same sense of gratification. Although i certainly do not condone or endorse misogyny, i do frown upon promiscuity which seems prevalent among both men and women in modern society.Is everyone forgetting that the so-called innocent woman in this film was two-timing the male leads? In this sense, their plan was foolproof from the point of view of revenge. They set it up in such a way that they would not be hurting just an innocent woman. She may have been physically disabled, but a fine upstanding ethical character she was not. As a man, i can honestly say i would have been equally satisfied had the set-up worked with the genders reversed. This would have been a bit too unrealistic though.Women who find this film objectionable are missing the point somewhat. Its not supposed to be man vs woman. It explores the dark side of the love-hate relationship between the sexes and the reality of the sometimes unpleasant consequences for both.However, that Chad comes off totally unscathed at the end makes me wonder about the integrity and motives of Neil Labute when he made this film. But what a beaut' it was Neil. Well done on offending half the world's population. I couldn't have done better myself! To all you Chads out there..... give women a break.... they're not all bad!  "},{"Title":"I would avoid this company at all costs...","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So much buzz was generated over this 'dark-comedy.' I didn't get it. This was a depressing film with loathsome leading men, bent on destroying everything around them simply because they could. The plot revolves around two men who are determined to turn the tables on an unsuspecting woman after ended relationships leave them sour. Howard, a nerdy supervisor, and Chad, a repulsive co-worker and friend, decide to 'love and leave' the most desperate woman they can find in their office. Howard eventually falls for her as Chad wins her heart and then breaks it before her very eyes. Chad treats every relationship, from his co-workers all the way to Howard, with duplicity and deceit. I would trust Chad about as much as President Clinton with a bottle of Viagra in a sorority house after a Kill-a-Keg mixer with the fraternity next door. If you enjoy seeing people being torn down by others, leaving pieces to be picked up by the one who had just been destroyed, by all means... rent this. Otherwise, stay away.They should have named it In The Company of Weasels. "},{"Title":"A black hole award","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have just had the pleasure of watching this movie. To describe everything I hated about it I would have to repeat what other reviewers have said, and I am not going to do that. It is enough to say that the movie was boring, consisting of almost nothing but lengthy dialogues, and that its entire plot - and especially the ending - was just wrong.There is also the scene possible minor spoiler where Chad pressures - and gets (!) - an applicant to show him his testicles. I have absolutely no idea what was the scene's point.It has been quite a while since I last voted on its site, but this movie made me log in just so that I could give it the lowest score possible. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One late night when there was nothing left at the video store because we got there to late, my friends and I decided to rent this. What a mistake! An absolutely awful movie about a few crude sexist men . This movie is so awful it almost manages to be funny. I can't find a positve statement to make about this movie, in fact it was one of the (few) movies the group of us mutually agreed on, verdict terrible. Never mind the offensiveness of almost evry scene, the whole thing in general is boring, crude and almost unwatchable in parts. Save yourself a few hours and skip this one.    "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the Company of Men is a pathetic film with really pretentious attempts at irony and drama. It's the kind of movie that makes you want to rush out and get a huge dose of CGI Hollywood nonsense to clean it out of your system. It's crap like this that give independent/art movies a bad image.A bleak production design doesn't help the depressing, boring feel of the movie and the dull story is basically a cure for not being suicidal. Never ever watch this film. I wasted a whole Sunday afternoon watching this in the cinema when I really could have been doing something much more fun, like digging my own grave. "},{"Title":"this movie was not funny","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a drama this film was a descent morality play about office games. It was Well acted, had adept cinematography, and appropriate sound and music. There was an emotional payoff at the end but I found it too week for the buildup.Expecting a comedy I found nothing redeeming. the jokes (and there weren't many) were not funny and I don't think they were intended to be. the jokes were examples of how screwed up the main characters were. without any humor the film was a progression of awkwardness and abusive behavior by a sociopath and his coworker. When I finished this movie I was angry that it ended up on my mail order movie Que and went to the internet to check if the next one was as bad. "}{"Title":"The Big Kahuna","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a powerful movie with a bold statement. Like many films if its type - A Clockwork Orange, Natural Born Killers, etc. - it has been misunderstood by some as a glorification of this type of behavior. Although it is not violent like films such as Killers or Clockwork, it is a terribly misogynist film about two sexist male chauvinists who embark on a business trip for a few weeks after both experiencing heartbreak due to women, and decide to take out their anger and frustration upon the female sex by coercing a kind deaf woman into relationships and then leaving her emotionally dead after both leaving to go back home without telling her anything in advance.The plan is orchestrated by Aaron Eckhart's character, who is one of the most unlikeable characters I've ever seen in a movie. He has virtually no redeeming qualities whatsoever.This film is very character-driven and relies heavily on dialogue. The summary for my review is The Big Kahuna because it reminded me very much of the Kevin Spacey/Danny DeVito movie, which basically had a cast of only three actors (four if you count a bellboy on screen for a few seconds). The Spacey character in that film is a bit like Eckhart's here.If you like satirical films and can understand the difference between a movie that is criticizing something and glorifying it, then you should definitely check this out. It's one of those films that the critics understood for the most part, but got really bad press on behalf of some female rights activists and conservatives who decided to jump on the bandwagon and brandish this film cruel and insensitive before actually seeing it, and as such in the public eye it failed miserably. Although it isn't a flawless movie and isn't as strong as other satires, I found it to be a fascinating and brutally honest character examination that revealed a lot of truth about society today. Not all men are as utterly vile as the two leads in this film, but to a lesser extent they exhibit a lot of the same traits as these two men, and also treat women as sexual objects.In the Company of Men is an unreserved insight into the minds of two bitter, sexist people - and if you think you can stomach some rather upsetting sequences of dialogue referencing women in a less-than-positive light (to put it nicely), this is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"don't you people get it?","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what's wrong with most reviewers. First of all, stuff like this happens in real life. Not often, but it happens. I know a real life Chad. Just to clarify, I don't condone such behavior but it exists. The main reason the movie was controversial is that the main character was an major a--hole and comes out on top at the end. That's very un-Hollywood and, apparently, a lot of people were disturbed by this. However, I loved the ending. It was not what one would expect. Also, I don't know if you realize how many Howards there are among us- not really an a--hole but someone who wants to be like the alpha male and goes along... I believe Howard deserved what he got. And Christine, although she was nice and vulnerable, didn't mind dating both guys. So nobody is really good.  Overall, I would recommend ITCOM to mature people who are not obsessed with political correctness. Its only flaw was that it was very obviously low-budget...  "},{"Title":"Love to hate it","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lets go to the ending first. I hated the ending and it totally surprised me. The movie is about 2 minor executives who are assigned to go to a sub-office in a small city for several weeks. These 2 creeps have recently been dumped by girl friends and plot a scheme to set up some innocent girl by both going after her, getting her to like them and then dumping her just for fun. This is supposed to be a comedy and was rated as one of the top 5 movies of 1997. First of all this is not a comedy and is far from it. These guys pick on a deaf girl and ridicule her behind her back. Things start going wrong in the weeks ahead as they vie for her affections and one of them really falls for her but she really likes the real creep and does not know how to let the guy that likes her down easy. Women are going to really hate this movie and most men will hate it also unless they can relate to the 2 creeps. It also manages to smear blacks who are trying to make it in the white-collar world. I recommend you see it even though you may wish you had not. I am going to watch it again because i am a sucker for punishment.  "},{"Title":"Good acting.  Bad premise.","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  These are good, believable actors, except when forced to portraythe asinine guys with hearts of gold.  I could have really enjoyedthis movie if I didn't have to spend so much time wishing theoriginal set-up for the plot had been set up realistically.  But I willadmit the working environment in their office was well-done --much better than Glengarry Glen Ross. "},{"Title":"truly hateful film","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps the most blatantly anti-woman film ever made despite how it ends. I can't think of anyone who would want to be in The Company of (These) Men. Actually, they're not men.  They have none of the qualities associated with what a man is  morals, dignity, strength, etc..... "},{"Title":"not recommended","Date":"29 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  what's this director's problem?  was he abused by his parents or something?  no soul.  i hope he gets over himself. "},{"Title":"Misogynist Movie of the Moment","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Misogynist Film of the Moment In the Company of Men 3 11 2009I just watched one of the worst movies ever. I share my opinion only because I want you to watch it as well and see if you relate or if you are repulsed. Some of you might've seen it before. The title sounded familiar and its for that reason that I let the movie take my evening away from me. There was an award given to the filmmaker. It was released in 1997. I usually don't blast movies because they are supposed to leave you in a mood. The director and writer don't do a good job of portraying the comedy to this dark comedy though, and as a result it comes off as a serious film, and leaves a bad taste in the viewers mouth. Do not let your girlfriends watch this movie. It will only add to the man hate already happening. This is fuel to the fire. That said, if you do watch it, try to figure out which of the two guys you are more like, Chad or Howard, and get back at me.I might have to start a new column where I share these discoveries with you. This is an insult to misogynists everywhere. Not approved.In The Company Of Men----Ryan Mega sexdrugsmoney.com "}]