[{"Title":"An excellent political satire.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"65 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The much under-rated Primary Colors represents the zenith of its genre a consistently excellent political satire armed with a stellar cast, an involving, intricate plot, and some of the finest direction in recent times from the sporadic (yet always reliable) Mike Nichols. John Travolta's portrayal of a Clinton-esquire Southern governor with a weakness for women and doughnuts is note perfect, encapsulating the flawed yet undoubtedly brilliant Jack Stanton with effortless flair and charisma. Travolta is ably supported by English character actors Emma Thompson and big screen debutant Adrian Lester, as well as an Oscar nominated Kathy Bates, Billy Bob Thornton and a resurgent Larry Hagman.The film is, in essence, a chronology of Stanton's rise of the political ladder and the struggles encountered by his vibrant team in keeping their man in the race, despite numerous setbacks and tragedies along the way. The script gives Travolta a perfect platform to express the very human emotions that both constrain and encourage us his early speeches (particularly at an adult literacy centre) are punctuated by salient (yet entirely falsified) anecdotes, and were are given equal insight into Stanton the man and Stanton the politician. Thus the film's fundamental paradox arises the audience is clearly conditioned to sympathise with Stanton as a result of his remarkable eloquence, yet we are frequently undercut by revelations of sex scandals, endless untruths and the often heartless pragmatism he embarks upon. This conflict for the audience is superbly manipulated so that, at the film's conclusion, we are unsure as to what our own emotions should be. Few films manage to pull this off fewer with the nuanced skill of Nichols' political odyssey.I want to add a few words about the female performances in the film. Emma Thompson, as the Hilary Clinton of the the cast, nails both the accent and mannerisms of her model with a convincing determination. Her character is often the mediator among the campaign team, yet there is a ruthlessness about her, a quiet conviction in her actions that her husband is clearly sustained by. Kathy Bates is the unhinged lesbian media consultant who is drafted in to nullify the potent threat of negative media reporting. She clearly gets all the best lines (a prize shared with the equally crazy Billy Bob Thornton character) including a memorable reference to Stanton's string of lovers as sorry trash bins scrupulous editing on my part here. At the film's conclusion, Bates comes to the fore, spelling out the impossible conflict between what is politically right and what is humanly right with an intensity that few actors could accomplish. Her subsequent Oscar nomination was well deserved and she was unlucky to be pitted against a triumphant Judi Dench in the Best Supporting Actress category.That said, this is Travolta's movie. This is a career-defining performance from an actor unfortunately sullied by a series of mind-numbing duds (Battlefield Earth, anyone?), yet had he chosen his roles more wisely (as, say, Pacino has done) a more creditable media image would most certainly have been forthcoming.Don't be put off by its subject matter this is film making at its best and is a credit to its highly talented cast and crew.10/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, well-acted, well-written","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"36 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having heard the book was an unbridled attack on Clinton, I was afraid this film would be the same, but it wasn't. Primary Colors was definitely better than I thought it would be.First, there was Elaine May's script Funny, well-written, lean, tender at moments, never taking things to the camp level, like so many modern Hollywood movies do when it doesn't work. And it wouldn't have worked for this movie. The thing that kept me watching was that, like Henry, I *did* believe in Jack Stanton, or at least I wanted to. The tender moments, like those at the beginning in the literacy class, kind of endeared me to the Stanton character and made me understand how Burton was drawn in so irrevocably.Then, there was the acting marvelous. Travolta, Thompson, Bates need I say more? Thompson's underlying, clipped accent adds a brittle note to her delivery that fits right in with Susan's repression and humiliation. Travolta was just nice enough to make you believe in him (although, in my opinion, he was ultimately unable to fully portray that je ne sais quoi that Clinton possesses, which makes him so charming to many). Bates was riveting and harrowing as the faded liberal clinging to her ideals.But in addition to the name actors there were others who were fantastic Adrian Lester, as the tortured campaign aide, wants to believe but feels unsure of Stanton's worth as a candidate. Maura Tierney (best known as the wife in Liar Liar) as the bubbling, funny sidekick to Lester (probably based on Dee Dee Myers), lights up every scene she's in. Larry Hagman, in a wonderful cameo, plays Stanton's opponent and his foil in the morals department.Billy Bob Thornton plays the James Carville role, and I wasn't sure what he added to the film. Since I constantly compared his character unfavorably to James Carville (the Thornton character was shown as a real rotter, sexually harassing aides, etc.), I'm not sure if my dislike of Thornton was more my dislike of his character than that of his acting.The production of this film also added to its wonderful feel the Governour's Mansion, the local ribs place, the constant red/white/blue theme (sometimes it seemed like a Kieslowski film), all of it added to the ambiance. I was not surprised to learn that the Michael Ballhaus, the cinematographer, also filmed the sumptuous Age of Innocence. Quality tells.Mike Nichols's directing was also effective in one especially harrowing scene, Emma Thompson's tormented face fills up the foreground, while Bates's character (in the background) rips into the Stantons' morals. I almost felt like I was at the theater.This film made me think about Clinton as well as politicians in general. What is admirable, what is not acceptable, what is it we really *want* in our public officials? I don't think Primary Colors will change anyone's opinion of the Clintons (in the final analysis, it isn't about them at all) -- but it is a very funny as well as thought-provoking look at modern American politics. "},{"Title":"A Southern Fried Comedic Tragedy","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A thinly disguised couple, one of the most famous couple of the last decade. They carry the come as you are kind of attitude, apparently, so, yes, at least apparently. Looking at it from where I'm standing in 2007 she may become the first USA woman president and he was, for 8 years, one of, if not the most popular American president since JFK and with the benefit of hindsight, he was probably a much more talented politician than JFK. I'm not necessarily a Democrat but I became, eventually, pro Clinton. Junk food and momathons infidelity and at times right down vulgarity doesn't blur the intentions of the couple and a couple is what they are. It may not have been John Travolta's most popular performance but for my money it's his best. Emma Thompson deals with Elaine May's superb and telling dialog with all the depth and poignancy, let alone fun, that the character deserved. She is magnificent. Kathy Bate's time bomb character is an unnerving fun to watch. Her Libby is a close relative of her Misery Mike Nichols keeps it really domestic. The most important things take place in Motels or kitchens. She wears yellow plastic gloves to do the dishes when big decisions are taken and cleanses her skin with a tissue in front of the preppy Adrian Lester the first time she meets him. They are ordinary southern folks with an extraordinary destiny. She's the one with a sense of history. Imagine that. See it now, again or for the first time before the next elections. It's a very good movie too. "},{"Title":"Much better than I was expecting","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought Primary Colors (1998***) was pretty good. It appears to be a lot easier on Jack Stanton, the Clinton surrogate played by John Travolta, than the book reportedly was.  The movie presents Stanton as flawed but essentially decent (at least as decent as any politician running for high office can be).  Travolta's imitation of Clinton is OK for a Saturday Night Live sketch, but it sometimes gets in the way of his performance over the 2-1/2 hour length of the film.  However, he's often effective, and Emma Thompson is first-rate as Susan Stanton, by turns pragmatically worldly-wise and fiercely supportive.  Actually, the focal point of the film is not that of the Stantons but the young, black grandson of a highly regarded civil rights leader, who gets sucked into Stanton's roller-coaster campaign and has his idealism sorely tested.  He's well-played by an actor named Adrian Lester.  There are also great turns by Kathy Bates, Larry Hagman and Billy Bob Thornton, among many others.For me, the only big drawback of the picture was the melodramatic suicide of a key player in the drama (I won't say who).  I thought it was something this particular character would never do.  Otherwise, Colors is absorbing and funny and moving nearly all the way.  Good moment  The Stantons do a 60 Minutes-like reaffirmation of their marriage, but as soon as the cameras are turned off, she yanks her hand out of his in a flash. "},{"Title":"Insightful, entertaining political drama","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now that the Monica Lewinsky/Bill Clinton circus has played itself out, I finally saw Elaine May's excellent, under-appreciated rendering of the tale of a thinly disguised American politician and his campaign to become President of the United States. The performances in Primary Colors are remarkable. John Travolta does an astonishing impersonation of Clinton without being a Saturday Night Live caricature. Emma Thompson is perfect as his long-suffering wife, always waiting for the other shoe to drop revealing his indiscretions. Kathy Bates deserved her Academy Award nomination as his public relations trouble-shooter. Her not quite over-the-top performance is the heart of this opus. Last, but not least, Adrian Lester is the idealist young African American in charge of his campaign. This impassioned portrayal bodes well to a successful future in films. Mike Nichols has directed Miss May's script with intelligence and humor. See it now, after all the gossiping has died down, for an insightful, entertaining glimpse into the world of politics. "},{"Title":"Primary Flaws A Modern Tragedy","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As (I think it was) Yogi Berra said, It's deja vu all over again! On this, the weekend after the release of the Starr report, the movie rings so true. Travolta was great in por- traying the manic pathology of Stanton/Clinton.And of course, Kathy Bates was superb as Libby, who in the end was unable to reconcile her loyalty to Stanton with her loyalty to the truth. If Stanton was flawed by his weakness of the flesh, Libby was flawed by her strength - by her inability to give up the best part of herself to the moral malaise that so pervaded the Stanton candidacy.How ironic that the film ends with the inauguration ball, with Stanton and wife whirling in triumph across the ballroom floor, without a hint of what was to come... I have seen this film labeled a comedy. I cannot see it as anything other than a tragedy, in the Greek sense - a man who with the best of in- tentions, but whose flaws finally undo him. "},{"Title":"A sparkling cracker of a political thriller","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     It's said that only the very best actors can compete with children and animals, and to this should be listed bright-eyed, cute-as-a-button young newcomers like Adrian Lester, who steals every scene he's in as an idealistic young aide until a larger-than-life Kathy Bates steamrolls her way onto the crowded scene.     This film, based on Clinton's 1990 campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination, is a fictionalized, not factual, view of the man and his character and ideals, and quite simply one of the best films ever made about the confusing maze that is American politics.Just as the American media, spurred on by the Republican witch-hunters, rubbed our noses in the dirt surrounding Clinton's indiscretions, the movie doesn't spare Jack Stanton for his moral weaknesses and poor personal judgements, but makes the point that the dirt grubbing and trivializing media are equally immoral in seeking to denigrate a man's political ideals because of his sexual peccadillos.    The media is one Enemy of Truth, but the real Enemy of the People, lurking, malevolent and unseen, in the murky shadows at the edges of this film, is the Republican Party, and it's interesting that it takes a British director to take such a decisive stand, as Hollywood has always been reticent to take sides in the Democrat/Republican debate. The point made here, from the testimony of the battle-scarred true Believers, from the idealistic young party aides, from the would-be President's wife (an uncanny portrayal of Hillary by a dynamic Emma Thompson) and Stanton himself (although physically unlike Bill Clinton, John Travolta gives a very believable performance), is that the President needs to be a man of the people, to be able to understand the people, and to be able to communicate with the people, despite the lies of his opponents and the mud slinging of the media. If America doesn't always get the President it deserves, it's because these very qualities are often blocked by his political enemies and a sensation-seeking media, particularly the television networks.     An uninformed Democracy is no Democracy at all, and it's a mark of the inherent strength of the American people and their political system that it has withstood these obstacles, despite the many mediocre Presidencies we have seen in our times. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a truly great commentary on politics in the modern world.  John Travolta pulls off one of the best Bill Clinton impressions I've been priveleged enough to witness.  Emma Thompson is witty, and real, a true testament to her skill and brilliance in her craft.  But my favorite performances were delivered by the supporting characters in the film.  To begin, the oft ignored Maura Tierney.  She's charming, versatile, talented, and downright adorable.  Daisy is horribly underwritten for an actress of her talent, but nevertheless a great and appealing character.  Billy Bob Thornton's Richard Jemmons is hilarious and brilliant.  He represents the truest example of the hardened believer.  Finally came the eloquent and insane Libby Holden given breath in this mortal coil by the infallible Kathy Bates.  I couldn't even begin to describe the beauty of this character's idealism.  I would love to see more of it in our government.  Good movie.  Lots of fun, and lots of heart. "},{"Title":"What Are The Colors of Sex and Disillusionment?","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! (There may not be any here, but I'll always, during comments, put this up to be safe)I felt that Primary Colors was a pretty good movie.  I felt that Adrian Lester's Henry Burton was superbly played, a man thrust unknowingly into managing the campaign.  Henry feels or wants to believe in Stanton's campaign and in Stanton himself, but he continually feels dismayed at the methods he is told to use in order to protect Stanton, literally becoming sick of one job.  He becomes friends with Gov. Stanton's wife Susan Stanton (Emma Thompson, who is also good, particularly at dropping her English dialect to play an American here), a woman who is genuinely (certainly when compared to her husband) interested in people and a believer in the campaign, but is as disgusted as Henry is in the latest sexual revelation involving her husband.The interesting theme that Mike Nichols examines is the contradiction that while Stanton's campaign workers struggle to keep the campaign going in the face of Stanton's sexual affairs, the workers ALSO become sexually involved with each other.  Sex permeates and dominates Stanton's campaign.  Daisy  (Maura Tierney)becomes involved with Henry; Libby Holden (Kathy Bates,(who is hard-nosed and wonderful here)becomes a lover of Jennifer, a campaign worker at Stanton's headquarters.Other good performances include Travolta's Jack Stanton, who at first tries hard to imitate President Clinton but soon slips comfortably into the role; Larry Hagman's Gov. Picker, a flawed but moral man who truly feels the sting of the past, unlike Stanton, and who wants to take the contest to a higher level.In summation, a pretty good film about the attack the enemy, protect oneself, and ignore the issues state of campaigns today, and certainly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good movie struggles to get out of facile shell","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was never a big fan of the novel by Joe Klein that this movie is based on. Like Clinton, it seemed more slick and facile than satirical and insightful.  There was a good story trying to get out, but it didn't.  The movie manages to bring more of that story to the forefront, like the idea that even a nominee with good ideas and good heart needs to do dirty deeds to get elected because of how screwed up the American system is.  I think Kathy Bates also deserves all the praise she's been getting, and Emma Thompson, Billy Bob Thornton, and Maura Tierney are also good.Travolta was a problem.  Considering how much the filmmakers tried to distance themselves between their story and Clinton's real-life troubles, this seemed little more than a slick impression, and I found it distracting. I also found missed some of the stuff they cut from the novel, like Thompson's indiscretion with Adrian Lester's character, and the relationship between him and Tierney didn't have the context here that it did in the novel.  And again, I was left wondering, If you hate him that much, why stay?  Overall, an admirable effort, and maybe I'll be more receptive once this whole impeachment garbage fades from memory, but I still found it wanting. "}{"Title":"A political movie for people who don't like political movies","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie and the book upon which it was based caused a major stir when first released because President Bill Clinton felt the movie was based too much on his own life, even though the author denied that Clinton served as the model for the book's lead character.It's kind of hard to believe the author, since John Travolta's character has a haircut and a Southern accent identical to Clinton's.  Also, the scandals Travolta suffers in the film, such as adulterous affairs and having children out of wedlock, also plagued Clinton during his presidency.Whoever you believe, Primary Colors is a very enjoyable film, even if you don't like political movies.  The entire cast is great, especially Larry Hagman as an aging Florida senator who fills in for one of Travolta's opponents after he has a heart attack.  It's a good step away from his J.R. Ewing character, even if his accent sounds the same.Primary Colors is rated R for profanity and sexual references, but I think a PG-13 would have been more appropriate.Krispy Kreme dougnuts, anyone? "},{"Title":"Campaign Fatigue","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes a dream movie project with all the right buzz, a super cast, and a hot director manages to fail anyway. Such was the case with Primary Colors. Based on the 1996 novel written by Joe Klein that fictionalized the growing pains of Bill Clinton's run for the Democratic presidential nomination four years before, the movie stars John Travolta as Gov. Jack Stanton, a compulsive eater and sleeper-around, and his long-suffering, highly ambitious wife, Susan, played by Emma Thompson.As seen through the eyes of idealistic campaign worker Henry Burton (Adrian Lester), Stanton falls from one boiling pot to another, from taped conversations with a bimbo who is clearly based on Gennifer Flowers to other scandals with less obvious a Clintonesque parallel, especially one involving the underage daughter of Stanton's favorite barbecue chef. For Stanton, winning the nomination is everything, and Burton finds himself struggling to keep his head up over the sludge.While the performances range from pretty good (Lester, Thompson, Kathy Bates as a dustbusting lesbian working damage control on Stanton's character miscues) to fair (Travolta imitating Phil Hartman imitating Clinton, though giving good presence) to flat-out lost in the editing room (Maura Tierney and Billy Bob Thornton, solid as campaign officials until suddenly pulling Houdinis in the final third), the real problem is the script. Eileen May's adaptation struggles to represent every plot twist in the novel's Byzantine storyline, but it fails to capture the wonderfully jaded, wise, and amusing narrative voice of Klein's book, and squeezes in so much the end result is an overcooked soufflé of melodrama.While Primary Colors the novel works as an over-the-top black farce with hints of real pathos, Primary Colors the film gives us a lot of agony and little of the fun. At nearly two-and-a-half hours, this makes for tough sledding.May and director Mike Nichols were the team that did The Birdcage, a fine, outrageous comedy, two years before. Primary Colors would seem a worthy candidate for the same light touch, but except for two sequences, one involving Rob Reiner as the soporific host of the radio show Schmooze For Jews and the other with Tony Shalhoub offering the goods on one of Stanton's opponents, you don't get that here. There's a lot of screaming instead, and talking, and more screaming, and more talking. Staffers blob out on hotel beds and whine about what's going wrong, crises are averted, then something else goes wrong. And everything is played soooo seriously.The movie takes some liberties from the book, not good ones. An outrageously funny Al Sharpton character who rags on Burton for neglecting his black roots is omitted. Tierney's Daisy Green character is locked in a romance with Burton that is central to the novel (will ambition trump love?) but just presented and abandoned, along with Tierney, in the movie. Most important, the novel's ambiguous ending is spelled out with a scene that feels flat and self-congratulatory.The truth is Stanton is hard to place as a good or bad guy, not because he's supposed to be Clinton, but because he's not Clinton. He's his own character, complex, decent, venal, idealistic, funny, greedy, selfish, and worth valuing for all that. Travolta gets the smoothness, but not the underneath part. Nor do Nichols and May, a great comedy team back in the 1960s who seem, for at least this one film, to have misplaced their senses of humor.If I hadn't read the book, I might have liked this more. Maybe I'm docking the film more than I should that way. But given how condensed everything is, I probably wouldn't have understood the movie without reading the book. Primary Colors the book is full of life, but the film adaptation never breathes. If John Travolta really was Bill Clinton, he never would have made it out of New Hampshire. "},{"Title":"Effective and interesting political satire","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Primary Colours follows the story of the presidential campaign of Jack Stanton, a democratic candidate. John Travolta gives a great performance as Jack Stanton, a character in which the parallels between him and former US president, Bill Clinton are obvious and almost certainly deliberate, which explains the sex scandal element of the movie. The campaign is seen through the eyes of a young campaign manager; Henry Burton, a man with ideals and a man that believes Jack Stanton is the 'real thing', and America's best presidential candidate since John F. Kennedy. The film is a satire on the world of politics from the director of The Graduate; Mike Nichols, and it works very well.One of the best things about this movie is its script. As you might expect from a social satire, the script is sharp and witty and there's some genuinely funny dialogue, as well as some observant criticisms of the way that the country is ran. Some of the humour in the film also manages to be quite dark, such as the part where Jack is on a radio show, debating with his rival; who puts the phone down in the middle of the debate, to which Jack responds with laughter over the way that his rival has dropped out of the debate. Only to find he has suffered a heart attack. Also of note is the way that the film is very American, too American, in fact; shown by the way that the characters sing American songs, and talk highly of the country, it's almost sickly, but it works in the satirist content of the movie. The script does, however, become a little over the top at times, and it feels like extra bits are being added in to make the it seem like more is going on, and I feel that the movie would be more efficient if the script has been trimmed a little; but it's a small criticism, and the movie runs smoothly enough.Aside from John Travolta, who gives one of the best performances of his career in this movie, the rest of the cast is good too, and includes performances from Emma Thompson, who makes a great leading lady as Susan Stanton, Kathy Bates; who is gratuitously over the top in her usual electric style, as well as Adrian Lester, an English man that is without doubt the most 'American' character in the movie, and finally; Maura Tierney, who was in the background for a lot of the film but still managed to make an impression as one of the campaign helpers. She's not bad looking either, which is a bonus.Overall, Primary Colours is as good as political satires get; it has everything, from the parallels to real life, to a sharp script, to a great cast and the whole piece comes together nicely as a biting satire on the USA's electoral system. "},{"Title":"We can do incredible things. We can change this country.","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Story of this movie is about Governor Jack Stanton (John Travolta), who is running for president. Stanton is democratic candidate and the whole character is based on Bill Clinton, former candidate and president of USA. The entire movie is based on sex scandal that treats to rule Governor Stanton out of the race for president. Everything that happens in the movie is seen through the eyes of each character and specially through the eyes of young Henry Burton (Adrian Lester), a grandson of a black civil rights leader and Stanton's campaign leader. With Henry in Stanton's team there are also his wife Susan (Emma Thompson), Richard Jemmons (Billy Bob Thornton), Daisy Green (Maura Tierney) and Libby Holden (Kathy Bates), who defends president candidates by stopping the attacks from all comers and also digging out the past of major opponents. Primary Colors is well made movie because it shows us what is man capable of doing to get to a higher position. It also shows us what games politicians are playing behind the closed doors and also how many scandals can one man have. The character of Henry Burton is excellent because he is a young man who is trying to find someone who still believes in the same ideals as he does. He's hoping that Stanton is that man, different from others. But Stanton is a man who slept with 17-year old babysitter, teacher (librarian) in the school and he also had a long relationship with one woman. All of that is Stanton and he became president. If it wasn't Stanton some other man would became president, maybe an ex drug addict or a man who likes to drink, but definitely not someone who is clean. Because no one is clean. These sort of people are running America (from Clinton's sex scandal to todays idiotic person of George Bush) and not only America but every other land. In movie Stanton says that even Abraham Lincoln wasn't innocent and he was surely one of the greatest people in history of America. Politicians are all same all around the world. Casting is brilliant. Travolta is great with that accent, Kathy Bates is always superb, just like Emma Thompson and Billy Bob Thornton. Adrian Lester really surprised me in positive way.My favorite line is I'm going to tell you something really outrageous. I'm going to tell you the truth. Yeah, right. People would say everything to get what they want and in this case we are talking about votes. "},{"Title":"Some great group dynamics, and solid, if predictable.","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors (1998)This starts off really great, and gets the flavor of a real campaign, without too much Hollywood hype (campaigns have their own kind of falseness, which is played up here). John Travolta not only hits it just right as a feeling and determined candidate, he also nails Bill Clinton pretty well, too. I don't suppose Emma Thompson is supposed to match Hillary quite as well, but she's a perfect running mate, and throw in Billy Bob (Thornton) as a sidekick and you have a really solid working trio. But it doesn't quite keep the focus or momentum, or honesty, of the opening scenes. Or humor, sometimes. (This is a comedy, by the way, and director Mike Nichols knows comedy, as does his screenwriter and longtime collaborator, Elaine May. They used to do stand up comedy together in the 1950s!) What begins as a kind of revelation and interior exploration digresses into more and more clichés of what campaigns do, and what they have to do (sleaze wise) to succeed. We know this stuff. It isn't the facts that enchant us, it's the exceptions to the facts, and it's the nuances between them. It never quite flags, though twenty minutes less screen time sounded good by the end. And Travolta and Thompson hold up their roles consistently.The real saving grace in the second half is the bursting on the scene of Kathy Bates, who is herself at her best. It might be the best Kathy Bates Kathy Bates has ever done, including some impassioned, tearful stuff. The opposing candidate is remarkably convincing--you even want to vote for him--played by Larry Hagman. On the other hand, the young clerk and campaign manager Adrian Lester is a bit too restrained and dull to make him even noticeable.Nichols is best when he gets two or three or four people interacting as real people, with flaws and intensity and passion (as in The Graduate and Closer). And those moments here are terrific, and sometimes hilarious, and make the rest easily worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Great Political Film.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good political film, I learned a bit about the Election process in America, but more importantly the film kept me interested throughout, and John Travolta is cool, Kathy Bates was a nice surprise because I didn't know she was in it,  her performance was excellent. This film is funny, moving and interesting.  "},{"Title":"it's all in the timing","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is often debate about whether or not a person should see a movie without having read the novel first. That said, I will admit that I never read the novel Primary Colors; I only saw the movie. It was of course loosely based on Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign and the various vicissitudes therein. John Travolta plays the Clinton-like Gov. Jack Stanton.Then arises the problem. When I took an ethics class, one of the issues that we discussed was what if so-and-so happens?. Well, guess what? So-and-so happened right before this movie came out. I'm talking of course about the whole Lewinsky thing. Since Primary Colors focuses a little bit on Stanton's possible marital infidelity, that might have doomed it, as we were already tired of hearing about it on the news (Wag the Dog did a neat job looking at these sorts of things). And if we were going to talk about it, people were more interested in the apparent stain on the dress.All in all, stories of politicians' sexual mishaps just don't make for interesting movies; Mike Nichols should know better than to do this. The best scene in the movie is when Libby Holden (Kathy Bates) threatens to deprive a man of his manhood (you know what I'm talking about). Also starring Emma Thompson, Billy Bob Thornton, Adrian Lester, Maura Tierney, Larry Hagman and Diane Ladd.And one more thing about the whole Lewinsky thing. It should only show what the whole thing involved, that the drive to impeach Clinton was led by the now-discredited Tom DeLay. Moreover, they had about $52 million to spend investigating a stain on a dress - by comparison, the commission investigating the September 11 attacks only had $13 million. Like I said, it just goes to show what all we're dealing with. "},{"Title":"A glimpse of incredibly moving and enjoyable dramedy you won´t forget","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Obviously, there is this Hollywood marketing trend to leave out all the serious (and most definitely the sad) , maybe even the intelligent parts of a movie when promoting it. Just like in Stepmom, where the trailer didn´t even tell about Susan Sarandon's cancer, a crucial point in the movie. And the exact same thing happened here, with Primary Colors. It´s been promoted as a kind of quirky take on Clinton and his pants bla-bla-bla. But only by viewing the incredible cast, one can already guess that this movie is more. A group of sympathetic, feeling, three-dimensional, dynamic, snappy, damn intelligent people, yet all the same weak and vulnerable, portrayed by some of the finest character actors working today, form teams in the presidential campaign, and politics in America, as the film qickly shows, are naturally based on tearing flesh when it comes to elections. So, this is a movie about people. About feelings. About belief. About America. And the comedy, the scandal, is only the wrapping paper on this gift of a movie. Tremendously enjoyable, thought-provoking, and really, really moving (which is the biggest secret of the film, nobody who has not read the great book by Anonymous will expect where the film goes in the end. It´s probably because some boss in the Universal lot is afraid all the bubbling emotions of Kathy Bates, and the intense, sexy and honest main character, will scare people away because it is depressing. Screw that! This world is to f**ing cold! I love this movie, i decide to love this movie. Please watch it and get a glimpse of dramedy you won´t forget. "},{"Title":"Political Satire or Social Commentary??","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very, very skeptical of seeing this film because I thought it just seemed absurd.  Travolta seemed a lousy choice & I really didn't want to see a Clintonesque motion picture.  Then one day, I broke down and checked it out.What I found was a very thought provoking little movie.  Underlying it's storyline is the transformation of an innocent into a politico.  Along the way, the real battle seems not to get elected so much as not to lose heart.  For some reason, the scene at the Krispy Kreme really stuck in my head.  At the core, despite his womanizing & draft dodging, Travolta's Stanton loves the people.  His charm was on full throttle and he pulled it off excellently!Even more engaging was the performance of Emma Thompson, who goes from being a sweet woman to an absolute monster and all she does is change her body language and put on her best poker face.  Her asides are some of the most insightful portions of the film.  Maura Tierney was one of my favorites from this movie, simply because she's a good actress who is underappreciated.  There was some incoherence regarding the sudden lack of her character's presence, but, other than that, she was very good.  All of the cast was top notch, including Paul Guilfoyle (always interesting), Billy Bob Thorton, Stacy Edwards, Tony Shalhoub (brief but powerful) and Diane Ladd.Adrian Lester was the one face I knew nothing of, just the type of actor I enjoy watching in a movie.  I never knew what he was capable, which made his character all the more watchable.  As the face of the audience, he is very subtle and wholly convincing as Travolta's campaign manager.Kathy Bates and Larry Hagman turn in the 2 most interesting performances in this film, especially Mr. Hagman.This is not a comedy, which I think some people believe it might be.  It has a perpetual darkness that, sadly, is the political machine. "},{"Title":"Plot and performances OK, overall badly put together","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film suffered from a lack of direction- it just seemed to wander along from scene to scene right from the beginning, where there was no apparent introduction to any of the characters.I thought Travolta would have given a better performance if he hadn't tried so much to do a blatant impression of Clinton, and had instead just got on with acting. I thought Emma Thompson's English accent stuck out at times, but maybe my coming from England made it more obvious to me.So overall- quite amusing at times, but badly put together, and with too many obvious shots at Clinton not helping the plot any. "}{"Title":"Travolta in the Performance of His Career as a Bill Clinton-like Presidential Candidate","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Over 20 years before a film like Primary Colors could even be conceived, a young Italian heart-throb was breaking box office records with a film which defined the Disco era the film was Saturday Night Fever, and the movie star was John Travolta. The year 1977. Fast-forward 20 years. Disco was over, and the New York suburbanite whose career declined in the 1980's, often labeled a one-trick pony, had a resurgence in the 1990's. Travolta went from movie star to actor, and Primary Colors is no question Travolta's best effort.Rather than playing a New York street-smart and club hustler, Travolta dons the garb of a cheeky Midwestern politician, Jack Stanton, a Midwest governor who rings a helluva lot like Bill Clinton. His auspicious wife, Susan Stanton (played stride-for-stride by the incomparable Emma Thompson) has the intelligence and no nonsense drive which rings a lot like Hillary Clinton. Together, they are on the road to capture the Democratic Party nomination for President of the United States. Adrian Lester in a superb and entirely convincing performance plays the straight man Henry Burton, a new-comer to the campaign. Throughout the entire film, we see the Stantons through Burton's eyes, which are at first enthralled, smitten, and eventually disillusioned with not only the shortcomings of Jack Stanton but the entire political process.Burton is pulled into the process even before he has committed himself. He accompanies Stanton on all the primary stops, staying in cheap hotels and constantly eating out. At one point he says he's never been involved in a political campaign, to which Susan Stanton replies Neither have we. He sets up speech venues, and campaign headquarters. He also makes a few blunders along the way, neglecting to be informed about an appearance by one of their opponents. Stanton is so livid, he throws his cell phone out the window. Stanton seems to have all the qualities for making a good presidential candidate. He is highly intelligent yet personable at the one-on-one level. He is an effective debater and speaker. And he has a winning personality that the electorate can admire, even adore. But Stanton has a secret. When given the chance to engage in an extra-marital affair, he can't seem to stop himself. As the campaign progresses, Stanton's sexual history starts to come to the fore. Burton, Richard Lemmons the campaign manager (Billy Bob Thorton), and private investigator Libby Holden (Kathy Bates) must do their best to pick up the pieces and clean up for Stanton. Or at the least, they have to figure out what the press might find and beat them to it, like a wild boar stocking prey as they are characterized.All the leads and supports are par excellence. The unexpected stand-out of the cast is John Travolta who really captured the mannerisms, gestures, and speech of Bill Clinton, a.k.a. Jack Stanton. He really seems a Midwestern WASP rather than an NY Italian. Because the rest of the cast is so strong, the cast keeps up with Travolta line-for-line. High marks go to Adrian Lester as the campaign organizer Henry who loses first his girlfriend, then later his sense of morality when he signs onto the campaign. Emma Thompson can't be beat as Susan Stanton, a.k.a. Hillary Clinton. Billy Bob Thorton's character is essentially James Carvill, the southern democrat who was Clinton's campaign manager, the equivalent of Karl Rove.Unlike many other industrialized countries, the US electorate desires their politicians to have relatively clean records in areas which have nothing to do with politics. Extra-marital affairs are absolutely taboo for US Presidents yet very common among leaders in Europe. (I've heard having a mistress is a prerequisite for the Prime Minister of France.) Stanton is essentially Bill Clinton by another name. Clinton was and is a brilliant politician, but he couldn't keep his pants zipped while campaigning for and occupying national office. But somehow he made it work. "},{"Title":"Entertaining  Enough, with Classy Acting","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Primary Colours' is entertaining. You can allow yourself to get caught up in it, but you are reminded that it is just a movie. It doesn't really capture the staggering frenzy, hype and atmosphere of a real presidential campaign. There are the usual suspects - a screaming media, TV ads, rallies, and tactics, but there is a nagging feeling of sparseness and convenience through all of this. Governor Stanton (John Travolta) is surrounded by a small group of familiar faces and is able to pop off whenever he wants to have a nice chat with a 'real folk.' However, this is to be somewhat expected for a movie without a huge blockbuster budget, and it doesn't spoil the movie overall. In fact, this lack of intensity somewhat suits the laid-back Southern Governor's easy-going style, always ready for a song or a joke. The focus here is values and ethics, not how to win in different states etc. The characters come across very vividly and realistically. The highlight performance is Kathy Bates as Libby Holden, the brassy, foul-mouthed dust-buster with a big heart. Her nighttime scene in the car with Henry is incredibly moving and gives the movie soul. The reliable and underrated Billy Bob Thornton hits it on the head as the redneck political genius Richard Jemmons (reportedly based on James Carville). John Travolta is also well cast as the good-intentioned Governor that just can't help himself when it comes to women. Jack Stanton's underlying, unwavering commitment to the people and good-natured temprement meshes interestingly with his roving eye and extremely intuitive political instincts when it comes to relating to people. This is a drama, not a comedy, and is worth seeing. Questions of character and how much it can be realistically expected in a political campaign are addressed. This is what the main character - Adrian Lester as Henry Burton - struggles with as he tries to make his day-job something honourable and something that matters. He was never really naive about politics, but as the seediness of the campaign mounts, he asks himself whether it is all worth it for the greater good. "},{"Title":"More than a Satire on Clinton","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors is about a fictional American politician named Jack Stanton and his attempt to obtain the Democratic Party's nomination for the Presidency. At least, it's ostensibly about a fictional politician. On another level, it is a film a clef about a real American politician named Bill Clinton and his attempt to obtain the Democratic Party's nomination for the Presidency in 1992. The parallels between Clinton and Stanton go much deeper than the deliberate similarity of their surnames. Like Clinton, Stanton is the Governor of a small Southern state. Like Clinton, he has an idealistic streak in his nature and a talent for putting his ideas across in a relaxed, folksy way. (Clinton should have inherited Reagan's title of The Great Communicator). And, like Clinton, he also has a talent for getting himself enmeshed in scandal, particularly of a sexual nature.Other players in the Clinton drama have their equivalents in the film. The Hillary-figure is Stanton's wife Susan, ever supportive and forgiving in public but in private much less ready to pardon her husband's misdemeanours. Stanton's campaign chief Richard Jemmons is presumably based upon James Carville, who fulfilled the same role for Clinton. Stanton's early rival Lawrence Harris parallels Paul Tsongas, who initially led the race for the Democratic nomination but later faded. There is a Gennifer Flowers (or Paula Jones) equivalent in the shape of Cashmere McCarthy, who claims that she had an affair with Stanton.Although Stanton is, in one sense, the pivotal character (if he were not running for President there would be no film), in another sense the main character is one of his campaign team, Henry Burton, the grandson of a noted black civil rights activist, as the action is seen though his eyes. Henry is an idealistic young man who is caught in two minds about his boss. On the one hand he admires Stanton for his drive and energy and his sincere determination to improve the lot of ordinary people. On the other hand, he is disillusioned with the corruption involved in politics and with the dirty tricks played both against Stanton and on his behalf. The audience are often in two minds about Stanton as well, as he seems to be a fifty-fifty mixture of sincerity and sleaze.I have never read the novel (originally credited to Anonymous, but now known to have been written by Joe Klein) on which the film is based, but from what I have heard Stanton was considerably less sympathetic in the book than he appears in the film. (Perhaps traditionally liberal Hollywood did not want to give the Democratic Party too rough a ride). As portrayed by John Travolta, Stanton is in many ways a likable figure, whose flaws are outweighed by his good qualities. Besides his sincere idealism he also shows courage (he tells an audience of unemployed New England shipyard workers that there are no easy answers to their economic problems). In the first half of the film, in particular, it seemed that the film-makers wanted to acquit Stanton (and by implication Clinton) of any serious wrongdoing. Cashmere McCarthy, for example, is exposed as a liar (her surname is presumably borrowed from the notorious Senator who specialised in smearing his opponents) and a supposedly incriminating tape as a fake. Clinton must have wished that the Flowers, Jones and Lewinsky affairs could have been explained away as easily. There is a reference to Whitewater in the shape of the Freshwater affair, but this is attributed not to Stanton but to one of his opponents.In the second half of the film, the plot starts to diverge more from real events. Stanton is hit by a second sex scandal, potentially more damaging than any of those Clinton faced, as it involves allegations that he fathered a child by an under-aged girl. In reality, Clinton had a fairly easy ride to the Democratic nomination, but the film-makers obviously wanted to introduce a greater element of drama, as Stanton faces a tough challenge from a late entrant in the race, Fred Picker, the Governor of Florida. (Picker is not based on any actual politician). The climax of the story comes when the Stanton camp discover evidence that Picker, hitherto regarded as scandal-free, has been involved in cocaine-taking and a gay relationship. This presents Stanton and his aides with a moral dilemma; do they use this information to discredit Picker or do they bury it (with the attendant risk that the Republicans might discover it if Picker becomes the Democratic candidate)? The film is helped by some excellent acting. Travolta is an actor who seems constantly to be re-inventing himself, particularly since Pulp Fiction took his career in a new direction, and Stanton is one of his best performances, clearly based upon Clinton but different enough to emerge as a character in his own right. Larry Hagman makes a plausibly charismatic Picker, proving that there is more to him than JR and I Dream of Jeannie. Special mentions must also go to Emma Thompson's long-suffering Susan, Billy Bob Thornton's Jemmons, a hard-bitten, cynical practitioner of Realpolitik, and, above all, Kathy Bates as Libby, another Stanton aide. Some actresses would have struggled to make Libby- a tough, foul-mouthed lesbian recently released from a mental hospital who at one point threatens to shoot a man in the genitals- anything more than an over-the-top caricature, but Bates manages the difficult task of making her a believable character. Her Best Supporting Actress nomination was well deserved.One reviewer complains that Travolta does a poor Clinton impression, but despite its obvious relation to real events, Primary Colors is more than just a satire on Bill Clinton and his associates. It is a wider satire on American politics in general and a drama that asks some difficult questions about political morality. 7/10 "},{"Title":"No cigars in funny places, not a comedy really either","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Listed as comedy/drama, I'd be all for removing the comedy part. Although there are funny bits in this film, the tone is overall far from comedy. I had my doubts about Travolta in this role, and I still think it's not his best-fitting suit. But he manages to give enough dimension to the gouvernor running to be elected as the democrat's candidate and finally presidency of the U.S. I think Kathy Bates outplayed all the other actors, but they all hold their own. Thompson also impressed me with her acting. The story lends heavily from the Clinton-Lewinsky affair, which gives it a bit of a reality bite. A nice movie, albeit quite long (137 minutes). But I wasn't bored, and never had the urge to switch channels. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Should be a History Channel Documentary!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even Clinton's inside cronies marveled at just HOW accurately he was portrayed here, which is why I call it a documentary. I read the book first, and the movie is at least as good. I remember when John Travolta MADE NEWS because he went to President Clinton and ASKED PERMISSION first to portray him in such negative light! Can you imagine? This movie is key, KEY, to understanding our most recent criminal president, Slick Willy. They should show it on the History Channel!  "},{"Title":"A great movie, in many ways","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The little things about this film that made it very very good are too numerous to mention.  Wonderfulm cast, especially Emma Thompson, who was spectacular.  Just her body language in the background of somebody else's scene is an acting clinic. The film carries a powerful message, but one necessary flaw was to have to milk it in a soliloquy by Libbie to try to slam the American viewers over the head with it--the only way they will get it.  Boiled down, the gist is better said by George Carlin  If you think it can be fixed, you're part of the problem. "},{"Title":"Travolta and Nichols, some team !","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta gives a strong performances under the direction of one of Hollywood's best directors, Mike Nichols.  An interesting story which is scary if this is what all politics is about.  Kathy Bates joins a supporting cast to be proud of.  In seeking reality you have to wonder if the writers use of so much filthy, gutter language was necessary or just their own lack of a strong vocabulary to meet the needs of the script.  None the less, well worth your viewing time. "},{"Title":"Politics, Travolta/Nichols style","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ever consider being a politician as a career? If so, do a goodjob and please the public. Just don't do anything rash to yourimage!!That's the moral lesson Gov. Jack Stanton (John Travolta, in aClintonesque tailor-made role) should have learned in thepolitical satire flick, Primary Colors. Stanton, along withhis wife, Susan (Emma Thompson) and his associates Henry andRichard (Adrian Lester and Billy Bob Thornton) try their verybest to put Jack on the finish line of the presidential race.Along the way, Jack falls prey to different image-damagingincidents, such as sex scandals. Primary Colors is a nicely made political comedy based on thebook by the same name (nobody knows who wrote it, since theauthor placed his name as Anonymous). Travolta makes a grand,yet annoyingly randy politician, and Thompson is also good asthe burdened, soon-to-b "},{"Title":"Clinton or not, an excellent account of the campaigning process.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Primary Colors is one of those films that can throw you into it and make you feel like a part of it without much action. as you watch, you begin to feel like you are participating in Jack Stanton's campaign.  you are going throw all of his staff's trials and tribulations.from a political standpoint, watching this film shows you the dirty world that is politics.  dirty, indeed.  along with watching the fluctuating situations of Stanton's success, the film is most captivating when it pits the hero and his colleagues against a moral dilemma.  take a certain route and increase chances of winning...but at the cost of someone else's career, family, entire life. is it worth it?and with this i come to the performances.  three wonderful portrayals by Travolta as the Clinton-type, back when he was still Governor, Emma Thompson as the Hilary, and Adrian Lester as the emotionally attached/torn George Stephenopolous.  but when the movie slips once in a while, it is the performance of Kathy Bates that holds it together.  her headstrong, emotional Libby will keep you pinned to your seat, shocked at her courage, and heart-broken at her ultimate sacrifice for the campaign.   watch this well-rounded movie.  mike nichols knows what he's doing. "},{"Title":"Great Political Film.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good political film, I learned a bit about the Election process in America, but more importantly the film kept me interested throughout, and John Travolta is cool, Kathy Bates was a nice surprise because I didn't know she was in it,  her performance was excellent. This film is funny, moving and interesting.  "}{"Title":"Thinly veiled account of Bill Clinton's campaign trail","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thinly veiled account of Bill Clinton's campaign trail functions very well without the parallels. Travolta and Thompson offer particular portraits that mirror but do not degrade or mock their real-life counterparts. Top-notch performances from a large, diverse cast, with Bates a heartbreaking, powerful standout. Funny, relevant, engrossing effort from Mike Nichols. "},{"Title":"more points about this movie","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the more i watch primary colors the more i understand it.the performances are great. travolta is really good,thompson is good,bates is good,thornton is good,and funny,but adrian lester had the best performance to me. lester's performance was very underrated in my opinion.it's really the great performances that make me wanna watch this movie over and over again. the only thing that keeps this movie from scoring very high is the pace of it. the pace isn't very good,but the acting almost makes me forget about the not too good pace. primary colors is better acted than bulworth,but bulworth's pace is just a tad better. even though bulworth's pace is a tad better,it's also what keeps bulworth from scoring very high. all in all primary colors is a pretty good movie with outstanding acting.i give primary colors **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Funny, interesting political satire","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My Age 13Jack Stanton, played by John Travolta, is running for President.  Newly employed on the campaign is Henry Burton, played by Adrian Lester.  The story is told through his eyes.  Also working on the campaign are Daisy Green, played by Maura Tierney, Richard Jemmons, played by Billy Bob Thornton, and Libby Holden, played by Kathy Bates.  Stanton and his team of loyal campaign workers must confront several difficulties including a sex scandal, tough opponents, and gaining the trust of the people.Primary Colors is a funny and interesting film, and it is also a very good one.  It gets especially interesting towards the end.  John Travolta once again puts in a great performance, as does virtually unknown Adrian Lester as Henry Burton.  Also notable are Billy Bob Thornton, Maura Tierney, Emma Thompson, and Kathy Bates' performances.  The film has very strong acting.  It has a very strong story throughout and the ending is quite nice as well.  Primary Colors is worth watching.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Coarse Language, Adult ThemesRating 80 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film last year as an in-flight movie, and was very impressed by it. John Travolta and Emma Thompson make a very believable Bill and Hillary and Kathy Bates and Billy Bob Thornton are excellent as well. Great political satire.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John does it again ! He's truly amazing as the Gov. who reminds us of Bill Clinton. John plays a Gov who's running for the Presidency, Emma Thompson plays his wife, and a star cast backs them up. Actually, the support actors really do a fantastic job as they potray the feelings, emotions, troubles etc that go with a Campaign and the people working on it. A terrific movie with fantastic performances by the entire cast. Bottom line..John's da man! Watch it.  "},{"Title":"Two words -- Kathy Bates","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kathy Bates' hilarious Oscar-nominated performance is the highlight of this great comedy.  Her snappy one liners and witty dialogue make this her best performance since her Oscar-winning Misery.  I also enjoyed the odd chemistry between John Travolta and Emma Thompson.  If you're a fan of those stars then this is a great catch. "},{"Title":"Well acted political satire","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta, Billy Bob Thornton and Emma Thompson are all really good at depicting this guy running for president. Kathy Bates is also very convincing as a lesbian and provides some funny moments. A very long movie but well worth the look because of its amazingly well written story and it will make you think again about the politicians who run our lives. "},{"Title":"Primary Colors","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent script by Elaine May and a brilliant Oscar nominated performance from Bates highlight this political satire directed with flair by Nichols. Travolta stars as a Clinton-isque Presidential candidate who finds himself and his personal life the butt of media jokes and frenzy, all because of extramarital affairs and previous use of drugs and among other things. Thompson is his wife who on camera, plays the part of the supportive wife, while off camera ignores her husband's existence and loathes him for who he is. Well written. Superbly acted by Lester, Tierney and Billy Bob Thornton. Masterfully directed by Nichols.    "},{"Title":"Talent abounds.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talent abounds in this movie, Travolta, Thompson, Thornton, Bates all work expertly in this very frightening political satire.  Half your time is spent entranced, wondering if any of this could possibly be true, the other half marveling at the characters as they work through their individual moral (or lack thereof) paths.  "},{"Title":"no colors","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This dark film is any politician's nightmare, struggling to get up and down, I find it very exhuasting, a southern governor taking a chance to be the president of United States, which is too familiar. I am sure Bill and Hilary Clinton won't be too excited to see this movie.  "}{"Title":"A presidential salute to John Travolta","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta has matured into a  brilliant character actor, and in  this movie,almost more Clinton than  Clinton.  He has come a long long way  from Vinny Barbarino.  Cheers to the   beautiful arrangement of Tennessee  Waltz during the finale. "},{"Title":"This film pretty much wraps up american politics","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing this film reminds me that I'm living in a country, where politics are still a matter of opinion, rather than a question of who's the 'cleaner' person.Travolta is a fine Clinton-look-a-like while Emma Thompsons role leaves too many questions unanswered. Is power really so important that you're willing to forgive anything. (But OK reality has already given us an answer to that little question) "},{"Title":"Are Politicians ever what they seem?","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this last night, and was very impressed with John Travolta's performance.  Throughout the whole movie , you never knew if his character was being sincere about anything, with anybody.  That included his wife, and his closest personal advisors.  The only moment when we saw a glimpse of his true nature, was when he lambasted his PR man for not checking up properly about an engagement he had just arranged with a local Governor, and in rage, threw his mobile out of the car window.Apart from that you never ever knew if what he was saying very truly came from the heart.  What a reflection on today's people of power, not only Clinton!  And what a performance!!  "},{"Title":"Good natured and in high spirits, this one gets the vote.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta has one of the best acting roles I've seen as an imitation of our political leader running for the governor's seat. That gives flying patriotic colors to PRIMARY COLORS, waving the flag for some thoroughly fine entertainment. Oscar nominations would have given this the dignity of honor due to some excellent writing, and first-class performances by Travolta. Don't get so fed up with the vulgar dialogue because it contains the funny inside, although talk is the word to illustrate this movie. It isn't without its painful moments along with the embarrassing. Lifting the imagery of political life comes cameos of Geraldo Rivera and Larry King. A film that can be sat through a lengthy period could have a much better conclusion. This one took me by vast surprise as what would have been the most boring two-plus hours ever spent. Fortunately, it perks up with an instant charming grace, and you won't have to sit through with a newspaper over your head. Rally on and place another vote in the ballot, showing how much you support PRIMARY COLORS in the campaign for quality filmfare. "},{"Title":"A revealing study of a campaign","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I haven't met anyone in a long time who did not believe that Primary Colors, the book written by Joe Klein and published anonymously, is about William Clinton, so I won't even broach the subject of comparison between Clinton and Stanton, the presidential candidate whose campaign provides the backdrop to the story.  I have not read the book but maybe I should.  This movie is a revealing look at the campaign life, and choses wisely to follow the process of the Stantons' political journey through the eyes of a third party.  John Travolta does a fine job as the candidate, who is visionary and compassionate even as he is promiscuous, and Emma Thompson gives a strong performance as his objective wife who barely tolerates his infidelities almost as a necessary evil.  I also enjoyed Billy Bob Thornton as a raunchy, immature political advisor, but the best performance in the movie goes to Kathy Bates, as a private investigator hired by the Stantons to dig up their past before the press can. "},{"Title":"Spot-On!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Director Mike Nichols returns to A-level work (following such wastes of time as The Birdcage, Wolf, and Regarding Henry), Elaine May's roller-coaster script is wondrous, and Travolta is eerie perfection.  Kudos to Allison Janney and Larry Hagman for brilliant supporting turns.  But am I the only one still not sold on Kathy Bates' schtick?  "},{"Title":"Who cares if Stanton is supposed to be Clinton?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The hoopla surrounding this film (and the book, too, of course) had to do with whether this was really about Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign. Well, who cares? This is a terrific film, full of outstanding performances (especially Kathy Bates, who should get an Oscar nomination if there's any justice).But unquestionably, the best part of the movie is to see that Mike Nichols, one of my favorite directors, has still got it. I wondered after Working Girl if he'd just turned into another Taylor HACKford. Nope!  The scene where Henry and Libby drive back across the causeway from Key West--how did he do that? The camera shows the inside of their mini-van through the driver's window, which is rolled down. They talk for a couple of minutes--it looks like the camera is mounted on a fixed platform outside the window. Then, as they finish their conversation, the camera pulls up and up until we are looking down at the van from a hundred feet up! How did he do it?  "},{"Title":"Pretty good on the whole","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film has had a delayed release in Britain (anybody know why?), and has now been rather overtaken by real-life events. Nevertheless, I enjoyed it very much, with some minor quibbles. Travolta tries too hard to 'do' Clinton, which makes the satire heavy-handed and hurts his performance. Emma Thompson doesn't make the same mistake over Hillary, though her accent slips badly. The film inevitably softens the book's bite, and why oh why did they change the ending? On the plus side, Adrian Lester makes an accomplished major debut, and the support from Thornton and Bates (and, come to that, Tierney, Aaron and Hagman) is excellent. Bates must be in with a shout for another Oscar. The atmosphere of alternating triumph and terror in the election camp is well captured, though I would have liked to see more of a contrast drawn between the politicos' worthy aspirations and their cyncial exploitations of the media and of people - more like the book, in other words.Arguably Nichols's best movie. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Forced Dialogue makes a great premise only a fair movie","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great premise, but the dialogue seemed too forced.  I have nothing against swearing in movies if it is well placed and takes nothing away from the story.  For instance Pulp Fiction is a perfect example of how swearing can be used to accentuate dialogue while sounding perfectly natural.  In Primary colors, however, I found myself distracted by the swearing.  Even Billy Bob Thornton, who sounds so natural and fluid with any type of dialogue, sounded ill at ease with poorly placed swears.  Kathy Bates, an amazing actress, sounded ridiculous at times.  This was a great story, however, and I would still recommend it for its honest portrayal of the dirty side of politics. Someone should have proofed the script better.  Yes, we all know politicians swear.  I just can't believe they sound this ridiculous doing it. "},{"Title":"Funny, savage and insightful.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films of the year.  John Travolta gave a great performance as the Clinton-esque senator.  Kathy Bates hasn't been this good since her Oscar-winning turn in Dolores Claiborne.  Billy Bob Thornton delivers hugely, as usual.  The biggest surprise is newcomer Adrian Lester, giving the year's best debut performance.  The dialogue, performances and story is right up there with the similar, yet mildly superior Wag The Dog. "}{"Title":"Intriguing allegories that leaves you wondering....","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great film.  8/10.  I found myself not only trying to discern which of the events were based on Clinton's experience, but what really struck me and still nags me the day after is does this film also make an indirect reference to H. Ross Perot?  Why DID he drop out of 1992, after all?Backgrounder the original book upon which the film is based was written anonymously by a (formerly) highly respected political journalist who was chastised by his colleagues for using his research to sell out. "},{"Title":"Good job","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie gave a pretty accurate representation of Bill Clinton's need to try to please everybody (which obviously has gotten him into trouble).  Kathy Bates' performance was superb! "},{"Title":"John Travolta's finest work in his comeback so far!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although it has many funny moments, this movie is often thought provoking and somewhat depressing on the state of american politics today! "},{"Title":"A presidential candidate slimes on and drags his friends with him.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great screen play. Terrific cast. Kathy Bates steals the show and should win  Supporting Actress. It had, unfortunately, a chilling truthfulness. The  entire cast was so believable. Not a false note throughout. "},{"Title":"Governor Stanton can not seem to keep his trouser pants on, long enough for him not to get into trouble and win the elections!","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A very dark satire on the USA politics with a biting script from  Elaine May  and a great impersonation of Clinton by the charismatic Travolta.   "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoiler alert this movie is waaaaaay baaaad! I wonder at what point Mike Nichols realized he was directing a bomb? An outstanding director and a star-studded cast how could anything go wrong? My reaction to this dreck was the same as after viewing Bonfire of the Vanities $8 and two hours of my life I will never get back! Mis-cast, badly acted and badly directed. Kathy Bates and Adrian Lester provided the only redeeming performances. Is this film to Mike Nichols what Ishtar is to Elaine May (his former comedy partner, who, by the way, wrote the screenplay for this turkey)? When I heard people talking about going to see this film, my response was It's about the Clintons. Save your money. Don't go. It's really bad. I remember all the buzz about the book and the big mystery surrounding the Anonymous author (Joe Klein of Newsweek). I should know by now that movies rarely live up to the stories again, Bonfire of the Vanities is a prime example. Tom Wolfe's book was great but that movie was as bad as Primary Colors and in many ways even more mis-cast. I never read the book Primary Colors and after sitting through the movie, I did not want to read the book. I lay the blame for this turkey entirely at the feet of Mike Nichols. "},{"Title":"Contains one of the cleverest prat-falls ever seen in the movies.","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie contained some great performances, particularly Kathy Bates and Emma Thompson's - and if it wasn't about Bill Clinton, then John Travolta's characterisation was the most amazing coincidence. But best of all, though, was the brilliantly directed and no less brilliantly executed prat-fall ever seen. This was when tall, willowy and dignified Allison Janney - playing White House aide Miss Walsh - contrived to fall up the stairs in a windmill of legs and flashing knickers while somehow managing to retain her dignity as she regained her feet. Wonderful acting. The brilliance of the direction was in having the host of male actors surrounding her pretending to have noticed nothing. Memorable and hysterically funny!  "},{"Title":"Great writing&acting, bad filmmaking","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     I read a few comments here that said this film was boring, and you know what, it is.  But that's no fault of the actors or the script.  This is a really brilliantly written political story, with some awesome performances from actors at the top of their game Thornton, Travolta, Thompson, Bates, and who the hell would have expected this -- Larry Hagman does a superb job as the reluctant sudden-death replacement for the opponent to the Dem hero candidate of the film, Jack Stanton (Travolta.)      However, I just saw an interview with Steven Spielberg in which he said something brilliant if you want to get a sense of the nuts and bolts of great filmmaking, turn the sound off.  And if there's enough visual information to tell the story/coherence/engrossing art to keep you watching, you've got a film.  This flick is boring to LOOK AT.  There's a line towards the end about using your ears rather than your eyes, but film needs both.  I mean, don't get me wrong there are some nice tracking shots, fine CUs, but after about an hour and a half, this method wears thin.   The only sequence where there seems to be a deviation from the norm is when Libby and Henry go to Florida, with some great shots of the minivan on the road, of their interviews with the Latinos (Tony Shalhoub in a strange funny cameo), and their return trip.  Besides that, the shop talk doesn't seem to inspire anything really cinematic, and that's the major flaw of the film.  STONE found a way to turn JFK into a cinematic as much as a political statement.  Nichols lacks that side of it.   Interestingly, someone else pointed out the Krispy Kreme sequence as memorable.  That might just be because it's the one really wacky out there shot in the film Henry's attention totally fades from the talks going on in the campaign and his eyes shift to a donut shop out the window.  Suddenly the camera turns away as well and tracks slowly towards the donut shop doors.  It's a great shot, because we're wondering what the hell he's looking at.  And then we get it Henry is marveling at the fact that Stanton is sitting and conversing with the Krispy Kreme cashier, a 5.00-hour disabled worker with whom Stanton exchanges a heart-to-heart at 4 AM over an apple fritter.  THIS is why Henry sticks in the campaign.     If the film had had more like this, it could have been awesome, but the FILMmaking doesn't match up to the lines.  This is like TV drama at its best, but these days, folks, you've got to give us something more.  Still to be commended though.  Can't believe it didn't win anything, but then again, neither did Wag The Dog.                "},{"Title":"Characters make this happen","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film couldn't of been done without the right casting, but it is done right here.  John Travolta is excellent (in one of his best roles to date) as Jack Stanton, a Southern senator who has a eye for the ladies but is also a man of the people (kinda like a man in the executive office we all have known since 1992).  We see his odyssey in becoming president, along with his advisors (Billy Bob Thornton, Maura Tierny and Adrian Lester), his wife (Emma Thompson who is also like a woman who is the wife of this man in the executive office and now running for senate) and his confidence (Kathy Bates who is brilliant in this role).  A terrific film with smart and sharp witted comedy thrown in the mix (not only because it's funny, but because we can relate to reality).  One of the better films of the year, thanks to director Mike Nichols.  A "},{"Title":"The book is far better, but an adequate theatrical adaption","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect an exact replica of Klein's novel, but a watered down version of Primary Colors, and that is what we got from the movie. However, before I start, it's obvious that the novel and movie is based on President Clinton's election campaign in 1992. In fact, Primary Colors is probably more realistic than the 1992 documentary, War Room.Neverthless, the movie was written to tart up the image of the naughty-boy presidential candidate presented depicted in the book. Still, Travolta, Thornton, Bates, and Thompson, do pretty good jobs in acting out their respective roles, but nothing worthy of Oscar nominations. What is scary is Stanton (Clinton) in both the book and novel, which depicts him as a terrific actor. Stanton creates an image that he is sincere and compassionate, but will use ruthless and unethical methods to capture the Presidency and once there, carry out his visionary ideas. That is very scary and realistic when we see the fascist actions of badgering and harassing of Kathleen Willey by the President's allies. And yet the people continue to heavily support the phony of a man and can't see the unethical nature behind the facade. Perhaps this was not explicit in the movie, but it is so in the book.Also, in retrospect, I realized that if President Clinton's Hollywood friends and allies made a theatrical depiction of him and *Still* made him look like a demon, then that shows something interesting about the manNevertheless, read the novel if you enjoyed the movie. I think you will enjoy the read and find it intriguing.  "}{"Title":"Almost the Real Thing","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Primary Colors is almost a terrific look into today's Washington politics. It could have been a classic in the mold of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington or The Candidate but it doesn't make it. This is obviously a parody of the Clintons and their quest for the presidency and much of it is very good. The whirlwind of setting up a campaign is captured well. The day to day obsession with opinion polls and press reports is right on. The micro focus on scandal feels like 60 Minutes. And the continual pressing the flesh to get influence and money is captured with humor. Now there are some spoilers up ahead so you are warned.As things wind on, the movie sets up some conflicts and this is where things go wrong. The story centers around Henry Burton, a young idealistic campaign worker played by Adrian Lester. This guy is too naïve. You just want him to wake up to reality. Yes, Governor Stanton is an immoral sob. But Primary Colors makes the mistake of making Stanton too sleazy. Can a politician guilty of statutory rape be elected president? Wrong! This was too unbelievable and that's when I lost interest. There is a terrific cast most notably Travolta as the Clinton clone, Thompson in the Hillary role, Kathy Bates loyal to the bitter end and Larry Hagman who sympathetically feels the bite of  scandal. There are other nice things I can say but in the end the problems over shadow the talent.Primary Colors is a contradiction. It says we will not elect some politicians because of scandal but we will elect other politicians and ignore scandal even statutory rape. The film makers needed to go back to the drawing board and decide which point they wanted to make.  "},{"Title":"Excellent tour de force sleeper","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a sleeper!  I had barely heard of this film before it was released on video; reviews seem to have been non existent.  This is, however, a very heady film.  The writing and dialogue are superb, as is the commentary on media involvement to the election system. (Which may contribute to the lack of reviews.)  A thoroughly more convincing analysis of the presidency and its importance to the American people than Wag the Dog, which understandably, is satire more than probing drama, this movie defends our leaders as being no less mortal or fallible than the rest of us, and questions in turn our priorities and hypocrisies as a nation.  "},{"Title":"I'm Not Comparing The Players, I Don't Like The Game","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Year-end awards are being given out, and where's 'Primary Colors'?  It had the misfortune of arriving on the scene just as the whole Lewinsky thing was cropping up, and I suppose fictionalization can't compete with the real thing.  But, as the indictments, depositions and trials drag on, 'Primary Colors' provides welcome relief, revealing itself to be that rare thing, a contemporary drama that takes politics seriously.(It's more of a tragicomedy, actually, a portrait of what people will do for power and victory, and how deeply flawed and full of promise the election process, and politics in general, can be.)The cast is uniformly fine; Kathy Bates and Billy Bob Thornton do the most with the juiciest roles in the script.  Emma Thompson is convincing, if somewhat underutilized, and Travolta does a credible Clinton- though I think the movie would have been even stronger had the Stanton character been a little more skewed from its oh-so-obvious model, and had more glimpses of Stanton the man, not only the politician, been shown.  Then again, that's part of the point- where do the politics end and the person begin?But the movie is anchored by Adrian Lester's character.  It's not much of a character to play - the script primarily requires him to *re*act.  To his credit, even while he is superseded by the more charismatic characters around him, we remain interested.  He reflects us, the viewers (and, by extension, voters), pushed and pulled by the desire both to do good and be right, and the lure and seductive nature of power, fame, and property.  In this way, we aren't let off the hook.'Primary Colors' is a deeply ambiguous movie which isn't content to tell us how things should be.  Neither, however, does it condone the actions of its characters.  This complexity is probably a reason why many moviegoers stayed away, but it is also why Primary Colors should, I believe, be held in even higher regard in the years to come. "},{"Title":"just a first impression","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Um, well. Looking at what everyone else rated it as, I'm not sure what I can say.Well, anyway, I only saw the first half hour, which was so tedious I left the living room and went did some homework instead. Maybe I left too soon, and maybe the rest of the movie is pretty decent. I'll give it the benefit of the doubt. But with a first 30 minutes like that to keep looking back on, I don't think I'll ever sum up the stamina to see the whole film through.From what I saw here is what I think of the main points of the movieJOHN TRAVOLTA - OK EMMA THOMSON - sorry, couldn't stop thinking of period dramas (especially Pride and Prejudice) OTHER CHARACTERS - pretty boring STORY - what? 30 minutes and we didn't see the main storyline yetDon't take my word for it (you're not going to anyway are you?). Go see it and it might turn out OK. "},{"Title":"Blah!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The worst kind of movie, really.  Not good or likeable, and yet not bad in any interesting way.  If I were to define cinematic idempotency- a movie that makes absolutely no impression on the viewer- I guess I would use Primary Colors to do so.The film's meant to be a satire of presidential politics and yet it so closely shadows actual events that what happens is never exciting, arousing, or new.  Maybe that'd be OK if some of the characters were compelling but none of them are.  Blame it on the book, then, I guess.  Joe Klein didn't develop characters there so much as founts for his own wisdom, why is why everyone here seems to talk the same way.  Everyone, that is, except Libby, who talks the same way but with more exclamation points and expletives than any other character.  I'm glad Oscar did not see fit to award her screechy, wheel-spinning performance with a statuette.  That's two (along with  Best Picture) it really got right this year. "},{"Title":"There must be something wrong with me...","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, everyone else seemed to love this movie.  I on the other hand could not stand it.  I hated every minute of the drawn out, obvious, over acted, headachey scenes.  This film was torture to watch.  First off, let's hit the audience over the head with the ever-so-subtle parallels here.  Need I say more about the obvious Clinton Scandal train jumpers that made this film? OK, I will.  Each scene was painfully over acted, mostly by Travolta and Bates.  I came away from this film with no desire to see another Travolta movie again with the exception of Pulp Fiction.  I was sickened by his strained and squinty demeanor.  Each throaty word sounded like the exhausted output of a fireplace bellows, whose entire life has been spent inhaling and exhaling smoke.  But Bates, with her over acted lesbian cowboy character put me over the edge.  Her character was not only extreme but hypocritical as well.  I found it very difficult to sympathize with her character and thought that suicide was grossly unnecessary, however, if she had to have died, I would have appreciated it if she had killed herself earlier in the picture. I truly am baffled by the acclaim her performance was given. I thought it was a poor character whose actor ruined any chance of likability by over acting. If you have any comments you would like to share with me, feel free to.  I really am a nice person, I just didn't enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining and involving movie about politics for people who don't like politics","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Primary Colors (1998) is superbly entertaining motion picture, telling a story of a campaign for president post, and how all the dirty thing eventually come up. This is superbly paced picture, which at long running time 2 h 20 min. doesn't drag for a minute, yes, it is that involving. Scipt is terrific, sometimes very funny (but it is not slapstick comedy) and smart. Acting is brilliant. Everyone in here shines, John Travolta is superb in here, as well Billy Bob Thornton and all the rest - it is a superb cast doing a superb work.Overall, Primary Colors is as much about politics as it not about politics. Well, it's actually about politics, but this movie can be watch by those who don't like politic in general, this movie is a true gem. And by the way, i think i would have voted for Picker. "},{"Title":"This Late 90's Political Satire Gets My Vote!!","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without question one of the finest performances of John Travolta's career (still think he should have at least been nominated for an Oscar for Get Shorty and of course Battlefield Earth...I joke, but the former I am very serious about). The film is a loosely based depiction of the 1992 Bill Clinton presidential campaign and adapted from the novel under the same name. This film has it all, a seasoned cast under the guidance of the late and great Mike Nichols. A great script filled with witty dialogue and top-notch execution by each of the actors. I am not at all surprised by the performances especially since Nichols came from the theater scene before transitioning to films. You really get to glimpse into how a campaign unfolds and the scrutiny under which you're put upon. This film, while serious at times, is really quite hilarious. Films such as Game Changer and TV shows such as VEEP and Amazon's Alpha Dog owe a lot to this particular piece because it really paved the way for funny, quasi-serious political narratives. Billy Bob Thornton and Kathy Bates were amazing but without question the star as mentioned at the top was John Travolta. He was BRILLIANT!! A very underrated performance. The only reason why I didn't give it 10 stars was Emma Thompson. Don't get me wrong, I do enjoy her work but her accent was all wrong. It was just too forced and not believable. A tiny thing to ding on a film but it wasn't perfect but yet it almost was. "},{"Title":"Vote for Travolta!","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors (1998) Dir Mike Nichols / Cast John Travolta, Emma Thompson, Adrian Lester, Maura Tierney, Kathy Bates Political comedy that analyzes character. John Travolta runs for Governor with his Bill Clinton accent with Emma Thompson at his side as his supportive wife. Adrian Lester is brought in but he has difficulties in the system and in belief in Travolta. Maura Tierney plays his media consultant who provides Travolta with media advice. Kathy Bates chews scenery as a political fixer who unleashes interesting methods of getting the truth heard. Well written and directed by Mike Nichols with insight. He often deals with controversial or political issues in his films but here he highlights effectively with the humour. He previously made The Graduate and Who Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Travolta balances humour and drama effectively, which adds to his accent. Thompson is superb in her struggle to bring it down to earth. Lester is well cast as a man seeking political honesty. Tierney steals her moments as the consultant. Kathy Bates steals every scene she is in as someone assigned to counter attack in their favour and it results in some of the funniest moments. Nichols fills the film with a terrific ensemble where everyone is a steal. It is a film about human decency, which is unfortunately becoming more rare in our society, and it succeeds greatly with flying colours. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"good performances","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Henry Burton (Adrian Lester) is the grandson of a civil rights leader. He is brought in as the body man for Governor Jack Stanton (John Travolta) as he runs for the democratic nomination for president. It's a small campaign at the beginning. He has a complicated relationships with his wife Susan Stanton (Emma Thompson). Jack is a womanizer and an exceedingly friendly guy. Inappropriate southerner Richard Jemmons (Billy Bob Thornton) and Daisy Green (Maura Tierney) are the strategists. Henry wants politics to make a difference and is won over by Burton who may actually win. They hire the unstable Libby Holden (Kathy Bates) who was Jack's former chief of staff to research all the hidden skeletons. Then a sex scandal erupts.Based on Joe Klein's book on the Clinton campaign, this has the feel of ripped-from-the-headlines story. That has its own charm and its own pitfalls. It can feel at times like a TV movie about the presidential campaign with them playing very recognizable characters. It also has the feel of authenticity. The performances are terrific anchored by Travolta, Billy Bob and Thompson. Although Henry Burton needs to be a more central compelling character. He not only has to represent the audience but he needs to react to Jack. The audience has to feel the reaction. Jack has to raise up Henry and then break his heart. Burton is a bit too bland of a character in a world of sharp compelling characters. "}{"Title":"John Travolta's Tour de Force","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No, I did not read Joe Klein's book (the writer was originally listed on the closing credits as Anonymous). Whether one does not wish to believe that John Travolta's excellent portrayal is a take on Bill Clinton is irrelevant. If anything, the movie needs to be seen as the dirty game of politics, no matter who the candidate is. The theme of Primary Colors is, of course, about the Democratic primary for the US presidential race. The main focus is obviously on intelligent southern governor Jack Stanton (John Travolta), who wants to be president. Not only does he love the common people, he has new ideas. And he has that essentially quality charisma. But the sympathetic Stanton has a problem that is out of control his womanizing. (He is also a bit duplicitous.) We do know from the film's get-go that the protagonist has already won (1992), and not just the primary, but the general election too. Henry Burton (Adrian Lester), the torn campaign manager who is also our narrator, tells us so. John Tavolta satirical characterization dominates, for he is the center of the picture. Even when he is off-screen, one feels his presence. His hair style, scratchy voice, and sexual escapades certainly seem modeled like that of Clinton. And he is a southern governor. Stanton's strong-willed and smart, but long-suffering, wife Susan, is played to a high standard by attractive Emma Thompson. Nevertheless Emma (like Hillary Clinton) is as ambitious as her husband. Billy Bob Thornton (Richard Jemmons), a scene stealer, is Stanton's shrewd political adviser (a la James Carville). In a nutshell, he knows the story. For instance, observe how he perceives that there is something concealed about the popular Governor Picker. The renascent Larry Hagman as Governor Fred Picker is believable in his role. Alison Janney (Miss Walsh) must take the smoothest &#x96; and sexiest &#x96; fall-on-the-stairs that one will ever see on the silver screen. Kathy Bates as tough-talking corpulent lesbian Libby Holden is brought in to salvage the campaign when the chips are down (like Vince Foster in 1993, she is also a suicide). Libby, like her boss, is also hypocritical. Daisy Green (Maura Tierney), who has to be Dee Dee Myers (Clinton's first press sectary, 1993-94) is fine in a small part. Now, I don't know why we lose Ms. Green about two-thirds the way through the movie, and why we are shown Daisy in Henry Burton's hotel bed. It happens quite quickly; nothing significant really happened previously to show this development. Of course, if you observe the make-up of the cast, these two are a couple by default. About the only one available in the ruling circle is Jemmons. And Daisy wasn't going to fall for him, who, at ten years her senior, appears twenty years older. Although willing enough, Adrian Lester is miscast for the part (the role is really modeled after George Stephanopoulos). Not only is Burton far too noble and ideal, he is also non-too thrilling. At least he does a good job in hiding his British accent. By the way, Jimmy Ozio - played by Robert Cicchini - is supposed to characterize Andrew Cuomo, the governor of NY as of this writing). His father, who drops out of the presidential primary, represents Mario Cuomo.The film gives us fine character studies and is a portrayal, and just a portrayal. There are no answers on how to improve the political system, where ruthlessness (such as dirt-digging) and biased media coverage play such key roles. Eileen May's screen adaptation blows off-course in the final three-quarters of an hour of a long feature. Get a look at pistol-totin' mama Libby in an incredibly ostentatious scene. Does the neurotic and aging Libby really bushwhack a young female who looks like Winona Ryder? Out-of-the-ordinary resolutions nearly derail the movie, and the ending seems awfully swift (and forced). The dialogue is too salty. And yet, because of the film's interesting topic and good pace and fine acting, one's eyes are continually glued to the screen. "},{"Title":"a cautionary tale about politics","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Nichols presents a political satire PRIMARY COLORS, which came timely during Bill Clinton's infamous Lewinsky scandal and impeachment in 1998. So it might boost the publicity then, but 15 years later, when our memories fade, the film actually has weathered pretty good, narrating from a Black young novice Henry (Lester)'s eyes, who assists Governor Jack Stanton (Travolta)'s presidential campaign for the democrats, initially Henry thinks Jack is different from other politicians because he viscerally cares about adult literacy and dyslexia, but when he gets closer to him, the stain of Jack's personal life is far more reprehensible and the conniving political game is far too scurvy for an idealist like him. With a light touch, the film sets its campaign process in a vibrant tempo, benignly portrays Jack as a zestful candidate who canvasses and panders to his voters with great facility (through the different connotations from his body gestures and a memorable slapstick cameo from Allison Janney) in spite of the relatively youthful and uninitiated team. Then when Jack's wife Susan (Thompson) comes into the scene, the placid surface cannot dissemble the cracks beneath as soon as we detect Jack's philandering nature. A sex scandal is well-expected, which invites the troubleshooter Libby (an open lesbian and a close friend of Jack and Susan since college), plays by a fiery Kathy Bates, a devil-may-care warrior can track down any sources and break them, Bates is well-deserved for this hard-earned Oscar nominated performance, her wrangle with Jack and Susan about the integrity she cannot forsake is purely magnificent. Emma Thompson is perpetually excellent, especially under Nichol's guidance, a perfect wife behind a successful man mode is such a cinch for her and she nails it with much more nuances to accentuate her vulnerability and snobbishness. As for Travolta, it has hitherto been his last decent offer (if one can count out his droll transvestite transformation in HAIRSPRAY 2007, 8/10), underneath his cordial impression, his true color does not betray easily even in the hardest times, maybe that's why makes him a successful politician. And Adrian Lester is the audience's proxy, a wide-eyed enthusiast undergoes the tidal wave throughout, and an adamant observer which cogently influences his sea change in altitude through the screen to the viewers, bookends with the ending's artificial vagueness which also corresponds with the beginning, the same handshakes, different undertones. Forget about its reality allusions if you can, PRIMARY COLORS qualifies itself as a better-than- expected dissection of what politicians are made of, we are all characters with flaws, sometimes moralities and political expertise should be discriminated in order to see through the murky smoke screen and select the credential-ed ones instead of stalking horses. As for most of us, the most substantial message is that there is no win-win situation or whatsoever in the political composition. "},{"Title":"Election Entertainment","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only thing separating the fallen Politician from those who have not is that they got CAUGHT, in something undeniable and the unseating ensues with not much surprise but always some interest. The hypocrisy is rampant and if you cracked open any of them you are likely to find something revealing, some kind of Human fault or weakness or Sin.Corruption, immorality, and illegality are prevalent if not rampant in the ranks of the elected public servants. From Bill Clinton to Strom Thurmond we see glimpses if not revelations of such behavior. This slightly satirical look inside is quite a droll and tame affair. It is engaging enough if not fully functional and satisfying. It is all handled by professional Movie Makers and is slick, but not sultry in its portrayal of behind the bedroom door exposures of front runners and back stabbers. There is not one sex scene in this Film about sexual responsibility and consequences and it is better for it.It makes its other points, quite well, on how to deal with the implications of being outed, both by the Party and Candidates involved and their opponents. The Movie is insightful but not really intense or deep and is more of an entertainment than Political Science. "},{"Title":"A good film about politics","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time. I enjoyed it. It was probably historically correct to a high degree, but the names were changed to protect the guilty. In one scene a man bursts into a meeting and yells Quick. Turn on CNN. CNN was announcing the heart attack of the running opponent, Harris. This man who rushed in looked like John Cazales (perhaps better known as Fredo Corleone). However, Cazales' name is not in the credits. I carefully scanned the credits at the end of the film, reviewed the credits in this database, and even looked up what films Cazales had made. There were only 7, and this is not one of them. So, if this man is not him, then who is he? "},{"Title":"I agree with the critics","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am not an American but I truly learned about American politics from the time Bill Clinton took office. I also learned about the incredible power that television media began to accumulate during the early 90s.This is a film about both. I will not say that I learned much new about politics or the media. It was all brilliantly covered by the real newscasts. Bill Clinton was a major celebrity and also a good politician.This movie is not really about Clinton, though, as others have pointed out. It's about morals and how they are almost always compromised when it comes to politics. This is of course brilliantly captured with the Libby Holden character, played by the incomparable Kathy Bates.I do, however think that the film is too flawed to recommend. It has too much emphasis on the affairs of Jack Stanton, and I know why so much of the running time was spent on that. It's because Clinton/Stanton is or was a basically decent politician with one serious flaw. But in the end this flaw is milked and milked and milked to the point where I thought Okay, I get it!. As a consequence, several characters, who I thought deserved more development, were left hanging, like Billy Bob Thornton's and Maura Tierney's.It's a good enough film but it could have been more. "},{"Title":"Truthful and Honest","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors, which came out in 1998, is a political film unlike any other. It appears to be self aware of the political situation in modern United States politics. It both pokes fun at American politics and sheds light on real unnerving problems. It also poses a battle between political power and human morals. The film, like other films we've viewed this semester, places the viewer in a dilemma where they must decide what is more important.The film came out in 1998. During this time Bill Clinton was president and the Monica Lewinski scandal is just starting to surface in the media. Up until this point Bill Clinton, having been recently re-elected, was for the most part a celebrated president. The United States was enjoying a time of peace. The only real problem the country was facing was a slight recession. However, the sex scandal in the white house shook the American citizens to the core. Suddenly a politician that appeared to be trustworthy was dishonest. The American citizens didn't know whom they could trust in politics. Clinton was impeached but was acquitted. Primary Colors' character Jack Stanton, played by John Travolta, is an obvious interpretation of Bill Clinton.Primary Colors decides to show both sides of the political process during the primary races. It shows that campaigning is just about the people as it is about destroying your competitor. This is done by either hiding your own implicating material or uncovering material that may be implicating to the competitor. This film shows the political primary races as a ruthless and morally absent competition to eliminate contenders. Fairness does not seem to enter in to this competition because the politicians in this film seem to be more preoccupied by sabotaging their competitors campaign rather than create credible political strategies. Jack Stanton's character has quite a bit going against him during his race. He is faced with a false accusation of having an affair with a hairdresser. Also, implications arise in the media that he was a draft dodger and had arrests covered up. Even a protagonist is not 100% honest in this political world that the movie has created. The film decides to make itself real by presenting real life political problems. Perhaps this was done to show the audience that the message the film is conveying is in fact a truthful one. The scene where Jack is addressing the factory workers is a good example of this. Stanton states that he cannot fix the factory workers situation because companies will always export jobs to cheaper countries. He takes an honest approach so he can focus on his primary political stance of education. This technique is rarely seen by politicians in real life as some would rather lie to get votes.Primary Colors main battle is between political power and morals. Jack Stanton prides himself on being fair and honest, and this creates a good protagonist. The character conflict arises when he is pulled into a dirty political fight where his character's morality is tested. He decides to fight dirty by digging up implicating material. The moral representative in the film then shifts to the Libby Holden character. She believes, as Jack used to, that campaigning should just be about political stances rather than hurting competitors. Jack decides to use reason by saying if he doesn't use the implicating material then someone else will. This places the viewer in a dilemma where they must decide what is right to themselves. In a way the Henry character is an outlet that the audience can side with.In the end Jack Stanton decides to take the middle route by alerting the competitor of the material and not going to the media. The film shows that politicians are not perfect people; in fact they are from it. Most of them have made mistakes; some are just more honest than others. Perhaps it is just better to focus on their political stances and agendas rather than focus on their past mistakes. "},{"Title":"Born to Run","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Travolta leads an all-star cast (including Emma Thompson, Kathy Bates, and Billy Bob Thornton) on a wild race to the presidency in this savagely funny comedy. Jack Stanton (Travolta) is a virtually unknown Southern governor on a quest for the White House with his strong, savvy, and equally ambitious wife, Susan (Thompson). Running against the odds, the Stantons need all the help they can get from their extremely colorful political team. Together, they take off on a hilarious, heart-wrenching, and ultimately history-making roller coaster ride to the top, according to the DVD sleeve description.Mike Nichols and Elaine May do a marvelous job in turning writer Joe Klein's once controversial pages into a motion picture. Primary Colors is a satirically fictionalized account of U.S. President Bill Clinton's 1992 primary campaign. Mr. Klein originally published his story as Anonymous, which made Washington tongues wag for months. The story deals frankly with several of its characters' non-marital sexual relations. Ultimately, the story did not damage the reputations of Bill and Hillary Clinton; it does not accurately convey their love or intellect, but nicely illustrates Mr. Clinton's empathy.Travolta makes a particularly fine impression as the thinly-disguised Commander-in-Chief. Playing the team's George Stephanopoulos, idealistic Adrian Lester (as Henry Burton) quietly emerges as Travolta's co-star. The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent. Putting Betsey Wright-like Kathy Bates (as Libby Holden) in charge of bimbo eruptions was an inspiration; she was born to duet with Olivia Newton-John on Please Mr. Please, and won several Best Supporting Actress honors. Nichols makes every small role count (immediately obvious with Allison Janney and Mykelti Williamson).******** Primary Colors (3/20/98) Mike Nichols ~ John Travolta, Adrian Lester, Emma Thompson, Kathy Bates "},{"Title":"Watchable but bland political satire","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really feel that Mike Nichols wastes his (considerable) talent on directing bland Hollywood films when he could be doing something interesting. This is exactly what Primary Colors is- a watchable and somewhat entertaining political satire but one that is bland and instantly forgettable. Well, outside of Travolta's best Bill Clinton impression, that is.Based on Joe Klein's book of the same name which was clearly (despite claims to the contrary) based on Bill Clinton's 1992 Presidential campaign. It's amazing how dull this movie is when it has such a superficially interesting story to tell. It is under the pretension of being some sort of daring political expose when in fact it is really just John Travolta impersonating Bill Clinton and look ashamed when another scandal about his past is revealed. Add to this some amazingly contrived and ludicrous dialogue from Elaine May and you have a very, very bland and predictable film.Good acting all-around, mostly celebrities being themselves or impersonating political personalities but nothing bad, exactly. Nichols is a good director and paces the film surprisingly well. The script is the main issue here and it is just a huge mess.6/10 "},{"Title":"I vote for John","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I always liked actress Emma Thompson - and hated John Travolta. As soon as I discovered that Emma played in Primary Colors and that the movies was loosely based on the Clintons I wanted to watch it. The Clintons are a fascinating couple and I like their political ideas. The movie is brilliant! As soon as John Travolta appears one recognises Bill Clinton, in behaviour, hairstyle, way of talking. And I wondered why I ever hated Travolta. Would he, as Jack Stanton, stand for any office, I would give my vote to him! He does questionable things but has a golden heart and is, in that way, a double of Bill Clinton. Watching Emma as Susan (Hillary) I was surprised how a British actress could act and talk as an American. I got more sympathy for her (Hillary's) position than ever before. And of course Kathy Bates is gorgeous. "},{"Title":"The Art of Holding Office","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie is full of funny scenes. One of the scenes that is most amusing has Governor Stanton (Travolta) and his staff sitting around an over-sized table at a familiar Southern barbecue joint, slopping down chicken and ribs and bottles of beer. The governor, the black barbecue owner, and the campaign strategist (Thornton), are trading stories about their Mammas. My Mamma had diabetes. My Mamma never had a nickel. It's a subtle contest in which the conversants one-up one another while exchanging sympathies that are at least half genuine. Thornton wins. He gets uncertainly to his feet, slams his chair down, and cries, My mamma raised SEVEN of us kids and worked her fingers to the bone doin' it. Now they're cuttin' her up, piece by piece! He begins weeping. The others gather round him and give him a group hug and they sing, You Are My Sunshine (written by a Southern governor, claims Travolta), and Stanton's wife (Thomson) feeds him tissues to sob into. It's late at night and the newly awakened hound dogs howl along with the singing.The whole first half of the movie is more or less that way, an outrageous ripoff of Clinton and his amateurs and friends during the 1992 primary race with lots of jokes and lovable characters.Your Mamma still with you? the teary barbecue owner asks one of the governor's staff during the sob fest? The new man, who hasn't been listening, looks up and answers distractedly, No, she lives in Beverley Hills with her second husband. The middle third of the movie turns more serious, with some major challenges to Travolta's continuing momentum. Did he really impregnate the barbecue owner's pretty young daughter? We don't find out but the suggestion is that COULD have. Is Travolta going to have to go negative in his ads, as his opponents have done? We can be forgiven, I think, if we find these issues a little naive these days.The final third of the movie, in my view, fails. The director, Mike Nichols, is extremely efficient and very sensitive to details of scene and character, but he has a tendency to take a funny movie and make it serious by giving it a downbeat or even tragic ending. It's as if the Chicago gangsters had finally caught Jack Lemon and Tony Curtis at the end of Some Like it Hot and gunned them down in an alley. Instead of a skillful mixture of comedy and drama we wind up with a movie that's been cut up -- piece by piece -- into two big pieces.Aside from the structure itself, this particular tragedy doesn't work. A manic lesbian (Kathy Bates) is called in to do her usual job of digging up dirt on the opposition. She's energetic, earthy, and likable. And when she feels betrayed by Governor Stanton she kills herself. A person who is a professional cynic finds she can't live after her illusions about her boss are shattered. Then there is a kind of anti-climax involving a retired governor who becomes a public figure by -- well, never mind. I got a little lost somewhere along in here. A gay man dying of AIDS in a hospice.Well, the laughs disappear, but not to be replaced by thought, only by emotions easily elicited by the pushing of certain buttons. You may tear up, but you don't think, What a tragedy. You think, Gee, that's too bad. Meanwhile the movie, overburdened by its own weight, wobbles on to its end. It's cleverly written by Elaine May and done well by everyone involved, but, gee, that's too bad. What is wrong with a straight comedy? What is it, some kind of disease? Does a worthwhile movie NEED to be about something? Even Bill Shakespeare wrote silly and amusing plays. "}{"Title":"Closer to fact than fiction","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors is the supposedly fictional tale of Governor Jack Stanton's campaign for the Presidential seat. But this is slightly hard to believe, what with main star John Travolta sporting the same haircut and color, and accent as Bill Clinton. Emma Thompson, as Jack's wife Susan, also bears a strong resemblance to Mrs Clinton.Aside from this, Primary Colors is a sharp, witty look at American politics. As an Australian, it was a helpful insight into the different was politics are run.The movie is made stronger by the solid performance from the cast. Relative unknown Adrian Lester as Henry is sufficiently able to hold his own, against big names stars, such as Billy Bob Thornton, Kathy Bates and Larry Hagman. One of the film's most sparkling performances comes from the highly underrated Maura Tierney as media adviser Daisy Green. Her role is small, yet significant, and Tierney effectively lights up the screen every time she is on. Tierney is able to make the most of her small role, and it was a shame that Daisy somehow disappears halfway through the movie.In conclusion, Primary Colors is a clever and satirical (yet not overly critical (pardon the little rhyme)) view of American politics. Travolta's accent grates a little during the films 143 minutes, but this can be overlooked. As a reader of the book, I was disappointed at the way certain events/issues were excluded from the movie, including further development of certain relationships. "},{"Title":"The Film à clef version of the War Room","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This Film à clef is clearly thinly disguised as a stand in for Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential primary election campaign. Not even the book written by an anonymous author can hide the facts that it's closely mirrors Bill Clinton's attempt to win over the people dismight conflicts such as his affairs, his participation in Vietnam War era protest, and others. Every thing about the film, just about speaks of him, even the actor playing an Southern governor Jack Stanton (John Travolta) who mimics the president southern drawn, and charm. It's hard not to see him in Jack. The movie starts with an idealistic former congressional worker, Henry Burton AKA George Stephanopoulos (Adrian Lester), whom joins the campaign whoms been impressed by Stanton's genuine warmth and empathy with people. He joins Stanton's inner circle of political advisers Stanton's formidable wife, Susan Stanton AKA Hillary Clinton (Emma Thompson). Emme Thompson plays the shrewdness role well, as a women whom dreams and hope are riding on a man whom does mistake after mistake, nearly derailing his chances to be president. She doesn't mind chewing him out or bailing him. She always doesn't mind the womanizing that takes it's toll on her, as long as she wins in the end. Henry also meets ruthless, redneck political strategist Richard Jemmons AKA James Carville (Billy Bob Thornton) whom character is so unlikeable, it's hurt the film. The character is too mopey, drunk, sexual harasser and indecisive that it doesn't match the entertaining Carville of the documentary The War Room,. It's not Carville. It's a downer character nobody ask for. Lastly he meets tough, but unbalanced Libby Holden AKA Betsey Wright/ Vince Foster (Kathy Bates.) Kathy Bates gives one of her best performance in this role, as she able to show strong emotion when needed, while also breaking down heart-broken. The film get good when tackles Henry and Libby are forced to seek out information about a rival politician. It's really shows how deep, far and twisted, people will go to dig to make sure their candidate wins while also showing how deeply disillusioned, they can be with the whole political process. Thus is each character tested Do we do the right thing for the wrong reason, the wrong thing for the right reason? How low do we go? If we go too low, can we ever get back up? Both of them are forced to choose between idealism and realism when looking up and helping out a political contender. Kathy Bates' Libby Holden is the movie's most outstanding character and the one who most stirringly articulates its frustrations about the candidate. The film's single best and most serious scene, arriving in its abruptly melodramatic third act, finds Libby desperately begging the Stantons to assess their campaign ethics. It's heart breaking speech is brilliant. The satire film does a good job following the book's plot. I think Joe Klein would be proud. Oops-- I meant the anonymous author. Much of the charm of the Mike Nichols film is just looking at the array of vivid caricatures actor playing real-life people, but it's lacks to give us a great main character. Henry is a bland, passive presence occupying a good deal of screen time. Adrian Lester is great, but it's doesn't have that George Stephanopoulos charm to him. The boy scout works for a while, he knows Stanton is somewhat a phony since the beginning, but it's doesn't seem to matter to him. So why does the political process makes him disillusioned, if he knew all the long that this might be stressful? He knew what he was putting himself in. I guess he didn't know how much he was willing to take. It suppose to be by the end time, he comes a time when he must make peace with the idea that the purest of causes may be advanced by the most impure of champions, but he knew that before getting in. This is what hurts the film. It's not like Mr. Smith goes to Washington here, he knew in advance, how ugly it is. Does he change it for the better? No. Does he keep his moral ground? No. Henry doesn't learn anything new, but he does get a new job. The movie is slow-pace, funny at times, but hard to watch, cause how depressing it is. It exposes politics for what it is. A ugly, disgusting, game where idealism is crush, disappointment kicks in, and when you come out of it. You feel like you tired of it. That's what happen to the film. It gets tiresome after one watch. It's like the elections. Good for one night every four years. "},{"Title":"What Should Create Sparks Instead Fails to Ignite","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What on paper sounds like the ingredients of a smart, snappy political satire instead makes for an over-long and lifeless dud of a movie.Mike Nichols directs John Travolta and Emma Thompson as a political couple clearly modeled on Bill and Hillary Clinton as they make their bid for President and First Lady of the U.S. But the movie has no spark at all, and it drifts aimlessly and lethargically to its conclusion.The only person who is able to breathe some life into the proceedings is Kathy Bates as a firecracker of a political consultant. Once she departs the film, her presence is sorely missed.Grade C- "},{"Title":"I saw about 75 minutes of it, and that was quite enough for me.","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors is yet another political drama, that pretty much bored me to tears. For starters, while I am a big John Travolta fan, he is completely miscast in the title role. As other reviewers have noted, John tries so hard to be like Bill Clinton, that it completely falls flat, in my opinion. They even go as far as to mimic, the whole Gennifer Flowers and Bill Clinton thing, there own way. It just tried so hard to reflect back on the Clinton Era, it almost became laughable. The characters in this movie themselves, are pretty unlikable. I had a lot of trouble rooting for Jack Stanton's character ,he seamed awfully weasel like, from what I saw. Fans of the whole Clinton era, and politics in general, may get a kick out of this film, but it honestly wasn't for me.Performances. John Travola tries hard ,sometimes too hard. It's just he ends up making an impression more then anything else ,and his charisma can only take him so far. He is heavily miscast, even though the Director, Mike Nichols, tries so hard, to make him look and act like Clinton. Emma Thompson is OK as the wife. She has no real chemistry with Travolta, and they didn't feel that real to me. Billy Bob Thornton is not bad in his role, but he didn't make that much of an impression. Kathy Bates adds class to any film she's in, unfortunately the script Doesen't give her much to work with. Adrian Lester does pretty decently with what he has to do ,I enjoyed a few of his scenes with Travolta. Maura Tierney is cute and charismatic as Daisy, I rather liked her.Bottom Line. Primary Colors, is pretty much a big bore. I shut it off after 75 minutes ,because it failed to engage me. Politics are just not my thing. Maybe one of these days ,I'll find a movie about politics, that does interest me.4/10 "},{"Title":"Let's hear it for Allison Janney...","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Janney pulls off a stunning piece of physical comedy in the first minutes of the film. I've watched it over and over and wonder how she did it without hurting herself.... it must have been rehearsed with ballet intricacy. Plus she is hilarious in subsequent scenes. I laugh every time i see it. A positive aspect of this film is that when it lags, a talented actor shows up in a small role (Rob Reiner, Larry Hagman) to help push it along. Travolta and Thompson, however are true revelations. I just finished Bill Clinton's autobiography and it's interesting to juxtapose it with the fictional view of a high level campaign worker. If I watch The War Room now, I'll just get morbidly nostalgic for the good old days. "},{"Title":"Best if watched with an open mind","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw Primary Colors on television for the first time since I saw it in the theatre. I had nearly forgotten about this movie for some reason, although there's enough memorable about it to tell a friend about it.The story of a Southern governor's rise from obscure democratic primary candidate to president of the United States is shown in this amalgam of a movie. I'm still not quite sure how to classify it. It has too many heavy moments to be a pure comedy. It's too silly and light-hearted at moments to be a straight drama. It's not insulting enough to be a satire, and it's not self-promoting enough to be a propaganda piece.It encorporates many elements, yet it somehow all flows brilliantly together. All the actors give above-average performances, especially Kathy Bates, the over-the-top, aging, lesbian, hippie cowgirl who digs the dirt for her friend Jack Stanton. Bates steals every scene she's in, and brings us the highest and lowest points of the movie, emotionally.One thing I will say is this movie is best if you don't think about it too hard. If you go into the movie, thinking, I heard this was based on Clinton, then you're going to be confused and disappointed. There are parallels between Stanton and Clinton, from the voice and appearance, to their Southern governor origins, to sex allogations, but it's not a biographical piece in the slightest. It's a story all its own, and this movie and the book it's based on deserve to be treated as such. Both sides of the political spectrum get jabbed at in this movie, so don't worry about political spin. Just watch it for being a movie.It's not perfect. The movie does drag a bit at times, and it's not too subtle in the script. The story does take interesting turns, but it's all very straight-forward, and there's not much to interpret. The ending is too abrupt. It skips from one scene to far into the future and just ends. Then you sit back and think, Well, I guess that was a sensible place to end it now that I think about it. The problem is that one's not quite sure where the climax is and when the movie reached the final resolution.Overall, it's definitely worth watching at least once, and perhaps more than once.  "},{"Title":"Clinton Supporter that Loves this Movie","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No one is a bigger fan and supporter of Bill Clinton than myself. That being said, this fiction motion picture really cuts close to the real thing as far as Bill and Hillary's real personal life. Yes, he is a womanizer and yes, Hillary is a powerful and somewhat controlling person. This movie seems to be close to what we believe happened in this part of their lives.For that reason, I was wiped away by this movie. The legacy of Bill Clinton over time will fade as far as this personal life business went. He will be remembered for what he did for the USA as far as pulling us together as a country and feeling like one. His history of the most prosperous economy of anytime in the past. Hillary will set her own history now as Senator of New York. Whether you like the Clintons or not, watch this movie. It's scary how close in some places it is to the truth, but in others it's just made up fantasy. Either way, it will hold your interest.  "},{"Title":"Bill Clinton's Biography?","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta has always reminded me of Clinton since the early 90s when he became President, and so it's only fitting that he play a similar-looking (and sounding!) character in this story about a United States presidential candidate and his campaign.Kathy Bates is a scene-stealer; the rest of the film is quite basic and only smile material--no large laughs, especially not when you're watching it alone.For its fine plot and few good/funny moments I rate it a 3 of five, plus I've wanted to see Travolta doing his Clinton imitation for some time. "},{"Title":"This One's A Keeper","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in an almost empty cinema in Europe.  At the time, I guess, Europeans found 'Wag The Dog' easier to understand.  But I think 'Primary Colors' shows American politics far more accurately and will stand the test of time.  In fact, this film says something about life, compromises, ambition and what doing good means.  The reason some Americans hated Clinton is evident in this film, and why others found him charming.Mike Nichols direction means all the actors perform well.  Elaine May's script is intelligent, almost too much so.  Another poster uses Spielberg's criteria of turning the sound off to see whether a film is good.  That's absurd.  Without sound, 'Twelve Angry Men' would be boring after five minutes - and what about a Shakespearean play?  The dialogue of 'Primary Colors' is integral to the film, just as words are critical to a politician's success.Last points Emma Thompson worked again with Nichols on 'Wit'.  Good sign.  The music works well in this film.  This film bears repeated watching.  If you're not American, but interested in American politics, watch and listen carefully... "},{"Title":"Absolutely Stunning","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mike Nichols does everything right in this Clinton-like political movie that has an all-star cast, a brilliant script from Elaine May, and great directing from Nicols.  Kathy Bates is the standout among a marvelous cast and was robbed of the Oscar.  Bates was hilarious to heart-breaking in this diverse role that will stand as one of her greatest performances.  Emma Thompson is also superb as the first lady who is overly ambitious; John Travolta is very good as the presidential candidate with many challenged; Maura Tierney and Billy Bob Thorton are wonderful in their supporting roles as is the actor playing Henry.  There is nothing wrong with this film-except the overlooking of major awards for Bates and others, but this is a definite must-see comedy/drama. Rating 10 "}{"Title":"A CLEAR WINNER","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There were two reasons `Primary Colors' was a best-selling novel.  One was that it provided insight into and dirt about a thinly disguised Bill Clinton.  Secondly, its writer hid behind the name `Anonymous' until he was revealed to be Newsweek columnist Joe Klein.Fortunately, here is a case where the movie is far better than the novel.  It really doesn't make any difference whether the story is about Bill Clinton-it would be a good movie even if there had been no Bill Clinton. The main character, Gov. Jack Stanton, is flawed, and that's why we're so attracted to him.  He is ambitious, is overly-aware of his impoverished roots and is a womanizer, but he also has the ability to make even a dim-witted Krispi Kreme counterman feel important.   And he knows it's that attribute that will get him elected president.  There are a lot of people to credit for the film's success.  Elaine May's script is sharp, and so is her former performing partner Mike Nichol's direction.  The performances are uniformly excellent.   This is one of John Travolta's best roles, and although he seems to have problems with accents in other films (see the beginning of The General's Daughter), he masters a Southern accent here.  Emma Thompson is good as his wife (although she slips in and out of her native British accent), who knows she is constantly being lied to but stands behind her husband.  Kathy Bates gives an Oscar-worthy performance as a damage control expert, and Billy Bob Thorton, Larry Hagman, Paul Guilfoyle and Maura Tierney are all fine.  But the biggest surprise is an unknown, Adrian Lester, as an aid who is at the same time put under the spell and repelled by Stanton. He even shows Emma Thompson something about hiding a British accent. "},{"Title":"But did Bill Clinton see this movie?","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best political flicks yet with great depth and perception (and a healthy dose of cynicism in Elaine May's script.) Bravura performances by John Travolta and Libby Holden. But one wonders why they just didn't do The Bill Clinton Story. So he'd sue? Travolta has the throaty Clinton charm down perfectly. Governor Stanton's wife, from the feisty fists to the demure blouses, is obviously Hillary. Politics is not a nice business and this movie portrays that dramatically. Interesting that such celebrities as Larry King and Geraldo Rivera lent themselves to such an obvious Clinton hatchet job.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Political Satire","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Obviously based upon a certain US President this documentary style film follows southern Governer Jack Stanton's bid to be the Democratic candidate for the Presidency. Uneasily flitting between Stanton's honest love for the people and his desire to make a difference and his serial adultery it tries very hard to be a good film. Mostly it succeeds and it was very entertaining. However, not enough emphasis was placed upon characterization with some of the minor supporting roles given little, indeed often contradictory, personalities and despite being quite long it only shows his run for the candidacy, not for the Presidency itself. Travolta is good as the kindly, messed-up Stanton and the rest of the cast acquits itself very well, especially Adrian Lester as the naive do-gooder Henry Burton, but they are often lost amongst the film itself. Despite the obvious relevance to the Clinton's it seemed to me to be only in part based upon them (And no doubt all shady politicians in general) with plenty of originality tucked in too. I only wish it had explained Stanton and his team a little more, their real desire's and motivation, then I could have felt more emotion about it all. Instead it becomes a bit of a sub-standard Boogie Nights, which is a shame really. "},{"Title":"Great Political Film.","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good political film, I learned a bit about the Election process in America, but more importantly the film kept me interested throughout, and John Travolta is cool, Kathy Bates was a nice surprise because I didn't know she was in it,  her performance was excellent. This film is funny, moving and interesting.  "},{"Title":"A Fine Film About Politics and Politicians","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Along with All the King's Men, Primary Colors is, in my opinion, the finest film ever made about politics.  John Travolta and Emma Thompson are Bill and Hillary Clinton to the life -- both good and bad.  Elaine May's screenplay is brilliant.  Funny and moving, sad and exciting, Primary Colors is very nearly a great film.  Those who still have romantic notions about politicians, their apparatchiks, and the press will have a hard time hanging on to them after seeing Primary Colors. "},{"Title":"Primarily good movie","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie.  It doesn't make the President look like a hero or a villain.  He's a character who makes mistakes, does stupid things like everyone else and is very flawed (sleeping with other women).  It makes you wonder if where being to hard on some political leaders.  I'm not saying stop making fun of them or anything but we shouldn't automatically disown politicians.  It's a great movie and it's better than Wag the Dog (which was good but way to cynical.) "},{"Title":"Not bad but nothing special.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Primary Colors has it's moments , its just shame they are few and far between. Travolta is presidential candidate Jack Standon and his film is the story of his up and down campain , dirty tricks and all. This movie is fairly entertaining but it promised so much more. It is also a half an hour too long. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You better read the book!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Without Billy Boy and Monica this story never would have worked out like that. But though John Travolta and fabulous Emma Thompson are a great copy of the Clintons, the movie is rather bleak than exciting and reading the book was much more fun. "},{"Title":"Will Gain Respect Over the Years","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this film will be held in the same esteem as such political movies as The Candidate and All The President's Men.I'm sure that after the Clinton presidency has passed into history, the acting, directing and sheer quality of technical craft will speak for the lasting value of the film.The acting (particularly by Bates, Thornton, Lester and Tierney as the campaign staff) is outstanding, sharp, funny and moving.This movie needs to be seen outside of its original context.Is it satire?  Is it History?  Is it only a study of politicians or does it speak about our society as an electorate?This is a very rich and rewarding movie.  "},{"Title":"Very Very Clever","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, i liked the clever way in which it was done, the inner workings of politics and how everyone is out trying to screw everyone else. Travolta was great, playing the Bill Clinton-esque character who puts on a great political face throughout the movie, but i think the performance of Kathy Bates as the crazy Dust-Buster, should have earned her the Oscar, not Judy Dench, who was on screen less then 15 minutes. After watching this story of a presidential candidate who tries everything to get in the oval office, I was hoping that not all politics was conducted in that manner. But it probably is.  "}{"Title":"The greatest political story ever placed on film.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is amazing that Hollywood ever managed to show the reality of American political campaigning with anything close to the honesty of Klein's book and Elaine Mays' screenplay. John Travolta simply IS Bill Clinton from the first view to the closing scene. Emma Thompson's Hillary is perfect - desire, ambition, dedication and willingness to sacrifice herself. Billy Bob Thornton makes James Carville appealing for the first time. But despite all of that, it is Kathy Bates who steals the film and the viewer's hearts as tough, cynical - and idealistic. "},{"Title":"deep","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it´s a good movie,but very strange,starts on the ligther notes but becomes very deep.it´s like it has become so big it's just about to win,its gonna blow. and i loved billy bob thorton in that movie "},{"Title":"If only more films were made like this.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In real life, there are no good guys.  There are no bad guys. There are just guys.  John Travolta's Jack Stanton is rough around the edges, but he's a guy who is willing to do everything he can to get what he wants.  There may be casualties, but you can't make an omelette without breaking some eggs.Travolta was Tarantinoed from being a reasonable actor in low-class movies to a great actor, and this is one of his finest performances yet. Thompson and Lester act very well, and both are believable Americans with Lester's English accent just coming out once (keep your eyes on the road).Other support comes from 2 of the greatest supporting actors alive, Billy Bob Thornton and Kathy Baker.It is telling that when casting a character based on Clinton, they chose Travolta - a man usually cast as tall, attractive, shady characters. He is a perfect casting, and Emma Thompson is always brilliant.A darn fine movie. Well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Political Movie.....","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm so surprised how overlooked this movie was. This is an absolutely wonderful political movie. And let's face it, you simply can't go wrong with Travolta. He's right on target with his portrayal of a southern governor who resembles Bill Clinton. And I think whether or not you like Clinton, you will come off liking the Travolta character. And those who are looking for positive black characters in movies, look no further than this movie. The character of Henry(Adrian Lester) is bold, charismatic, and beautifully written. Lester is superb and should get some recognition for his performance. Mike Nichols best film to date.  "},{"Title":"An indictment of American society","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All of the hoopla surrounding this movie was totally off-base.  To evaluate this movie on how it portrayed Bill Clinton is to completely miss the point.  Whether Travolta's Stanton either defends Clinton or shows us all why he should never have been elected is completely irrelevant.  Primary Colors is a unique film and one of the most important this decade.  This movie looks at the United States' current political system and lets the viewer draw his/her own conclusions.  Some feel that smear campaigns are nothing more than a necessary evil, others feel that the political process has become so detached that somewhere the Founders are turning over in their graves.  With Washington embroiled in scandal after scandal this movie has never been more pertinent.  Generations from now, when historians reconstruct political attitudes of the late 20th century and early 21st, Primary Colors will be a good indication of how the public, the media, and political elites perceived the political arena.  Don't miss this ground breaking movie, and please watch without thinking about Clinton, or else you're not doing the movie justice. "},{"Title":"How can you lose with Mike Nichols & Elaine May?!!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Nichols directing, May writing, and Travolta (and Bates!!!) acting it can't miss.  Travolta so like Clinton in appearance and mannerisms, it was spooky. Very good flick.  I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"A great  movie!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've rented lately. Even without all the Clinton references, it would still be an excellent movie. Kathy Bates and John Travolta were at their best. The Clinton scandal only added to the appeal of this movie. A must see!!! "},{"Title":"An insightful film leaving you with much to think about","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a superb film providing a very interesting glimpse into the political process.  The film is very well written and acted.  The performance by Travolta was excellent from the mannerisms to the accent. The only real flaw in the film is the lack of character development of the Henry Burton character.  Normally this might not be a problem as the movie really is centered around Jack Stanton (Travolta).  The problem is that we are seeing the events through Burton's eyes.  It becomes disconcerting when Burton moves from the woman he is involved with at the movie's start, to being sexually involved with campaign aide Daisy, to being alone.  Other than that this is a movie that should be seen. "},{"Title":"very impressive","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I got a lot more than I expected from this movie...I mean, I expected it to be good; with all those grade-A actors in there, but it turned out quite nicely I think.  Travolta was outstanding.  Emma Thompson was perfect.  And if someone could point me in the direction of a movie that Kathy Bates was terrible in, cuz I can't believe that woman can act badly under any circumstances.  The beautiful part of this movie isn't its plot or action, etc., it's the warm shroud of personality that the different characters have.  Each character is annoying for whatever reason and, while at the same time, they all have a quality which you just love.  It's a beautiful balance that doesn't come through in hardly any movie ever.  Excellent writing. Excellent portrayals.  Well worth your time to see. "},{"Title":"Best Political Comedy in some time","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At times in this movie, I forgot that Travolta was playing Governor Stanton and almost thought I was watching Clinton. He was that good and convincing in the role.  Kathy Bates was excellent as well, as were all of the other characters, it was just a very well written movie. If the Oscars were more open to comedic actors getting Oscar nominations, Travolta would be a shoo-in for a Best Actor nomination.  With the supporting categories more open to comedic actors, Kathy Bates should get a nomination, and maybe a slight chance for Billy Bob Thorton. "}{"Title":"A Mike Nichols/Elaine May collaboration - how can it lose?","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Intelligently made film of an obvious Clinton-like character's presidential  run.  Its style is a projection of its filmmakers, that of another era,  despite being a current drama.  Therefore, its market center is coastal  U.S. Baby Boomer audiences.  The use of profanity at times seems extreme  for the societal level and dramatic engagement, the plot; perhaps an effort  to stylize in today's idiom.  It hurts the picture.  On the positive side  a shoo-in for another Kathy Bates Oscar nomination.  Worthwhile renting?   For me, yes, but I'm at the center of the target audience.  "},{"Title":"What a great movie!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This had to have been the best movie I have rented in a long time. Its so  great at the end of the mindless summer season to have this to come home  to. Its smart, hilarious, moving, and oh-so real! Travolta's Clinton-esque  politician is so similar to the real Bubba its scary. And Emma Thompson  shines as the Travolta's witty, take-no-crap spouse. But, as usual, Kathy  Bates triumphs above all in her role as the lesbian political protector of  the Govenor. A truly moving and triumphant performance, once again! And,  for all you people who think that you're sick of the Clinton hoopla and  wouldnt like this film...rent it! Its similar enough to make you think Hey , wait a minute..., but not overly real as to make you think you're  watching the news. My grade A "},{"Title":"Politics as Hollywood Wishes","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, I gotta say that I love it when Hollywood takes on political subject matter, because it almost is always so rife with liberal wishful thinking. Maybe Bulworth wasn't, but when I think about this movie, The Contender, & The American President, its always so cute to see Democrats in charge & the only question of which way to proceed is one made within the party's ranks. I'll be honest, I sure wish that things were more like that. However out in the real world, the actual American President doesn't care about guns or global warming, there could never be an atheist contender for the Vice Presidency, and getting the Democratic nomination is not THE major obstacle to becoming the next President. Did you notice how that last fantasy listed was the one that occurred in Primary Colors? Republicans were never even shown in the movie, just mentioned a couple of times. By the end, we saw a candidate have the Democratic nomination in the bag, and then it flashed to a scene of him dancing at his inaugural ball. When you look back over the last 40 years (as of 2008), you see that Democrats have occupied the White House for 12 of them, or 30% of the time. So when are these Hollywood writers gonna start acknowledging that fact? As I watch the film now, I am just constantly reminded of how very different everything is in politics from the 90's to today. This movie was all about Democrats vying for the White House. And how much of the policy talk in this movie involved national security and military issues? None as far as I could tell. As long as the Democrats continue to be the mommy party, talking about nothing but education & health care, they're going to be either the minority party, or really close to it, forever. Now I did enjoy the movie, and the performances were excellent, especially from Adrian Lester and Kathy Bates. The whole film was essentially a chronicle of how a politician could be so brilliant and such a bright, shiny hero to the people at times, and also a low-down lecherous screwup at other times. I like that sort of depiction of people in stories & movies. And it is truly the Bill Clinton story. One biographer called him the Michael Jordan of politics, and yet most people remember him more for his womanizing. Bill Clinton may have been a flawed guy, but at least he was an interesting and brilliant political figure. And he does make for an interesting character study. It is just a shame that in this country, interesting Democrats hardly ever get elected President. They just don't appeal to the American people the way cookie-cutter Republicans can. "},{"Title":"Your candidate is NOT the rock your church is built on...","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" And it's a GOOD message.For example, take Clinton. With all his personal flaws (sex, drugs, dodger, those are WEAKNESS defects, other than his wife did he hurt someone?) did he do a GOOD JOB at running the country? Yes he did. Take George W. Bush. With all his personal flaws (sex, drugs, deserter, those are also WEAKNESS defects, other than his family did he hurt someone?) did he do a good job at running the country? NO. Just look the economy, Afghanistan, Iraq, and the Bin Laden Friday special commercial.Both very flawed, and yet, one did a good job and the other did NOT. In fact, Bush supposetly has his personal hotline to God (a scary thought), and we know by now how good it has turned out (who's lying then, Robertson or Bush? both claim to get their facts from God...).And take Kerry. In spite of his heroics in Vietnam, does that make him any BETTER suited for being a good president? NO. I really doubt he'll even do a better job than Clinton, and he was a draft dodger!!Simply put, like Henry said in the film, the good candidate who fights the good fight only to loose at the end IS WORTHLESS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Just ask Nader (dummies whom say oppose Bush but voted for Nader like Michael Moore basically PUT Bush in the presidency, as simple as that).In politics, since it's about POWER, you really have to compromise in order to have a chance to get to the top. You can't honestly expect a candidate not to compromise and still have a chance. And if you do you might as well move to Neverland. You can only hope that he doesn't compromise too much, has what it takes and good intentions, that's IT!!! "},{"Title":"Well-judged acting of a good script = good film. It's not difficult","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Remarkable depth of casting, given that a considerable proportion of the budget will have gone on post-Tarantinoed Travolta. And it really pays off in this intelligently scripted and played out film.One never quite knows where the centre of the show is intended to be. Nichols would have us pursue Adrian Lester's administrative cog Burton, as he quickly falls into not only the unusual (bedding colleague Tiernay after his relationship disintegrates, great directional understatement) but also the morally questionable. In case you're worried that this sounds a bit boring played out by the worthy Lester, don't worry Kathy Bates appears and suddenly there are four premium principals (Emma Thompson squaring the circle with another well-judged, competent but unassuming performance).For me, Travolta is the star though. For me he is considerably better at this affable, yet grand-high-priest-of-cool role (Get Shorty) than as a tough guy (Broken Arrow, Swordfish etc.). Nichols has set out to make a film about people and their relationships and how this translates into a political vernacular, and the ensemble, led by Travolta has got the message. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Too short.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Primary Colours (as we spell it in England) on late night TV - part of a John Travolta season. I loved EVERYTHING about the film the script, direction, acting (especially...no, ALL of them). To those who didn't admire it, I'd like to ask ' What scene(s) didn't you like and why?'. It's particularly relevant today with an Presidential Election later this year, and - sorry to be parochial here - a General Election in Britain next year.Primary Colors was a film that matters because it takes an in-depth look at the man behind a political leader, the person who can affect the lives of all of us People often say about a candidate 'He's sincere'. Is it enough? (Hitler and Stalin were sincere). Does it matter they are unfaithful to their wives, done drugs?These days, sadly, leaders need to have charisma to succeed. (Nobody could ever make a movie about one of the most effective but dullest British Prime Ministers - the man who beat Winston Churchill in 1945 - Clement Attlee ,But back to Primary Colors. It's sometimes difficult if not impossible to separate the power and quality of an actor with the skill of the writer. For example, Kathy Bates. Whoever, an awesome performance.If I have one criticism of the film, it's that it was too short. I would have liked another couple of hours showing behind the scenes what happened to President Stanton in the White House. For the part of a young intern, I' d suggest.....  "},{"Title":"so underrated....","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this movie deserved about a million oscar nominations, including acting nominations for Travolta, Thompson, and Billy Bob.  also, Kathy Bates totally deserved to win for supporting actor over Judi Dench!  anyway, this story does an amazing job of explaining the unexplainable Bill Clinton. can a good politican who cares about the people, win without doing some ammoral things?  does being an unfaithful husband mean that someone is a bad man or a bad candidate?  can a couple still be cruel to each other in some ways, but enormously kind in other ways?  the story brilliantly goes over such things without being preachy.  and it is also very funny! "},{"Title":"Half-truths and innuendo","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is full of half-truths and innuendoes about the successful campaign that one of the greatest governors in history waged to become President of the United States.  Travolta is a complete charicature of a promiscuous, dishonest, and ruthless politician whose ego is so large he cannot see himself for what he truly is.  I simply do not understand how anyone could have taken him seriously in this role. "},{"Title":"kudos!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Last Saturday night, around 2 A.M., I came home from a night on the town, a bit intoxicated and feeling rather sleepy. Stubbornly, I decided to have one more beer (one for the road to my bedroom, if you will) and watch a couple of minutes of a video while finishing my drink. The video was `Primary Colors' which I had bought the day before for a mere $2. I didn't expect much, but I found myself not going to sleep well after 4 A.M. When a 2 ½ hour movie consisting of only dialogue (nothing remotely resembles even a HINT of action) contains no lulls and keeps a tired guy glued to the screen, someone out there must have done something right. Kudos to director Nichols, screenwriter Elaine May and the entire cast.We, the self-proclaimed Totally Down To Earth folks of Europe, simply can't figure those Americans out. Their attitude towards sexuality is probably # 1 on our `weirdness reigns' Top Ten List, but their politics are a good photo-finish second (# 3 must be that suing one another seems to be some sort of national hobby). The whole Bill Clinton going ons may be stranger than fiction, but the story depicted in this great film (easily the best of 1997) still manages to deal with every doubt every man and woman blessed with an ounce of common sense might have had about American politics. Are elections a circus (wearing stupid hats, hugging Average Joe's baby kid, grinning at the papparazi)? Is it about `competitive happiness' (having to beat someone else in order to feel like a winner)? Is it about two opponents digging up each other's dirt (finding out that the opponent smoked grass in high school and using it against him &#150;what does that say about you? Do you need to trash the other guy in order to win? Are YOU a saint? Does having smoked dope in high school make someone unqualified to be a leader?)? Is it about electing the least evil of two devils (when all the dirt is dug up, all the candidates seem to have done something &#145;naughty' in the past &#150; does it make us scared when our democratically chosen next president is &#145;too human'? Are we really so naive to expect a flawless Christ-like figure? -Which reminds me of the saying `he without sin throws the first stone'-)?The theme is sensitive, so this easily could have been a mean-spirited satire, picking on an easy target, but it doesn't. There are no bad guys or gals here. This movie isn't about `Good' or `Bad'. Hell, WE invented those terms, but it's never that clear cut, is it? Everyone in this picture is flawed. Humans are more complex than being either good or bad. These terms aren't mutually exclusive...I'm think I'm gonna stop right here, because this review is starting to sound like a rather shallow first day at a philosophy 101 course, but what I'm trying to say boils down to the fact that Nichols, May, and the actors have gone through quite an effort to create believable, 3-dimensional characters, not just shallow stereotypes. They are asking (and trying to answer) real questions. Important questions. A bombastic, mean-spirited satire might have worked on a certain level (try to imagine the result if Oliver Stone would have directed this film) but the more you exaggerate, the more it will keep the viewers emotionally detached (like David Fincher's `Fight Club' which didn't completely work for me). Nichols has a history of being (also) a great visual director, but this time he lets the strong material do the work. No artificials. He had the guts to rely on great source material. This movie slows down, pulls us in and dares us to think. Not about the leaders we choose, but about ourselves, too.*** ½ out of **** "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Fabulous","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie contributes to political understanding on a level that few have been able to achieve.  Surprisingly superb performances by John Travolta, Emma Thompson, and Billy Bob Thorton lend a sort of concrete surrealism to the allegedly true story, but the real strength of this film is its ability to show us how and why leaders make any sacrifices necessary to rise to the top.This film is rather weak when viewed as a comedy, but is shockingly strong as a drama, raising questions that will make you think long and hard after Ry Cooder and Carly Simon's haunting score plays through the credits.I cannot recommend this film highly enough.  Hopefully it will have the same impact on you as it did me Shivers, a sobering sentimentality that leaves one unsure whether to laugh or cry, and a much better understanding of why things have happened, and continue to happen, the way they do. "}{"Title":"goes from promising to fair to awful, taking a LONG time to get there.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My PRIMARY problem with Primary Colors is how promising it looked. Unlike other movies which show themselves to be bad right away, Primary looked like it had the potential to be really great. Unfortunately, that was not to be. When you first see would be president Jack Stanten's remarkable resemblance to Bill Clinton(a cooincidence-riiight) you will be shocked. I heard the movie caught a lot of flack for mirroring Clinton too much, of coarse I'm sure a lot of people went to see it for that reason. Parts of Primary ARE enjoyable-funny and thought provoking. I'm not writing this one off, it had some good elements. Here is the problem.Primary Colors didn't end. I'll have to check the running time on IMDb but even if it was only 2 hours it felt like 2 YEARS. This movie was more overdone then blackened steak. I mean it gets to the point where you want to yell STOP IT. STOP THE CAMERA. But of coarse you can't. So your forced to sit and watch as the plot steadily gets more and more ludicrious and your eyelids get more and more droopy. By the time the movie ends you have to resist jumping up and yelling yes.What is just as bad, there are many times during the movie when you think THEY ARE getting ready to end it-and there are several moments IT SHOULD have ended. But no, it keeps going and going-and you keep thinkingOK, this is it, they can't DO anymore, it ends here-but-like Jaws just when you thought you were safe....The movie knew it's strengths but certainly didn't know it's limitations and had this been about 45 minutes(I'm guessing here-maybe about 15 hours) shorter and cut out some of the dramatic plot developments that kept jumping up every time another one ended it would have been a much much much better movie. I rated this about a 6 but really it's about a 5.5. Just was too overdone and didn't know when to quit. "},{"Title":"Well Made Movie bu what was the point","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie is well made and the acting is very good, but I still don't understand why getting Governor Stanton elected is so important? He seems to be a lovable philanderer with absolutely no personal morals. He seems to really care about people in the macro sense but not in the micro sense. If he did he would not act so callous to his friends and wife and lovers.Why was getting Governor Stanton elected so important? It seems like this film was made for people who believed that getting a Democrat elected, even one who had grave personal failings was more important than getting a Republican elected. That is where I feel the movie was weak. In 50 years moviegoers are going to be asking themselves this question who were not alive in the 20th century to understand how hated Republicans where in the 90s. Great political movies like Mr. Smith Goes to Washington establish the need to get Jimmy Stewart elected. This movie does not establish the need to get John Travolta elected. "},{"Title":"You Mean . . . He Lied?!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Coming from one of the twelve people left in the country who doesn't hate George W. Bush, you'll have to take this review with a grain of salt. This little chat is about Joe Klein's then-anonymous Primary Colors, a thinly-veiled retelling of how Bill Clinton, who George Will described as not the worst president we've ever had, but the worst person ever to be president, became the leader of the free world.I saw Primary Colors five years ago with my wife, a fiscally conservative, socially liberal independent somethingoranother and at one point the Jack Stanton character tells some sort of hoary whopper to save his skin and my wife said, He lied! *Audible sigh*What I liked about Primary Colors is that it was a snapshot of pure, undiluted American politics. John Travolta's Jack Stanton is so purely likable and fun that you can't help but cheer him on in his quest for the Democratic nomination. He's so awful he feels like one of us. Emma Thompson's Hillary hits the nail right on the head because she is cold and ambitious and will tolerate anything as long as it puts her boy in the White House.Although the film is a bit overlong and begins to wheeze, rather loudly I remember, 75% of the way through, it really is a masterful dramatization of the acquisition of power by a man who was once described as being all appetite. Watch Primary Colors in conjunction with, say, The Candidate, and maybe Advise and Consent to get a nice feel for power politics in the US of A.And if you don't like politics, well, I'll feel your pain. "},{"Title":"The Perefect Election Day Primer","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" John Travolta runs for president and quickly discovers the race is more than having good ideas one must face their own past and face the past of others, risking integrity along the way.The film is such an obvious parody of Bill Clinton, with Travolta being a Southern, gray-haired, portly man with a sex addiction and a draft-dodging record. But it also happens to be a very intelligent parody, so the movie becomes not only fun -- and funny -- but actually interesting, too.I saw this film on Election Day 2006 with a friend, and I was impressed with the way they portrayed campaigns. Campaigns, as I have come to discover, are more than making good impressions and scheduling meetings with groups you may or may not want to see. It's about deflecting dirt. And the higher you go up, the more dirt they will find or invent. I worked on a campaign for a local man this year and much the same thing happened. He vowed to stay away from negative campaigning, but after his opponent became a mudslinger (with some highly distorted mud) even the man of integrity began to slip. I was disappointed, but this film showed me the human nature involved.Travolta was better than usual in this film, especially after seeing him in such worthless garbage as Broken Arrow. He had one or two moments where I could have slapped him, but overall played his part. The real shining star was Tony Shalhoub, who played a man involved with an opponent's dirty past. Shalhoub has never been more shady or sinister.If you do not care for politics, you might not like this movie. I mean, that's really all it's about. But if you do, this is one you really must see. Unlike other movies about the president (of which there are many), this is one that actually shows the process and not just some airbrushed version of the man in 1600. "},{"Title":"This film is Glorious! Golden!","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Primary Colors is a 1998 film directed by Mike Nichols that is quite amusing. For a movie that runs over two hours it really doesn't get boring. While the storyline is written very well, the acting is what makes this movie so good. Emma Thompson is great in her thankless role, and Kathy Bates is incredible in an Oscar-nominated role that is sure to make you laugh (that is, if you can take the vulgarity!). Larry Hagman is great in a supporting part, and let's not forget John Travolta who is in his best acting form...as a southern governor, no less! An excellent film, but I would recommend it most strongly to people interested in politics. "},{"Title":"Based on Fact - Still Good","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" PRIMARY COLORS delivers a richness of political insight that to date, remains unique. The movie is based on the excellent novel of the same name. And like the novel, this is clearly either (depending on your political ideology) parody or mimesis of the Clinton Administration, and the election of 1996.Jack Stanton (Even the consonants and vowels match), exquisitely played by John Travolta, is a born southern politician who has learned how to get ahead on charisma and a few good speeches, and who is, by the way, wickedly flawed in his personal nature. Billy Bob Thorton plays a seasoned veteran of politics, advising Jack until he can advise no more. Emma Thompson plays Susan Stanton, (parody Hillary) brilliantly, emphasizing the need to get ahead at all costs, regardless of the personal issues raised.Through it all, the autobiographical Henry Burton remains the stable character upon which we hope to align; and he probably shows us the real character of people in the political world at the end of the movie.Stanton's opponent, Fred Picker (wonderfully and richly played by Larry Hagman), turned out to be a human after all. But you know it's going to be good when Kathy Bates (gun-toting Libby Holden) plays her best.This is a great movie, exposing the new nature of politics in today's sound-bite quick-clip campaign atmosphere, with a bit of humor and drama thrown in. Overall, awesome marks for John Travolta, Billy Bob Thorton, Larry Hagman, and Kathy Bates. Good Marks for Emma Thompson.I have to give negative marks for the following (a) they didn't use Billy Bob Thorton (Richard Jemmons) enough; (b) Maura Tierney (Daisy) was an inactive distraction; and (c) I thought Adrian Lester's acting was a bit stiff.Other than that, this movie is a must-see for anyone who wants to learn about a probably accurate take on the the true political process.Finally, was this movie true to the Clinton Administration? Perhaps not; but perhaps it saved us from the truth. "},{"Title":"A movie with a message","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is very appropriate at the present time as the presidential elections are taking place in just a few days from now. If you look up the definition of Primary Colors as a concept, you will find red, yellow, blue all the colors one can think of are obtained by mixing three basic colors together. The main theme of the movie is to illustrate that we humans are driven by very limited basic, even primitive, needs and that all our further strife for achievement in life is actually based on variations of these limitations. Lust for power and the predominance of sex, even at the highest level, are but two of the apparent needs.Although the movie stresses the idea that only the strong survive (and strong necessarily implies deceit), it also sends out a message the seemingly doomed attempts at an honest approach to life by the good guys who may even perish as a result of their naive attitude towards reality,is not without meaning at all as their positive morals inevitably exert an influence on even the most cynical leaders who have the real power.Very good acting performances and a movie with a message. "},{"Title":"Just listen to them!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the great movies about American politics, maybe the best since All The King's Men. There is a brilliant script, and a terrific cast to deliver it. I did not think much of John Travolta as an actor before I saw this movie. He is just perfect as the intelligent, slick and yet amiable presidential candidate Jack Stanton. A multi layered personality who, so it is convincingly shown, actually likes sitting together with plain folk and talk about their everyday lives. Who would have been better than Adrian Lester to play a kind of a sorcerer's apprentice coming of age while being with the candidate? His frank, open face reminds you of a bernardine &#150; a very intelligent one, mind you. Let's make it clear You are among intelligent people in the candidate's entourage. They know Machiavelli is not a dish of pasta, and they want to get their man elected, no matter what dirty business they will have to engage in. In this team you encounter some of the most gifted screen actors of today, like Emma Thompson and Billy Bob Thornton, who are given ample possibilities to make use of their talents. All this is topped with Kathy Bates&#145; stellar performance as the girl for the punches below the belt line, the only one who appears having moral principles and wanting to uphold them &#150; the tragic loser in the game.Maybe technically Primary Colors is not a contemporary cinematic masterpiece, in my opinion the script more than compensates for this. I am confident that the movie will outlive any Oliver Stone picture. It is well worth listening carefully to what the characters say. Jack Stanton's speeches are always aimed directly at the heart of his listeners and usually don't miss their target. They are absolutely noncommital! Just sweet emptyness! Although his character, Former Gov. Picker stepping in for a sick candidate, is a highly unlikely one, Larry Hagman has a few very good lines that sum up nicely the content of a presidential campaign It's like professional wrestling.Primary Colors feels as if there is some real inside information in the story. It is an honest film that does not avoid difficult ethical questions. The morally principled young sorcerer's apprentice is at the end of the movie disgusted with the whole business. Amiable Jack Stanton as a talented professional politician knows how to deal with that end asks the obvious question his disciple can not avoid If not Jack Stanton, what then? One final recommendation Watch Jack Stanton's hand shaking routine carefully from beginning to end.   "},{"Title":"HAIL TO THE CHIEF","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Travolta is so good as Clinton, you totally forget this is Mr Saturday Night Fever or Pulp Fiction.  The trouble with the film is you're never sure whether the film totally disapproves of the main man. As in reality the President weaves an enticing spell. Life will be so dull with Bush or Gore. "},{"Title":"It was all right, nothing more","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie but do not think it's great cinema or anything profound. I liked Adrian Lester and hope to see him again in another movie.  Kathy Bates was great as always.  I couldn't tell what John Travolta was trying to communicate, if he was lying or being sincere.  As a result I enjoyed the movie more when he was not on the screen, and I think the best scenes are without him. "}{"Title":"Originality?","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't get the hype over the book and the movie. Where is the originality? If you want to see the real thing, rent The War Room, a documentary of the 1992 Clinton campaign. It's much more entertaining. Travolta was very convincing and cute as Clinton, and I found that to be the only redeeming quality of this film, aside from the performance by Kathy Bates. Let's face it, the story has already been told.  "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is excellent","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The screenwriting is excellent.  Kathy Bates is amazing, as usual.  I enjoyed this movie from beginning to end.  It's too bad that the timing of this movie basically killed for most people because it is one of the most interesting political movies I have seen.  I would recommend it to anyone.  "},{"Title":"i wanted to like this movie","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  primary colors was ok. but never ever goes in a better way. it just stays at a semi-boring and almost never entertaining track. but it was ok i just wish it was more than that. i give it ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"someone get rid of the lawyer","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A comedy about middle aged people, aimed at middle aged people. Funny, but I felt so old watching it. Travolta's performance was pretty good, just the fact that I stopped seeing him as Travolta and started seeing him a Bill Clinton says is a feat in itself. It's main drawback is the boring main character who pretty much innocently stumbles through this political semi-corrupt quagmire and cries at the end.   "},{"Title":"I almost energy to watch it to end","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was so bored that I dont have a interest to watch it to end. Of course it isn't so bad that it is good. I mean it isnt turkey Worst Travolta-movie which I have seen. "},{"Title":"John Travolta for president","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  John Travolta is Jack Stanton, a governor who wants to run for president. His wife is played by Emma Thompson. To get the chance to run for president as a democrat he has to have a campaign. A black guy Henry Burton (Adrian Lester) will lead this campaign. On board we have some other people like Richard Jemmons (Billy Bob Thornton), Daisy (Maura Tierney), and Stanton's personal protector Libby Holden (Kathy Bates). He needs a protector because Stanton really wants the best for the people but in his private life he has done some stupid things. He was arrested once in Chicago but he found a way to make that undone. He is accused of having sex with another women as well. We know it is probably true but he gets himself out of it. He has a way of dealing with people that make him a great person, a person people really believe, and therefor he politically survives these kind of things. What we see next is a perfect political movie, the way a real campaign probably goes. I will not reveal more of the private life and the political career from Stanton, you have to see things for yourself.This is a very good movie with an interesting story, that has some very familiar things. John Travolta does a great job with Stanton and the supporting roles from Billy Bob Thornton, Emma Thompson, Maura Tierney and especially Adrian Lester and Kathy Bates are extraordinary. They all make their character like a real-life person. The movie is intelligent, interesting, funny and insightful. "},{"Title":"I don't really get what's so good about this movie..","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i've heard great recommendations about it, but then I watched it on video, and quitted in the middle.... it was boring! John Travolta is my favorite actor, and I like parodies and stuff very much, but this one was really boring, really uninteresting..... i don't get what's so good about it... maybe I don't know Clinton so well... still, i think u can make a better movie about him! "},{"Title":"Quite interesting","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are many things that can be said about this movie, and John  Travoltas part in it. Most of it is better being left unsaid. Suffice it to state the following comment from my side Travolta's voice even sounds like Clinton's "},{"Title":"lame","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Primary Colors was a complete pile of c**p. John Travolta was the only saving quality of this movie. It centers around the presidential election of a Clintonesque candidate and his wife who resembles Hilary Clinton. Mike Nichols sure made a stupid movie that went nowhere and did nothing for cinema. Kathy Bates sucked in it as did the Uncle Tom black guy they had come and act all cheesy. This movie sucks.* out of **** "},{"Title":"A thinly veiled spoof of the grifters who have occupied the White House for the past eight years.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a fictionalized account of the complete moral bankruptcy of not only Bill and Hillary Clinton, but their entire entourage of political advisors, cronies and hangers-on.  Like Bill, Jack Stanton stands for absolutely nothing except the aggrandizement of Jack Stanton, and like Hillary, Susan Stanton will suffer any indignity to gain and maintain her position in the limelight.John Travolta both looked and sounded just like Slick Willie and managed to imitate both his behavior and his character to a T.  Emma Thompson likewise was the perfect representation of the cold, calculating and absolutely amoral Hillary.  "}{"Title":"A disappointing....","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  montage of actors hollering cuss words. I was totally disappointed in the actors and the story. I couldn't even concentrate on what was going on for all the yelling and cursing.  A loser in my book.....and Kathy Bates has had better parts. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film from start to finish.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This reviewer, Dad, and 19-year old daughter loved the movie.  Wonderful ensemble acting in a masterful screenplay.  The movie just flew by, one which you wished and wouldn't end, but keep going for another hour or two.16-year old son found it too talky, and the couch of dreams claimed Mom before the end of the movie.  But she will gladly pay the additional days rental to finish it.I predict lots of Oscar nominations will be going this films way  especially Nichols/May and Bates.  I rate it an easy 9. "},{"Title":"One or two redeeming features...","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...but on the whole, this is too long and the language is too salty.  The screenwriters should all have their mouths washed out with strong soap. Why do screenwriters operate on the belief that smutty language equals a good script?  They're all wrong.   "},{"Title":"A rightful, scathing attack on Bill and Hilary Clinton!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film which was based on the same book written by Anonoymous emcompasses the 1992, of then candidate Jack Stanton also known as Bill Clinton.His wife, played with such snottiness, by Emma Thompson, is shown as a manipulative, cold, and coneiving political adversary, just like her counterpart, the real life, Hilary Clinton, who was also known to go on an abusive attack against her critics, such as her right wing agenda comments during the Monica Lewinsky/Impeachment trial of her husband in his second term in office.This film explores Bill Clinton/Jack Stanton's roots from weasel governor of a southern state, to a take all prinsoners at all cost, politician running for the highest office in the United States.John Travolta does a pretty good Bill Clinton impersonation, along with beer gut and all.Emma Thompson does a great job at portraying the cold and coneving Susan Thompson/Hilary Clinton.Billy Bob Thorton is passable as the James Carvile fill in.However the real stand out is Kathy Bates, as the true democratic stragigest who realizes what the Stantons/Clintons are all about.A scathing attack on the former impeached president of the United States and rightfully so! "},{"Title":"Travolta is Brilliant","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie really shows his acting abilities. He so brilliantly captured another terrific actor and that's Bill Clinton himself. Funny how those on the left see this film produced by a right wing conspiracy. It's all the Republicans fault but they are taken in by such nonsense as they are taken in by the Clinton's. When has Hollywood ever embraced the Republicans? That's why Hollywood embraced that fiction piece of work called Fahrenheit 9/11. Watching this movie, I cannot understand how Americans were so conned in believing the rhetoric of Governor Stanton/Clinton. He acts more like a car salesman that a respectable statesman. "},{"Title":"The Black Englishman plays the American","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this was not Adrian Lester's screen debut, it was the first film that brought his face to our attention. He plays a convincing American, and you can be forgiving for thinking that he was an American playing an American. It wasn't until his subsequent films that you realised he was an Englishman, and began to feel that Adrian was a talented bloke. He was, however, dominated by John Travolta and the Cambridge graudate, Emma Thompson, but it did broaden his base an actor to play an American in the same way that Denzel Washington played a cockney in 'For Queen and Country'. "},{"Title":"Travolta has been better","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film fell short of capturing my interest, despite the intriguing subject.  John Travolta has done wonderful things lately, but he was not a convincing Clinton, in part due to what I thought was poor makeup.  But, the character of his wife was done well and was much more convincing.  Reflecting current events, the message delivered at the end of the film seems to be that despite the shortcomings of the man, he is doing a good job as President.  And, as is almost customary these days, there was lots of swearing which did not support the story line, and was perhaps one more attempt by Hollywood to make us think this is the way everybody talks!  "},{"Title":"Pretty smooth deception","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie starts out like a total slam on Clinton, but then as it develops it clearly takes the opposite route.  But the funny thing is,  the main Pro-Clinton message that it ultimately delivers is Gee, he may have done all these terrible things, but he says he cares about people, so it's o.k. And of course, there are the usual Hollywood cheap shots at Republicans, with the filmmakers going out of their way to bring up Richard Nixon, as though he was a bigger embarrassment than Clinton. It was also funny to see them build a Hillaryish character that has a lot more substance and moral fiber than the real Mrs. Clinton has, as the character's swearing and temper tantrums were kept to a minimum. The acting in the movie was excellent, but the storyline grew tiresome and was overlong.  The film is somewhat fascinating in that for each scandal that the screenplay writers came up with, it was easy to recall a similar one during the original Clinton campaign or administration.  Ultimately, the movie- though mildly entertaining- fails in that it can not achieve the level of entertainment derived from the actual events of the Clinton campaigns.  And interesting enough, the movie didn't really serve as much of a pro-Clinton piece.  It makes you wonder why it was even made.           "},{"Title":"It got my vote....","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yep, this film gets my vote...a 1. In a better mood it probably deserves more, though 3 is stretching generosity. The acting is fine, a few pretty good turns, but the script is awful, just plain awful. A look at politics made easy, it could have been produced for Sesame Street Hagman was great, and his all sound and fury, signifying nothing type speech rather summed up this film. "},{"Title":"Sexhound runs for the Big Office","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This sure played out like a propaganda piece straight from the pen of a solid Clinton backer. Did Stanton really care about people as he let on, or was he cynically snickering up his sleeve while running his tacky game? Did the little woman stay with him out of sincere feelings or to ride his tails into the White House? Don't know, but I really enjoyed this film it looked like the way an actual race for office would go down.  "}{"Title":"Dont watch this","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unless you're a great fan of the US election system, this movie has little to offer. In one word summary Boring. I've seen so many better movies in my lifetime, that I had to stop watching this stuff before the grand finale, but the way the plot was developing I sincerely doubt I missed anything that could have changed my view on it. Perhaps this movie was aimed at American audience and that is the reason I didnt get the message. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked the other president-satire movie called Bulworth a little. But Primary Colors was just not fun.If I wasn't so lazy I would have turned off the movie and done something else instead of holding through the whole two hours and a half of people crying, telling their emotions with the background music and the camera zooming slowly in on them..There might have been though a little interesting thing in the battle of scandals and tricks you need to pull up to beat the candidates for an election, maybe it displayed a little how screwed up the election system is.This movie is plain not-great Hollywood stuff for the movie rental stores. I rated it 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not great","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hey is that the real Wil Clinton who did that movie review?  I tried to email, but there is no forward adress.  That is besides the point,  Primary Colors was not liked by the critics, I believe the media likes Clinton and viewed this as a swipe at him.  If the media likes you they will help out, but if they hate you like, ie Dan Quale watch out it gets very relentless. In the end, I found the story silly, and entertaining; what saves this film is the acting.  Bill bob, and John's performances where exceptional; John is the most charismatic actor in Hollywood, and his charisma makes him the idea politician.  He shows the Hypocrisy of politicans, their self absorption, drive for power, and belief they can be above the law.  Lie and hide their baggage, and expose others.  The film is a 3, but John turns it up to a 6, my wife likes it more, but I find the tongue and cheek direction too much. This film hit a never with me, about the distrust of politicians, with their lawyer answers, flip flop on issues, and hidden agendas.  This film reminds me of a Eastwood movie saying Don't p**s on my back and tell me its raining.  In this light, the satire plays well. "},{"Title":"This movie is better than warm milk to put you to sleep...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually enjoy John Travolta movies very much. This is a definite exception. What a stupid movie! Ughh! I may have to watch it again just to make sure it was as boringly bad an experience as it was initially. President Clinton must have gotten a kick out of watching himself, and his homies portrayed so poorly. "},{"Title":"IT SUCKED BIG TIME!!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst movies of all time.  I am into politics, and was expecting a lot of mud to come out on Mr. Bill.  All we got was a little dirty water, and a huge liberal twist to the movie that makes Mr. Bill seem like a good guy.  I was sick to my stomach after watching all the liberal twists that were in it. I bet the book is a lot better!  I guess that I should have expected it. What else could a liberal Hollywood make. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near sharp or clever enough to be of lasting value","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When political activist Henry Burton is approached by the Stanton camp to meet Governor Jack Stanton he believes it is just a meeting even if Stanton's staff are all welcoming him on board. After watching Stanton in action though, Henry is converted and joins him as campaign manager. Things are rough at first with little staff and a big gap in the polls however a major drop-out and some smart campaigning brings him into major contention for becoming the presidential candidate. Henry starts out arranging speeches, press conferences and sound bites but very quickly a sex scandal and personal revelations about Stanton start coming out of the woodwork and the campaign finds itself in a tougher battle.Although very clearly intended to satirise politics and, in particular, the Clintons, but the film just somehow doesn't manage to do it that well. The plot is interesting but it lacks teeth, making general points rather than going for the jugular on any issue. The general descent into corruption is reasonably well handled and the use of Henry is a nice device for making it clear that we are on a journey into something rather than, like the politicians, already being there. However the script isn't sharp enough and drifts forward with a lethargic style that may compliment Stanton's delivery but doesn't help the material at all. The comparisons with the Clintons do add some extra value to the film but it isn't enough to make the whole film (in the same way as a good Bush impression wasn't enough to sell Silver City); it may produce some snickering but again they lack a sharp edge and could have been a lot more.It doesn't help that Travolta does a pretty poor impression of Clinton. I could see what he was trying to but Clinton does sincerity much better than this and Travolta's version is a disservice. What is close to the mark is Thompson's take on a driven woman who will take anything as long as the prize is within reach. She is much more convincing and her tough character and struggles makes for interesting content. Lester is a talented actor and he doesn't allow himself to be dominated by any of the starry cast; he is impressive even when the weaker material leaves him out there on his own. Support from Bates, Thornton, Tierney, Hagman, Guilfoyle, Reiner, Ladd and others all add a touch of class but, like the leads, they cannot help the fact that the material is too weak to produce a solid satire.Overall this was an interesting and distracting film but it is certainly not as sharp, funny or insightful as it would like to think it is. By being far too general, meandering and uncommitted in one direction or the other the film loses a lot of its impact and doesn't have enough to it to be worth a look. I found it vaguely interesting but it felt watered down and needed to be a lot sharper if it was going to be remembered as anything more than that film where Travolta does a poor Clinton impression. "},{"Title":"A good movie about a lying, commie scumbag","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We learn how Clinton (er Stanton) cares so much about the people that he's willing to use the government to smother their livelihood, crush their freedoms, and take care of their every need.  I want off of Uncle Tom's Plantation!  What ever happened to speaking the truth, working hard, and being a free, self-governing individual? "}]