[{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Julia Sweeney's filmed version of her one-woman show is absolutely wonderful.I first saw it with my husband when he was ill with Stage 4 cancer. I re-viewed it last night, over a year after my husband passed away. Both my husband I loved it when we first saw it (and continued to use the line, I love my shunt! until he died), and I loved it just as much, but for different reasons, upon seeing it again.I found Ms. Sweeney's material to be truly amazing; she managed to capture the horror of the nightmarish cancer experience while keeping in touch with the parallel (and often surreal) experience that life does, in fact, go on Cats still need to be fed, garbage still needs to be taken out, and small incidents do not become less irritating or hilarious just because there's terminal illness in the house.The fact that Ms. Sweeney is able to find, articulate and share the humor inherent in a horrible, emotionally draining experience is a gift to everyone who sees the show. Her great intelligence and sensitivity toward the subject matter prevents her from descending into sentiment (or worse) -- there are no banal observations or advice about how to deal with terminal illness, no facile, semi-spiritual conclusions about life and death. I think she understands that this kind of bunk (all too common in books and film these days) is at best insulting to anyone who has lived through this kind of experience. Instead, her emphasis on the small, human aspects of living with someone who is terminally ill makes the experience all the more real, and all the more valuable. I know that every time my husband and I had to face a particularly difficult medical procedure, we'd swap lines from Ms. Sweeney's show, and somehow it made it easier to get through it. And setting aside the subject matter, there's the simple fact that Ms. Sweeney's timing is terrific -- she really knows how to set up a joke and deliver it. These are not bust-your-gut guffaw jokes and anecdotes; these are the kind that manage to get you crying and laughing at the same time. What could be better? "},{"Title":"Drama without the Greek masks","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a beautiful, honest and funny show. It breaks new ground in the way that artists treat the major events of life. I understand that the Greeks wore masks because they felt that the human face was incapable of expressing the tragedies and dramas that we all must face. Dylan Thomas wrote Do not go gentle into that good night,\Old age should burn and rave at close of day; \Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Julia has dared to face tragedy and drama without a mask. She is a humorist and that is the face she shows death. You won't find anything like it anyplace else in any of the arts. She brings a new honesty to the arts and I hope others follow her lead. And she IS funny "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most life-affirming movies I've ever seen, even though it's not really a movie. It's actually a filmed version of Julia Sweeney's heartbreaking and heartwarming one-woman show about the worst year of her life. What's wonderful about her is her point of view. She never whines about why has this happened--about why her brother is dying from cancer at 31, or why her family must all live in her tiny bungalow and rob her of her privacy and sanity, or why she's dealt another massive blow (I won't mention it). She knows her brother Mike is in stage 4 of cancer (stage 5 is death), and there's no room for selfishness. It's her complete selflessness and plucky humor that pulled her through this terrible time and helped her see the silver lining of getting to understand her parents better. It's to her credit that she was able to create a show from her pain that can teach every one of us a lesson or two about life without being the tiniest bit pedantic, and it's even more to her credit how incredibly funny and deeply moving it is. I laughed one huge gut-laugh after another, and, yes, I had some tears. Sometimes I cried for her because she refused to.  "},{"Title":"Unique and Touching","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the filmed version of Julia Sweeney's intimate one-woman stage play about her family and how they coped when cancer struck two members within a year. It takes a humorous and very brave look at a very serious situation. God said Ha! is an intelligent, entertaining and involving film. The title is taken from a Get Well card a friend sent Sweeney.. One warning. If Porky's is your idea of sophisticated humour, this is not the film for you. A modicum of intelligence and sensitivity is required.. Executive producer Quentin Tarantino, makes a brief cameo appearance at the end. "},{"Title":"Great Film In The Spirit Of Paul Linke's Time Flies When You're Alive","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very cathartic film allowing someone who lost a loved one (her brother, Mike, who passed away from brain cancer), as well as her own Uterine Cancer that occurred as her brother was dying. She filmed four hours of film, and just let out all of her feelings with real heart and humor, and it was edited down to this loving tribute to her brother. I am not a Julia Sweeney fan, but when I first saw this film when it first came out it really meant a lot to me and it also helped me with losses in my life. This is a film in the same vein as Paul Linke's (Officer Arthur Grossman, from the TV Series CHiPS), tribute to his late wife, Francesca Draper, in his similar film Time Flies When You're Alive that appeared on HBO. Both films are very warm and loving reflections on loss of a dear loved one, both reflect the pain, the loss, and tasteful humor in dealing with such pain and loss. Both of these films I have recommended for years for those who are dealing with the dying or loss of a loved one. Even as a Chaplain, it is hard to deal with such loss myself... and both of these films have helped me personally. "},{"Title":"So sad, so funny","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never heard of this actress before happening to see the show listed on the guide. Sounded interesting so I popped in for a look; what an eye and earful I got. I would have to dig down deep to find an amusing story to bring out of something as awful as the things this family had to go through. But then the entire tale wasn't funny at times it was very painful to listen to. I suppose Sweeney is the type to find silver in a cloud rather than moan continually over the unfairness of her existence. Commendable, I say. I appreciated the way the stage was set up and the methods employed in it's use. Sweeney would walk from area to area using different lighting procedures and layouts, many of which went along with the narrative. Sometimes, with the curtains just behind her, she even appeared to be on the verge of going backstage. Often Sweeney would be looking away from the camera and then turn slowly to face it. That and other uses of the camera and expression added greatly to the production.  Bittersweet, effective, excellently done.  "},{"Title":"Good Stand-up","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not really a movie but a monologue or stand-up semi-comedy (as far as you can make cancer funny).  I've seen Julia in LA, and she is a fabulous comedienne and story-teller, no matter what the topic.  Her imitation of various people and sense of the ridiculous make her charming.  Unlike most comics, she's not trying to score points for being crude and shocking with profanity.  A humorous recounting of everyday life and dysfunctionality and turning-points, elevating such things above the mundane for further reflection... you can't help but love her.  My only question is why Quentin Tarantino is listed as cast.  ? "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie.","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so much better than that junk that is coming out of Hollywood these days. I loved Julia Sweeney in this movie because it touched my heart with her tragic story of the loss of her beloved brother, and the unfortunate circumstance of having her parents as her house guests.  "},{"Title":"It all comes down to we are all human","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I too found this film while channel surfing. I laughed, I cried and I thought it was wonderful that Julia took time out from her celebrity to tell us about a year in her life - something that makes us all human.I felt for her - for I knew exactly what she had gone through in a year with one devastation after the other and then....here comes mom and dad! But then you learn from Julia so much about the human spirit, family and friends - and the mom and dad who you KNEW drove you nuts and to therapy are not as horrible as you really imagined.This is truly a life affirming film, a film of love and sadness - of joy and life. Those of us who are and have gone through cancer and other fatal illnesses with those that are close to us can identify, and those who have not will get a greater understanding due to Julia's telling and how deeply from the heart it comes. "},{"Title":"for after a death","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When my father died in 1995, I thought I'd never laugh again. This movie is one that I'll always remember as my grief turned into laughter. Grief has it's own way of sneaking up on us, making the world seem surreal when reality is too hard to deal with. When a tragic illness, terminal diagnosis, or chronic injury enter a person's life, things just aren't what they used to be. That's pretty much what this film is about. How things just aren't as they used to be, and interwoven, complex, and often piquant trips down memory lane. This film gives a wonderfully extraordinary, titillatingly sarcastic look at medicine, a brother-sister relationship, and the way an independent, single woman finds herself back in her immediate family fold. I say 'hurrah' for the making of this film, and 'thank God' for God Said, 'Ha!' "}{"Title":"How can one person's bad luck be so funny?","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to a year in Julia Sweeney's life. It started out great - a successful TV stint, an amicable divorce, and finally the house of her dreams in LA. Life looked good - alone at last to contemplate the whatever! Until suddenly, God Said, Ha!. Her brother got sick and moved in, her parents got worried and followed suit, and so she moved to the couch in the back yard office. Her dream house was suddenly over-run, and that's when Julia's life really started to unravel...It is difficult to see Julia Sweeney, and attempt to dissect the real person from that Pat character she played so well on Saturday Night Live. And yet, after seeing God Said, Ha!, a real, true, wonderful person emerges. A person that the audience ends up caring deeply about after all is said and done.This is a mere monologue we are talking about, no cinematic wizardry to be found anywhere. I walked into this 1999 Palm Springs Film Festival offering cold turkey. After the first few minutes I started to catch on to the fact that the camera lens wasn't going to budge from a sparsely decorated stage, with Julia Sweeney standing upon it, talking directly from the hip. And that she did!It is hard to imagine after listening to this true story completely unfold, that one can find so much humor in the misfortune of another. But I did, and I'm glad! I can't help but think that Julia Sweeney managed to keep her sanity through her entire ordeal by laughing at portions of it in much the same manner as we did! "},{"Title":"A touching, bittersweet love letter . . .","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Comedians have the right idea. If you can laugh at yourself you can survive anything. Julia Sweeney has a sense of humor about herself and those closest to her even in the face of overwhelming tragedy.'God Said Ha!' is a one-woman show in which Sweeney wanders a stage and talks in loving detail about a very eventful year in her life. It started out fine. She had had a successful four year run on 'Saturday Night Live', she had a divorce that came and went without a hitch, she moved to California and bought a house complete with solitude and independence.Then it happened. Her brother Mike became terminally ill with Lymphoma and soon his sickbed resided in her living room. Then her parents follow suit. There is a wonderful way in which Sweeney looks back at all of this chaos, using humor as an antidote.She speaks lovingly about her brother, a very private person (he had a doorbell on his bedroom door as a child) who apparently seemed to approach his illness with the same wit. She tells of the progression of his illness and how the family dealt with it. The trips to UCLA and how he would get better and worse and better and worse.Sweeney talks about her parents as well-meaning people who, try as they may, just couldn't stay out of the way. Her mother especially who insisted that Julia call Marinated Pasta, 'The noodles in the red sauce' and how she wasn't sure which way to screw in the light bulb.Then even more bad news falls on her. Her doctor diagnoses her with ovarian cancer and I was surprised how much humor one woman could orchestrate out of having an ovary removed.'God Said Ha!' is very touching and very funny, a love letter to a brother to which life seemed to have dealt a bad hand. What is so amazing about it is the way that she uses comedy to find dignity in a tragic situation. She reminds me of Guido in 'Life is Beautiful' who used his God given gift to shield himself from tragedy. Laughter, they say, is the best medicine and no one knows better than she does. "},{"Title":"The emptiness left behind by death...bolstered by the bonds of family","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wonderful examination of love and loss from actress-comedienne Julia Sweeney, adapting her own one-woman play into an intimate and genuinely touching one-woman film. Sweeney talks about her beloved brother's battle in 1995 with terminal cancer&#x97;and her own eventual, almost-simultaneous diagnosis with cervical cancer&#x97;without being facetious (nor is she, on the flip side, overtly sentimental or 'angry'). There are no railings against God here; Sweeney is pithy and cogent, amusing in a lightly ironic way, and very appealing (a quality that failed to come across with the material she was given to do while a member of TV's Saturday Night Live). While not a big cinematic event, Sweeney's warmth as a speaker coupled with her deeply-felt remembrances have the ability to touch a lot of people. It should be perfect fare for cable-television. *** from **** "},{"Title":"very touching, funny and sad","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a movie per se, it is a one woman show.  Julia Sweeney talks very candidly about her experience with her brother's and then her own cancer.  She does find humor in her situation, so it is at times funny. If you are going through the experience with a loved one who has cancer this is a good movie to watch, to see how someone else has dealt with it. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an incredible movie. Julia Sweeney describes the experience that she and her family shared in coping first with her brother's cancer, and then with her own. As they confront their cancer and their mortality, they have such an awareness of the ironies of human life that I found myself simultaneously laughing out loud and crying. I was very touched by the film. It had such spirit. "},{"Title":"caught this movie while channel surfing","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  caught this movie while channel surfing.....i laughed and cried and remember the memories of my own mom's 11 month struggle with cancer and how laughter amongst the tears got me through it all.  A good see for those that have lived through the overshadowing of CANCER in your life  "},{"Title":"Act makes for a better CD than film","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i got a copy of julia sweeney's god said ha on CD last summer and have come to really love it. most of her act is really funny but what makes it so great is that sweeney takes you into her personal life. you really feel like you are a close friend who is being told all the intimate details of her struggles throughout her terrible ordeals. when i finally got to see the movie on tv last week, i was slightly disappointed. the CD contains about 20 extra minutes of material which are excellent. i was particularly disappointed with the camera direction and the way sweeney put cheesy music behind some of the more dramatic dialogue. the film tricks- such as lighting and closeups- that are used to supposedly enhance the act just end up taking away from it. i highly recommend anyone to pick up her CD but her movie is just not as good. "},{"Title":"Very funny and very touching","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie; one of the best one-person shows I've seen.I had to look everywhere to find it, but it was worth thesearch. Funny, moving, and -- as anyone who has a family, or hasbeen to a doctor, can testify -- very real "},{"Title":"Very funny and very touching","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent movie; one of the best one-person shows I've seen.I had to look everywhere to find it, but it was worth the search. Funny, moving, and -- as anyone who has a family, or has been to a doctor, can testify -- very real "},{"Title":"An inspiring and humorous film","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so impressed with God Said 'Ha!' that I had to go rent It's Pat just to see Julia Sweeney. This film is inspiring on two different levels. One being that a person can get through anything in life and that someone can so vividly paint a portait of a slice of Americana. I could actually invision what her parents and brothers looked like and what her home looked like. And this wasn't form her telling the audience, but the way that she told it. She had a lot of heart and soul to bear such a demanding story to everyone and I for one am pleased that she did. It is one of the best movies I have seen  "}{"Title":"A very moving, surprisingly funny, memorable film.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Julia Sweeney is masterful at communicating her extraordinary ordeal when her brother was diagnosed with cancer. I found myself rivetted to the screen, despite the fact that this is not a traditional film.  You feel as if you are listening to a friend recount a terrible nightmare.  I was so engrossed in the story I didn't want it to end.  A beautiful movie made much more powerful by the fact that it is true.  Bravo, Julia Sweeney.  "},{"Title":"Family Time","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I pretty much live a quiet life with my wife. Yes, the dogs provide some distraction, and my stepdaughter comes over occasionally, but, for the most part, it is quiet in our house. I say that because I can empathize with Julia Sweeney having her quiet life torn apart by an invasion of family subsequent to finding out that her brother has cancer.This one-woman show was the story of how she dealt with the event, and her parents, and her own cancer. It was both touching and funny at the same time. Sundennly, as an adult, you are time shifted back to being a child again. Or, having lived an urbane city existence, you are faced with those who are countrified. It makes you go through changes that you thought would never happen.I laughed with her, I cried with her, I struggled with her. It was as we were old friends sharing our lives. I am sure everyone can find something in here that touches them. Spend 90 minutes with Julia. "},{"Title":"A funny take on a difficult subject and time in her life","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Julia Sweeney takes a look at a rough time in her life - her brother's and her own cancer - and pokes fun at the circumstances and problems that arose. She does an excellent job at keeping the comedy going in light of the tragic circumstances.  She also goes beyond the experience of her brother's illness and her own and deals with other aspects of her life.  Those of you out there who are catholic will find thing to which you can relate. Others will also find part of this movie that touch you in a personal way. Throughout the movie, Julia's upbeat take on life shines through.  Even when she relates the fact of her brother's death, she moves on quickly to keep the comedy going.  Six and a half out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Saw movie on Starz Back in 1998 when it was a promo","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The comment I read above, disturbed me. Julia Sweeney is a genuine comic she not only took my emotions through laughter but through sadness and then picked me back up with laughter again. Julia was not whining. I cannot get enough of this stand up comic. I had known of Julia from Pat and Saturday Night Live and actually I liked her and when I saw this movie on Starz I laughed so hard and then felt the sadness that she intended to project to her audience. I then was shopping one day and I came across the movie...I screamed when I saw it and it was the only copy...this older man was holding and looking at it but I think I frightened him when I screamed. He asked me have you seen this movie? I said yea and he asked is it any good? now at that moment I thought I should have recommended the movie to him but there was only one copy so I lied and said oh no it was terrible she lost a lot of money making that movie I felt bad but when he set the movie down and walked away I picked it up and rushed to the checkout and bought it. I went home right away and washed it. I think you have to have a good sense of humor to understand the humor in what she says.....I love the impressions she does of her mother.....and the scandalous thoughts she had at the most worst time for anyone. It is sad about her brother.......I went out and got a cd by the Crash Test Dummies after I saw the movie and they are a good band. After seeing this movie I had a greater respect for Julia Sweeney. I wish I could meet her and tell her how much I love her and her movie God Said Ha. I recommend that you pick up the movie and watch it "},{"Title":"God said Ha........to me too!!!","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Julia Sweeney not only puts her heart and soul into this performance, but she takes you into her most deepest moments over the passing of her brother from Lymphoma Cancer, but also through her own struggle with her own battle with Cervical Cancer (or sympathy cancer as her brother called it) Having lost my own life partner from Non-Hodgkins Cancer, and me being a survivor of the same Cancer, this one woman show deals with the roller-coaster emotions that one goes through if they know someone who has Cancer or has passed away from Cancer. Julia Sweeney is able to put a very humorous spin on the whole subject matter with style and grace, that only Julia could possibly give to the subject matter. A very heart warming film that will have you thinking of your own mortality, and what does life really mean. "},{"Title":"You will laugh, you will shed a tear!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Julia perform this show live. I was thrilled when the cd came out of the show, which I bought in a heartbeat.I ran (not walked) to the theater when the film came out.The film is great, as it catches the performance in front of a live audience. My only regret (it's minor), is that the film is edited from the longer live version. If you purchase the cd, you will hear the monologue in it's entirety. It leaves out the part of her and her brother when they are children, and she steals from her mothers purse. It also left out a part of her relationship with her sister in Japan, complaining about Christmas gifts!Because of this, I only give the movie 8 stars out of 10. (still not bad though, huh?)The show is filmed with one camera, but your eye does not get tired as the camera is always moving.In a word, this film is touching.  "},{"Title":"Of all the abilities God grants us, laughter is the most healing.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  God Said HA is a small film that will have a big effect on your life. Julia Sweeney has proven herself to be one of the best story tellers we have...and one of the most honest.If you are only familiar with Sweeney's work from her years on Saturday Night Live, you will be pleased to find the very best character Julia Sweeney does is Julia Sweeney.Don't be afraid of the subject matter, and treat yourself to one fine flick you will be thinking about for a very long time. "},{"Title":"Sweeney Tale - A Shade of Gray","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't doubt Julia Sweeney's sincerity for one single moment.  Her heart-wrenching experiences as care-taker to her dying brother, the life-reversal of having her parents for house guests, and her own harrowing diagnosis of cancer are honestly related and clearly presented. So why is this one of the lamest films of all time?  Why was this material, suitable for a small theatrical or club venue or maybe even a TV special, feted royally with a huge Broadway production and this subsequent feature film?  The answer can only be (sorry to say) that the painful reality of the C word intimidated everyone who encountered it.  Nobody could bear to say No! to Sweeney - let alone Ha!After the Broadway production bombed in a few short performances, why didn't anyone reconsider this ill-conceived movie?  Although Sweeney is a sweet and endearing presence, her talents are stretched to the breaking point here.  Her considered insights into her experiences are far from revelatory and her overall shaping of this long monologue is uneven at best.  Sweeney (whose previous film IT'S PAT was based on a Saturday Night Live sketch considered the new HEAVEN'S GATE)is just not up to carrying a full length one-woman feature on her own. That reluctantly said, the direction and design of this film is where the pic is at it's most banal.  A cheesy off-Broadway set is clearly a left-over from her stage presentation and isn't needed or utilized to any advantage.  In fact, it distracts more often than not.Direction (of Sweeney and the cameras) is non-existent and an idiotic laugh track feels like it was dubbed in as an after-thought.  Even the canned audience sounds afraid to laugh to heartily at the delicate subject matter.  No matter, however, because we never see the audience - we only hear their tentative and distant titters. One meager camera move involves panning behind another camera!  What is this supposed to prove?  It only reminds us that we are watching a film and takes us momentarily away from Sweeney's moving story. Inexplicably, our star opens this 86 minute film by turning her back to us to take a drink of water.  As proof positive that (in lieu of no direction) simple is best, Sweeney is at her most powerful and poignant when looking directly into the camera - which, unfortunately, she rarely does.  She seems unfocused and searching for some far off point beyond the camera's realm.Presenting a stage monologue on film is not an impossible task.  Screen Spalding Gray's MONSTER IN A BOX, SWIMMING TO CAMBODIA or any of his other stage to screen monodrama transfers.  Someone should have told Sweeney and company to do the same.  Then God might have said a little more than the ambiguous ha. "},{"Title":"God Said, 'Blah'","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have nothing against Julia Sweeney personally.  I'm sure that she's a nice enough woman and she seems to have at least the rudiments of intelligence.  Sadly, though, she seems to possess no insight, not a smidgen of intellectual curiosity or achievement.  Certainly she has no discernible sense of humor or wit.This execrable film is incessantly dull.  Ms. Sweeney's anecdotal remembrances from her and her brother's experience with cancer, are excruciatingly childish and unremarkable.  It's difficult to imagine how someone could endure these events and yet be so lightly touched by them that in a film devoted to their retelling, the author can recall not one genuine moment of insight - not one interesting story to tell.  Not a single moment of humor crosses this film's threshold.What the audience is regaled with, instead, is a retelling of Ms. Sweeney's neuroses and fascination/obsession with idiotically minute, irrelevant, and soporific issues in her childhood and life.  The idea, one presumes, is to transfer to the audience the idea that she has some incredible depth of character and emotion.  However, quite the opposite is the result - what the audience comes to realize is that Julia Sweeney, even after being thrown into what should have been a cauldron of emotions resulting in significant insight, is simply incapable of understanding, much less communicating, anything of greater depth than wanting her parents to leave her apartment after her surgery.This cloying, retchingly obvious and inane movie will make the intelligent viewer reach for the vomit bag within five minutes of the beginning. "},{"Title":"Worst talk show lookalike I've ever seen","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must tell you to stay away from this awful film! I watch it hoping it to be a funny comedy where joy in others misery would be effectively used, but all it shows is a woman complaining like hell about her own life and some added audience laughs (for certain not real).I didn't laugh even once, I was so frustrated and angry that this movie with so high grade could be so bad.Save your money and go watch a real movie like The Matrix instead of such a total failure like God Said Ha is. "}{"Title":"This is a movie???? junk!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dont know about anybody else, but when I rent a movie, I dont want to be watching an unfunny, soporific stand-up routine. We thought this would be a comedy movie and were utterly disappointed. Luckily, we got our money back. Who wants to listen to a sourpuss who's basically whingeing about her life in a humorous (supposedly) fashion? Please.. take your trash elsewhere. I am surprised Tarantino had anything to do with this one, i love his work. My rating 1/10. Would give it a zero if I could. "}]