[{"Title":"See it, then decide","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"337 out of 410 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's a depressing fact that the moviegoing public is being brainwashed by critics to hate everything involving Kevin Costner. When released in 1997 this breathtaking, thought-provoking epic was largely ignored and limped to a box office gross of $14 million, thanks to some vicious reviews.Lest we forget, Costner made the magnificent Dances With Wolves, but that was in the days when we were told it was okay to like him. His directorial follow up is every bit as good.  He knows about directing.  He coaxes great performances from his casts. He has real vision and takes chances. Like Michael Cimino, his efforts are belittled and mocked while directors with clearly less talent are applauded.So to all those people who stayed away in droves and screw their faces up at the mention of this film, I say watch it before you criticise it. Don't rely on some magazine writer to tell you who's good and who's not. Your brain is there for a reason.  "},{"Title":"Well... I am glad to see that I am not the only person who liked this film","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"193 out of 244 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I truly do NOT understand why The Postman was attacked as viscously as it was by the film media (there films much more worthy of the Golden Raspberry Awards in 1997).  I loved this film and was very impressed with the loving amount of dedication that it demonstrates on the part of the actors, writers and director.  This was a GOOD movie it had a strong and intelligent story; excellent and interesting characters; and real feel for the post-Apocalypse genre.  I felt that Kevin Costner's everyman act worked beautifully in this film and created a sense of reality for the character and of his situation. As far as the sci-fi novel by David Brin, this film exceeded it in every way possible.  Where Brin had to rely on cheezy sci-fi standards (like supersoldiers) to resolve his story, this film does using only two men, both frauds, and both with radically different understandings of what constitutes a proper society.  That is what made this film great (and I rarely use the term great), that this film was essentially an examination of America and what America means.  It was a parable of sorts about the types of men Americans are and what they are capable of (notice that the head bad-guy had a traditional, classical education, while Costner did not; he appreciated these things but they were not at the center of his belief system... I wonder why).  While I do not agree with every aspect of this film (I am a Medievalist and a Platonist, so I don't necessarily feel the same way about the Western Canon that the film-maker may have), I still find it to be a beautiful reflection on the psyche of the American everyman.  America has a tradition of rejecting the absolutist ideals of the past in favor of the pragmatic relativism of today, and I think that this film is a parable of the divorce of America from the traditions of Europe.  Overall, this is a complex and entertaining film and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in examinations of American culture and tradition, perhaps as a double feature with Citizen Cane (I am not, however, claiming that the Postman was as good a film as Citizen Cane, only that they have a similar theme... what does it mean to be an American?). "},{"Title":"Don't listen to it's critics, see the movie for yourself and come to your own conclusions.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"179 out of 227 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A Far better movie then it's critics make it out to be. The Postman is a good solid film about the end of the world and the chaos and confusion that follows with the unwitting soul that destiny choose to bring those who survived the apocalypse back to a better life and promising future. Corny yes but in a positive and constructive sort of way. With the cast of Kevin Costner on down giving the film the sort of believability that you just don't see in most of the End of he World movies that have been projected on the silver screen since Things to Come back in 1936.The Postman unlike most End of the world movies carries through the entire movie, which is almost three hours long, a positive and uplifting theme that you rarely get to see in these type of films. The ending of the film, call it corny it you will, was really moving without being obnoxious like it could have been had it been made by a lesser talent then Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"Very unfairly treated movie","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"135 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I know a lot of people hated this movie. I know why. It is a little saccharine in places and yes, it is not always believeable. But this is one of the few time a screenplay is better than the book it was based on. This film always fills me with such positive energy and hope. it is funny in places, sad in places, tragic and action-packed in places. Costner plays Eric with such a fresh attitude, and you can almost hear the voices in the characters head pulling his loyalties. The cast is perfect and in many places the cinamatography is sublime. The cross cuts are so clever it made my eyes ache with envy that i didnt think of them and the action sequences are fast and timed to perfection. this remains one of my favourite films and in all honesty people should give it a little more respect. no matter what you think of the script and characterisation technicly this film is top draw. Sets, locations, effects and design grab you by the hand and take you someplace you actually want to go. i would much rather make and see films like this than dross like 'chaicago' and 'moulin rouge'. this is a film for grownups with a bit of imagination and respect for the film makers art. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"100 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie, unlike most people, I hadn't heard anything at all about this movie prior to seeing it. I wasn't expecting to see a bad movie.What I found was an interesting Epic. It isn't a great movie , but it is a good movie. I honestly don't understand why anyone would call this the worst movie ever as I have heard on several occasions.Give this movie a chance, don't go expecting instant gratification.  "},{"Title":"A much better movie than the user ratings would indicate.","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"75 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice, and it is overall better than 80% of the trash movies being released these days.Those of you familiar with statistics and normal distributions, look at the user ratings for this movie.  A full 12% give it a 1 rating, which is obviously bogus.  Look at the shape of the distribution, and you'll see that the valid rating for this movie is somewhere between 7 and 8, which are the most common ratings, which makes perfect sense.  A 7.5 on a 10 point scale is where most people would rate it.It has such an uplifting story of a re-construction after a war, and banning together to fight evil, that I don't see how anyone with a heart could give it less than about 6 or 7.  See it if you haven't already! "},{"Title":"Not as horrible as all that","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"70 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is one of those films that has become almost synonymous with the concept of lousy, awful, horrible, terrible, stinking mess of a movie. Like Plan 9 from Outer Space, Ishtar, or Gigli, it is sometimes invoked in this manner on Internet message boards or in chatter between friends. But is The Postman truly such a horrible disaster? I would argue that its bad reputation is overdone.Make no mistake, this movie is no Citizen Kane. There is no way, by any stretch of the imagination, that this could be called a great movie. But every week B-movies that are orders of magnitude worse come out. What is it about this one that accounts for its enduring lousy reputation? This in itself is an interesting question.Part of the answer has to do with Kevin Costner. It is hard to imagine now, but at one time (especially in the wake of Dances with Wolves) his reputation in Hollywood was towering and unassailable. Costner squandered his mega-star status with a series of expensive yet mediocre duds such as this one, and in the end The Postman's crime is not that it is a truly terrible movie, but that it is simply a not-great movie that deflated the public's hopes and expectations of what Kevin Costner film should be. The curse of too-high expectations. The worst aspect of this movie is its occasional pomposity and self-importance, derived from Costner's own enormous mid-90s ego, and it is easy to laugh at the final scene or various dramatic sequences with swirling symphonic music and glistening slo-mo shots. But if you can get beyond this and look at the movie as just a somewhat entertaining way to pass a few hours, it really isn't that bad, especially if you are a fan of the dark future genre of films. Will Patton in particular provides a good, convincing performance, as do a number of other minor characters.And the world of The Postman -- a decayed, post-apocalyptic, decentralizedAmerica where the federal government has collapsed -- is interesting in its own right. Remember, this film was borne of the early/mid 1990s, a time that gave us Timothy McVeigh, anti-government sentiment, Waco, and fear about militias. There was a sense in the air that America could possibly disintegrate and fragment into local areas battling each other in the long run. This world view seems very alien in the post-9-11 era, where there is much more of a consciousness of being an American, rallying around the flag, and the role of the federal government as a powerful military force, for good or for ill. Nowadays fear of outsiders and terrorism has largely replaced fears of internal anarchy and domestic unraveling. The Postman reminds us that not so long ago America envisioned its dark possible futures in a very different way than it currently does, and this in itself is instructive and worth pondering. "},{"Title":"First of all...I liked it...I really did!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"61 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all...I liked it...I really did! It is a film by Kevin Costner, starring Kevin Costner, surrounds Kevin Costner's character, and a movie that is simply...Kevin Costner. But if you liked Kevin Costner in such films as Dances With Wolves, Robin Hood, The Bodyguard, and even slightly in Waterworld, then you will like this film. I know it is three hours long (I got refills on both the popcorn and super-size soda and still ran out), but I didn't find it as unbearable as those less-than-perfect-movie-critics have claimed. I found the time to go by quite like you would expect three hours to go by and didn't find myself being bored or dozing off. Yes, the story line was a bit predictable and Kevin played the reluctant hero that he is known for...but I liked it. Bottom line...if you want to do something nice for your postman, tell them you are going to go see the film in their honor...because like their motto says...not rain, nor shine, nor sleet, nor nothing...not even the lack of being a country will stop the mail from getting through. "},{"Title":"Bum Rap","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"81 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I found the movie to be better than anticipated (perhaps because I feared  the worst, thanks to all the antihype).  Costner did a great job  transforming a hokey script into an attractive film. It's use of symbolism  and Shakespearian references were well placed, though seemingly not  accepted. This only strengthens the fact that movies wax too philosophical  for the general audience, especially an American audience which usually  can't handle any movie beyond 1 and a half hours.  This is why the Action  genre is so popular while the Epic genre sees a rare release.  Also, Great  scenery and camera work help the story along, not to mention good acting.   In its roots, Postman is an old fashioned movie without the heavy, overdone  special effects we badly crave(Armaggedon, Starship Troopers).  The Postman  is merely a metaphor for strength, courage and conviction.  The movie could  have been about The Cook and still work as well.  Shame on Hollywood for  trashing such a great star!!  (lest we forget the references to Kevin's  Gate during DANCES WITH WOLVES, The negative buzz surrounding ROBIN HOOD,  and even WATER WORLD.)    Movies that went on to become hits!! "},{"Title":"A Very good post-apocalyptic film","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"102 out of 164 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was excellent. The acting ranged from average to good, the fight scenes were convincing, the costume design was superve, and the set design phenomenal. The problem with this film is, that it's sci-fi, and as we all know, sci-fi has that nasty habit of making people think. And hay, who likes to do that nowadays? This film asks the question...what if, right now, all of civilization fell apart. no more super-market, no more police, no more government. The truth of all things would be revealed...money would be just green paper, your television would be a piece of junk, and everything that you lived for would take a back seat to survival. Who would you be? a Warrior, a wonderer, a tyrant, a diplomat? would the meek inhereit the earth? would the rich and powerful be pathetic and powerless when their paper-empires crumble in the nuclear war? and America...would that dream of the land of the free, home of the brave survive after it's government has been destroyed? and who would preserve it? who would insure that after the End, the government of the people, by the people and for the people would not parish from the Earth? would you? This film is a must-see for thinking people...for all you brainless slaves of the critics...stay home and watch Titanick(Hurl!) for the tenth time. "}{"Title":"In Costner we trust - not","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I suppose one could say that parts of this film aren't as bad as parts of Waterworld, but that obviously doesn't pay it any compliments.Actually, this film reminds me a lot of the old Italian post-apocalyptic thriller The New Barbarians (I Nuovi barbari,(1982)) - except that it's nowhere near as fun.The two films share much the same plot. But the Italian film cost less than $200,000 instead of tens of millions, has a lot of funky looking cars instead of horses, takes place in gravel pits rather than the grand Northwest, and the rape scene is very gay. But it is fast paced, completely unpretentious, unabashedly ridiculous - a real hoot.The acting in The Postman is just as bad as that in the Italian film, but the dialog is far worse without being any funnier, the characters much less interesting. And it drags and drags. Also, there's nowhere near the sheer amount of action that there is in the Italian film. And it's so pretentious, you'll look for cues for genuflection. Actually, pretty depressing - after watching this, you'll realize there was nothing worth preserving from apocalypse.Overall a B-movie pretending to be an A-movie, ending up just a plain old bad movie. "},{"Title":"Oh boy, this movie was boring.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie is just really plain boring. I'm glad I just saw it on television. Renting the movie would have been a complete waste of money.This is Kevin's second attempt on making a post apocalyptic movie. And just like waterworld he failed.If you like to see a good movie about a lonesome guy wandering in a post apocalyptic desert, go see 'Mad Max the Road Warrior'.Okay, in this one Kevin comes up with a more original story than Waterworld (the story of Waterworld was just stolen from the Road Warrior).On the other hand, waterworld was still enjoyable as a simple action-adventure movie. 'The postman' however is just boring and pretentious.Kevin Costner may try as hard as he can, he will never be the mean guy and hero-against-his-will-type like Mel-'Mad Max'-Gibson was.The postman is a three hour-long torture of stupid dialogues, bombastic symbolism and self-glorification.I even feel pity for Tom Petty. His cameo in this movie is supposed to be funny, but is just as boring as the rest of the movie.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a SUPER JUNK!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie this weekend with my wife and a really good friend. By reading the description of the film my wife thought this movie must be nice, so we agreed to give it a try. What a waste of time! First there is too much unecessary violence, second the story line is just stupid and retarded. American Postmans, with guns, are restoring the goverment and saving the world from evil. What a great tale! We basically could not finish the movie... it deserves less then a star!! "},{"Title":"Is there anything lower then 1?","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Kevin Costner had the dubious distinction of producing the worst film of all time in Waterworld, but the little scoundrel actually outdid himself with this one. This stands pretty much alone as the most unwatchable film of all time. So unwatchable in fact, that I just had to see it through to the end. The editing is dreadful, as whole scenes turn up in completely the wrong places. The God Bless America style of chest beating is absolutely stomach-turning, and just sends the film into one tailspin after another. There is no depth whatsoever to Costner's character, which ironically suits his acting abilities perfectly. I would recommend this film to anyone who craves masochistic forms of film entertainment. It actually is so bad that it's impossible to walk away from. "},{"Title":"SO long and so dumb","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have to say up front I'm not a big fan of Kevin Costner to begin with so I only picked up the movie because I couldn't find what I was really wanting from the library the other day. I don't know what I expected but I decided to take it as a comedy. What a dopey movie, so darn unrealistic, as if that many people wouldn't figure some way of killing that overbearing general guy and his men, come on, what a bunch of wimps. I'll take Arnold Schwarzeneger (sp)? any day of the week in a Conan the Barbarian movie, at least those are entertaining. I finally gave up on it and turned it off. The only good thing I will say is it didn't cost me a dime since it came from the library. If you have to watch it, at least do like I did and hit your library. Better still, pick up a Conan movie. "},{"Title":"10 things I'd rather do than watch this film again","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Top 10 things I would rather do than watch this film ever again.#10. Listen to Bobby McFarren's Don't Worry Be Happy for two hours straight.#9. Beat myself in the head continuously with a 9 iron while watching a complete round of LPGA golf.#8. Quit my job and join the postal service.#7. Watch Waterworld again....wait....yeah OK, watch Waterwold.#6. Spend an afternoon antique shopping with my mother in law on super bowl Sunday.#5. Eating five pounds of raw squid and power vomit for two hours.#4. Ride one leg of the Tour De France on a bike with a fireplace poker for a seat.#3. Get stuck in an small, sweaty, service elevator with Bjork, Bobcat Goldthwait, and Fran Drescher for two hours.#2. Eat and poop 10 large pinecones. The pokey kind, not the flakey kind.#1. Turn this director's cut edition I rented into some sort of pointy edged weapon, then hunt and kill Kevin Costner for sport with it. Preferably on horseback or jetski. "},{"Title":"Costner wants to prove he's a hack","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Terrible, awful film. I guess the cinematagrpahy was good, and you can laugh at the plot and dialog, but at 3 hours you can only laugh so long before you turn it off.Its funny, I never really felt the patriotism people mention when they review this film (even if a reviewer is for or against the film), so those that say this makes them feel patriotic, I have no idea what the hell your talking about, I think you just must be a moron from Texas or something to feel all god bless America about this stupid boring, bad movie.President Starky? Give me a break, the dialog is so lame. And people are going to get all motivated about mail? Um, if I was alive after an apocalypse, I'd be motivated about food, and a roof over my head. I don't think people would organize and work so well together over mail, maybe food and clothing distribution, with mail/information exchange as secondary. Ug, MAYBE this would work as short story science fiction, MAYBE this would be slightly better as a TV show. But as a bloated movie this sucked, bad. "},{"Title":"Was Kevin Costner on drugs when he chose to be in this movie?","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is an absolutely terrible piece of crap. What's worse is that Kevin Costner was stupid enough to both act AND direct this piece of trash. The list of problems with this movie are endless. First of all, this movie is three hours long, with not a single piece of interesting dialogue at all. Secondly, the acting is awful. I used to like Kevin Costner, but after seeing such films as Waterworld, No Way Out, and now this, my opinion of his acting skills is much lower. About the only expressions Costner makes in this film are to smile and to stare at something.If you are looking to watch a good adventure movie, watch the Lord Of The Rings trilogy or Dances with Wolves etc., but whatever you do, DO NOT WATCH THIS Film! "},{"Title":"If the Postman rings twice, don't answer it!","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, to sum up another piece of...schlock from Costner, how about Cliff Claven Saves the World. That would make a fairly decent episode on Cheers maybe but not yet another multimillion dollar floppo like this one. So, what was Costner smoking at this time? Does he really believe all the publicity that his agent puts out there about him? The man has no talent, except maybe, how to con the money men into taking another leap off a cliff with him. Does Costner know how to read or is he able to recognize a crappy story when it hits him? Or is he just so self-absorbed that he doesn't hear anyone trying to ward him off these epics? The question goes begging Why? Don't waste your time on this one. Just go take a nap. You'll benefit much more from that. "},{"Title":"Plenty of time to...get snacks watching this one!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've enjoyed a few of Kevin Costner's movies over the years and respect the many talents he has as an actor, writer, producer and director. But I can't for the life of me figure what possessed him to get involved with this very very long, wooden, unbelievable piece of drivel! Did he owe someone money or something? I suppose the movie's saving grace is that it's fairly harmless and may be useful therapy for people who have sleep disorders! However, it possibly does great disservice to the efforts of postal workers or ordinary citizens by implying that they may not be that honest. Kevin does after all impersonate a postal worker-a federal offense! Technicalities aside, rather than watching this one, you'd be better off mowing the lawn or having an early night! "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Bad","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The film looks like a very long US Postal Office advertisement. This is the only explanation I can give. It is in memory of the Pony Express and its contribution to the civilisation of the Wild West. The film is technically astute with excellent photography and sound effects but really lacking in script, dialogue and everything else. Why waste your time. "},{"Title":"Postman, Postman, Postman","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film ranks among the worst I've ever seen. The concept is great, the scenery pretty good (though not particularly outstanding), and it starts off pretty well, but the music is pompous and grating in the extreme, the acting ludicrous, the continuity of the story lumbering, the dialogue pathetic (I have never heard one single word repeated so many times as 'postman' in this flick) and the ending made me want to retch. While the film starts pretty well, it soon degrades into a mishmash of scenes that have no real effect on those before or after it and the scenes in bridge city were completely confusing and unnecessary.5 out of 10 for the first hour, 1 out of 10 for the next 2. "},{"Title":"pray nobody makes another movie like this","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me help you visualise how this film was made.  Somebody said I'd like to make a movie based on the idea of how the US Postal Service is a good idea, it just needs restructuring.  Unfortunately, rather than give it to the TV Movie of the Week people, they gave it to Kevin Costner.I want this movie to have people in the aisles, screaming GOD BLESS AMERICA, he must have said.  I want patriotism!  I want to throw in as many classical references as I can, the plot isn't important.  I also want to have sex scenes with a very attractive woman, preferably somebody else's wife.  Oh, and let's make it over two and a half hours long.And there you have it.  This is designed only for Americans to be able to sit through, and I doubt if even they could manage it for the full length of the film.  There aren't enough ideas for 60 minutes, let alone 165.  The moral of the story seems to be God bless this country, but it will have most people screaming God, why, oh why? "},{"Title":"Oh dear...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This really is one of the worst films ever. Basically its just a 3 hour vanity trip for Costner with his heroic hat on. There's a terrible scene at the end where some bloke looks at Costners statue and starts crying. Oh dear. When I saw it in England the audience burst into laughter at that point and headed for exits.Avoid. "},{"Title":"WHY KEVIN WHY!?","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I knew this film had received poor critics before I watched it. I just hoped it would be somewhat entertaining - a few good scenes at least. It was a joke. Me and my friend laughed from beginning to end. It´s a poor excuse for a boyhood dream (Kevins) come true. Here I am!, close up!, I´m a hero!, close up!, slow motion - make sure the wind blows through my hair!, I´m a hero!, slow motion, close up! etc. This one is just soo bad! It REALLY stinks  ) "},{"Title":"Such a waste","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Waste of good actors, fine scenery and an interesting concept. This could have been turned into an interesting and provocative film. The plot is absurd, in places the film is just plain annoying. That scene where he collects the letter from the boy for example. Why gallop the poor nag in the wrong direction if only to pull on the heart strings with some over the top music and slow motion photography. Someone wrote this film as a favour to the US Postal service, and not to entertain an audience. I mean to say, a bunch of well disciplined Nazis, armed to the teeth with artillery are beaten by a fledgling postal service staffed by illusionists.And why are Americans so rough with their horses? "},{"Title":"I needed this film like a kidney stone","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It was a painful experience enduring this cinematic stinkbomb. After an hour and a half of my lifes investment, i had to see how it ended (which lasted another hour and half). It started badly and got worse and worse. Costner is so egotistic in this thing that he even gives Steven segal a run for his money. The story is not a bad idea but falls apart because of costner's constant egotistic desire to center the story around his own character.nar·cis·sism &#150;noun 1. inordinate fascination with oneself; excessive self-love; vanity. Avoid the postman! "},{"Title":"I see Stupid People","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The world had progressed to a point of factories and nuclear facilities and somehow in a post apocalyptic world the human race has devolved into a bunch of morons. These morons conveniently have just enough good bullets and weapons required even though there are no manufacturing facilities or commerce to facilitate this kind of existence. It's as if all knowledge stopped. There aren't even people alive who remember how to send radio and TV messages. They NEED a Postman!Kevin Costner onceagain dredges up a story of the man forced into being the hero of civilization. The story goes Blah, Blah, Blah for nearly 3 damn hours. What a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Just one question&#133;","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know this is one of the worst films ever. Boy, do I know that. I also know that by the 87th time you hear the triumphant theme, you'll be thinking the same thing. So don't do it to yourself. Even if it's only trimming your fingernails, you'll have a lot more fun than watching this crime of a movie. But one question still remains Why do all the people in The Postman cut the fingers off their gloves? Here in Frostbite Falls, I can tell you that is not something I would recommend to anyone. That's what The Postman left with me. How on earth did this piece of poop get a 5? What do you have to do to fail on IMDb? Okay, I'd rather see this film than Battlefield Earth, but give me Gigli any day. "},{"Title":"Extremely pretentious, extremely boring - extremely bad","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is probably one of the worst films I have ever seen. It bore me to death. Three hours of pathetic patriotism.Everything happens by accident - an accidentally discovered mail bag inspires Costner's character to use it as mean to get a meal and a shelter. But it will, by accident, wake up some real hope, and accidentally bring to forming of a postal service (which is actually much more than just a postal service - at the time it is the only institution of the new United States, and eventually will become even some kind of it's army!).The moral of the film is pointed out by Costner himself, near the long, long waited end - believing in the United States will make you invincible! Pathetic, at best.If only it lasted two hours shorter, it would be entertaining as an unintentional comedy. But unfortunately, three hours of garbage at one place is not entertaining by any means. "}{"Title":"Kevin, Kevin, Kevin... don't make movies like this one again.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hear ye, hear ye, 'tis the story of little Kevin Kevin made a movie and it was well received all over the world. Then he made another movie, and then another... (you get the point) - and all of them were trashed in America and very well received in Europe. So, what did Kevin do next? Did he move to Europe? Did he made his next movie there? Nope - he decided to make a 101% American movie, directed practically only at the American audience (notice that Europe simply doesn't exist in this movie, it's like located on another planet), in hope of playing on its insultingly blatant patriotic (overpatriotic would be a better word) undertones, and succeding on this basis. What he *did* eventually make was a three hours overlong (no mistake here), boring, choppy, silly, naive ridiculous soap opera that - this time deservingly - got more trashing than all his previous movies combined. And it got that trashing from American critics and audience, the very ones that Kevin so hoped to convince he made a great piece of cinema! Kevin - it's no use trying to *make* someone like you attempts to do that make people even less liked than before! I still can't see why Water World or Robin Hood took such beatings in America - they're very popular and liked in Europe, and besides, they're good movies. But The Postman is one of the worst movies ever made, making Ed Wood's work seem like The True Art. It deserves all the bad opinions it gets. Kevin - don't make a mistake like that again. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe what I am reading. This has to easily be the worst film I have ever seen and everybody  seems to be in love with it. It's three hours of non-stop tedium, the acting is dreadful (Costner is the worst), the script is so lame and predictable it beggers belief. Costner is also so in love with himself in this film that he might as well have written a 3 hour love letter to himself. I cannot think of even one redeeming feature about this film. In fact I can't even be bothered to discuss it any further. It is awful, that's all you need to know about it.   "},{"Title":"Ed Wood on a multi-million dollar budget","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've always wondered what kind of movie Ed Wood would have made if he had been given a mult-million dollar budget.  Now I know.  The performances all around were laughably bad, especially Kostner and Patton.  The latter may have ruined an otherwise promising career, though I doubt considering the number of bad actors making millions in films these days.  Not that I didn't enjoy it.  I did, but for the same reason I'd enjoy an Ed Wood film.  It was so bad it was good.  Move over 'Plan Nine...'!  You've got some serious competition! "},{"Title":"These pathetic people are Americans?","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If Braveheart and his Scottish brethren were neutered and lobotomized, they would still have more intelligence and courage than The Postman and the townsfolk he led. What a sorry lot! Year after year, they yield to the tyranny of a copy machine salesman with a Napoleon complex, until some drifter comes along with a bag of old mail.This is a fundamental flaw. The script and characters weren't believable or interesting or insightful in the least. Whole towns filled with witless cowards and losers who can't figure out how to arm and protect themselves. Americans should be insulted by Eric Roth's portrayal of them (us) in this sorry film. Message for Kevin Costner you're getting duller with age. What's with all the stammering and idiotic facial expressions? Have you been eating paint chips or something? Too much mercury in your water supply? Good grief. "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Absolute trash. It's hard to say which was worse, this or ''Waterworld,'' but I'd have to go with ''The Postman.'' The scene at the end where the man looks at the statue and cries, ''That was me,'' is among the most laughable in movie history. Worth watching just to see how bad a movie can be. ''Ride, Postman, Ride!'' As for the comment earlier that ''we were told'' not to like Kevin Costner's direction anymore, hard to believe. This movie is awful; the scenes with Tom Petty are embarrassing, perhaps he helped fund the movie; bad reviews haven't stopped hundreds of movies from making lots of money. Watch this and Waterworld in the same night, if you dare. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When watching the postman my mood changed from at first outrage How could anyone make such complete nonsense to laughter in the end when it became apparent that some stupid Americans would watch this and think what a great country USA is.Costner started out directing with style in Dances with wolves, scraped the bottom with the expensive waterworld and then wrote himself into history with the Postman. I've really tried to find a worse movie but i have failed - this is the lowest, crappiest, longest piece of pro-American bullshit that was ever created.Hopefully it will stay that way.... "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry folks, but this movie is bound to be 3 hours wasted if you're planning to see it. The storyline is horrid; the movie is very, very long (I had to take breaks!) and the acting is at best mediocre.The story has Kevin Costner as the heroic postman, saving the day when restoring the postal system. I'm sure postal workers like it though, as it gives their job a very flattering impression of being important. But if you're not a postal worker - stay away!Frankly I'm tempted to purchase a copy and destroy, only to feel better about it.Burn, burn, burn!  "},{"Title":"A contender for the title worst film ever made...","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is, put quite simply, an atrocious film -- with a rambling, confused narrative, poor dialogue, and ideas above its station. The pretentiousness of this epic is staggering, and padded out with bad poetry, the film has that will the torture never end? quality concomitant with bad movies. Not that there's anything wrong with long movies, if length is required by plot and material; but Costner has confused over-long with epic (does the bloated story really merit its treatment? does Shakespeare deserve to be defiled in this manner?); and its running time has affected its form to the point that watching the film, with its seemingly indefinitely delayed anti-climax, is comparable to hacking one's way through Sleeping Beauty's forest with a pair of nail clippers. The only reason to watch this to see how badly made, trite and truly dull a motion picture can be. Bad poetry and over-inflated ideas can produce only one thing poor art. "},{"Title":"Self Indulgent trash","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not until this was released on blu ray did i manage to catch The Postman.What have i been missing all these years - absolutely nothing apart from the best part of three hours i wont get back.Its interesting watching this in light of more recent post apocalyptic flops but The Postman takes the biscuit. The script is totally overloaded with schmaltz - a pure glucose overdose. The cast seem to be taking the whole thing so seriously when they are participating in a joke. The only good thing about the movie is Will Pattons performance as the bad guy but his eyesight is failing as he cannot recognise Costner without his facial hair.It also is annoying that Ribisi (playing a loon again) and Russo (playing a bad ass again) are offed in the first half hour as they were entertaining. But hey great looking blu ray. "},{"Title":"A mangy dog with fleas...","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sorry, Zuria, and others who wrote favorably...THIS FILM IS TERRIBLE!!!! Besides the weak story (which vaguely resembles the so-so novel), poor editing, and bad casting (Will Patton!!!???), this film suffers from and reveals a major flaw  Kevin Costner is not a good enough actor to carry a film.  There, I said it.  Another reviewer commented that there's x hours of my life wasted, and boy was he right.  Naturally, The Postman had to be 3 hours long, too.  Save your money and spend your time cleaning the refrigerator - you'll be a better person for it.A 1 out of 10.  Like Armageddon, it should be a ZERO!N.B. Why can't Hollywood adapt a film from a novel that has really no romantic interest, and leave it that way?  This film's romantic leads had no chemistry. "}{"Title":"The Postman Should Ship with Tylenol to Help Ease the Pain","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman was absolutely the worst movie I have ever seen.  More than 3 hours of Waterworldesque plot without the water or any of the interesting parts.  This movie dragged on and proceeded to turn an initially ridiculous plot into a mind numbing voyage through a post apocalyptic world as void of entertainment as it was of technology.  This is the first movie that I have ever been unable to watch from start to finish, and actually took me four separate sittings to watch the entire film. "},{"Title":"Epic film making","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In a post-apocalyptic America, a vagabond (Kevin Costner) finds a dead postal carrier and takes his uniform and bag of letters and manages to con a meal and a place to sleep from a walled town with a letter addressed to one of the town's residents. This action sets off a chain of events that culminate with The Postman becoming a reluctant hero and helping the townspeople stand up to a heavily armed and organized KKK led by the self-styled General Bethlehem.This is a terrible movie and has an interesting twist on the post-apocalyptic frontier America type of sci-fi but Kevin Costner shouldn't have starred in it. This film ends up drowning in it's attempt at being an epic despite some beautiful cinematography and strong performances from supporting actors Larenz Tate, Olivia Williams, and Will Patton. Costner seems to have finally learned from his mistakes in directing this film since his next directorial effort, 2003's Open Range, was one of the best westerns of the last 30 years. "},{"Title":"Gives Hope To Us All","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie gives hope to us all. If Kevin Costner can get rich producing drivel like this movie, we all can. This movie is not only excruciatingly sentimental, but the plot is so contrived that it defies any sense of possibility.It should be said however that the photography was good, which is the only redeeming feature of the movie.This movie should not be bothered with, unless you're 18 or under.  "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen. Its set-up shots were so schmaltzy that they were laughable. The plot made no sense and seemed to reflect Kevin Costner's ego rather than any real character motivation. Somebody should have said no to this one long before the cameras rolled. "},{"Title":"The Mailmen Save the World! AKA Desperate Screenwriter","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie (if one could call it that) is about a man struggling to survive in a chaotic post nuclear wasteland. His solution? Hey, I'll be a POSTMAN! Yes folks, KC rides again, complete with a dazzling (much sarcasm implied) slow motion shot of him taking a letter from a kid. Oh, I think if I were suffering of hunger and tyranny, the first guy I'd go running to would be my local Mail Carrier. Save it. If Costner never made another movie, I'd be content. Rule of thumb, any movie that casts Tom Petty in a speaking role is best avoided.  "},{"Title":"a 5.2??? it should be with the 100 worst movies","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was very surprised when I saw The Postman was given a 5.2. It's one of the worst and most boring movies I've never seen. I explain it was long, but in the bad way. films can be long but if they are good, you don't know, you only sit and spend addicted to the screen. Gone with the wind is long. But there are enough thing that make you short. The Postman, not. It was bored and bizarre. I mean, it looked as if all the atrezzo was a big joke. But it wasn't. They pretended that we took seriously this film. But watching long haired Costner as the new Mesias wasn't exactly what I call believable. Anyway, I admit I'm not being parcial. I don't like war movies, don't like SF and don't like westerns, and The Postman was a mix of those. But trust me -if it were well done, maybe I would have liked themix. But I couldn't. No script, no good acting, not a beautiful film, no good or interesting action. It looked a film of the 80s. In conclusion, I can say I didn't like at all and I hope nobody watches it (it's just because I want the better for everybody). the best of the movie I rented it, so I didn't lose much money. the worst of the movie It exists.sorry for my english, i'm spanish!!!  "},{"Title":"one to avoid","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This futuristic action/adventure story, 'The Postman', fails to captivate. The film takes place in the future when society falls and when the Pony Express comes back from the past to deliver the mail. This film seems to be a combination of quirky action (similar to Mad Max) set in the future and a western. The film probably had a few good ideas, but these seemed to have been lost over the film. Even the characters are uninteresting and dull, and the plot really does not make a lot of sense. The script probably did look better on paper, but it reads as a mess and is shown as a mess in reality and production in film form. This is one to avoid. "},{"Title":"There aren't enough drugs in the world that could make this film enjoyable","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hi my name is Dave and I'm one of the suckers that saw the Post Man. What was I thinking? Was I just high? Unfortunately no, but even if I was I would still rather stick my *expletive deleted* into a boiling vat of Listerine than to watch this movie ever again.Ever deal with real postal workers? The nasty kind that would sooner slit your throat than deliver your mail to the right address. Well Kevin Costner dresses up as one of these winners to escape a blood thirsty army (Young Republicans?) and enter a town full of a bunch of Branch Davidian crack addicts so he can get his freak on (his name is on the title, so you know the sex scene is coming - something he has in common with Shannon Tweed). So he gets in by delivering the mail and eventually a group of Mail fanatics begins to deliver the mail all over. So then the concept of the United States and their Post office becomes a great big theme. Then there is a fight with an army - I think. Luckily I blacked at some point and awoke to the credits. To that I will thank Jack Daniels and NyQuil for allowing me to survive this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movie ever","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is easy to understand why many people hate this movie. Someone with a big influence started to bash it in hollywood, all the others brats (critics) followed, an ongoing rumour about how bad this movie is started to go around, and people who worship Jean-Claude Van Damme followed. I read one of the comment saying how bad this movie is because it got 5 Razzies. First I laughed, then I was sad. So many people cannot make a judgment on their own. If you can't like a movie because it got Razzies, and if you always like movies who get Oscars, you should not express your opinion because we already know it.This is not the perfect movie. The ending (the very last scene when America is back to normal) really shouldn't exist. The part with Tom Petty indeed is boring. But I think it's the Costner movie closest to Dances with the Wolves in terms of direction.Anyway, I really liked the movie, and the book, though very different, is good too. Give it a chance, and don't rent it saying it will be bad. Listen to yourself, there's no one else more worth listening to.  "},{"Title":"My wife won't talk to me anymore...","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman finally came to Bulgaria recently.  Like in the US, I guess, it didn't spend much time in theaters and was quickly available on video. Fortunately for my wife and me, we recently bought a VCR.  Last Friday night, we rented The Postman and settled in to see it.Well, to make a long story short, my wife was mad at me later.  You knew it would be like this?  Why didn't you tell me? and Why did you make me sit there for three hours and watch it? were examples of what she had to say. Now she doesn't want to watch movies with me anymore, since I made her suffer through The Postman.I knew that the movie had received bad reviews, but I wanted to form my own opinion anyway (sometime this fall, I'll probably even rent Spice World). That's why I rented it.  While I don't regret seeing the movie, I'm bummed that my wife doesn't want to see any more movies with me.If Kevin Costner is reading this now, I'm wondering if he can help.  You see, I spent $255 for the VCR, which is a lot of money in Bulgaria, so that my wife and I could watch movies together.  Now, because of The Postman, she doesn't want to do this anymore, and I'm stuck with a $255 paperweight.About the movie...well, it was dopey, corny, and looooooooooooong.  What else is there to say about it?  "}{"Title":"A real introduction into a subliminal cult that exists today","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am disappointed that Kevin Costner lowered his acting abilities to place himself in this movie. The billing to compare this to quality and wonder of Dancing with Wolves was a sham and misleading. If I did not know any better, you might think this was a Mormon plot of sorts, with the polygamy and weirdness of it taking place right in Mormon Country, Idaho and Utah. Using Old Testament and Mormon reasons for the sharing of women and it's polygamist innuendos were more than alarming. The injecting of African decent actors was more than a patronization of the story line. Worse, using the United States preambles all within this maze of the true religion as subliminal as it pretended and it's people was awful. One wonders what was going on in the minds at WB to produce such a worthless piece of entertainment (entertainment - it is was not). The story and events are corny and can only be described as more of an introduction into the cult like culture of the current day territory and region. This movie deserves an NC-17 rating for it's immorality and it's deceptive story line that recklessly embellishes and twists realities into illiterate thinking. "},{"Title":"Il Postino???","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was a summary of a hundred years of poor cinema. I hope you all rot in hell for supporting Kevin Kostner's career. By buying this atrocity on DVD you are telling him Please, Kevin keep pooping on reels of film I had always wondered what a mind f**k would be like and now I know, it's the fact that people with your intelligence have lived this long. I personally expect this to be both my first and last post on any of these stupid message boards. I have been amused for the past fifteen minutes by the fact that so many of you 30 somethings living out of your mother's basements have taken the time to argue over the integrity of such an awful film, instead of taking much needed time to try and lose your virginity. Many of you may not know this but there is more to a relationship than chat rooms and your right hand. Happy hunting with the ladies fellas...you'll need it. "},{"Title":"worst ever?","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I like to call this movie the worst movie of all time. It's not. However i was one of the few who thought that Waterworld was not the worst movies of the year. I just really never got into it. I turned it off right before the end, because it became so bad. Costner has done this type of movie before and better. 1/10 "},{"Title":"And you thought nothing could be worse than Waterworld.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Mailmen of the world, unite! Finally, there is a movie for the mailman, unfortunately, it is a very bad movie. The acting in this film is rather weak, led by Will Patton. This crazed pseudo-Shakespearian villain is played with little grace.What really disturbs me though was the script. Such ridiculous lines such as, Your face looks pretty. are delivered with ineptitude, most likely because the actors themselves know what they are saying is slop. The time sequence is all out of wack. During the space of only nine months, postal carriers are set up across Oregon. Very unlikely. But what gets me is how fantastic the idea of postal carriers reinstating order is. I mean, really, do you think mailmen would ever be able to wage a war?Besides these flaws, the camera work is actually quite beautiful, owing more to the natural beauty of the Pacific Northwest than to the direction. "},{"Title":"Dances with Mail","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Easily the worst movie of 1997. Don't bother watching it past the point of his mule getting killed and served to him for dinner. At that point, the best performer in the movie is gone.  "},{"Title":"Good story, bad script; good actors, bad acting.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie struggled from the very beginning with its goals.  It was a long movie, which is a point against it with the popular audience from the start , but can work if you have a lot of story to tell.  It didn't work here.  The Postman tried to be an uplifting story of epoch proportions, but the best that can be said about it is that it was pretty neat in bits. (Kevin Costner holding up a spoon, Don't make me use this.) In trying to be inspiring and uplifting, it became merely trite and overdone.  In trying to have epoch proportions, it became ridiculous to the point of self -effacement.  The whole bit about the cute little boy holding up the letter and the postman galloping his horse back - in slow motion, no less - was cliche-ish and laughable, and the fact that we were supposed to take it seriously enough to be inspired by it twice...  That about sums it up, folks.  You want a real uplifting story with epoch proportions?  Read the book. "},{"Title":"Great movie; too bad it got no respect.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Even I was getting a little tired of Kevin Costner after Waterworld, but The Postman was a great movie!  It made me believe that ANYONE can be a hero, if they just don't sell out.  Kevin's character (I love that they never give him a name--he's just some guy) was nobody special.  He just minded his own business & tried not to hurt anybody in the process.  But by facing each individual situation according to a stable moral code, he rescued an entire nation.It's too bad that a lot of people will never see this movie because of the bad press it received. "},{"Title":"Drama? Comedy?","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My God! I saw this movie some years ago and thought it would be one of those epic time-less adventures. Sad to say so, but I just couldn't help laughing through the entire movie. The story is nice, but the acting is meager, the dramatic parts of the movie is peak comedy and the action is merely boring. This is almost three hours of non-stop waste of time. "},{"Title":"Weak acting + thin plot =  expensive movie","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kostner gives a pretty flat performance in a movie with an absurd premise. His character development seemed limited to getting a girl pregnant (in this new world most males are sterile).  He spends the rest of the movie referring to this woman as weird ... in pseudo-cool dude asides.  Making it a perfect(ly awful) flick is the sucaryl sentimental ending dedicating a statue to the make believe  postman who single-handedly saved American civilization.Gimme a break!Expensive glitz isn't better glitz.  "},{"Title":"Too Long.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I expected the usual 1and1/2 to 2 hour movie. Instead it dragged on for 3 boring uninteresting hours. The movie made me laugh, not because it was funny but because it was terrible. I mean I laughed at it like I laughed at Tommy Boy. It was a joke. I think Costner shows that he's well past his prime when it comes to movies. Let him work elsewhere now.  "}{"Title":"Idealistic Post-Apocalyptic Epic","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The just war theory &#150; the doctrine that under certain circumstances force may legitimately be used in support of a good cause- underlies many of Hollywood's most popular offerings, not just straightforward war films but also blockbusters such as the Star Wars and Lord of the Rings trilogies. Hollywood's predominantly liberal elite, however, are often slightly uncomfortable with the doctrine; in the eighties many were at pains to point out that, whatever President Reagan might have thought, the evil empire in Star Wars was not to be equated with the Soviet Union, and more recently it has been denied that Lord of the Rings offers any tacit support to Bush's war in Iraq.Kevin Costner is sometimes regarded as one of Hollywood's more politically conservative figures, so it was therefore somewhat surprising to see him as the director, producer and star of a post-apocalyptic epic that explicitly rejects the just war doctrine in favour of a more pacifist view. The film is set in 2013 after a devastating nuclear war. Civilisation in America has collapsed and there is no more central authority. The survivors of the catastrophe live a quasi-mediaeval lifestyle in scattered agricultural settlements. The area in which the film is set (Oregon/Idaho/Utah) is dominated by a powerful warlord, General Bethlehem (the name is presumably an ironic joke) and his private army. Bethlehem and his men subscribe to a quasi-Nazi ideology known as Holnism. They are explicitly racist, exalt strength and power as the supreme good and despise mercy and compassion towards the weak.Costner plays a travelling actor (we never learn his real name) who makes his living by travelling from one community to another to entertain the people with performances of Shakespeare. He is conscripted into the Holnist army, but manages to escape He finds the uniform and mailbag of a dead pre-war postman and appropriates these in order to pass himself off as an official of a Restored United States, charged with a mission by the non-existent President Richard Starkey to restore the postal service in the American West. To his surprise, Costner finds that he is taken seriously, and local people volunteer to set up a new postal service to restore communication between their scattered communities. By doing so, however, they incur the enmity of the Holnists who see any restored central government or quasi-governmental agency as a threat to their own power and control of the area.The film appears to be leading up to a final showdown between the Holnists and the idealistic young men and women who have volunteered for the new postal service. There is, however, a surprising ending as Costner finds a way of resolving the conflict without all-out war. It was war which led to the collapse of civilisation; the best way of rebuilding it is not through the military heroism of taking on the bad guys at their own game, or even through the high culture symbolised by the Shakespeare recitations of the early scenes (Bethlehem himself turns out to be surprisingly cultured), but rather through the patient reconstruction of the amenities of ordinary civil society represented by the postal service. The symbolism of the postman is that he is a uniformed government servant, but one who carries no weapons and fights no battles.There are some similarities between this film and another anti-war post-apocalyptic drama, The Omega Man from the early seventies. Like Costner's character in The Postman, Robert Neville, the character played by Charlton Heston in the earlier film, was a man who brought a message of hope to a community trying to survive in the aftermath of a devastating war and fighting off attacks from a fanatical brotherhood. Neville, however, was deliberately presented as a Christ-figure, an analogy that is never explicitly drawn in The Postman. The look of the two films is also different, The Omega Man being set in the ruins of a deserted city, The Postman in idyllic Western scenery with pine-clad mountains. Costner's favourite film genre (and the one in which he achieved his greatest success with Dances with Wolves) is the Western, and The Postman, despite being set in the future, is very close to a traditional Western in feel.One thing which I have never been able to fathom is why this film should have aroused so much hostile comment from the critics and on this board. The organisers of that rather spiteful institution the Razzie Awards voted it not only the worst film of 1997 (beating genuine rubbish such as Anaconda to the award) but also the worst film of the decade. Perhaps some of the problem lies with Costner himself. He seems to have a well-developed Messiah complex, which may irritate some of his critics; in a number of his films, going back at least as far as Field of Dreams, he has portrayed either idealistic characters bringing a message of hope to the world or legendary heroes such as his version of Wyatt Earp. It is also possible that the failure of Waterworld, a genuinely bad film, may have prejudiced the critics against another futuristic Costner epic.The Postman, however, is not Waterworld. Not only is it not a bad film, it is a positively good one. Costner's acting may be an acquired taste, but for me he is one of the few modern actors with a genuine epic sense and the ability to convey the heroic. (He has this in common with Heston, another actor who often had something messianic about him). Dances with Wolves is his best effort in this heroic vein, but The Postman is, along with Field of Dreams and Wyatt Earp, another successful venture into the epic style. (He receives good support here from Will Patton as the fanatical neo-fascist Bethlehem). Certainly, his message of peace and reconciliation is an idealistic one, but idealism in the cinema is not always suspect. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than I'd hoped","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't quite sure what to expect when I saw this.  I had read the original novel a number of times, and I knew from critic reviews that there were some differences between the two.  I hoped, though, that the differences wouldn't be too much.To my delight, although there were significant differences from the original novel, they didn't detract from the original's storyline.  Costner's portrayal of the drifter was perhaps a little wooden in the beginning, but it somehow made it MORE believable  this wasn't a con artist using a perfected scam to win a few bowls of soup, this was a somewhat decent person who hadn't counted on a simple deception raising so much hope in the hearts of the people.  To see the character grow into his role as the leader of a movement, even down to taking extraordinary risks to protect them from danger, was inspirational and moving.I know the movie didn't receive great reviews when it came out, and neither did Costner's Waterworld.  But, like with Waterworld, I found it very enjoyable, with a good mix of action, character development, suspense, and philosophy.  My only complaint is, why did it receive an R rating?  The movie Titanic showed more nudity than The Postman, and there was little if any gory death scenes.  I would have rated it PG-13 myself. "},{"Title":"A movie of hope","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I usually avoid movies with over-patriotic themes, but I loved the Postman. The movie feels like living a legend. Perhaps this is because I have always loved Kevin Costner's style of making movies. If you enjoy crawling in front of the fireplace with a good book, you will enjoy the Postman. "},{"Title":"good to see somebody making a movie of hope rather than violence","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is at least Kevin Costners third attempt to bring a story of hope against the forces of despair and violence, and I think his most successful. The characters are fully drawn (particularly good is Abby) and the story reasonably coherent (unlike his Waterworld). Some have said the ending is a washout but I think it shows some courage to end a Hollywood extravaganza without lots of bloodshed.   "},{"Title":"My God! Costner becomes Eastwood.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I just had the pleasure to see this ... now what was it? A Movie? Another God-bless-America-US-Propaganda-Trailer? Who financed that picture? The White House Gang? I don't really find the words but I found other comments. And felt better. The basic idea is nice. But that's it.  "},{"Title":"Don't see this if you like horses","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, after they kill his mule at the beginning I thought there had been enough animal deaths, but then they shoot the horse later. My wife was very upset by this. Maybe they should indicate if there are any cruelty to animal scenes in a movie I know that the animals were not harmed in the making, but I want to enjoy a movie with my wife without her having to panic any time an animal comes on screen. "},{"Title":"Ambitious idea shot down by predictability and tons of schmaltz","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (Caution several spoilers)Someday, somewhere, there's going to be a post-apocalyptic movie made that doesn't stink.  Unfortunately, THE POSTMAN is not that movie, though I have to give it credit for trying.Kevin Costner plays somebody credited only as the Postman.  He's not actually a postman, just a wanderer with a mule in the wasteland of a western America devastated by some unspecified catastrophe.  He trades with isolated villages by performing Shakespeare.  Suddenly a pack of bandits called the Holnists, the self-declared warlords of the West, descend upon a village that Costner's visiting, and their evil leader Gen. Bethlehem (Will Patton) drafts Costner.  After much misery and numerous efforts to break Costner's spirit, he escapes, thus ending a lengthy section of the movie that could have been told better in a three-minute flashback.We now finally get to the major premise the escaped Costner finds an abandoned mail truck and delivers the letters to the nearest town, hoping to get some food under pretense of being a postman.  A number of the village people led by young Ford (Larenz Tate) want to get in on this postman act, which does not sit well with Bethlehem and his bandits, and Costner finds himself the unwitting and unwilling leader of a band of postmen at war with the Holnists.The idea of The Postmen versus The Bad Guys is not as ridiculous as it sounds.  The Holnists depend for their livelihood on the fact that the villages they prey on are isolated from one another; the Holnists can destroy any one village, but could not stand against all their victims united.  To unite, the villages must communicate with one another, and a working mail system would thus be a big step toward putting the Holnists out of business.  So it really makes a lot of sense that Bethlehem would get medieval on our heroic mail carriers.  Unfortunately, Bethlehem's eventual defeat is not the result of the villages uniting against him, but instead your old standby cliche, the one-on-one brawl between him and Costner.  Nor is there even any real attempt by the communities to use the mail to work together to solve their problems; all the mail seems to be the standard Hi, Aunt Debbie stuff played for maximum sentimental value.THE POSTMAN is one of the most predictable movies, shot for shot, that I have ever seen.  Now, I don't purposely try to ruin movies for myself by straining to figure out what's going to happen next.  But here we're talking about the kind of predictability that requires no effort; I just knew what was going to happen next whether or not I wanted to know.  After a lion is prominently showcased eating people, a Holnist bandit seeking the escaped Costner ventures into the bushes after a noise, and we are then shocked when the lion eats him.  A bunch of unoffending villagers are rounded up and shot by a firing squad, and one of the villagers sings out some Famous Last Words right before being shot, to my immense lack of surprise.  A covered statue is unveiled to show exactly what everyone knew was going to be there Costner bending to pick up a letter from a cutesy kid we saw earlier in the movie.  A man tells Bethlehem that no sir, you can't just take my wife; Bethlehem runs the unsuspecting sod through, though he is the only person in the theater who is unsuspecting.But it is rank, cloying sentimentality that really undoes THE POSTMAN.  Olivia Williams, playing Costner's lover Abby, is worst served.  She pours her heart into the material and gives her very best effort to make it sound natural and sincere.  She tries so hard, it's heart-breaking.  But nobody could ever have made the lines I have a gift for you, Postman . . . You give out hope like it's candy in your pocket sound like anything but the syrupy pap that they are.  Another example is the scene where a mounted Costner thunders past a little boy, ignoring his proffered letter, only to turn around, stare at him for what seems like five minutes, and then thunder back to pick up the letter.  Why didn't Costner just pick it up the first time?  No real reason; it's just an artifice that tries and fails to give us a feeling of elation by dashing the kid's hopes and then restoring them.Schmaltz and predictability unite at the end as the statue of the Postman is revealed.  I sat thinking, Please don't tell me they're going to show the statue and then cut back to the scene with the cutesy kid.  Surely that is too saccharine, too obvious for even this movie.  Then, alas, the music swelled and we did indeed cut back to the dreaded little boy smiling as his letter to his maiden aunt is whisked away, and I held my head in my hands and thought, Somebody shoot me.  It felt like having thirty pounds of apple pie rammed down my throat.Gen. Bethlehem is a more humanized villain than normal.  Your standard-issue post-apocalyptic villain is the meanest, toughest S.O.B. in the valley.  Bethlehem is shown to be a little nothing of a man inside, who tries to make himself feel important by beating up on others.  Although some menace is thereby sacrificed, Bethlehem is credible in a way most villains aren't.  Unfortunately, Will Patton overacts.  And although we are told early on that Bethlehem utterly destroyed his last challenger in five seconds of hand-to-hand combat, Bethlehem's actual fighting skills shown at the end of the movie are absolutely ludicrous.The acting is otherwise pretty good.  Costner has done better, but his Razzie was an overreaction.  As mentioned, Olivia Williams is very impressive.  Larenz Tate as Ford does a sincere and credible job.  James Newton Howard's score is competent, though short of the epic standards the movie was going for.  But it's not enough to save this film.Rating *1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, spoiler alert","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  He, he!This film must be the worst turkey I ever seen on a film screen. I actually laughed several times, not that it was any thing funny to laugh at in this movie, it was rather that the plot was so dumb that it was hilarious. This film must be like a wet dream for nutcase postmen all over USA.The only thing good about this movie, is Olivia Williams. Tom Petty? I used to think that you where cool. I used to...I can't believe that that they actually made this movie. 'Our only hope is an unlikely hero' Mho, ha, ha, ha.  "},{"Title":"A Movie About Hope","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Possible Spoiler, If You Know Nothing About The Movie (8 Stars)This movie like many movies that get bad reviews is longer than most. It's length may not let most viewers eat, chew gum, and talk at the same time. I liked it the first time I viewed it.  It shows that desperate times require strength, courage, and hope.  We may some day have a time when we are in dire straits.  The World Trade Center September 11, comes to mind.When times are the toughest, someone has to step up to the plate and show courage.  This man, the postman gives hope to those who had given up on life.  It may be soapy, but it makes me feel good when it's over.  That is part of what watching movies is all about.Other movies that deal with post war situations, the Mad Max movies for the action, Blade Runner for it's sci-fi, and Dr. Strangelove is my favorite classic movie with both humor and realism all tied up in a perfect package. "},{"Title":"Engrossing","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"28 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Do not view this film if .... you have Attention Deficit Disorder, your Hyper Active, you do not like to read books, you are terminally addicted to Euro Films or Karate videos. This is a creative escape from reality epic fantasy. A post apocalyptic adventure with great character studies. Will Patton is splendid as a Power Hungry Fascist leader of his budding new kingdom. Personally I am a fan of the long epic which is the main reason I am drawn to Costners films..  He is the Errol Flynn or Chuck Heston of  modern times. I give this movie a sold 8 and don't particularly care what the critics think. "}{"Title":"Deliver This to the Land Fill.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman (1997) Dir Kevin Costner / Cast Kevin Costner, Will Patton, Olivia Williams, James Russo, Tom Petty Kevin Costner's flimsy follow up to Dances With Wolves with a theme regarding hope with mail carrying as a reference. Story regards towns isolated due to an army led by Will Patton. Costner plays a drifter who is taken prisoner. He escapes and finds refuge in a jeep where a skeleton and mailbag reside. He puts on the uniform in hopes that it will grant him a meal in the next town. He encounters a man who begs him to pregnant his wife so that they may have a child. Of course this man will be murdered so that Costner can move in anyway. Meanwhile Patton orders that every mail carrier be killed. Preposterous setup leads to unintentional humour that works like a bag of sh*t under your Christmas tree. This all ends with Costner and Patton pounding the snot out of each other and we are suppose to cheer it on despite its absurdity. Olivia Williams plays his childless mate whose prime purpose is to get banged without a rubber. James Russo is also featured as her husband whose purpose is to be expendable so that Costner can voice his superiority. Musician Tom Petty makes an appearance although one wonders how old he is at this point. Terrible and embarrassing epic that never had a chance of actually working. It is a laughable misfire by all involved. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Plainly awful","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When everyone thought Kevin Costner have learned from the Waterworld disaster, he stroke back with this. Just wishful thinking. The postman is simply Waterworld on the ground. A post apocalyptic world with some bad guys that have as their leader a very very bad guy. The best way they have to have fun is harass people around. Have seen that before? Yes, you have. Since Mad Max script writers have been insisting on the idea, translating it to different environments as if that was a way to make something new and creative. And, heavens! I really can't understand the true obsession American script writers have with the Militia thing. Must perhaps be due to the fact that in USA the gun rules since the old west times and their psychology can't get rid from that fetish. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner Directs Kevin Costner; Self-Indulgence Ensues","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Box-office busts intrigue me. I often find myself enjoying them, despite their poor critical reception. This was a fairly major box-office bust, but as with any film, I would suggest seeing it for yourself to see if you like it or not. This is easy to do on Netflix; if you're not into it, you can just stop it and try something else.The problems I found were the length &#x97; at almost 3 hours long, it was SLOW, at least much of the time&#x85; 80-90 minutes would have been plenty, and would have made this a much tighter film &#x97; it's corny and unimaginative; no real subtlety here, too much predictability; Kevin Costner is in just about every scene, and, presumably because he was also the director, so there was no one to rein him in; the music was boring, cliché, and unimaginative, very much like the movie.And yet, I made it through to the film's conclusion, probably because I'm stubborn and wanted to see how it would end, and also because the basic premise is unusual &#x97; a dude's decision to impersonate a postman in a dystopian world somehow leads to redemption for a great many people. This in itself is rather ridiculous, but I was willing to suspend my disbelief and look past this, which I guess is something to be said in the film's favour. "},{"Title":"Much, MUCH better than the critics rated it","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first time I watched this movie, I was expecting it to likely be crap. Siskel and Ebert had given it 2 thumbs down. But then, being a Chicago resident for all of their years together and knowing their schtick, I almost never agreed with Siskel. Ebert yes, and after watching this that first time, I disagreed with Ebert, too. I am sorry they are neither one still with us, but they had a good run.As far as I know, those friends of mine who've seen the movie thought it was a decent movie, too.As to the movie itself, I just read that the movie was supposed to be a dark movie with a dark ending. I am glad it didn't. What the hell is the matter with the idea that has a positive ending?I LIKED the characters except the antagonists (aren't we supposed to?). I liked the story line, and I liked Costner's character and was pulling for him the whole way.At the time I had a clear sense that Costner had gotten on the bad side of the Hollywood press after Dances With Wolves. Too much success for one guy? Jealousy in a me-me-me LA society? They all seemed to be VIPERS, after his blood. Maybe even Siskel and Ebert didn't want to rock their boat when word came down to sink Kevin's ship.I've seen the movie 4 times now, and will probably see it 2 or 3 times more. COMPARED TO THE UTTER AND TOTAL CRAP - CAPITAL C!-R!-A!-P! - MOVIES OUT THERE THE LAST 15 YEARS OR MORE, THIS MOVIE IS A FAIRLY GREAT MOVIE.I recommend it, and my name is Steve Garcia. 8 stars out of 10. I don't care what the Opinion Popes of Hollywood say about it. "},{"Title":"A pretty bad movie, a HORRIBLE adaptation","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I made the mistake of reading Brin's excellent book before seeing this film. The movie is NOTHING, I repeat NOTHING like the book. The book is a very good scifi tale of a post-apocalyptic America and people living (and surviving) on it. The book has a lot of pretty unique parts in it and is relatively cliché-free. I could actually write everything that happens in the book and not spoil the movie at all.The movie... The movie has nothing to do with the book, except the world and a couple of character names (not even really characters, just the names). The movie is really not a scifi movie, mainly a western. It is also way too long, boring and full of clichés. There's is nothing interesting, unique or engaging, as the story has been pushed through a sh**machine with the setting give us a thirteen in a dozen kind of story. The acting is okay, but Costner is a totally wrong choice for the main part.If I rated this movie without having read the book, I would give it AT MAX 4/10 (on a good day). Compared to the book, 2/10. "},{"Title":"Wholly Underrated - Would've Been A Huge Hit In 2002","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman suffered from its release date. Had it come out the first couple years post-9/11, it would've been seen as an uplifting epic and been a huge hit.Instead, it came out in the middle of a period of relative discontent with the US, where there was no threat of anything to be lost, where therewas no threat of stability lost, where there was no greatness to see, as people were absorbed in their own lives and oblivious to the wonders of having such a great country. (Yes, the movie is very focused on the US.) As a national epic, it just came out at the wrong time.There are plenty of bad elements to the film, and the reason why it's a good film and not a great film. The theme is sometimes missing and then returning in a heavy handed way that makes for inconsistency that could've been done better, but it's still a good film. There are cheesy lines, there are characters or their actions that sometimes seem to be a bit forced, but there are others who are completely within the realm of possibility, and some that are very, very believable.Larenz Tate as Ford Lincoln Mercury is one of the most uplifting, motivating, idealistic characters on film in a long time - his spirit by itself is inspiring. There are several scenes in which he really shines, as his character takes responsibility for his actions.Will Patton does a truly outstanding job as General Bethlehem. The character is portrayed every bit as you'd expect a character with his backstory to be - done well, and a character whose occasional seeming overacting would be consistent with how the character - a megalomaniac - would really act. Some small touches towards the beginning really set down who the character is.Kevin Costner is just pretty good. His low-key attitude sometimes comes off as disinterested and not terribly into the role. Costner does have the physical presence to carry off the role, but on occasion he seems just out of it. Sometimes the movie sometimes seems to dwell on Costner too much, even though he is the main character, the changes in the world that he sets in motion are fascinating. He's not bad, he's just good, not great. The other options for leads that were considered would've been far worse. Costner does pull it off well, but he could've put more effort into his own role. Once in a while his own stated motivations (notably at the end) don't seem to have been developed, and it's possible there was something left on the cutting room floor. This goes to the theme as mentioned above and below as well - there may be some scenes that just didn't make the cut that would've expounded on how the theme developed better.Olivia Williams is excellent through most of the movie, though her role becomes a bit conventional at the end, limiting what she can do. (Incidentally, she's great in Below, which I highly recommend as a WWII sub movie - but it's best watched without any reviews, and even without looking at the box - it's best viewed totally fresh, with zero foreknowledge. Seriously, don't go look it up, just cue it on Netflix or order it online and don't read about it. It's really, really, really good.)Tom Petty's role is fantastic. His first few lines, I was... are rather haunting, when you sit down to think about it; they convey a lot of the atmosphere of the film, and go far towards reminding you the world of the Postman is very different.Daniel von Bargen is excellent, and provides a very good foil for Costner to play off towards the beginning of the film. Almost every scene he's in he manages to convey a seriousness and depth that helps ground the film.Ron McLarty is fantastic. His character is great, and the way he plays into it is great. He's another of the supporting cast that provides atmosphere to the film, conveying the setting even more; he also sets up some great lines that foreshadow a lot of action in a way that is just subtle enough that it's not cheesy at all, but clear enough that the audience can see something big and satisfying is on the way.The scenery is majestic, the setting is made to be truly epic - often it is, the score is fantastic (though sometimes a bit heavy-handed, but that's okay), editing is good, lighting is used well, and there's some subtle symbolism tossed in every so often to go along with the overt themes. Some of the costuming stands out positively (especially the improvised uniformity of the Holnists and the carriers), while the costuming for pretty much everybody else is slightly overdone - you can tell there was work put into it, but sometimes almost too much.Overall, the theme is one that may be lost on many folks, and was especially lost at the time. It's a wonderful, patriotic flick that was released at the wrong time. Just remember it's good, not great. "},{"Title":"a vanity project","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First things first I think Kevin Costner is our most underrated and unfairly maligned filmmaker/movie star. People seem to conveniently forget that he starred in such popular hits as The Untouchables, No Way Out, Bull Durham, Field of Dreams, Dances With Wolves, Robin Hood, JFK, and The Bodyguard. I guess the moviegoing public took such great offense at the price tag of Waterworld that they decided en masse to shun him forever. Strange, since Waterworld was actually a hit that earned more than $300m. The Postman was his first real bomb. And I must say, it deserved to tank.It's a vanity project, a big, slow elephant of a movie that lumbers just like an elephant from scene to scene, in search of a point. It does not work as science fiction because it's basically too much of a Western. But it doesn't work as a Western because the characters have knowledge of an advanced technological society (dead though it may be). Sorry, Kev, you can't have it both ways. Star Wars was a Western at heart, but dang, the Millennium Falcon sure was cool.Then there's Costner himself. What a bad performance. He's overly sincere, drippingly earnest, cloying, sentimental, childish, buffoonish ... not the sort of heroic figure you want to look up to. As a director, he puts himself in laughable situations. Too much of the time, he just stands inert, his face rigid, impassive. A little of that goes a long way; as a director, Costner can be his own worst enemy.Then there's the running time. I would gladly have taken a meat cleaver to this thing and chopped it down to a length the story would have supported... say, about 60 minutes.No question this is a terrible movie. But it's greatest sin is mere over-sincerity. Costner intends for us to feel really good about all the corny adventure-stuff in The Postman, and to accept the goofy dialogue as heart-felt. You watch this movie and you don't feel bad, or depressed, the way some bad movies make you feel. You just sort of feel like you've spent a long time watching a movie that climaxes with the unveiling of a statue. Lesson, Mr. Costner do not bronze your own character again. Not in any movie. Gibson had himself torn to shreds at the end of Braveheart. Not a bad way to go. "},{"Title":"A great, epic, sunday afternoon film","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Now there are many that would be put off by a Kevin Costner filmset in a post-apocalyptic future but they would be missing out. Of course this film is not without its faults, (Spoiler) ,especially thefinal fight scene, but when weighed up to the rest of the film, and at3 hours there's plenty of it, they just become secondary.This film is an old style epic. One that you'd watch with the familyon a Sunday afternoon when the rain is falling and 3 hours laterfind that much to your surprise you have a smile on your face. Sure the slight story and the very Pro-American theme might grateat times. But the Postman is a lot better than people would think. "},{"Title":"Ambitious","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I give Kevin Costner all due credit for making a movie about two potential threats A post-apocalyptic society and a tyrannical government. It takes a while to get going; there are scenes that could have been cut, and Costner looks a bit uncomfortable as a charlatan. But once it gets moving, it produces satisfactory results. Even if the film didn't produce the desired results at the box office or with critics, I give Costner an A for effort. "},{"Title":"See this instead of The Patriot","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having just seen The Patriot, I feel obliged to come back and say how good this movie is in comparison.  Yes, it is over-long (though you don't mind so much due to the excellent cinematography), but it actually has a plot, and the character development (and I mean development) is much more compelling if you pay attention.If you want self-serving pap see The Patriot.  If you want something that questions deeply the true nature of patriotism, see The Postman. "}{"Title":"Just plain too long.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hokey, nonsense, overblown, overplayed, overly drawn-out scenes. The Postman had all this but it's biggest flaw is that it is just plain too long and it's length adds nothing to the film in the end. Apocalyptic theme movies have been hitting the screen ever since The Road Warrior came out and each tries to lay it's claim to being the best. Out of a Win, Place or Show it would be a show but not much else.   "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not the complete disaster that many people say, but hardly a classic movie either.  It certainly wasn't worth going to see in the theater, but if you've got a few hours to spare, it won't kill you to watch it.I actually thought the premise of the movie was quite good, and it's carried out fairly well for a while.  But as others point out, the film needed some serious editing, and unfortunately the ending is far too formulaic and predictable.  This could have been a good movie, but there are just too many flaws (and too many minutes). "},{"Title":"So I'm a sucker for sappy epics!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I know I'm supposed to be embarrassed to admit that I liked this movie. Yes, it's predictable. Don't watch it hoping for a masterpiece, but if you want a good story, reasonably well told, with lots of beautiful scenery this isn't a bad choice. And don't be put off by the hype about Kevin Costner casting himself as the hero - in this movie there are several, especially Ford Lincoln Mercury. -)    "},{"Title":"good movie drowned by bad press","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was very impressed with this film and it's a shame that Hollywood holds so many grudges.  What did Kevin Costner do that was so bad?... Try to be great?  Unfortunately when people aim for the best, people like to watch them miss, i.e, Waterworld.Well, this movie was really well done.  It was touching, patriotic and it challenges the viewer to discover what they're made out of.Great job, Kevin and I hope others get to see this film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not that bad, an hour too long.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Really, not that bad. I generally don't like Costner, and had heard the worst on 'The Postman.'  However, although there was a lot of hokey, contrived nonsense and overblown, overplayed, overly drawn-out dramatic scenes, the movie was mostly enjoyable. It was _way_ too long, however. Much better than 'Waterworld', which was positively one of the worst movies I've ever seen, next to 'Conan the Destroyer'.Anyways, if you like Costner, you'll love this movie (but of course you've probably seen it by now). If you don't like costner, watch this movie if someone else pays for the rental.  6.5/10 "},{"Title":"My apologies, Mr. Costner...","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...for believing the negative hype.  I've never read the book, and my fellow sci-fi reading fans loved it.  They ragged on the movie, though I don't remember exactly why.  So, four years after its release I finally broke down and rented the video... and I was very pleasantly surprised.  'Course, now I'm afraid to read the book...Does this mean Waterworld was a good movie too?  Ah hell, what's my world coming to? "},{"Title":"Definitely not for cynics","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After all the bad reviews, and after seeing Waterworld, I was surprised to see how good The Postman really is. Not that it's one of the great movies of the decade, but it's a lot better than most people say. The direction was really very good, the cinematography and some of the sets were superb, the acting was okay and the script had more merit than it is generally given credit for, though I was very turned off by the part about the woman asking the postman to father her child. It's a very emotional film, but I don't think that is necessarily a bad thing.I think it's the message that turned a lot of people off. Certainly there was a lot of patriotism, and not being American, this did not appeal to me particularly. However, far above this was the theme that restoring people's hope can accomplish incredible things. This is not a message likely to appeal to the current breed of cynical critics, but historically, the importance of hope has been enormous in everything from winning wars to overcoming economic difficulties.  But I don't expect the cynics to give this idea much credit. "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved the overall plot of the movie.  The dialog was a bit silly at times, and some of the scenes were very cheesy, but overall it was an enjoyable movie about likable characters doing very interesting things. Too bad the mule died though....  "},{"Title":"What's the problem?","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first I knew of this film was when I saw it on the shelf of my local video library, I therefore watched it without hearing any of the negative comments.  I have to say I thought it was an excellent film, great cinematography a good script and well acted. I am glad that it was a wet afternoon at home and the video library didn't have much choice left or I would have missed a real treat.  It's nice to see Mr Costner can still turn out a decent film after the hideous mess that was Waterworld. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, not to be confused with 'good' movie critics!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie and thought it had a very good underlying patriotic theme. I don't understand where in the world these so called 'Movie Critics' come from!!! Mars???  I for one don't agree with them on about 90% of their reviews, do the rest of you feel the same?  They trash decent movies and 'laud movies that I wouldn't give a plug nickel to watch.  Anyway, I didn't think that this movie was as good as dances with wolves, but it does justice to Kevin Costner's unique acting abilities.  Certainly better than waterworld, this movie had a decent plot, one that any red-blooded american should have felt with chill bumps of patriotism and excitement as they watched the ending of the movie.  I don't for one minute think that the critics payed justice to this movie.  It was rather unique but as an American (or any citizen of a democratic country) and a patriot, I thought the movie was a rather good one!  Bravo Kevin Costner and the other members of the cast! I, being a Vietnam Vet, really enjoyed the scene of the old man who finally got his chance for revenge and respect!!!!!!!!!!!!Samurai_Gator Yokota, Japan "}{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why oh why was this trashed when released?  Agreed, it is not Dances with Wolves, it is not the greatest movie ever however, for me, it was close to Legends of the Fall.If you the like the latter I bet you like this.The SCI-FI future element is not significant and I would not get too hung up on the criticism and laughter directed towards the whole Post Office theme - I thought it was kind of quaint.This is definately epic genre.  Settle down for the evening and enjoy a decent story, beautiful photography and a pretty heart warming story.  The violence is way less than your standard Die Hard or such.On the downside it is a bit too long - perhaps 20 minutes or so.  It is a bit too sentimental and some of the plot developments are a stretch.However, if in doubt watch.  I really believe the Costner takes a bum rap. "},{"Title":"A good film, but not a war movie","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There's a scene in the first hour of this movie that sums up whether you're the kind of movie fan who will like it or not  a group of conscripts is bunking down after a hard day's training as infantrymen.  For R&R their warlord puts on a reel from Universal Soldier.  It is booed off the projector and replaced by what they wanted to see, The Sound of Music. This is not a movie about the thrills and chills of combat.  It is about the sentimental nature of patriotism, a study of different political ideals, a morality play, and like many recent Costner films it is a biography about a reluctant but conscientious hero who rises to greatness accidentally.  This is a film for people who really enjoy recognizing quotations from Henry V, Richard III, and Hamlet in an old episode of Star Trek.  Star Trek buffs will love this movie. Steven Seagal buffs will fall asleep after the first thirty minutes.I gave it a 7 because although I enjoyed the cinematography, the romanticism, and the poly sci case study of feudalism vs democracy I was a little put off by Costner's overindulgence in melodramatic scenes.  The film also took itself too seriously too often, and should have cut some syrupy scenes and spliced in a little more witty comic relief.  It is much more like Wyatt Earp than Dances with Wolves.  The scenery alone, on the other hand, would inspire patriotic awe in anyone who's been out West. Although frank about the grim reality of a world without technology (plague, starvation, brutality) it is refreshing to see places without punk rock, gridlock, or jaded self-absorbed teenagers.  Where else could you see a lion roaming the Utah Salt flats, a strip mine turned into a fortress, and a dam turned into a city gate?One other category of moviegoer will want to avoid this movie, too. Europeans.  If you thought Saving Private Ryan was too much of a flag waver you'll think doubly so of The Postman. "},{"Title":"There's More Deadlier than the Mail!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is neither better nor worse than scores of other films of this genre. It seems to me that a general mood or trend has to be established, -which in turn dictates the feeling with which a film is then received.Critics have called it over-sentimental and patriotic; - but Independence Day, -one of the most appalling, cringe-making films ever made, was greeted with audiences clapping and cheering here in Britain! Mainly because of the pre-publicity.If I were Costner, I would cut the film by around 30 minutes. I understand why his films are so long; but I cannot see the point now that the public trend is hostile against anything of this nature that he attempts. Also, he should remove the scene of the little girl singing, and the final statue fiasco (which made me laugh out loud, -not a healthy note on which to finish!). Another major flaw was the fight scene with Bethlehem. This podgy baddie was so inept at hand-to-hand combat that my granny could have easily beaten him! A spectacular finale was badly needed, but sadly it all disintegrated into predictability. (You just knew how the fight would end).I would give this film 7 out of ten. No film is perfect -and compared to abominations like Independence Day, The Postman delivered quit a lot.  "},{"Title":"A good movie.  Check it out.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It became very fashionable to trash Kevin Costner's film The Postman after it came out.   (Costner himself parodied the reaction.  He appeared in Billy Crystal's 1998 Oscar clip film.  Billy is on the Titanic, saying I can't imagine a bigger disaster!, at which point a voice says Yeah?  Well I can!.  Billy looks down and sees Costner, in his Postman outfit, hanging from the railing of the ship.)  But most of the people who trash this film have never seen it.  Both Variety and The Boston Globe gave it very good reviews when it came out.  It's a very interesting examination of what America is all about and what might happen when society collapses and it's every man for himself.  In this respect, The Postman compares favorably to Lord Of The Flies or Stephen King's The Stand.   I think the reason people rejected this film is because of one of its strengths, specifically the way it explores the nature of evil inside of everyone.  Will Patton's General Bethlehem is one of film's most memorable villains.  At one point, he admits to Costner that before society collapsed, he sold copy machines. He's a regular guy, just like you or me, who turned evil when society fell apart.  That's more scary than any psycho killer in any horror film. Check out The Postman and you might be very pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about? Costner deserves some credit here!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay so the film has its flaws, but it can no way be considered a bad movie.I loathe jingoistic American flag waving films at the best of times, but here it worked in its association with a country trying to re-discover its national identity after a terrible calamity.It's paced well, and looks great in a widescreen letterboxed version. Nice job there Kev! "},{"Title":"You have to be patient to enjoy this move","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a much better movie then most people give it credit for. You have to have some patients to enjoy this move. It's not an 1.5 hour thrill ride, but rather a carefully developed epic tail. It's not as good as Braveheart and other more popular movies of this length, but the pay off is still worth the wait. "},{"Title":"please, someone put this movie out of its misery!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A few weeks before this movie was released, I had the, ahem, privilege of attending a screening of it at Warner Bros.  After nearly three hours of pure pain, I was dumbfounded to discover that the majority of my friends had actually *liked* it, and even now this truly reprehensible movie has its boosters.  I can't fathom why.  It is obvious that Costner, having succeeded with Dances With Wolves, decided that it would be a really swell idea to make another movie with a message.  Unfortunately, the movie tries so hard it misses by a mile; it's about as relevant and thought-provoking as an episode of Fantasy Island.  This is mostly due to the fact that the script is dreck.  The dialogue sounds as though it were written by a committee culled from a ninth-grade English class.  It's possible that there might be some good actors in this mess, but not one can do a thing with the script. Of course, the list of potentially capable actors must exclude the supremely untalented Kevin Costner, who hasn't turned in a decent performance since Field of Dreams.  Watching him roll around in the sack with (a no doubt severely traumatized) Olivia Williams was about as erotic as seeing Mike Myers' striptease in Austin Powers.  I spent the entire three hours alternately laughing in disbelief and squirming in my seat, checking my watch.  The only way The Postman could be worth more than a brief, masochistic glance would be if it were smartly trimmed and then enshrined on Mystery Science Theatre 3000, where it belongs.  How about it, Kevin?  "},{"Title":"A much better film than people give it credit for.","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I also think this film is far better than its reviews suggest. The photography, for one thing, is beautiful, showcasing as it does the North West American wilderness.More than this, and the reason why I cut the film a great deal of slack, is its moral core. Costner's character, at a difficult point in his life in this dystopian future, discovers a wrecked mail van, puts on the dead driver's jacket, and decides to deliver the mail to the nearest community as a way to scrounge a meal and a bed for the night. Quite against his expectations he strikes a chord with the community he visits, and they give him mail to deliver to their loved ones whom they have not spoken to in years. So he starts a mail service for his own benefit, but as he brings people messages from people they thought were dead he also brings them hope that life will get better and in the process he becomes a better man.There is a violent conclusion to the movie, but it is not the violence that revives the community but someone bringing people closer together via the mail. For that reason in particular I look kindly on this movie. "},{"Title":"Highly under-rated, way better than Waterworld","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I did not know if this movie ever came out in the theaters. If it did, then it must have been for only a brief period. I saw this movie on cable, and I was shocked to find a Kevin Costner movie that I have never heard of. I also was shocked to find it is really a good movie. I suppose the problem is that it came out after Waterworld, and that movie was so bad nobody want to risk money on another Costner post-apocalypse movie. However this is a much better movie than Waterworld. It is more like Dances with Wolves set in a post - apocalyptic era. The performances are all strong. Costner's character evolves through the movie. This one is worth a try. "},{"Title":"Post Apocalyptic Blast!","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is a great movie, regardless of what you critics think of it. I think it tries to be as accurate in it's portrayal of the future as any movie I've ever seen. I know that some of you just can't stand the fact that there's no futuristic army battles, no 600 horsepower car chases, and Iron armored costumes I honestly think that's how the world would go if all government and basic infrastructure were brought down. Think about it. What would you do? Drive a 600 horsepower, supercharged dune buggy that gets 3 mpg or ride a horse. Gasoline supplies would deplete after about a month. Hoarding gas will not work. (it goes bad after about a year of storage) Most people raised in big cities would starve within a couple of months due to lack of survival education or tyranny by people with guns.Secondly, In the film, Costner ends up being the hero in the way that real hero's do. Hero's aren't the people who are tough and beautiful. They're people who are forced into a situation and do the best they can. He starts the new government purely by accident. The only real mistake I see in this movie is that in the beginning, Costner is portrayed as being weak and unable to defend himself. In reality he would be in extremely good shape strong as an ox and very wily. (he's been dragging a mule around for years. Try that sometime. It'll make you strong as an ox or kill you) I give it 9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Much better than its rating!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm always a little surprised when I see an IMDb rating that's unusually low compared to my take&#x85;..then again, I often forget that the average poster on this site is now a 20-something who thinks Pulp Fiction is the best movie ever made&#x85;..sorry; it's not&#x85;.that distinction still goes to Godfather I & II although not a personal favorite of mine&#x85;.along with PF, too violent for my taste&#x85;.. This film has much to offer for fans of the apocalyptic genre (Road Warrior, Red Dawn, etc.) an intriguing storyline; very good pacing even at its near epic length; good acting; good dialogue; excellent cinematography and a lively score & soundtrack, especially the Pinewood Band tunes&#x85;. The main cast is appealing with Kevin Costner, Will Patton (in an over-the-top role similar to his Falling Skies Capt. Weaver), Olivia Williams, Larenz Tate and Tom Petty in more than a just a cameo&#x85;..add in some recognizable character actors like Ron McLarty, Rex Linn, Daniel Barger, Joe Santos, George Wyner, Giovani Ribisi and Brain Anthony Wilson&#x85;..a pretty good crew&#x85;.. Watching this always makes me feel patriotic like when I watch Red Dawn&#x85;.and despite the almost universal bashing Costner receives, he is often very endearing in his roles (For the Love of the Game, Tin Cup, Wyatt Earp, JFK, Field of Dreams, Bull Durham, No Way Out and Dances with Wolves)&#x85;.if you've ever seen the creepy Mr. Brooks, you know he can actually act&#x85;.and he does deliver some very funny lines; my favorite So much for the uniform theory&#x85;.. 8 stars&#x85;.watch it for yourself and choose&#x85; "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie in in my Top 5 list. I do not find it surprising anymore that the Sci-Fi movies that I like best have received bad reviews when they first hit the theatres - they went on to became cult movies. The movie plot is very good, differences from the novel are welcome, and the characters are outstanding. Wish I saw Olivia Williams' character Abby in more movies, she is absolutely great. Patton's General Bethlehem is magnificent as the bad guy. Costner's determined and adaptive character reminds me of Deckard in Blade Runner. Ribisi is irreplaceable as the involuntarily funny yet stupid bandit. Tate's Ford Lincoln Mercury is a sparkle. Postman's dialogue with Tom Petty's character (I know you. You're... famous. / I was once... sorta.) is memorable. Wish a TV series was made based on The Postman movie and novel. "},{"Title":"Great SciFi movie!","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The totally original story is excellent and somewhat believable, even for a SciFi flick. Costner is great in the lead roll but it is the great story line that makes the movie. Don't listen to the critics on this one! See it for yourself and then decide. I haven't read the book yet but might pick it up to see if it is as good as the movie. Usually the book is better than the movie, so we'll see. Why IMDb require their posts to be 10 line I don't know. This seems like a pretty dumb rule to me. I already said what I wanted to say but must type all this junk just so I can submit my post... Maybe they will change this rule if enough people keep typing in this kind of junk..? "},{"Title":"Call me what you will....but I loved this movie!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I found this to easily be the best post-apocalyptic movie to ever be made. I don't know about the rest of the country, but I must have completely understood it, because I loved it.  I enjoy movies that take you to a time and place in the future that could actually happen (if you don't think something similar could actually happen one day, you are the type to buy into an Amway sales pitch!)  Sometimes I feel that when people hear that a movie is bad, there is no chance of the movie being a good one to them, so they play monkey-see, monkey-do and follow the leader in bashing this movie. I say that because I simply don't understand how that many people could not have liked this movie.  I've seen some absolute junk in my days that don't get nowhere near the bad publicity as this one (Austin Powers 2 and the Scream series to name a few!)  How those movies are accepted and this is laughed away is beyond me as a movie-goer.A couple other user's had great comments that I would like to post again. Like Michael on Jan 20, 2001, he writes I think most people find the plots hard to understand simply because they aren't the pre-package plots that they're used to.  Exactly.  Most people, like the ones who liked Austin Powers 2, need their hand held by the director throughout the movie because they simply can't make assumptions or realizations for themselves, so they eventually don't understand it and then they make fun of it.  Everybody -  WE MOCK WHAT WE DON'T UNDERSTAND!  Just because you can't pick up on what's going on, that doesn't mean this movie is a pile of crap!  Also, Josh on Feb 26, 2001 says My apologies Mr. Costner...for believing the negative hype. I agree 100% - don't believe the hype.  Forget what you've heard about it. Just see it and decide for yourself - I think you'll be pleasantly surprised! "},{"Title":"Critics missed the point, there's a gem of a movie in here","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bum rap is right-- while this movie does indeed have its flaws (duh-- most do)-- it was considerably better than the Hollywood establishment allowed. In fact, it was unseemly the way those folks sought the movie out for criticism. They chased it, practically, for derision! I became a fan accidentally, innocently. I had a few friends who worked as extras in the filming, and it was filmed on location, mostly, in my home town area in Eastern Washington. Thus, I schlepped my bod over to the theater on Christmas day to see it. I was away at school, and lonesome. I felt cut-off from friends and family-- blah blah blah. Thus I sat in the dark searching the screen for my friends, feeling a bit of old home vibe returning as a I saw scene after scene take place in recognized locales. This is what the movie was about-- the re-connecting that takes place after a time of separation. The theme of the movie was about finding the courage it takes to crawl out of our shells, to deny the relative safety of living withdrawn and contracted. It was all about community, and the personal risks and steps necessary to reconnect and reestablish our communities. It was about the virtual death that living without community is, and the inexorable force of human nature and life itself that propels us to-- eventually-- do whatever it takes to reach back out again and find our interpersonal and social relationships. Well, my little episode of homesickness, and the reaffirming activity I was engaged in while trying to find old friends in old familiar places on screen drew me instantly into what I believe was the underlying purpose of the book, and the movie. I was stunned, awe struck, gratified, and immensely happy and comforted by the movie. Only later I was shocked to discover how much the media folks hated it, and how indifferent the movie going public seemed to be to it. A year+ later I saw the movie again, and some of the emotional impact for me had faded. I could see that the evil general and the Holnist Army thing was a bit overdrawn-- but the essential sweetness and power of the core message was intact. As humans, when we live cut off from our fellow folks, we're as good as dead; it is only through exercising and feeding our relationships that we can be human, happy, and alive. If I had a time machine, I'd go back and get Kevin Costner to cut the army of 8 stuff WAY back. I'd also get him to NOT direct the thing-- focus on the townspeople and their coming out relationships and experiences a touch more. And I'd make sure he cut the length down to 135 mins or so. I'd also stick in a reference or three to the postman theme-- have some person or other comment on the corny nature, perhaps, of having a postman save the word-- making a knowing joke about it within the story might then have the effect of inoculating the audience against their own cynicism. To paraphrase David Denby of The New Yorker, it seems as if Hollywood is punishing Costner for making them feel things they didn't want to feel. Over all, I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"A good film filled with the hope we all need.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think I have figured out what all those nasty and negative comments this movie endured.  We have lost the patience to hear and see a good story well told.  It's too long, they say.  Only if you don't enjoy beautiful scenery, good and believable costumes and most importantly a good story well acted. "},{"Title":"Why does Kevin Costner get the shaft?","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Costner is getting the shaft and I'd like to know why. What higher-ups in the industry and critics circle has he ****ed off to deserve such treatment?I saw The Postman twice on video, so I'm sure I got a clear opinion of the movie. Though it was 3 hours long, the story moved along well enough that I didn't notice the time.The acting was very good, and there were many good small roles. The story is original, interesting and plausible. The futuristic scenarios are believable. Costner's character is not a super-hero and his good deeds are not super-human. He's a likeable hero. The costumes and sets are elaborately wrought and feel realistic. There are moving moments throughout the film, and the end is not entirely predictable.That said, the movie does have a few weaknesses, but The Postman is nowhere near as heinous as some of the other crap of 1997 which was heralded by the critics. There was an unexplained abundance of electricity available to the people in the film, many of whom were otherwise poverty-stricken. There were some gratuitously patriotic lines (but restoring America is what the film was about, after all). And there are a couple scenes that linger a bit too long on the Kodak moment-ness of it all.But these things are all easily overlooked in favor of an entertaining film. I was drawn in from the start and was eager to find out how it would unfold. This film did not deserve the vicious treatment it received, and everyone should give it a fair shake and form their own opinion about it.  "},{"Title":"Well done movie","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie...was a bit slow to begin with...but as it progressed it became more interesting The acting was well done and the story line convincing. The ending was okay, not the best....It was entertaining and enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A movie sadly abused because of poor timing and publicity..","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must say I agree with most of the comments being made here about The Postman ,this movie was second only to L.A. Confidential as best movie I'd seen last year.For all the ambiguous reasons for the bad reviews this film got,one can't help but think the critics were afraid to admit they liked it and quickly agreed with one another.Personally,I say it was poor timing to compete with the most overblown movie since Batman,TITANIC.This was,for me,the most emotional experience since Braveheart.Costner should be proud of his achievement as director,Will Patton (who should have been awarded best supporting actor)shined as Bethlehem.We'll be seeing more of him,trust me.I am happy to say I own the Laser-disc and highly recommend it to anyone looking for some solid adventure. "},{"Title":"Media Influence","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Living in London, England, I considered myself fortunate to see both The Postman and Titanic during a trip to Canada before the aforementioned movies were even being promoted in the UK.  At the end of my visit, I left Canada with the knowledge that I had seen two mega-budget movies (which I was certain were bound to be blockbusters) before the majority of the UK cinemagoing public.On my return, I was pleased to pass on my emphatic reviews of both movies to my friends and family.  In truth, I actually preferred The Postman.   However, the negative media reviews in the build up to the release of The Postman made certain that it was only to be seen by the smallest minority of British cinemagoers.  Admittedly a Costner fan but with bias aside, I still can't believe the public can honestly say that The Postman fails in it's goal to succeed on a entertainment level.  If it does, then surely it couldn't fall much further behind the likes of Batman And Robin, Lost In Space, Mission Impossible or The Lost World all of which performed phenomenally more successful at the box office but were hardly the white-knuckle rides they aspired to be. Shouldn't it be down to the public to decide the success of a movie, not the mindless herd of critics who always seem to, coincidentally, agree with each other.   It seems that all too easily, a movie's success can be determined by what the media has to say about it.  Especially the Costner movies - remember how the media tried their best to scupper Waterworld's chances at the box office.  My grievance lies with the fact that the media seemed content to spend so much time focusing on the fact that it was Costner's second directorial outing rather concentrating on the movie's own merits or shortcomings.  They appeared so desperate to trash The Postman, they resorted to the simplest and most noticeable of comparisons between the lack of serious themes, compared to the humanitarian issues tackled in Dances With Wolves .  From what I can recall, even the media's favourite director - Steven Spielberg, has been know to flit between the thought provoking, dramatical storylines and the gung-ho action genre eg. Schinder's List (1993), The Lost World (1997).  What are they saying?  It's OK for Spielberg to diversify but not for Costner?Mel Gibson, be warned! "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After reading very negative reviews and seeing the movie flop at the box  office, I must admit I was not too excited about seeing this movie.However, I thoroughly enjoyed The Postman!  It was a refreshing movie with  a great theme.  It starts off a bit slow and I really didn't know how to  take it at first, but by the movie's end, I was moved and entertained.It's ironic that Kostner's Waterword involved the future where global  warming caused the disaster.  Whereas, this movie involved the future where  an assumed nuclear war caused the disaster.  Both films were heavily  criticized, and I have greatly enjoyed both.... go figure!  "},{"Title":"This is a good movie!!","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What has Hollywood got against Kevin Costner?  This is by no means the best movie I have ever seen but sure beats the heck out of many that have been rated much higher.  If there had been another actor such as Mel Gibson or Harrison Ford in the lead you can be sure the Hollywood hype machine would have been behind this one 100% and considered it as one of this summers big hits.  But of course, a lot of the acting and great scenery would have been cut for big action scenes.  I believe this would have hurt this refreshing movie that developed the characters by acting rather than action.  I applaud Kevin Costner's work and hope he continues making movies regardless of what the powers that be in Hollywood say and do to discredit his acting and directing.  "},{"Title":"This film is WAY under rated!","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a much better post apocalyptic film than almost any others out there. WAY UNDER RATED. It holds your attention all the way through and is almost a post apocalypse version of Dances With Wolves. As such, it should be rated between 7 and 8. Don't know what those low voters were thinking.The Postman never explains what the cause of the breakdown of society is, it leaves it up to the view to decide if it was a nuclear war, a pandemic, or some other catastrophe. The cause is not important. It chronicles the adventure of an actor/conman who starts a con to get food and supplies and comes to believe in his cause. He starts out as a minor villain and ends up being the hero. "},{"Title":"My wife and I REALLY liked it!!","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that got hammered by the critics, and some people that have seen it just flat out didn't like it. For my wife and I, it was a very different story. We both believed Waterworld was OK to good (even though the critics lambasted it as one of the worst movies ever made) and we thought that this movie was very good! I'm just wondering if KC did something to peeve off the critics and academy because this was certainly a much better film than any of them would acknowledge. It's probably OK that critics didn't like it though because lately it seems that critics fawn and gush over ultra-liberal crap that makes me want to projectile vomit into their collective fanny packs. If a movie isn't some over the top far-left fantasy, they generally will either pan it, or blowtorch it into ashes immediately upon release as they did with this one. This movie was apolitical. While it takes place in post-apocalyptic America, it had much more to do with being a study in fundamental human nature than trying to make a statement based on current events. We thought the camera work, scenery, acting and overall production quality was very high. Some might think it was a little too over the top Kevin Costner on Kevin Costner, but I think his performance in this movie was rather sublime. It really confuses me how a relatively thoughtful and well crafted movie like this one can get instantly relegated to the trash heap, but idiotic pablum like 'My unwed teen sister is knocked up' gets 10 thumbs up.Anyway..judge for yourself. We watched it several times over the years because it was good. "},{"Title":"Ignore critics think for yourself","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was one of the few to catch this one at the theater when it was released and I loved it. The epic story about the fall of civilization and the efforts of one man (At first self serving) to rebuild what was lost. A truly great movie. Also This is one of the many films that long ago caused me to reject critics and their opinions. The Poastman is a great movie with characters you root and a nonstop story that holds your interest from start to finish. Along with solid directing from The main star. It amazes me sometimes the way his work is universally panned by the film industry these days. Always remember film critics are giving you their opinion about the movies (they may or may not have seen) its is not written in stone so go see the movie and make your own opinion. Think for yourself rent or buy this movie Gary "},{"Title":"Uplifting message in a gritty time","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let's stop arguing whether this film is true to the book (it is not straying as far as other literature-based movies, but it strays)or if it is ultra-patriotic (I think the main message is just a message of hope and that is universal) or if is underrated or not by the critics.Let us just look at some points First and foremost, what drives this movie, the message. Imagine living in a country, torn and devastated by war and plague, not knowing if your relatives or friends are alive or dead. You just live huddled in small hamlets and isolated from the outer world. Naturally that isolated hamlets without hope can be easily dominated by well trained bandits and outlaws. Now imagine someone coming who brings news from other villages. You hear from your sister you believed to be dead, from your daughter, who you did not see the whole time and so on... Suddenly life is not so dreary anymore. Stuff's getting better, everyday, to quote the movie. People now have hope, and this hope leads to unity, and unity leads to standing up against oppression.#THAT is the power of the written word, and it is also the main message of the movie. Stuff's getting better, everydayTo all other movie parts like acting, directing, photography and so on, I find the movie solid to absolutely awesome in some parts The only thing I am not so happy about is the whole plot about the old ex-soldier. I did not read the book, but I think this character is getting some background and importance there. Here you could cut out all his scenes without missing anything. And though the ambush on the Elvis patrol seems to be his planning, the situation and the whole ambush is such a logical tactical development, that even a former shipping clerk (the postman) could have thought of it.All in all, i love that this one is a post-apocalyptic themed movie without all the despair and depravity all other movies in this genre have. This is a film about hope and the power of hope, clad in a bit pro-American and sometimes cheesy scenes. I can only recommend the movie. "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie. I found it very original and watchable. I really have no idea why it is so badly graded. And I'm not someone who likes stupid action films, I really think this movie is artistic, smart, and makes you think and feel for the heroes. It contains a lot of character development and human psychology. It also got some very nice twists. Yeah, it could maybe be a little better directed, but then it would be to perfect. A have no idea why it is worstly graded that saw franchise or some other totally worthless, but surprisingly successful films. Maybe it is that people were expecting to much from this film and were then disappointed, and graded it worstly that it deserves. "},{"Title":"Original and compelling","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Except for about 20 minutes out of the last hour, Postman was a joy to watch. I found it very original and compelling, especially the Holnist camp images and the escape scenes. If this film hadn't preceded the Lord of the Rings trilogy, I would say that it had copied the style and themes of LOR, in its musical score, photography, set locations, battles, etc. Since it came first however, I just applaud its artistic integrity and accomplishments. I haven't read the book, and the story wasn't written by Tolkein, but the picture of menacing evil ambition is consummately portrayed. I've never seen Will Patton before, but his General Bethlehem is an eye-opener. The movie's general insight into men's (and women's) conflicting motivations is quite good.I found the first 2 hours spotless and exhilarating, even if the insemination scene ruled out the possibility of my kids watching the whole film. Where does it come up short? I found Costner's postman not to be likable in the end. He seemed to be shamed into the good things he did. He had some kind of conversion at the Bridge City dam when a child demanded to know What's a postman? but did his character change? or just adapt? I tended to agree with General Bethlehem that the postman didn't believe in anything worth fighting for, and when the postman cried out, I believe in the United States of America (or whatever) it rang a little hollow, even if it won him the fight. So, the postman movement was over-emphasized (although Ford Lincoln Mercury was great) and the postman himself was too ambivalent about it.I think of this as one of Costner's concept movies, like Field of Dreams and Dances with Wolves. I really appreciate them, and the fact that they take you for an exciting ride, opening up new visions of our reality. Will he ever produce, direct and star in Cooper's The Red Rover? I hope so. "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what's up with the rest of the world, but this movie was really great. The postapocalyptic story bit might appear a little weird but that's all. This is one of the most underrated movies I've ever seen. I'm sure it's the majority of people who went to see a science-fiction film and were served with a kind of western. Well guys, the movie world doesn't only consist of Matrix & Co. Is it just the fact that you all don't like Kevin Costner or is it simply the fact that it's great movies like Postman that are overcharging your Matrix-damaged low-bandwidth brains? Maybe this movie was underrated because of its lot of great actors (Tate, Patton, Williams, Costner, basically the first ten - at least - listed in credits), or its beautiful cinematography (Costner proved his many talents with his eye catching Rapa Nui, which was highly underrated too... this one had some of the most beautiful pictures I've ever seen in a movie), probably its greatly elaborated characters, a great viewer-pleasing ending, or Costner's pretty good directing? I don't get it.Goddamn, some huge ass thunderbolt just hit somewhere near here. My ears are bleeding. I think I better shutdown this PC now ;-))However, here are my extended ratings for Postman acting 7.5/10, story 8/10, cinematography 8/10, directing 7/10, adventure 8/10, action 6/10.Go, see it if you can. But don't expect a sci-fi movie. Expect a very well-done modern western.  "},{"Title":"Not To Bad","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not as bad as people make it out to be POSSIBLE SPOILERS costner plays a drifter in 2013 after america is blown up during a nuclear war or something having read the novel which david brin wrote I had hoped that this movie would be better only thing that bothered me was the R rating why? it could have been PG-13 anyway this film is RATED R FOR VIOLENCE AND BRIEF NUDITY 7\10 "}{"Title":"good movie","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (in advance sorry for my poor English) The movie was good idea of the story, director, performances of the actors, humor and tragedies, the 3-hours (there wasn't scenes `hanging-in-air'). Appreciation 10/10. But because of the statue-scene at the and 9/10 - that wasn't a very good idea. (In spite of the majority of the critics, Kevin Costner is very good as actor and as director.) I'm glad that this movie has been realized. Thanks.  "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was entertained - I enjoyed it - and that's all that counts. It makes one wonder about the mentality of the professional film critics. I guess Kevin is being punished because he is not playing the liberal Hollywood game.  "},{"Title":"Pleased to see others agree.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm watching The Postman on TNT right now. So out of curiosity I decided to see what other people thought of this film. What a pleasure to see that other people liked this film as well. It's charming, sarcastic,uplifting and thoughtful all at the same time. One of the things I noticed about this film the first time I saw it and have never heard any one comment on was that it presented teenagers in a very positive light. The youth in this film are idealistic and moral when most films present them as foolish, atavistic and cowardly. How refreshing. Costner makes movies that he wants to see. I am proud to state that I share his tastes. Waterworld is a blast. And it contains the best transition from studio logo to story. Less than one minute to set up the expositional information the film needed. And that includes the film that inspired that transition, Raiders of the Lost Ark. It takes real love of your art form to top Spielberg. Rock on Costner.  "},{"Title":"A Paradox","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It wasn't until I saw this film on TNT, twice, that I finally grasped the thought that this film really isn't bad.(wow! in two weeks I've come to realize the truth about two underrated films The Stupids and The Postman all thanks to TNT)  As a film, it is very good, very entertaining.  I gave it an 8/10 because of two factors  Only the greatest make the 10 and I just couldn't give it a 9 with the cheesy lines hat it had.  Although they were minimal, they still packed a punch.  For example when the girl outside the city starts mumbling the patriotic hymn.  It tried a little too hard to portray patriotism and I am still confused of the contrasting views of America between Dances With Wolves, JFK as opposed to The Postman; considering the fact that Costner is a die hard Republican.  I don't think it dragged at all.  I think the longer a film is, the longer it represents the story.  The Green Mile was like a filmed novel as was The Postman.  Both of these films are good, if not great.  I certainly don't agree with the Razzies on this one.  Yes, Costner is not a very good actor but neither was John Wayne so when people revere Wayne what do they always consider him as?  He is considered as one of the greatest entertainers of all time, not actors.  Field Of Dreams, Bull Durham, Dances With Wolves, JFK, Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves, Waterworld, and The Postman.  Quite a list.  All of these movies were very entertaining.  The only exception would be, maybe, Bull Durham but the others are without a doubt. You're lying, I was at the battle of Gettysburg.  I watched the White House burn to the ground!If you watch this film(The Postman) and you pay close attention to small details referring to dialogue you begin to appreciate the real feel of it.  Sure, some dialogue is strictly-silver screen but the majority is very close to real life.  For example when the young girl comes riding through the forest as a postman and is greeted by The Postman as he learns of Ford Lincoln Mercury's ongoing attempt at satisfaction.  When he is loading his weapon, he mumbles something about how he hates the confrontations between strangers.  I happen to love these little intricate additions.  And the whole Tom Petty thing was just brilliant.  You'd have to know the situation, it actually being Tom Petty, to get the laugh.  One of the best parts, however, is when the camera zooms in on Bethlehems face as he says(with dramatic overture),You spelled tyrraney wrong.  It's just flat out wonderful.  I think I'll buy this one on DVD. "},{"Title":"The first really positive Post-apocalyptic film I've seen!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of post-apocalyptic films, and I've seen many corny underground productions, but until now I've somehow managed to miss out on this little(long) gem.The movie is really cozy and uplifting, something that i have yet to see in a movie in this genre. However, you have to see beyond the stars and bars of the flag the Postman fights for, and think about what it might mean in a world filled with chaos and despair, otherwise it might feel a bit tacky.The idea that the young people of the destroyed earth longs for something bigger and decent is terrific. I could see myself as a post-carrier in the sinister future that might be waiting for us.There is no people in ice-hockey armour, no bad-ass cars and no mohawk hair, but i didn't even miss it once during the whole movie (almost 3 hours). Instead Costner has created a sort of wild west world that is fresh and interesting to watch.So if you like PA movies, don't miss this one!Ps. This film reminded me very much of a brilliant post-apocalyptic book that everyone who loves this genre MUST read  Lucifers Hammer. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner delivers","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have been a huge Kevin Costner fan ever since I saw him in Field Of Dreams and knew that he is one of the most talented Hollywood actors. So it came as no surprise when I was captivated with how enjoyable The Postman turned out. As The Postman, Kevin Costner brings hope, faith, and joy to the people he delivers the mail to. The first 45 minutes of the movie is nothing special, but the viewers must stay tuned as they should be delighted to find themselves glued to the television as I was in anticipation of the next event. In order for an action movie to work there must be a terrific hero and equally terrific villain; The Postman has one in Will Patton's Gen. Bethlehem.Will Patton is so excellent and convincing as the villain, I'm glad that I was not recruited into his army. The Postman incorporates an underlying romance that makes this futuristic adventure worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Not the utter disaster that many claimed, but not that great either.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   The Postman weighs in at almost three hours and has a very odd-sounding plot. For those reasons, many people decided before they had even seen it that they weren't going to like it. The knives were well and truly out for this film and its star Kevin Costner. Unsurprisingly the film was released to howls of critical derision and the public - discouraged by the negative feedback - stayed away in droves. A few years on from the release of this film, the dust has finally settled and it can now be viewed and judged a little more fairly. Is it the massive disaster the critics wanted us to take it for? No. Is it a great movie that needs reappraisal? No again. It's just a decent apocalyptic epic which, though damnably overlong, has occasional good moments. Costner plays a drifter wandering around a post-apocalyptic wasteland that used to be America. He finds the corpse of a postman, still clad in its uniform, and he steals the uniform for himself. To dupe his way into a town for the night, he claims that he is a real postman and that law and order is being restored to the country with regular services already up and running. However, the townsfolk take such hope from the thought of a new communications system that they elevate him to the status of a prophet. This annoys a guy called General Betlehem (Will Patton), an ex-businessman who has manipulated the lawlessness of the land by proclaiming himself some kind of tyrannical, all-righteous leader-figure. Bethlehem doesn't like the idea of losing his new-found responsibilities and he'll do anything to keep things as they are. As said already, The Postman is decent enough. Its cinematography is actually highly impressive, the music score is quite sweeping, and once you adjust to the peculiarities of the storyline it becomes absorbing in a strange kind of way. However, the excessive length is a drawback. Most epics are long, with action that takes place over many years and the characters usually go through some kind of extraordinary religious, social or political change. This film could have been much shorter, because it's basically just a story of a good guy who stands up against a bad guy in a post-apocalyptic setting. Still, don't be misled by this film's embarrassing reputation.... it isn't great, but you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Not Kevin Costner again","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When this film was suggested by a friend I was mildly annoyed at having to watch yet another epic film directed by and starring Kevin Costner.  While I'm still not fond of Mr. Costner, there is no doubt in my mind that he is a fabulous director and a wonderful eye.  The character he seems to always play fits quite well into this film, and I was easily wrapped up in the story.  There were several moments that would have been just too over the top in 1997, but that, in these desperate times, are much needed.  This is a movie about finding the hero within yourself... all we need is a little hope.  "},{"Title":"Overlong, but entertaining.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Reeling from one post-apocalyptic damp squid into another, Costner's credibility suffered again with this flick. Although Waterworld deserved the panning it received, however, this isn't too bad at all, and actually tells rather an engaging and patriotic story. It's just a shame judicious nipping and tucking didn't take place to deliver a sub-two hour story, as the bloated running time is a major setback. Costner is as oak-like as ever, but at least he's backup up by some decent supporting players (particularly Patton and Williams) who bring some much-needed humanity to what is a fairly cringe-worthy premise.  "},{"Title":"Very nice movie","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We need more movies like this.  I read the book and liked it.  When the movie started I thought that the book was better.  As the movie progressed I was won over by the movie.  Of course I like the visuals that are in the movies.  Thought provoking film with beautiful camera work.  We need more films that accentuate the positive, good over evil if you will. "}{"Title":"Very good movie, how was this so poorly reviewed?","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Very surprised and impressed by this movie. Not sure why this movie was written off so quickly. I assume that the vitriol Costner inspired with Waterworld carried over to this film. The cast is excellent, the direction superb, the camera work stunning and the acting brilliant.But it is the story that surprises the most. A loner that is trying to survive gets wrapped up in the anti-American revolution that has successfully destroyed American civilization. The loner eventually escapes, and dons a found postman's uniform and begins to deliver the mail found along with the uniform for personal gain (food).The hope he inspires eventually convinces him to fight the revolution, led by a very hard, evil and unfeeling man, and further hope is provided to the survivors of the United States.Personally, I think the attacks on this movie were politically motivated. The late 90s began the current wave of internal anti-American sentiments that the left is so fond of. It is no secret that most movie reviewers lean heavily to the left. A movie that speaks to the spirit of Americans and the inspiration the United States provides its citizens is not shockingly going to be panned.This movie is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Gunfire, Cannons or Snow... The Mail Must Get Through","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is most popular among women under the age of 18. I can't really fathom why that would be, but maybe there's a whole other aspect of this that I missed.In 2013, the United States has been destroyed for about 15 years, and only the very basic technology is available. Something like the Civil War, but with machine guns. After escaping an army and pretending to be a postman, Kevin Costner sets out to rebuild America.The only bad thing I can say about this film is that some of the actors were really poor. Two or three of the minor roles had very hammy actors that ruined the scenes, but overall the acting was quite well done.The plot is wonderful. Certain plot holes exist if you pay attention (I noticed for example that everyone knows the president is in Minneapolis, although the only time Costner said this was in private to the enemy) but the overall premise of rebuilding through the use of communication is somewhat realistic and a very intriguing idea if nothing else.The woman playing Abby was great, maybe even greater than she was in Rushmore (though that film reigns supreme). The kid playing Ford Lincoln Mercury was a bit over the top, but it seemed to fit his character well. And Will Patton? A dazzling display of pure evil. As he himself says, great men make great men -- his evilness only serves to make Costner a greater hero.The music was very odd (Come and Get Your Love?) and needed more Tom Petty. Petty himself needed a bigger role, and did great with the part that was given to him.Some people will complain the film is too long (178 minutes). While I agree the film seemed long at first, once I became engrossed in the film, I would have been willing to watch another two hours of this world. You really don't want to say goodbye to Abby, the Postman or even to General Bethlehem. They are powerful and charismatic characters.Could this film be even better than Waterworld? I am undecided, but it is certainly in the running as the best Kevin Costner film ever made. "},{"Title":"Good vs evil.  Flee or fight.  Man's gotta do whatta man's gotta do.","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Bizarre story. Not convoluted. Not even unbelievable, up to a point. But then the soon-to-be hero, The Postman, gets gut shot just before the onset of a snowstorm. No medicine. No antibiotics. His nurse, who has also been starved and beaten, can't even sew him up. All they have to eat is grass and melted snow. On the verge of starvation she shoots and butchers a horse. Wait. It gets better. After a couple of days he is strong enough to run out of the deserted house they are holed up in and drag her out of an icy river. They bumble along, rally the good guys. Then the Postman, to save his protégé, challenges the mean leader of the evil forces to a mano-a-mano in front of everyone. The ending then dissolves into pure Walt Disney. I am amazed that Bambi's mother didn't stroll out of the woods and announce, MAN is in the forest. It tries to be a reluctant hero finally decides to gird up his loins and do right no matter the outcome movie. Doesn't make it. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect...........","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie even though I have previously read the comments made on it and to tell the truth this movie is simply great. OK, there may be a little bad acting from secondary characters yet it is hidden in the midst of a lot of Good acting and some people may think fifteen year-old letters delivered by this postman cannot be that mighty in doing all this change that the story expresses but I may have a little bit of a difference in opinion cause I believe that hope can be born with the slightest you do to create it as long as the person in who's heart this hope is born is willing to have such hope.Now in a world where everything of value is fading away, people would be willing for the slightest ray of hope, now the fifteen years old letters viewers of the movie criticized as being an overstatement of a power giver is actually considered by myself a great ray of hope.To make this short all I would want to say is, if you wanna watch a great movie called the postman, Then watch one that stars Kevin Costner and Olivia Williams cause if this movie isn't that perfect then at least all I know is it sends the viewer two important messages which are it is never too late to change everything that is wrong around him and it is a human's belief that he is weaker than another is what makes him actually weak........ It's all related to how we feel about ourselvesCiao "},{"Title":"Critics?  Bah, Humbug.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  1.  This isn't an epic, it's a MOVIE!2.  It's entertaining.3.  It tells a story - you just cant watch the gore.. er Action.It's a little too long BUT that is to establish mood... think how long every day must have seemed to the little clumps of survivors while they waited for the next visit of the rapacious nutcase general and his brigands.I guess critics can't stand it when Costner makes statement films about societal values... and what sacrifices might be necessary to have a society itself. "},{"Title":"Not that bad of a movie.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Coudl've edited out about an hour of the movie. That's what keeps this movie from even better. I don't know what Costner's deal is with making long movies. I guess he likes getting all of the details.All in all, not bad if you don't mind the length. "},{"Title":"A stiring Epic","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I would imagine that the large amount of 1  out of ten votes for this movie are by people who struggled to get through the three hours of the movie and gave up. I can understand in a way why many didnt get to the end but i was one of those who managed to do and and i'm glad i did! The postman has some great moments in it superbly backed up with a moving soundtrack. It does get a little sentimental at times but most of Costner's movies do. I enjoyed it for what it was , a good v evil epic that was highly entertaining. Stick with it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"critics missed the point","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  like others, i was very pleasantly surprised at how good it was. I believe the critics  missed the message of the film,that there is always hope as long as you dont give up. there was lots of good acting in this film. "},{"Title":"The Postman is one of my favorite recent films.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand the terrible reviews of this movie!  I've seen it at least 5 or 6 times (most recently last night on HBO), and I get totally engrossed in it every time. I want to buy it on video, but I can't find it for sale in any store (and I don't shop on-line).Of course, as a rule, if I read a bad review in the newspaper, I know I'll like the movie - I haven't figured out where these people come from, or if they even saw the same movie I did! Where does a professional movie critic get his credentials? A box of Cracker-Jack? "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!!  A guilty little pleasure apparently","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Years ago I watched The Postman when it was first released amidst horrifying reviews. I started watching it late one night with the intention of only watching a bit of it and next thing I knew I was wide eyed and hooked on this patriotic post apocalyptic action flick. Granted I have always been a HUGE Kevin Costner fan (MUST SEE MR BROOKS--See my review.) I watched it again in order to review it and was still impressed although the enormous greatness I saw as a teenager had faded a little. I am pleased to see that a lot of IMDb reviewers see this film for what it is and that some people truly see it as a great flick. It has it's moments of really campy special effects, some major over acting, and a really heavy message of United States patriotism which is apparently a bad thing according to some reviewers?! The problem is in a post 9/11 world a lot of people have had their fill of intense, down your throat patriotism but The Postman did it before it was the fad. It still is a beautifully directed, action packed epic with beautiful landscape and a captivating story and some really honest goodness moving moments. The length is a common complaint and yet the length is what makes The Postman epic compared to run of the mill action flick because it doesn't hold back anything to tell it's story.Kevin Costner directs and stars in the film and he is perfect as a drifter who longs for the days of old when he reluctantly becomes a hero to the entire country. Costner knows how to make a film that you want to watch and he doesn't care whether critics love it or hate it, he makes it for us and thank goodness for that. As The Postman he gives a terrific performance that has a great character arc from drifter to prisoner to hero throughout the film. He is a powerful actor in the role. Will Patton...I don't know what to say about his performance as the evil, over bearing dictator General Bethlehem. In one way he is deliciously evil and terrifying and in another way he is campy and over acting with a huge and ridiculous vocabulary that doesn't quite jive. Either way he is memorable in his role and does appear completely insane. Him and Costner are great foes in the film. Larenz Tate is powerful as the head of the resistance Ford Lincoln Mercury. He doesn't have a huge role and yet his strong performance and truly astounding character patriotism shines through. Olivia Williams is the perfect 80's action love interest...in the late nineties in this case. She's pretty and quiet and not afraid to strip off her clothes for the obligatory breast shot. Her and Costner have decent chemistry but nothing sizzling. She comes across as a little crazy at times but she is decent in the role. She seems kind of bored.So the cast is good, Kevin Costner shines but nothing spectacular in the supporting cast but this film is not about the cast...it's about the story. This is a post apocalyptic film at it's best. It reminds me in a way of Stephen King's Gunslinger...remnants of the old world exist everywhere which really makes you feel like all of this could be a reality which draws you into this world. Seeing The Postman in a world that used to exist...a former gas station, an old car wreck etc. is even more disturbing and real. Costner does an incredible job of direction creating this void of a world where war and technology eliminated everything. Despite horrible reviews and constant belittling I encourage any fan of Sci-Fi or Costner or an epic action film to check this out and see for yourself because this will a film that I will watch again in the future. My guilty little pleasure as I stated because I loved it!! 9/10 "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie with my girlfriend a few years ago, and it is still one of the worst movies any one of us has ever seen. Thing is, I'm fairly masochistic when it comes to watching bad movies, I love cheesy post-apocalyptic flicks like Mad Max, Hardware, Tank-girl, Steel Dawn, Waterworld (yes! I like it!) and suchlike.Postman, however, bored me to death. It is too Kevin Costner, too long by far and way too sentimental. The scene when the Postman rides to deliver mail to a bunch of cheering kids (in slow motion!) had us laughing so hard we had to pause the movie.In the end, we fast-forwarded to the end and promised ourselves never to rent a Costner movie again. To this day I usually keep clear of any film with Costner in it. That really is unfair because I actually think he is a good actor and director. Postman, however, scarred me deeply.I am thinking of giving it another chance though, since I found surprisingly many positive comments here. It seems this is a movie you either love or hate, so my recommendation would be to watch it and make up your own mind.Still, it really is a tedious and utterly boring yawn of a film. "},{"Title":"Star Trek The Previous Emasculation","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Didn't I see this episode of Star Trek before? I don't remember it being ssooo lloonngg. Oh, it's a remake; and look, they got Kevin Costner to play Captain Kirk - I thought maybe he could act... no, actually, William Shatner did it better It DOESn't HAVE to BE this way! Okay, isn't this the part where the Yangs (yankees) bring out the (sacred) stars-n-stripes, and Kirk recites the preamble to the Constitution by heart? Wow, all these millions of dollars Kostner got people to spend on this make the remake look... well, pretty much the same as it did on the old TV show. Oh, this isn't a remake? it's supposed to be something else? what?Dammit, where's Bones when you really need him? I'm a doctor, not a filmmaker, Jim! All too true.Apparently somebody didn't read the script carefully enough to recognize it as satire - The Sound of Music, indeed. Personally, I preferred The Universal soldier - much better effects, much more action, and Van Damme and Lundgren can out-act Kostner any day. Beam me up Scotty! "},{"Title":"Definition of a Waste of Time","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film really defines 'waste of time' and 'what were they thinking?' I cannot stress just enough how shocked I was that people could assemble three hours of footage similar to this, put their names on it, and call it a film. I was shocked throughout the entirety of the film, finding that such an incredibly corny dystopia, predictable, sad (in the sense of being pathetic) film could be assembled. Other than Tom Petty appearing as himself (which was entertaining by its' own virtue alone) the film could be used as an indictment against Hollywood, and a call to arms for anybody who feels that they have been robbed of 3 hours of their life and subjected to mind-numbing dialogue.From the opening scene to the final scene, you will find nothing here. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" There was a kernel of an idea here. But maybe it got over-watered or ran out of aqua vita when it came to dialogue, plot and acting. What's left? Scenery. The parts of AZ, Or. and WA. he used are very beautiful. I've been to all of them. Fortunately for me, it was pre-atomic war and pre Postman, otherwise I might be saddled with thinking, Oh, there's that landscape from the Postman, like always being reminded of Elvira Madigan when hearing Mozart's 21st.Kostner has a good heart. But he should just act, not direct and find a decent screen writer. The lines in this movie were so silly, so often, that I began to wish for a -) after only those times I should be laughing. It's confusing to know when it was a joke or supposed to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Pictures Made","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I recently watched this movie on TV. I did not see it at the theatre because of the bad reviews that it had received. Taken from David Brin's best selling novel, The Postman was one of the absolutely best films I have ever seen. Yes, it may seem to have moments from other movies (but then all movies do). I loved every 177 minutes of it. It was a film with fine acting and casting, action, an exciting plot, beautifully scened and excellently directed. What I find here though, is a painful paradox, that this movie cannot be so good and yet be about the United States of America. Well, it was good and it was about the U.S.A. "},{"Title":"Redressing the balance","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman was widely trashed even before it was released. It's an old fashioned movie with old fashioned values, the kind of movie that you expect Jimmy Stewart to star in. It seems it had been decided that Costner was due for a fall, and the critics saw to it that was exactly what happened.But if you ignore the negative hype you will find a deeply sincere patriotic movie. Not patriotic in the sense of the false history and insulting lies of The Patriot, U-571 or Saving Private Ryan, but instead a realization that a nation is at heart, a community. A view of America based on family, community and communication, perhaps that's why the movie was not accepted - because it presented a nation that frankly does not exist. "},{"Title":"Costner & Co. create absurd and grandiose epic","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, I really put off watching this one for quite a long time, having just given it a first chance at long last. Not quite love at first sight, but the early scenes in the film have a quiet majesty and intrigue about them that's hard to deny. Costner's performance has a real core, and as the film expands in scope to include dozens of characters in an epic post-apocalyptic sprawl, Costner in his role as director generously allows the actors to really inhabit the space, creating strong characters nearly across the board.It's a long film, and it has several distinct sections with different mood the early laconic wanderer, then the bitter prisoner on a wild escape, and eventually we get Costner as a revolutionary organizing young people into ad-hoc postal committees to spread information and propaganda against the sadistic fascist regime of Bethlehem (Will Patton). The later parts of the film have a sort of Red Dawn vibe about them, with almost as much nationalistic flag-waving as Milius' film but less of a pro-military attitude. Costner takes his themes and his story seriously, which is admirable and certainly ambitious, but the whole thing is really too sentimental, particularly in the denouement. He has this obsession with slow- motion close-ups of people riding on horses past other people..... just cuz it looked cool in Dances With Wolves doesn't mean he needs to do it in every other shot. Although I'm sure her presence in the film did young Olivia Williams no good, her performance is credible and, again, Costner deserves praise for moving over and letting her steal a lot of their scenes together. Paxton is fascinating, but ultimately not gripping enough to be a great movie villain. It's a unique film in the post-apocalyptic genre because it has a lot more focus on character and mood than just about anything else I've seen, at least up to its time. "},{"Title":"Top 5 Post-Apocalyptic movies ever made!","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" **Spoiler alert (barely)** What the hell were the critics smoking with the terrible reviews about this movie! This movie was made in 1997 yet the undeserved criticism still unnerves me. The Postman is arguably the best post-apocalyptic movie ever made! I love the way that this movie keeps a post-world-war setting realistic, small and with communal ties. It correctly portrays a realistic lack of communication due to an unnamed catastrophe (probably an EMP and/or Nuke). The story is especially interesting because of the way the Postman literally stumbles into his role due to a desire to survive but then passionately becomes the lie he is portraying only after a woman kicks his butt into gear (isn't that what usually happens in life?). Kevin Costner does an outstanding job, as does Olivia Williams and especially Will Patton. Got to love the cameo by Tom Petty! I read Brin's book and it starts out very well but then moves from a realistic and thrilling post-apocalyptic survival story to a wasteland of fantastic tech story tangents. The movie on the other hand is adapted very well for the big screen and keeps the plot on task, despite the 3 hour time frame (I had no problem with this in this movie). Strange how the book was award-winning yet the movie got so much criticism; that's backwards if you ask me. This movie is about HOPE. Those critics that thought certain scenes were cheesy or that it was the worst movie of the year are the same critics that continually keep the minions on track toward the brainless, plot less movies that have a serious lack of character development...but hey, they have GREAT special effects and action! They are the same critics that laugh at the very notion of HOPE in movies. HOPE is something our world needs more of and it was the powerful and critical ingredient that sparked a revolution in The Postman. I loved this movie! I rarely watch movies more than once or twice yet I own this movie and have watched it countless times. I am a huge fan of the post-apocalyptic genre and this movie is easily in my top 5 of that genre! I find it interesting that over 52,000 non-critics have voted about this movie on this website, and the highest number of votes came in at 7 out of 10 (10,630 votes); hardly the worst movie of the year. Thank you Kevin for choosing to make The Postman over other choices you had at the time. Those of us non-critics appreciate it! "},{"Title":"Great, underrated but not perfect.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As a whole I love this film. The premise of the story was probably the best thing about the film. I would certainly like to read the book if there is one. This movie could have been improved with better editing and changes to the dialogue. There is a bit of exposition here and there that rankled with me a tiny bit. A few of the minor characters gave some unconvincing performances but on the whole the acting was decent enough. It was certainly the editing that let the film down. Realistically it probably could have done with being longer since certain stages of the story seemed rushed. I would love to see this as a series. The soundtrack is very well orchestrated and in places contributed massively to the emotional build ups. The main musical theme was almost identical to the one from 'The Castaway' and there are also similarities in some of the symbolism (Obviously this film came first). Some of the costuming at the very end was a bit strange. I certainly recommend this film! It really is quite engrossing, one of those ones that really capture the imagination on a rainy night! "},{"Title":"18 years down the road how does it stand up as entertainment?","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I only recently saw this film for the first time, but I had heard that it had been panned by the critics and was a failure at the box office. Trying to disregard that baggage I gave it my attention.As most readers would know, it's yet another post-apocalyptic film, but compared to the ultra-violence of such fair as Mad Max, this is fairly tame IMO.I found the film very slow in places and the romantic side story was rather lame. However there were times when I was completely engrossed in the story and the characters.If you've never seen it then give a go. I know I'll be watching it next time it's broadcast. "}{"Title":"like the idea but so many problems","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's 2013. The world is desolated after wars. A man with no name (Kevin Costner) travels the American west with his donkey Bill. He tries to avoid any civilization. He's performing in a settlement when the Holnists led by General Bethlehem (Will Patton) come demanding Pure Blood recruits. The man is taken, his donkey is killed and he's given the name Shakespeare. He escapes and finds a mail truck. He wears the uniform and takes the mailbag. He uses the 15 year old letters to con his way into Pineview pretending to represent a restored federal government. He is overwhelmed by the town's hopes. Ford Lincoln Mercury is taken by him and begs to be sworn in as a postman. Sheriff Briscoe is suspicious and kicks him out. Abby and Michael can't have children. They decide to have Abby conceive a child with the postman.I really like the idea of communication reviving civilization. If only the movie stuck with that simple idea. Not to mention the fearsome three hours running time. Like Waterworld, this has a lot of goofy post-apocalyptic ideas that take the seriousness out of the movie. The Holnists should lose some of the silliness while maintaining the dark menace. Abby and Michael should be much more simplified. Trying to romanticize Abby and the postman is a fool's errant. It would so much better to have a single Abby falling for the postman. I like Ford Lincoln Mercury's story but not his name. The movie needs to simplify and shorten the plot. It has some great sentimental melodrama but it's destroyed by the overlong overwrought silliness. "},{"Title":"Self-indulgent and silly, but watchable","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let me preface this by saying that I didn't go into this expecting anything, but I'd have to have been living under a rock to not know how critically reviled this was when it was released. However, I don't quite understand why people hate it so much. Is it a great (even good) film? Not really, but Kevin Costner really shot for the moon with this one and even though he missed by quite a lot, you have to admire something with such ambition. The story is set in the post-apocalyptic America of...2013. Having been ravaged by a massive war, civilization has been reduced back to small settlements in a sort-of feudal system run by a renegade army that is led by a general (Will Patton) who plunders from every town he visits. Kevin Costner plays a nameless drifter who, by circumstance, becomes an inspiration and symbol of hope for the restoration of society as they once knew it. What the film gets right, and there are a number of things, is its portrayal of a society in decay. Things aren't quite Mad Max bad, but the world which Costner created in the film was fairly believable. Another thing was the epic scope of the film. Even though THE POSTMAN is, at times, self-indulgent and a little too long, little was wasted in terms of visual spectacle. There were plenty of breathtaking shots which captured the American West as only Costner (and a few others) can. In terms of characters and acting, given the length of the film, adequate screen time was allotted to suitably develop the principal characters, and the performances given by all were quite good. Still, some of the dialogue they were saddled with (pardon my pun) was cliché at best, laughable at worst. In fact, most of the moments which were supposed to emotionally hit you came off as silly to me. Not only that, but they played it straight and so unironically that it came off that much more silly. Overall, THE POSTMAN aims high in terms of scope and themes, but only delivers satisfactorily on the technical side of things. As long as you don't mind silly, but earnest, post-apocalyptic fare this film isn't a bad way to pass three hours. "},{"Title":"Greatly undervalued by the critics","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have found that there is quite a difference between Sci Fi, fantasy and horror fans. You can put fantasy or horror in a futuristic setting, but that doesn't make it Science Fiction. The Postman is a true Sci Fi movie, loved by real Sci Fi fans, but not as much by anyone else. For the real future visionary, this is an excellent movie with wonderful acting. In particular, Will Patton plays a fantastic antagonist. The setting is well done and really makes you feel like you are there. It is one of my favorite movies.*** If you are wondering about the differences between Sci Fi, Fantasy and Horror, read on. Fantasy is generally about an overlooked character becoming a hero either by right-of-birth, accidentally gaining a special power, or just by being in the right place at the right time. It can be in a futuristic setting or quite often a medieval time. It usually involves some mystical power that can't be explained, but who cares, that's not what draws us to fantasy. Star Wars is a perfect example. Most people enjoy at least a little fantasy. Horror is a story geared to give you a rush by making you jump. Again, it can be set in the future, past or present. It generally doesn't have the vision which attracts most Sci Fi fans. If you prefer H.G. Wells and Alien to Jules Verne and Star Trek, then you are probably more of a horror fan than Sci Fi, although there are some people who like both. True Science Fiction is the telling of visionary stories giving us an idea of possible futures. Of course there is still a lot of fiction, there has to be in the unknown, but the idea is to make it as realistic as possible. If you are a fan of Jules Verne, Issac Asimov, Gene Roddenberry, David Brin, Greg Bear, Michael Crichton, J.J. Abrams, Stargate Universe and time twists in general, then you are probably a Sci Fi Fan and will LOVE The Postman. If you are a big fan of the cable SyFy Channel, then you are probably NOT a big Sci Fi fan. "},{"Title":"The Postman Much Better than the critcs' opinions","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I thought I would write a review of this movie because it's a prime example of how, in my humble opinion, the critics often get it wrong, and really wrong. Don't get me wrong, the movie has its flaws, I'll get to those later, but it also has a couple of pretty amazing acting performances, and quite a few others that are very good. These would not be Kevin Costner's however. Kevin Costner plays 1990's Kevin Costner, which was probably part of this film's undoing with the critics in the first place they were getting sick of him, and assumed the movie going public was too. An outstanding acting performance is turned in by Will Patton as the antagonist General Bethlehem, a sadistic warlord who rules his troops with an iron fist while regaling himself in the pretenses of having culture due to his love of literature and music. Another pretty amazing performance is Giovani Ribisi as one of Bethlehem's minions who is mentally challenged and unstable and makes every effort to ingratiate himself to his superiors, who seem all to willing to ignore him until they can take advantage of his eagerness. There are also very good performances by Laranz Tate, as Ford Lincoln Mercury, the would be protégé of Costner's title character, Olivia Williams as Costner's love interest, and Daniel Von Bargen, as the sheriff of the small town caught in the middle of the struggle between Costner's Postman and Patton's Bethlehem. It's a shame that the critics tend to like to focus on the negative, and in doing so all but dismiss the incredible acting done by these actors, among many others in the film. The film does get a little heavy handed near the end, and the final scene unveiling the statue of Costner as The Postman probably sealed the film's fate with the critics. It can be a little slow in parts, but that normally doesn't last too long, and there are a couple of different parables about modern life and human nature intertwining that are interesting and add to the enjoyment of the movie beyond the excellent acting of the supporting cast.This film could be a study in how American critics in general, and movie critics in particular fail to do their jobs in directing audiences to movies that are worth their time and money. Compare this movie to say, Mel Gibson's The Patriot, and it is superior in every way, yet due to it's initially poor critical response, still is rated far lower, and yet is a far better movie by almost any standard.If you enjoy great acting, complex parables and are willing to endure a few slow spots and a bit of over-the-top sentimentality and ego stroking in the last 10 minutes, this would be a rewarding film for you to watch, regardless of what the critics or a few of your clueless friends might tell you. Also, if you're a Tom Petty fan, you will get to see one of his very few live action acting performances, and while not great, is not bad either. "},{"Title":"A great concept and story despite the poor execution","Date":"26 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The concept of the movie is very nice, one of a post -apocalyptic-war America where uncontrolled violence and injustice rise up in distanced areas and the classic one man rising up to be the hero. The nameless hero is an intentional one, changing from an uncaring scavenger, getting into a postman's uniform, to unintentionally inspiring hope for youngsters and eventually a large group of men. Kevin Costner's action is nice. He can portray the uncaring initial persona of his role, mostly with his facial expressions, and then the protective hero carrying the burden of lies. Will Patton succeeded in portraying the stern and strict yet coward inside general. Larenz Tate and Olivia Williams give the color this movie needs. It's nice to see Giovanni Ribisi's earlier works here too. "},{"Title":"why others hated this movie???","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film as i found is really a nice attempt. I agree that the film is lousy but nevertheless there are many more worst movies getting much higher status.It feels as if others are expecting too much from this movie due to Costner but i think it is nicely filmed with good cinematography and nice screenplay with some important message. It is really as i feel one of the beautiful direction of Kevin Costner though not so great but really not bad.So for all i think this is a film that doesn't need rating and reviews from all highly educated film makers and academic filmy geek critics. Its a film that is really not any great but really not bad. Moreover the film aims to bring about some important concept of formation of unity which i did not think became a failed attempt. It should be given a chance and appreciation for its efforts. It is not just a plain script but a well thought though a bit amateur one. "},{"Title":"Story telling with ethics rather than action with a thud","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Having seen this film many time since its release, I am surprised the rating is not higher. This film is old-fashioned story-telling at its best, rather than bite-sized action sequences in three courses. Those with the expectations of seeing Dances With Wolves II, or potentially its evil twin Waterworld II, would have been disappointed, perhaps as much as a friend was once disappointed when he discovered that The Deer Hunter was not Rambo.This film has an inspirational soundtrack that flies high above the maudlin and struggling townships. Its cinematography and special effects are filled as much with the craggy, raggedy and washed-out countenances of the characters, as with the contrasting beauty of mother nature's snowy mountains, rivers, jagged forests and sun streaked purple clouds.This film has a great deal of thoughtful almost theatrical dialogue, whether timely quotations from Shakespeare's Henry V or as original dialogue questioning the age-old theme of why we do the things that we do--how fate may intervene in our path, and how we react or respond to those changes. At a key moment in the film, the character played by Olivia Williams says to the 'The Postman' played by Kevin Costner that he gives out hope like candy, that he has a gift for this, and which sums up the purpose of his character, the main catalyst of the film. Like the best of Hitchcock, Kevin Costner often plays the type of character who is the everyday modern man thrown into an unusual or heightened and dangerous situation.The premise behind the story is no more far fetched than the Symposium of Plato--the world has a long history of epic disasters. This film is for anyone who has ever given their time to a higher cause. Anyone who has ever worked in a not-for-profit organization will recognize the difficulties of building up a community when others seek, with the 'best' of intentions, to tear it down, to destroy or infect others with self-interest. The characters of Kevin Costner and his adversary Will Paton both realized that the true battle is the battle to win hearts and minds to the right cause. Contrast again the fast moving figures riding through the hills and valleys of its wide-open scenic depths, some for blood and wealth and some to unite the country through communication and meaning.Some people are often critical, to a very personal degree, of certain outspoken actors such as Kevin Costner and Russell Crowe--the actors are entitled to their views, they have made some great films, and so to their critics it is time to give it a rest. Watch this film if optimism is your preferred drink. "},{"Title":"not as bad as they say, but not great","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I gave this film a 6, meaning I'd recommend it for people who want an entertaining sci-fi action flick, but are not the nit picky types or those who demand an insightful message.  It's not nearly as bad as folks say. Costner is his usual wooden self, but his character is written around it. Nothing is exceptional, and it has all the pitfalls of a usual sci-fi flick, like an unrealistic premise, a blending of some high-tech pre-apocalyptic technology, such as assault rifles, and a total ignorance of other, more mundane things, such as the telegraph, and there is the usual sci-fi transcendence of space and time where characters appear in different places instantly as needed by the plot, and a map of their movements would look like a plate of spaghetti passed through a half dozen time-travelling wormholes.  But unlike in some other sci-fi films which pretend to be realistic, most of that can be ignored because they don't take themselves too seriously.There is a lot of well placed humor, both Costner one-liners and some subtle straight man jokes (Tom Petty showing up as the mayor of a town and admitting that he used to be someone sorta famous, kinda), and that really carries it through the three hours of the film.Visually, again, nothing spectacular, it's not a blinky booming Matrix sci-fi but more of a low tech Planet of the Apes kind of sci-fi, but the visuals are fairly unified (dusty, grungy, nothing out-of-place pristine except everyone's skin and teeth are way too nice for a dismal future, but I digress) and the fight scenes are totally believable, which is very rare for any kind of movie these days.The plot and most characters are two-dimensional but consistent, though Olivia Williams' character shows a good deal of development, and the particulars of the final resolution are at least not entirely predictable.Think of it as Road Warrior Lite, very lite, but more funny.  "},{"Title":"Feelings based on.....","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Feelings based on lies can only give false sentiments. What a waste of time to see this movie. The story totally uninspiring leaves me with the question why I did not trust the comments on IMDB concerning this movie. Could have spend my time better in another way than seeing this flick. "},{"Title":"It really depends on having read the book.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My grandfather was a rancher born in 1911, and an avid reader, usually Louis L'amour books (oat operas).  When he was visiting us from out of state once about 10 years ago, my copy of The Postman by David Brin was next to his chair and, having nothing else available, he read it, and loved it. This surprised me greatly since David Brin is really a pretty heavy-duty science fiction author, although this book isn't in that vein.  Based on that, I can see why the idea could be gotten that the book would have broad appeal and be good for a movie.  I think just about anyone would like it.  It's a fantastic story.But the problem is that not enough of the book translates to the screen for the viewer to adequately identify with why he should care about anything at all in this movie.  Who is this guy?  Why this weird, contrived-seeming future to set him in?  When you've read the book, you already understand what The Postman (the character) symbolizes.  You also get to see his inner struggle, his shame at deceiving people yet feeling he needs to do so to have any chance to survive.  He's a character that is very easy to identify with (which is kind of the antithesis of Costner really).  All of that is lost in the movie and it'd be fairly difficult to translate it to film (which might be one argument for having not made the movie at all).The odd thing about this movie is that although it doesn't live up to the book, it doesn't sully the book like many less-than-perfect adaptations do.  The director may have missed the mark but he wasn't out to utterly exploit his subject material.  I actually think it's a pretty good adjunct to the book-- but only that, an adjunct.  Read the book first.  Then you'll connect with the characters and situations pretty easily whereas without it, you'd probably think the movie was pretty stupid.  I wouldn't blame you. "}{"Title":"So bad it's good (small SPOILER of a non-plot-relevant scene)","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman was one of the worst movies I've seen, it is worth seeing nevertheless. This is because the pathetic plot, the acting, and some really melodramatic scenes.To begin with, I don't understand what they were thinking when they had all the characters in the movie forget about what happened before the disaster. Most of the characters in the film were obviously alive before the war (or whatever it was). This makes the whole film very strange, since everyone seems to have amnesia. Another is their obsession for mail. Of course, correspondence is nice, but they take it way too far in the movie. Saving the world with postmen? I think not.My favorite scene in the movie is when a little boy wants to send a letter. However, Kevin Costner's character misses their house, and the boy gets sad. Worry not though, Kevin Costner turns around his horse, and in slow motion, goes back and (to melodramatic music) gets the letter from the boy's hand. This part made me laugh until milk came out of my nose.  "},{"Title":"want a good Costner movie watch A Perfect World","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I will do everyone a favor and make this review a lot shorter than the movie. It would have been a good movie if it was a two and a half hours shorter. There was far too much dead time. I am not an action film fan, but this is just unbearable to watch more than once. It was so incredibly cheesy at points that I thought I was going to have a coronary. There is a certain piece in the ending scenario that makes it about as cheesy as a Jerry Bruckheimer/Michael Bay film, but I can't tell you, because you will just have to watch all eight hours of it. One thing I can say is that there won't be an extended director's edition of this movie like Dances with Wolves.  "},{"Title":"Two scenes a classic nearly make","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me get this straight.  I like most bad movies, but other than Soldier and Scuba school by the two Corey's, this is bad.  I love the short story, it is a sci fi epic of the human condition.  The film isn't.  It's about a character, who decides to deliver letters.  No offence to any  country's mail, but that is not a plot. To my tag line.  What saves this film is two scenes. 1)  The slow mo kid/Costner grab the letter scene. It takes 10 mins and a statue, that's dedication. 2)   Tom Petty being a post apocalyptic Tom Petty, thats cool!!!!!! You can watch it all, and not die, but you can't really like it, and trust me, I tried, cos D. Brin rules "},{"Title":"POSTMAN VS THE ICE CREAM MAN","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Costner must get a hard on for doing this type of film, apart from in this film there is a lack of water. The plot is here...somewhere, it just seems an odd thing to tell a story about in a post apocalyptic era, why a postman? But the film does itself justice with some good acting by Will Patton who makes and excellent bad guy. Also a great cameo performance from TOM PETTY...that's right kids TOM PETTY, whose acting skills are surprisingly just ok.Overall the film is semi-enjoyable but it is the kind of film you would only watch once and never again unlike 1995's the ice cream man which I am sure holds many hours rewatching(made up word on my behalf). This is the end. "},{"Title":"Horrible adaptation of a must-read book.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on a free preview pass, and still felt ripped off. My cousin saw the film with me and genuinely enjoyed it. The difference - I had read the book by David Brin before the movie was released.As for Kevin Costner, I have tried to watch some of his films in the past, and usually came away feeling cheated. Watching him attempt to portray Robin Hodd with an American accent was embarrassing, although his work in Dances With Wolves was quite enjoyable. Don't even bring up Waterworld with me. The only other believable performance I have seen him give was as the corpse in The Big Chill, one of my faves. The problem with Mr. Costner is that the across-the-board success of Dances With Wolves convinced him that he can direct himself successfully. I think he needs to decide with each film which side of the camera he wants to be on - but never both at once.But the problem with this film is not Costner's alone. The screenwriters who adapted what is a very enjoyable book cut so many important elements of David Brin's vision out of the final film that the plot seems more like a patchwork quilt with many pieces gone astray. Perhaps for the sake of screen time, this was necessary, but I would have happily traded away some of those beautiful vista shots for a more complete and satisfying plotline.I won't take up your valuable reading time explaining what was left out of the mix - get thee to thy local bookstore or library and read The Postman by David Brin and you will thank me for it later... "},{"Title":"Dirtworld!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Do I agree with the other negative comments?  Yes, but, for whatever reason, I liked this movie.  I did not like Waterworld, it was plain old not interesting.  But The Postman kept me intrigued.  I agree that it was too long (the portion in Bethlehem's boot camp didn't need to go on that long).  I agree that it was unbelievably pretentious (what was with the slow motion letter grab from the kid?).  I think that Kevin Costner has done one too many post-apocalyptic adventure films.  But I still enjoyed watching it.This bizarre occurrence remains a mystery to me.  Maybe it was the fact that Costner's character, was about my age.  That is, in the year that the film takes place, I'd be about Kevin Costner's age.  And in that environment, I could see myself taking on that role to a certain extent.  Not the reluctant hero that he was.  I'm talking about the first part, where he was the drifter.  That was cool.  But, of course, Costner is ALWAYS the reluctant hero.When Will Patton's character read from the inspirational 'grab the brass ring' drivel that gets forced on management students today, he cried.  That was funny as hell.  It reminds us that a little chaos from time to time is a very good thing.  Because if that's how we're to be remembered, I'd rather have a post-apocalyptic adventure. "},{"Title":"recyled?","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The postman is a purely derivative plot, a mixture of the second and third mad max/road warrior movies. You know,  the reluctant hero simply wants to get on with his own life in a post apocalyptic environment but finds he has to help others to acheive this goal and in doing so comes to care about them and their cause. Except in this movie there is a difference. In the end Max Max rides off into the Australian sunset, which is perfectly in character. Kevin Costner on the other hand becomes the glorious savior of the only country in the world that counts, the United States of America.Please see Mad Max II instead of this one. It's easily the best post apocalyptic film ever made and it set the style for many inferior films which came after it, especially Waterworld and The Postman. "},{"Title":"Misses the point.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ham-handed and self-indulgent, this movie completely misses the irony inherent within the far-superior novel.  Where the Postman should have been an ironic symbol that is latched on to by a demolished society, it instead becomes a dramatic case study in misplaced hero-worship, with drawn out slo-motion scenes with Costner reaching for letters while racing by on his horse.  If you're a big Costner fan, in the three plus hours you'll spend watching this movie, you can probably catch Bull Durham one and a half times.  Do that instead. "},{"Title":"It straddles the line between good and bad","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For me, this movie really showed the difference between a good movie and a bad one. I sensed this line like no other movie I've seen. So I can understand someone giving a good review of this or a terrible review. I believed in the story enough to enjoy the movie but I was teetering on the line several times. "},{"Title":"thought it would be worse","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  To tell you the truth I thought it would be worse, it´s way better than Waterworld (at least storywise) but it falls way short of Dances With Wolves. I still love those really stupid lines in the movie, and Olivia Williamson looks pretty hot, so I give it a 6 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"Long, unintelligent and boring","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After somewhat interesting first half an hour, the movie degrated into the usual Hollywood pro-United States of America propaganda. What I'd like to know is; do you guys really buy this stuff? I mean, this was not supposed to be parody, was it?So, the plot was thin and acting wasn't too good either. I even thought that Costner (who usually is quite good) wasn't at ease with his character. The movie would've felt tighter had it been a lot shorter as there were many periods during which nothing happened.There were some nice scenes and individual shots, but this whole idea of having a sort of mini-second civil war in 21st century post-apocalyptic world (or rather USA) was silly to say the least. 3/10.  "},{"Title":"a heart thought portrayal of courage that defies odds.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I rented The Postman, I didn't have very high expectations. But Kevin Costner shone thought in a very fresh and exiting movie. I found the story line had more twists than a rollercoaster but never lost sight of the big picture. Kevin Costner took a big gamble by making this film that would no doubt be disliked and misinterpreted by most of the public. But I thought the use of one big metaphor was smart and like most movies the plot wasn't given away in the first line. And what is a good movie without lots of love, hatred and betrayal. Well done for an excellent cast and even better movie.   "},{"Title":"An Underappreciated Film","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  People can accuse Kevin Costner of many things, but playing it safe and thinking small are not on that list.  I read the reviews before going to the theatre (most all of them bad) and still I had a strange feeling I'd really like the movie....and I did.  Oh sure, it has its flaws;  it's overlong by at least 20 minutes and supremely corny in places, but I applaud Costner for having the vision and trying something different.  As in Dances With Wolves, he shows a fine eye for detail and a flair for big action scenes....the photography in this movie is breathtaking (see it in letterbox format) The acting is uniformly good too, with a few quirky surprises (is that REALLY Tom Petty?!?!?)  The movie doesn't want to change the world, just ultimately wants to convey a message of patriotism and peace.  Give it a chance and you'll find plenty to enjoy in this underappreciated work. "},{"Title":"When did honor, loyalty, hope and duty to friends become Cheesy?","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie time and time again. And each time I see it I pick up on another facet of this wonderfully presented film.It is not a great film because of Kevin Costner's acting. It is not a great film because of the plot. It is not a great film because of the special effects. And it is definitely not a great film because of the length of time.It is a great film because it presents us with one central theme. We don't know what we have until it is no more.Something as simple as the mail that get's into our mailboxes every day. Something as simple as the manicured embankments on the highways. Something as simple as the light that comes into our homes each evening. Something as simple as this points to the hand of a human being who is providing us with a service.We overlook it, we take it for granted. But let our lights go out, or tree branches fall into our path as we zoom by at 80 miles an hour and we will remember the men and women who provide these things for us.That is the message of The Postman. The hope that he brought was a remembrance of a time when we could take things and people who provided us with those things for granted. When we didn't have struggle with the trivial things because someone was there to do it for us.Through rain, and hail and gloom of night our highway workers, postmen, cable guys, electric company workers; the guys who cut our lawns are there. And when they are gone - when the s**t hits the fan and the fabric of our society starts to fray, something as simple as a letter delivered by a person who risked their lives to deliver it is a testimony of duty, honor and service to a cause.The promise of the restoration of a government that hires people just to make our lives easier can be as heart swelling as a found candle during a total blackout.No, The Postman was not about some future dystopia where heroes rescued society from evil tyrants. It was about us and the things we take for granted every day.So to the so-called critics don't comment on a movie if you don't get it. Just be quiet and let the less sophisticated among us appreciate a thoughtful story, written by a thoughtful man, directed by a thoughtful actor and presented with thoughtful technical ability. Just shut up and watch!!  "},{"Title":"One hour less and The Postman was a brilliant movie","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. Thinking seeing the worst movie since Gremlins the new Batch, I thought it was not so bad after all. There are 3 things I did not understand The movie on video was only 170 minutes. I also did not understand the meaning of the sequence with Tom Petty (Why did you not cut this from the movie, Kevin? The movie was too long anyway) And why cast Will Patton as the bad guy? This fine actor did not scare me att all. By the way, The final fight was disappointing! I hope Kevin will make a directors cut, he might have some scenes left from Waterworld and Dances with Wolves.  If it was 1 hour shorter, this was a brilliant movie.  "},{"Title":"Call me crazy but I liked it.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I know Costner has received a whole lot of bad press over his movies and this one got just as much bad reviews and comments as any other, but I couldn't help but like it! It was oddly uplifting. A small triumph of the human spirit kind of tale. If you haven't seen it already go ahead and pick it up (Or if you have and hated it try it again with a open mind). You'll spend all of 2 to 3 dollars. It is certainly worth that. "},{"Title":"A cult hit waiting to happen.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw The Postman I was expecting it to be the worst film I've ever seen. Is it? Well, no it isn't. That honor to date would go to a little toxic spill known as Megaforce. But is The Postman an unjustly dismissed classic? Unfortunately, it is not that either.What I give Costner credit for is sticking by his guns. When you think about it, this is a pretty good modification on the old post-dystopia concept. Instead of having the last traces of civilization fighting over gasoline, food, water, dirt, energon cubes, or whatever else, here the precious commodity is hope. (yeah I know that sounds retarded!)What's wrong with the film? Well it's a bit too long, the plot disappears entirely about halfway through, Olivia Williams is about as flat as an index card (I mean her acting!), and some of the film's grander gestures are a bit tacky.But deep down I'm glad that the people who liked this film are standing up for it. It certainly doesn't deserve the intense hatred it received from the critics. "},{"Title":"Good for apocalyptic genre, bad for acting and characterization","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie just came by on the dish and I had to see it.  Like others I'm a big fan of the post-apocalyptic genre and this movie treated that concept both with ineptitude and with some competence.  Some of this is due to the weak story and others are due to the horrible acting and characterization.We meet Shakespeare who is travelling from rebuilt town to rebuilt town after nuclear war has apparently destroyed the country and the government.  From seeing this movie for about 1.5 hours and listening to Costner drawl such idiotic lines as You're really weird! and Things are getting better... they're getting better every day we are apparently supposed to understand that Costner's character is a slow and unintelligent character, yet he is somehow able to cajole the towns' citizens into believing in his story.  I have yet to read the novel but I suppose the author was trying to get across that his character is a stupid dullard who inadvertently saves the new world, but Costner's inconsistent acting and the unbelievable way in which the citizens take his story as gospel (President Starky?) just falls right on the floor.As for the story, how are we to believe that a man, through self-help books and affected speech, is able to lead a marauding bunch of kidnapped men into looting, raping, and killing their own people?  I had thought beforehand that this story would have been a legitimate post-apocalyptic epic, since you'd think that when a country was destroyed you'd have enough problems rebuilding the nation and re-establishing communications.  Instead, we are faced with a pathetic story about an unjust paramilitary leader who needs to get his clock cleaned and can't perform in the bedroom (which is also apparently another source of his anger).  I thought for a moment I was watching Conan the Barbarian the way the army attacks and destroys rebuilt communities, with Bethlehem sitting like a king getting offered treasures in return for his clemency.  How pathetic!I was hoping for a good post-apocalyptic epic, but it turned into another Dances With Wolves with a cheapened plot based on a recycled insane-bad-guy-tries-to-get-rich story we've seen countless times before. The Road Warrior gave good reason for the insanity.  The Postman just couldn't.On the bright side, the ideas and mechanisms of a rebuilt nation are very interesting and could have carried the movie without any need for marauding hun-like armies.  The Hoover dam, the complete lack of working automobiles, the talk of illnesses caused by the nuclear holocaust, more talk about promised lands on the other side of the mountains, perhaps even finally communicating with the rest of the rebuilt nation, would have made this a fine movie.  Instead we are left with an expensive remake of Mad Max, complete with cheap bad guys whom the author and director think unwashed movie-going masses need in every movie.  Apparently, this is because the hardship of the new world isn't enough of an antagonist, and movie-goers wouldn't be able to accept that as enough of a challenge.If you enjoy post-apocalyptic epic films, you will be sorely disappointed in this film's shallowness, lack of characterization, and unbelievable antagonist.  If it comes by on the dish, be sure to watch it.  But don't even think of paying real money for this.  "},{"Title":"A dreary retread of Waterworld","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is a dreary retreat of Costner's last big-budget film, Waterworld.  The similarities are many both films had a huge budget, both took place in a post-apocalyptic earth where humankind struggles to survive, both star Costner as a loner who travels this barren earth and battles villains.  Although Waterworld is not a great film, I prefer it to this one because the villain is Dennis Hopper in another one of his trademark maniac performances, and the idea of a world covered with water is more plausible in the current fear of global warming than nuclear holocaust is at this point. The movie puts Costner in much the same role as the Mariner in Waterworld. Apparently the US has been virtually flattened in an exchange of warheads, and Costner plays a loner who travels from township to township, performing Shakespeare for grateful villagers for food.  The fact that the villagers are grateful for these performances is testament to just how long it's been since they saw Shakespeare done well.  General Bethlehem, the fanatical leader of a motley army recruited from the young men of these towns, arrives and forcibly drafts the traveller into his army.  This is one unusual army; they watch nightly screenings of The Sound of Music at the flooded drive-in and wear leather uniforms with an 8 on the sleeves.  Costner escapes into the woods, where he encounters a long-dead postal worker in his truck.  He takes his jacket and hat to keep warm, and carries along his sack of mail to a nearby town since some of its letters are addressed to their residents.  It gets him a meal and a night with a local wife whose husband is unable to produce children and is willing to let the traveller do the honors in his place.  The people seem to see hope in the traveller's story of a restored United States, and although it's a complete fabrication, the traveller goes along with it.  This leads to a band of followers playing postal workers on horseback, and confrontations with Bethlehem.  There is a long, long winter in a cabin in the woods, some shots of Costner snatching mail from the waiting hand of a young boy that are meant to be inspiring, I guess.  All of it leads up to...I trail off because it is still beyond me just what Costner is trying to say with this movie.  That postal workers represent the best of what the nation stands for?  That is simplifying things, perhaps unfairly, but in the end, there is little else to go on. "},{"Title":"great movie... enough Costner bashing - hey people, movies = escapism","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I finally saw The Postman tonight and thought it was a wonderful movie; unlike about half the people that are willing to comment.  The last time I checked, most people go to the movies to get away from it all for awhile, escapism as it were; this means that one has to be willing to suspend disbelief.  Obviously the plot is far-fetched... hello, SO IS STAR WARS!!!  Haven't seen too many bad reviews of that one lately... Admittedly, a rather hokey plot-line, but well-acted and very emotionally charged.  As far as the length of the movie anyone that complains doesn't have the reason to do so since the length is usually common knowledge beforehand.  If your attention span is under two minutes (like most audience members seem to have), DON'T WATCH!!!Give the guy a break... Costner would not throw tens of millions of dollars into a movie just to feed his ego - he's just trying to make movies that he thinks people will like.  For some of us more enlightened movie-watchers, he usually succeeds...  "}{"Title":"Presumptuous, silly and high-funded version of the apocalypse","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a pity!  This actually could have been a good movie, but somewhere things went very awry.  The Postman made the debut in São Paulo theaters after winning the Worst Picture Razzie, and as a movie fan, I went to check two days after the debut if it did really have the qualities for such award.  The movie theater was occupied by me and another eyewitness, which is a bad sign since the city has more than 10 million inhabitants.Well, the idea was good, a man wandering through the wastelands of a post apocalyptic world and is captured by a horde of barbarians who try to draft him to their army.  He escapes and tries, involuntarily, to restore civilization and battle the barbarians.  This should be a good movie, but nope, it isn't.  Costner was not convincing as a hero in Waterworld, and is even less convincing here, his work as a director here is weak and the script is silly, sentimentalist and unrealistic.  And hey, re-establishing the postal service might be a necessary condition to restore civilization, but it isn't enough to restore completely the civilization.Still the best post apocalyptic movie is Mad Max, because it didn't have a tenth of the presumption displayed in The Postman. It did not deserve the Razzies, but still it isn't a good movie.  "},{"Title":"I Loved It","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie upon release and immediately fell in love with it. Right now I know I am getting criticism from many readers, but I don't care. I understood the movie. I am a big fan of apocalyptic movies, and I have always wondered what the Civil War would be like if it happened in modern times. Well, I was delivered a great apocalypse movie that answered my Civil War question. I think Costner knew that this was hokey material. In several scenes you can see him smiling at how absurd the dialogue and situations are. But they all feel welcome here for some reason. I laughed at the jokes, I was empathetic for the characters, the scenery was beautiful and I really liked the costumes. I can see that there are a lot of flaws in the movie. But I don't care. It was so entertaining that they were glossed over. On the running time, I appreciated it. I love epic films, and sitting in a theater for three hours while watching something interesting is great for me. This isn't the best film ever made, but it is a true favorite to me. "},{"Title":"Far better than Titanic","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Just like many of the previous comments, this movie was long and wrought perhaps with what some people may call overt, and sometimes needless symbolism and philosophical lore, but it was a movie that if it wasn't consistently convincing, had not a single scene of sheer sickening material, much like a similar movie that came out at a similar time of in fact, longer length. The plot was good, even though perhaps the premise wasn't always convincing (and the ending a tad bit hokey), it WAS an intelligently made epic film, one that had its fair share of not only social commentary but sheer action-laden scenes. However, I notice movies like Armaggedon which are truly horrible and of similar length are not docked so.I am a great fan of epics - some of my favorite movies include Braveheart and 2001, and this was not an epic that let me down. Nor was it an epic that was bad, that misfired it's philosophical aim. True, it was clumsy in parts, but I don't think anybody would say it was perfect, whereas, I bet people would vouch so for Titanic, which was enjoyable on a superficial level and sickening on an intellectual level.As for The Postman, it satisfied both superficial and intellectual, and what more can be expected? It was, to an extent, a memorable movie if one could ignore the unfair criticism (in fact I got here through a Razzie award link). I suggest for the next thrashing of a movie, they should target the Kingpins and Sister Acts, not movies they don't understand or aren't used to.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, could use better direction","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film is about the near post-apocalypse, where men try to struggle through the aftermath of nuclear winter and a world war. The catastrophe was caused by a religious/nationalist group called the Holnists. After the war, the surviving humans in the former united states form little settlements to survive, but are daily terrorized and ruled over by the remaining Holnist army. A vagabond (Kevin Costner) is first captured by them to be conscripted in their army, but manages to escape. He finds refuge in a town called Pineview where he poses as a postman of the reformed US (which is a lie he fabricates to get food) but the people of the town fill with hope and make his lie reality. Soon, a whole postal service is organized which poses a threat to the Holnist regime.The idea of the film is a pretty good one. I generally like the genre of post-apocalyptic films, but this one would be by far my favourite, if it only had a mildly better director. Kevin Costner took Waterworld (1995) and decided to set it on land. The difference is that in this one, the action is very scarce and the drama much more. That would be a good thing, if every scene was not constantly overdramatized. Instead of watching how the rebellious postmen fought against the Holnists, we just see how Kevin Costner's character feels guilt at every turn for getting people killed. Again, it's not a bad thing to show this, but if it takes the whole of the film, then it becomes boring, especially since the film goes on for 3 hours. 3 hours is too long to just talk about one thing considering only one character, when you have a far more interesting story running in the background. The point of the film should have been how the little lie Costner said to the people of Pineview got out of proportions and spread into a rebellion, which would convey a lot of good messages, and would have been more interesting. An example of how bad the background war story was undersized in expense for the guilt story of the Postman, is the last scene (SPOILER ALERT) where the Holnist leader the The Postman fight for leadership of the Holnist army, but the fight only takes a few seconds and seems very unimportant compared to other parts of the movie where Kevin Costner tries to stop his lie from spreading.Also, I hated, as I stated above, the overdramatization of a lot of scenes, especially the scene where the boy goes out the house to hand Costner a letter. I don't like films (especially in the 90s where this used to be tradition) that have an orchestral uplifting and inspiring theme song running throughout the film without pause. Especially in a post-apocalyptic film, where everything is supposed to be grim, a director should choose very carefully what kind of music he uses and where he uses it. Take for example, Children of Men, where the music is very rare throughout the film and the director there uses silence or ambient background noise to convey the feeling of catastrophe and misery that overtakes that timeline.In general, watch it if you want, it's not a bad film and is kind of inspiring in some parts, but if it had a better direction it could have been a masterpiece. Also, be warned it goes on for 3 hours "},{"Title":"Far Better than I was led to believe","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I finally saw this movie on the SciFi channel and I thought it was going to be as bad as the reviews. I was very wrong. I found this movie to be moving, well done, and kept me engrossed throughout. Will Patton was terrific. We all know Kevin Costner's acting shortcomings, but he did a very credible job and I would recommend this movie to anyone. I would have liked to have seen this on the big screen. My loss. Of course, I did not think that Waterworld was as terrible as the reviews, I saw it twice on the big screen and recorded it on DVR. and I actually saw Message in a Bottle and liked it--although not as much as my fiancée! This is a fine movie. My mind did not wander. I recorded it and will watch it again. "},{"Title":"Movies that make you think","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think William Comet Chase 9 said it well! I spent a LOT of time when this film was over thinking about what I would do. Especially since almost no one knows how to produce their own food anymore. Without regulations there would be SOMEONE to fill the gap of I get to boss you around and should any rise up to fight them- then they'd think they were king of the mountain next and we'd be right back in the dark ages. I'm sorry people didn't like this and also Waterworld. I had hoped to find out whether those folks found land and whether there would be a society of water people at war with land people over pollution and other things. I guess I just like to think after I see a movie not just go wow did you see that special effect? "},{"Title":"A fun film to watch.","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Despite some unforgivable scenes (nobody needs a child who spontaneously bursts into patriotic song), this is a movie that understands the best traditions of storytelling and filmmaking. It's cinematic, it's indulgent, it's entertaining, it's overacted and often silly, but it's also a solid, well-paced tall-tale with plenty of crowd-pleasing themes and it handles the post-apocalyptic future scenario with some evident skill.The characters all make sense and play their archetypes well, but there are few surprises. Think of it like the best Western frontier movies and you'll know that you're going to get golden images and high melodrama, loads of strings in the score and dialogue so over-wrought the script could have been carved in iron by Uncle Sam himself. But is it fun? Yes, lots. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated Kevin Costner Film","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Kevin Costner well were do I start... This movie does not only star Costner it was also directed by him. Some people have disregarded him as an actor in recent years & unfortunately this movie has been over looked by most people.If you are looking for Costner acting as Robin Hood or think this film may be like Dances with Wolves you will be pleasantly surprised that this is a completely different role for him.The movie is set in post apocalyptic America were human civilization in the US and possibly the world is destroyed. The film takes you on a journey with Costners character traveling across America and finds his purpose in being The Postman.The movie is long however, I believe that there is never a dull moment. All characters you can connect with on a certain level and as the movie unfolds I found myself wondering if this is what the world would turn into if everything went wrong.I recommend this movie to all that have not seen this and also ask people to give it another go! This is one of Costners best films since Field of Dreams.I hope you enjoy it as much as I do and I am so glad I now have 2 copies one on DVD & one on Blu-Ray "},{"Title":"Solid post apocalyptic story","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Some films seem to inspire both devotees and hateful critics, and The Postman is evidently one of those films. For the hateful critics, I just don't see where they are coming from.The Postman is a bit of an epic story, certainly not the best effort ever on an epic, but by no means is it so terrible as many of the low scoring posters here claim.It is a solid story. It progresses logically. It has the right mix of bad guys to provide tension, and it has a realistic hero who develops some ideals, rather than a superman who mows thru every villain in sight, then flexes and asks for more.I enjoyed the movie, and most people will unless they got up on the wrong side of the TV that day. LOL "},{"Title":"This postman didn't even get to ring once","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Post-apocalypse films aren't generally my cup of tea, and Kevin Costner would be more likable if he didn't obviously like himself so much. However, the critical and public loathing of The Postman was more an example of runaway group-think than a sensible reaction to an over-inflated but perfectly watchable family picture with a positive message about co-operation and opposition to fascism.There are several highly implausible plot points, especially towards the end, and a somewhat naive, let's-all-be-nice-to-each-other Hollywood idealism that neglects all the tough questions about how human beings can get along together. But in a time when so many films seem to be made for an audience of heartless morons, The Postman should be cut some slack for being a well-made film, with a strong story-line, that you can watch with your children and/or parents without embarrassment. There's no crude humour, hardly any bad language, virtually no sex, and the fairly modest amount of violence is not presented in such a way as to invite us to enjoy it.The only big thing wrong with The Postman is that it isn't anything like as good a film, given its intriguing premise, as it might have been. Unfortunately, it came along at a time when it was parrot-fashion to ridicule anything Costner might do (and, to be fair to the critics, he brought some of that on himself). The film was already being savaged long before it was finished, so this Postman never had the chance to ring once, never mind twice. Watch it with an open mind, and you'll see it really isn't so very bad at all. "}{"Title":"Good clean fun","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I bought a used copy of this movie recently, because it was cheap, has some sentimental value to me (major parts were filmed where I grew up) and I remembered liking it as a kid.It's an epic, which means, in this case, it's a bit overlong and filled with a lot of overly sentimental corny lines. I found all the Shakespeare references to be particularly pretentious, but in a humorous way. At good points, the movie achieves the look and feel of Doctor Zhivago, and I felt Costner had some aspirations to that level of epic film-making when he did this.The story itself is interesting, even though its end of the world scenario seems an almost typically 90s kind of fantasy--backwoods militia types inspired by a fascist motivational speaker do... whatever it is they did. The patriotism of the movie was actually one of my favorite parts, even though I don't usually go for that sort of thing. It has a good-natured, pacifistic Jimmy Stuart sort of patriotism to it rather than the violent selfish jingoism of, say, a Mel Gibson-style war movie. This is one, I guess, that is much too corny for me to really enjoy (except as a joke), but that I'd not have second thoughts about showing to my kids someday despite its ridiculous R rating. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have always heard that The Postman is a stinker but after 11 years I had the opportunity to see the movie for myself. I had my doubts of being able to sit through a 2h 50 min movie but the plot managed to keep my attention the whole way through. This is a post apocalyptic story but I could very easily see this as a 1950s western - set in the Wild West in 1873 with Gary Cooper playing a lone postman, Dan Duryea the leader of a gang of thugs wrecking havoc on a small town without a sheriff and perhaps Ann Blyth as the young widow who reluctantly falls for our hero.Perhaps the patriotic themes that the film associated with the post service was a bit over the top, it looked like the movie was trying to do with the mail man profession what Backdraft did for firefighting. I'm not saying this is a very good movie and I certainly found Dances with Wolves much better but I think it's worth the time to see it. "},{"Title":"Full of archetypes and swelling music","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a Kevin Costner project all the way around. Taking cues from his effort with Water World and other apocalyptic films like Road Warrior, this too is a society torn into feral groups of survivors &#150; some fighting for good and the group, some fighting for evil and themselves. The film is three hours in length, but I must say I enjoyed it all enough to ride along with no breaks. Full of archetypes and swelling music, this is MEANT to be a symbolic statement to the psyche of America, and a call for steely determination balanced with fairness. I found the idea of the postman interesting and occasionally moving. Of course there is the love interest, but it's more complex than some. Those Who are Doomed, etc., not to mention the eventual clash of Titans/Ideals, are guaranteed. Some of the actors did wonderful jobs with their roles. Costner was stoic as he usually is, but Giovanni Rabisi was great, the Evil guy was creepy good, the Love Interest was well done, as were most of the other supporting leads. This is NOT a highly intellectual essay on freedom, but it IS an entertaining and sometimes interesting one. "},{"Title":"Loved it and the sound track","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I, too, cannot understand why the critics panned this movie. I thought it was great, very entertaining, an original idea (hey, that's something new for Hollywood) and Costner did an admirable job. And Will Patton as the General- he's a delight to watch- one of the better bad guys in the movies these days. Also in the film are veterans Joe Santos (Rockford Files), Giovani Ribisi (Cold Mountain, Flight of the Phoenix), Peggy Lipton (Mod Squad), Shawn Hatosy, Ellen Geer and Costner's daughter Lily and son Joe (the little boy holding up the letter for the postman). Also seen is Rex Linn, now Det. Frank Tripp in CSI Miami, under-utilized as usual. In an uncredited appearance is Mary Stuart Masterson. Look for veteran character actor Tom Bower (The Hills Have Eyes & North Country) in the uncredited role of Larry. That's what I really love about this movie is that I can watch it again and again and still discover appearances by then relatively unknown young actors. Did I mention TP himself, Tom Petty? Okay, so he could probably use some acting lessons but it's good to see him in the role of mayor.What is it about Costner that he loves to employ stunt people? The list is long with plenty of veterans there, too.By the way, if you'll read the sound track credits you will see that Mr. Costner sang a duet of the Lovin' Spoonful song You Didn't Have To Be So Nice. With whom did he sing the duet? (See answer below) The scenery in Washington state is magnificent, by the way.Answer Amy Grant. "},{"Title":"A true underdog in the apocalyptic genre","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman....hailed as one of the worst movies ever that one Mr. Kevin Costner should be ashamed of, but I ask........why? When I see the Postman, I see a subtle told story of the end of the world. There are no wastelands of great cities. No horribly mutated zombies roaming about the landscape, no ultimate truth endings as so many of these genre pieces show. It simply tells the story of world barley clinging to life and of a man who unwittingly brings hope to a populace needing it desperately, and of another man who takes the words of a madman as gospel and becomes a tyrant.Don't get me wrong, something do hurt this film, the whole scene with the cabin and Abby could of been cut down or just done as a montage.They're should of been the big climatic battle between the Postmen's and Bethlehem's forces instead of their wrestling match....some more explanation of what actually happened to the country could of explained better....was it a bomb? A plague?, what was this war that Bethlehem speaks so fondly of? It is these sorts of thing makes the movie a tad confusing sometimes but still watchable.What the movie lacks in storytelling it more then makes more ii its visuals and acting, the beautiful Oregon country side where the film is mainly based, it just takes your breath away.Now I must say I am not the biggest fan of Kevin Costner but I must say he does an exceptional job here, as the Postman he plays a man who feels constantly awkward and embarrassed for his status and his lie as a hero of the people, his range goes form comedic, serious, insane at some points and courageous too, where as Will Patton plays the cold and poetic villain of Bethlehem, with array of unique characters through out the film evolution you will not get bored meeting new faces.While some may scoff at this film simply because it was too long or did not live up the standard of Costner's previous epic Dances with Wolves The Postman is a truly unique in the Post apocalypse genre and should be looked at with an open mind. You will not be disappointed if you do. "},{"Title":"One of the few Costner films I like.","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While I have only liked a few of Costner's films, this is one of them. For the most part, it seems as if he is on a self-destruct career course with turkeys like Waterworld, Robin Hood (about on a par with Attack of the Killer Tomatoes...lol) & Dances with Wolves, but the Postman, Silverado, & the Untouchables, were worth the ticket price. One of the things I like most about The Postman is the message it sends that no matter how bad things are, if you have hope & a purpose in life, things will get better. The battle scenes were well done, the stunt work very good, & the plot kept everything moving along as it should have. Costner is a better than average horseman, he must've taken lessons while making Silverado, & handled the action scenes like a real pro. I know that many people disliked this film but I can't understand why myself...I thought it was much better than a lot of the drivel that Hollyweird puts out. "},{"Title":"Don't be put off","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" One moment Kevin Costner was a big box office hit, the next, a huge flop and no one had a good word for him. It had become seriously uncool to like anything with Kevin Costner in it. This film took such a panning from the critics that I almost didn't see it.Hence, it was purely by accident that I started watching it on the box one evening. I soon realised that far from being a pile of dross, the film was very enjoyable. OK, you shouldn't take it too seriously, and I'm not suggesting it receives posthumous Oscars, but I've seen nominated films that were far worse.The plot is a bit daft, but then that's pretty much par for the 'post apocalyptic' genre. So it's just as well it's all a tad 'tongue in cheek'. Costner is very good, the Production is excellent and the scenery fabulous. It's a bit long but surprisingly kept me engaged sufficiently to keep me up until the early hours even though I had work the following day.So, if you haven't seen it, turn off your prejudices (if you have them) and give it a go. It isn't up to the standard of his earlier 'Dances with Wolves' or the excellent (later) 'Open Range' - but it's worth making your own mind up about. "},{"Title":"Great futuristic movie - costner was good.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Great epic future film - beautifully shot.The movie was wrongfully panned by the jealous, tiresome critics. When will the hate stop?Saw it at the cinema a few years ago & took the opportunity to watch it again last night. I think the futuristic feel of the city & appartments was very good. The technology to make adverts respond to individuals through retinal scans isn't really all that far away although I guess the bit that stretched it for me was the eye transplants. I supposed society will respond to that level of surveillance, but it seemed a bit basic compared with the level of technology of the time it was all set in.Performances were solid, Costner was better than some of his films A good twist at the end and enough complexity to push it above the pre-teen Battlestar Galactica audience. As long as you're prepared to accept the concept of precrime without too much argument, then you'll be rewarded. "},{"Title":"really cool movie, really stupid critics","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember all the bad publicity this movie got about 10 years ago. The Postman got trashed everywhere and nobody (myself included) paid to see it. I kinda forgot about the movie till I bought it for a measly 4 euros (even less than 4 dollars). I shoved it into my DVD player, not expecting much. Boy, was I wrong. GREAT MOVIE. I don't know what is about this Kevin Costner guy but he knows how to direct a movie (go and check the equally underrated Waterworld, and, o yeah, that Wolves-movie). Rousing music, cool action scenes, an off the hook Larenz anybody want a hamburger Tate,... the list goes on and on. Three words? See this movie!! "},{"Title":"Happy 52nd., Birthday, January 18, 2007 Kevin Costner","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman was absolutely one of my very favorite Kevin Costner Films. I don't think I totally disliked any, not even Waterworld and I have no idea why all the negative hype.One thing Kevin Costner offers in all his movies is, incredible talent. He never gives us anything less than his best and tends to bring out the very best in those fortunate enough to work with him. Obviously I am a huge fan and have been for many years, but Dragonfly was the final straw for me. He held me spellbound in this movie, several times and if you really pay close attention, you will see natural talent in every performance with no faking it and no over acting. Kevin makes a difficult profession look effortless. That takes nothing less than pure talent.Most important to me, I think, is the genuine goodness within the man that comes through.Happy Birthday Shumani tutanka o wachi (Dances With Wolves)Health and love always, Sandy "}{"Title":"what would you do in the post apocalypse/","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although the movie seemed boring and drawn out at times ( gag me with a spoon, love story part) All in all it was a good film, I do like the post apocalypse films though... I think this would be a very plausible WHAT IF?? if the apocalypse actually happened... the power struggles with nobody's coming into being power hungry somebodies, and the fight for Good versus Evil...Kevin Costner seems to kind always do the lame love story or the weird stories... Field of Dreams anyone? but the fight and chase scenes were good in this and the plot wasn't the average everybody is dead lets have a party post end-of-world flick... The horses in this movie were something else must of took a lot of work... "},{"Title":"Society that stands on the shoulders of Giants","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" War and society only coincide under the study of military science. Since war and society have had such a great impact on how society is formed and stabilized the experts thought that making a science of war would be a hell of an idea, so they did. Which is called military science.When all else fails this movie, The Postman, is supposedly a viewpoint of how society can save itself without totally relying on military science, but challenges the duality of man concerning war and society. One perspective as the title denotes is communication with any culture, creed, or color race. Open communication is a tool to allow peaceful negotiations to conflict. Thus the Postman is the savior of the United States of America in this movie.However, as the legion of eight (8), resembles what I first commented upon. Military science will be and is a necessary evil of mankind.I recommend a book on how the great wars of WWI and WWII have dealt with the issue of communication and culture clashes. The Great Events of The Great War. Edited by; Charles F. Horne Ph.D., Walter F. Austin L.L.M., The National Alumni 1920. "},{"Title":"No where near the disaster that some might have you believe","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It took me a while to get to see The Postman, not because I listened to all the critics, it was just one of those things, I never got around to it until it eventually got shown on TV.I was shocked.For those that can't enjoy a movie of 3hours, then clearly, you have the attention span of a screwdriver! I was so immersed in the film, had i not been told it was a 3hour movie, I wouldn't have guessed.I must admit, the basic synopsis of the movie 'Guy takes on the role of Postman to ensure the mail gets through during an apocalypse', its not a very inspiring one, and its one that the critics absolutely hammered on about. In fact I wouldn't be surprised that a lot of the critics hadn't even seen the movie, and judged it solely on that synopsis.Shame on them!Here was this movie that got absolutely slated by the critics and the media, and plenty of people who clearly had never watched it. It seems to me the boy Costner had the audacity to do well with Dances With Wolves, and the claws were out after that.I liked The Postman. It was as thought provoking as DWW, but in a different way.Solid performances from the cast, especially Will Patton who does well in every role he plays.I really was expecting it to be a stinker, and it was so not a stinker. Perhaps the critics opinions had swayed me a little.Its interesting to note that most of the comments left by people about this movie are quite positive. I've read through quite a few of the negative comments, and most fall into the category of utter sheeplike banality, trying to outdo each other for the most 'humourous' missive, generally aimed at Costner.I think in the future, time will be much kinder to The Postman than the critics of past were, and people will begin to appreciate it more and more.When you get a popcorn movie like Transformers exceeding 2hrs in duration, all of a sudden, The Postmans running time doesn't seem a lot.If you haven't seen the movie, i implore you to do so, never have the critics got it so completely wrong.Had the movie been boring, i couldn't have sat there for 3 hours uninterrupted.It's a pity that the critics 'won' against Costner, because he hasn't done a movie like this again, which is a crime as he's a very capable director and actor. Still, no doubt it will be some other poor sods turn next. Watch your back Mel Gibson! "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this movie is amazing. i saw it and it was immediately in my top 5 movies. it has excellent acting and an awesome story line. the acting is superb. the only thing that is hard to follow is figuring out the time era and such. but overall it is fantastic and i definitely recommend it to anyone. It is a good movie for teenagers and adults. Children will probably be a little confused. but maybe not. i watched it just with a group of friends and we all really enjoyed it. i would recommend paying attention in the beginning of the movie. do not come in late or you will most likely be confused for the majority of the movie! The action, plot, romance, heros, and overall feel of this movie is amazing. It is a movie that will make you laugh and cry and get that warm gushy feeling all over as well. So in conclusion! Go out and buy this movie. don't just rent it go ahead and buy it because i think that it is a fantastic movie that can be enjoyed by everyone time and time again. "},{"Title":"Very good show...","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really like this show...It is an interesting twist on a nuclear aftermath. Kevin Costner is a very good actor and portrays a man who is drifting around and acts like a Postman to get into a camp for some food and shelter. He then falls deeper and must confront what he does not want. This story takes place in the northwest so the towns are surrounded by woods and mountains. Beautiful scenery... Of course there are militia types who are bad guys But this is no Mad max or Road Warrior type show. There are a couple of cool cameos and the show really picks up speed after the first half hour or so, but you get into it and start to see characters develop, and people come together.. It is a longer movie, but well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" 65% Goodness- Post Apocalyptic world realized entertainingly. Storyline and characters have real (though fairly stereotypical) depth. Decent acting throughout. A good story exploring human dilemmas of obligation, morality, and self sacrifice.35% Overwrought Cheesiness- Silly lines. Super bad wrap-up ending. When Costner comes through in the end, it should be because he's got a lady and a kid on the way, not because he believes in the United States of America.This movie shines when it backs off the preachyness and explores the grey areas. Cigarettes are good, just don't let the kids see. Costner turns getting another guy's wife pregnant into an enjoyable end to what I assume was a very long dry spell. It would have been nice if the Postman had been a little more reluctant, and a little less of a hero, but movies like that really don't get made too often. "},{"Title":"Getting more and more relevant every day","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie. Not only does it have a solid script, solid direction and solid acting, it even has the potential to still surprise you after several viewings, which is a pretty rare thing among big budget flicks.What I like so much about this movie is that it has so many symbols in it that become more and more relevant to the world we in live in as time progresses.The post-apocalyptic setting is very well though out Some neat gadgets from civilization are still around (zippos, uniforms, guitars), yet as a viewer you get a sense for how much things are missing now that people formerly considered to be standard (communication, social networking, visions for the future). They never missed it till it really was gone forever.The postman, while starting off by just pretending to be a postman, quickly becomes a symbol of hope for the struggling survivors, as he presents them a way to regain what seemed to be lost a way to unify in order to fight the terror that reigns their world in the form of General Bethlehem.This unification can only happen because people manage to organize some form of communication again. The whole movie could be seen as a wise and modern illustration of the good old saying that the feather can be mightier than the sword.Living in a world where playing with the option of nuclear holocaust becomes more fashionable than ever, you can't but feel haunted by one of the films central dialogue lines Terror will defeat reason. Go watch it... Again! "},{"Title":"Bum Rap","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think the movie received a bum rap. Think about it, the easiest thing in the post war era would be the mail!!!! Now, I don't know about being able to maintain a war with people who started out as a postal carrier, but all in all it was a good movie. Remember, this was years after the war and things were settling down. It was more believable than , let say, the terminator or any of the other dozen post War movies.....I can see how a General bethleham could find a nitch in that kind of world. It's a void and it has to be filled. I can't imagine it going on too long. I live in rural America and there are enough guns to prevent people like this from ever reaching that level of authority. Heck, showing up in our county with less than 50-60 people armed to the teeth declaring you are in charge would only get you an early grave, and this is NY State, I can't imaging a more 'permisive state with less Gun laws putting up with some short guy declaring himself a ruler of anything. But then again that doesn't make for a good movie. It would be too short. "},{"Title":"A brave failure","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The post apocalyptic genre is one of the hardest to get right. Movie history is full of unwatchable failures. More importantly, it seems much easier to get right in book form, but once you dress them up in the costumes suspension of disbelief is not really possible.The postman is based on a book by one America's greatest Science Fiction writers. The book tells the story of an English literature major who saves the world. The book is a 3 way battle between Anarcy (The Holnists), Dictatorship (Bethlehem's Holnists) and Community (The Postal system).With such a large and complicated book adapting it to the screen is difficult and the result is a brave failure, where the confrontation is now between 2 elements rather than one.But it remembers the core story. The Postman is a symbol of America, and of course everyone knows, don't anger a postman or he is likely to grab a gun and starting shooting people. It is around this symbol of America people begin rebuilding America.This is not fantasy, in the middle societies that have broken down return to Islamic law. It is a basis of their society and something bigger than any leader or government.This story is told in Kevin Constner's typical directorial, style, with long and laboured. It worked well with Dances with Wolves, and is OK here. I guess it is one those movies that is worth seeing if you like the genre, though most people have hated this movie. "},{"Title":"Inspirational Concept","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A great film regardless of the abuse which showered it. I thought the concept was inspirational and revolutionary.People get influenced easily by critics and mass populist opinions which I guess was why a lot didn't like it.A film about life.An imperfect simple man showing simple people that they don't have to live by the rules of, and under the oppression of an egomaniacs control, subjugation and perceived power.You must watch this film, the cinematography hawks my mind back to planet of the apes at some points, and if you watch it from start to finish properly you WILL be effected by the corny bits. One must make allowances for these when a director/film maker has tried to bring to life a concept which is so simple but at the same time to revolutionary and empowering.The final scene with the emotional confrontation and the line It doesn't have to be this way was one of the most powerful lines and concepts depicted on film. The postman was one of the most intriguing and engaging films I've ever seen - and the characters and their development was fantastic. Everyone should see this film.I think either critics seriously overlooked this film, or had political reasons to do so. "}{"Title":"Definitely a keeper","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes it is a bit too long, yes it has slow spots, and yes the 'professional critics' trashed it, but the same was said about many a great book at the time of their release. Interestingly the world's and especially America's smug comfort and superiority is so different now vs. 1997 (the movie's release year), that I can only wonder what kind of reception this film would receive today, post 9/11. If you don't mind sentimentality in your movies or a tear in your beer, you will like this movie. If you are proud to be a patriot and believe in America, you'll like this movie. If you believe the good in man can ultimately triumph over the evil, you will like this movie and want to keep it. "},{"Title":"Great Film, Worth the Three Hours","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a great film. It is a pity that so many non-Americans did not like (understand) it, but the cultural divide was probably too great. The film makes use of strong characters, moving music, scenic beauty to make an important point about the spirit of humanity. Humanity will rise up against tyranny and will do so with any tools at their disposal, all they need is a rallying point and a leader, even a reluctant leader. Those who so criticize this film have not the ability or the inclination to grasp that basic fact, or perhaps have an interest in not seeing others grasp that fact.It is a very worthwhile film. See it, if you don't understand it, see it again... "},{"Title":"One of Kevin Costner's best movies.","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I could never figure out the hoopla on Dancing with Wolves, unless you liked seeing his naked butt. The Postman was a great insight to the many faces of Americans. The character examinations and exposures are excellent. Kevin plays his character in a very believable way, communicating his uncertainty of the character his character has chosen to play. The character development is thorough, and is very convincing as to what America would be if the setup scenario were true. Kudos to Kevin, and the rest of the cast for their fun and exciting insight to these people. I recommend you buy this video, and share it with your children. "},{"Title":"I like this movie","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have seen The Postman many times.I always enjoy it. The courage of the characters and the performances of the actors is excellent.The interaction between the cast members is great.The scenery is wonderful.The story line is easy to follow and very enjoyable.There is just enough humor to make the overall story light hearted in spite of the severity of the times it is set in.I would recommend this movie to anyone at anytime.The interaction between Kevin Costner and Olivia Williams is very believable.I like the inclusion of Tom Petty and Peggy Lipton in the cast.Naming Richard Starky as the President is great. "},{"Title":"not as bad as people say","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" people need to take this movie for what it is. its yet another post apocalypse movie but not half as bad as some of the others out there. people wanna get into things like how did they conquer the United States on horseback well its post apocalypse there are no vehicles so they use horses and also they conquered with brute force as there was no army to fight back. when someone finally did fight back they overcame them. i took this movie for what it was. had some good up and coming actors and also some established acting veterans. kevin costner does an OK job as the reluctant hero and it was a nice change to see a hero just trying to exist instead of being the token badass you get in so many other films of this type. all in all worth a view. "},{"Title":"What a great film","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think the reason this movie gets poor reviews is because people walk into the theater with the wrong expectations. Costner is not the typical hero. He starts out as a lazy con man that is difficult to respect. However, his con creates a movement of many people who believe in America and the freedom it once stood for. Costner is a useless, lazy coward, a terrible con-man and a former actor who is upstaged by a former copier salesman. Suddenly, he finds his call to duty inescapable and leads a fight for a freer America. Drawing his strength and courage from the people who follow him, he discovers that freedom and liberty are definitely worth fighting for. The idea of a post apocalyptic world is nothing new, but the way America returns to the ideals of its fore fathers is brilliant. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, The Postman","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While I know many a critic panned this film, I for one, enjoyed every moment of it. For once, Kevin Costner plays humor with a light touch, just under his breath, just out of reach. He becomes a hero who doesn't want to be, all he wants is a warm cup of soup and a soft bed for the night via his buddy the mule Bill, and nothing else. The only one he can't out-think of his feet is Bethlahem, and it is he that he needs to out-think the most. Some I am sure say he used this film to show off his own children, I ignore that because until I read the credits, I didn't KNOW those were his own kids. I give them credit for acting with their father as if he was as all fathers should be... a hero. It would not be the first time a child followed their parent into the world of acting. The Postman should not be watched lightly, instead, it should be studied intently, as one studies the craters of the moon or patterns on a painting. Costner is a fine actor, and the movie is a great vehicle for him to be in. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When civilization bites the dust this could very well be us.Costner plays the reluctant hero well as in other movies. Waterworld, Dances With Wolves Having Tom Petty in there was a good idea. How important is fame? Food or music or protection or one for the other? There will always be horrid little mule eating monsters in the world and we could see them better if society would pay attention.It seems the big country we live in gets much smaller in times of crisis. In the event of The End Times the strong will survive and the smart and aware will run them/ Weather its bombs ,likley, religious ,really possible, or one of the thousand other ways the human will think up to end ourselves we all need The Heros. Lets hope its after I learn to type. "},{"Title":"Costner Has Gone On Record Saying This Is His Fave","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've heard that Costner devoted more time and energy into this baby than any other film he's ever been associated with and was devastated that it went over without so much as a blip on the box office radar screen. BTW, is the name of the President Richard Starkey borrowed from Ringo Starr's real name? Hmm, maybe. At least he has TOM PETTY in it!! What up with that? Now the whole Shakespeare thing in this movie was kind of irritating but I DO think this film is every bit as good as Dances With Wolves but probably better because there's slightly less sentimental shlockiness (of course with ALL Costner films there is THAT). I LOVED Will Patton's General Bethlehem and the final show-down with Costner's Postman was good. Maybe it was too long to get there though. The premise of him stumbling upon the old postal truck was excellent however. A good see at least once! "},{"Title":"So Bad It is Almost Good","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is so bad it is almost good. Supposedly it is based on a book, and maybe some incarnation of the book or script was okay. But it all got smoked up in too much weed and ended out completely inane.The Plot, if it can be called that It takes place in the rural western USA in the Rockies, after some sort of disaster has stricken the nation an returned it to a Civil War- era type of place, except there are modern signs around. There are two warring groups, but why they are warring is anyone's guess. On one side is a neo-Nazi army called the Klan. Their leader, the General, quotes Shakespeare and keeps having people shot. Although supplies are short, the entire army dresses in matching rust-colored Eddie Bauer rain suits and rides on horses.The other side are poor folks dressed in stylish rags. They have hoe-downs with music from the 1970s but played on bluegrass instruments.Kevin Costner escapes from the Klan and arrives in the village dressed as a US Postal Worker. He is hailed as a savior. A young woman asks him to impregnate her. He agrees. Lucky for the plot line, her real husband gets killed shortly thereafter.The Klan keeps coming around and shooting villagers, who have no guns or horses. The Costner character, the POSTMAN, gets them all to join up as postal workers, and suddenly they have horses, bags, and uniforms, and guns, and a desire to kill. In between they hold more hoe-downs. There is a nearby town with Tom Petty as the mayor.I kept thinking this must be an allegory for something, but I cannot tell what it might be. The plot is filled with holes the size of the Grand Canyon. The characters are inane. The acting is shockingly bad. The whole thing makes absolutely no sense. The scenery is nice. This movie is so mysterious. I kept thinking from a film-making perspective What went wrong here? I assume the book and maybe the initial script were possibly okay. What happened? Did the parts that would make this make sense get edited out? Is it too grand an epic on too little a budget or something? What is this mess? "}{"Title":"Saw this movie for the 1st time and I LOVE IT.  Yes, really.","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am anything but a Kevin Costner fan. From American Flyers (shmaltzy), to No Way Out (implausibly stupid), to Dances with Wolves (manipulative), to Waterworld (just awful), to Field of Dreams (overly sentimental), I've hated or seriously disliked all of his projects. Perhaps that's why it took me seven years and a DVD bargain bin to summon up enough courage and the five dollars to view The Postman. After all, every one of those negative parenthesized adjectives above appear in this comment forum in regard to The Postman.I expected to hate it, but...but.. I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!Kevin Costner is still a mediocre actor, but perhaps he was made for this part, the part of a mediocre conniver raised to *perceived* greatness by the hunger of a suppressed human spirit.The three hour length of this story is greatly criticized. Could this tale be told in less? A simpler story, maybe. But there is just too much to understand under the surface here. Anyone's appreciation of the power of good in our American culture can't help but be aroused by a careful 3-hour viewing and some thoughtful reflection.Now I probably sound shmaltzy, but heaven help me, this turned out to be the best movie I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"Great, Great, Great Movie!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Let the nay sayers nay, let the critics complain, but The Postman is a wonderful and remarkable movie. It was touching and poignant, it was a great story of hope and determintation. Postman has a great blend of courage, drama, action, and suspense, all with a powerful, character driven storyline. Kevin Costner is a very underrated director, and this movie was unfairly lambasted and minimized. Its well more than just a guy who pretends to be a Postman, its about hope, and faith, it made me almost cry a few times, and I'm a very macho man, (so shhh!). I strongly encourage everyone to watch this movie, and you I guarantee you will feel for the characters, by moved its story, and be entranced in the Postman experience. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although flawed, The Postman is definitely intriguing. The cinematography is flawless and makes me want to move to Oregon (if that is where they really shot it). Kevin Costner does what he does best and that is playing characters that are put in unfortunate circumstances and miraculously he saves the day.Some scenes could have been cut which would have given the movie a better pace. The scene when they travel up the mountain and eat the horse was a little hokey. Overall, The Postman is a movie I will watch multiple times. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't disagree more with the previous reviewer. This is a long movie (3 hours), but the story does hold together well, you get to know the  characters well, and I liked the ending (see it for yourself). It's to bad this movie isn't playing now, people of 2004 need reminding that this is a great  country, and worth fighting for. (oops sorry politics creeping in there... Suffice to say I was surprised by this movie. I skipped this film the first time around due to  bad reviews---- I was wrong to do that!!! "},{"Title":"One of Costner's best","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is one of Costner's best efforts. I've seen this movie quite a few times and it gets better every time I see it. People who love this movie find it difficult to understand why some are so critical of it. I liked Waterworld, too, which makes me think that it's a lack of imagination that makes some people unable to appreciate movies like this. A lot of the criticism amounts to it doesn't make any sense. As with any fiction, you need to approach it with a willing suspension of disbelief.This movie does something that few manage to pull off it has a message and it's entertaining. The story is about populism overcoming militant authoritarianism, of hope and the desire for peace triumphing over war and violence. The strongest aspect of this film is its story, which is entertaining and frequently thrilling. Like Waterworld it is essentially a quest for something that may be impossible to reach, something both elusive and of world-changing importance. Costner must overcome impossible odds, defeat a powerful enemy, and in the process evolves from self-centered loner to heroic leader.The film isn't perfect, but its flaws are small and have mostly to do with uneven pacing and some minor plot inconsistencies. These are easily overlooked and far outweighed by the film's strengths. After the wonderful story, the acting in this film is its greatest strength. It is filled with likable and memorable characters, and the leads are perfectly cast.People have also criticized it for being overly long, which is a complaint that seems to be heard about every movie ever made that was over 120 minutes long. This is a meaningless criticism. If you like the movie the fact that it's three hours long is a good thing.Although it's set in the near future, it doesn't have the sort of extreme premise that a lot of sci-fi movies do. Even those who aren't fans of sci-fi/fantasy should find this film both accessible and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable ride","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have been a huge Kevin Costner fan ever since I saw him in Field Of Dreams and knew that he is one of the most talented Hollywood actors. So it came as no surprise when I was captivated with how enjoyable The Postman turned out. As The Postman, Kevin Costner brings hope, faith, and joy to the people he delivers the mail to. The first 45 minutes of the movie is nothing special, but the viewers must stay tuned as they should be delighted to find themselves glued to the television as I was in anticipation of the next event. In order for an action movie to work there must be a terrific hero and equally terrific villain; The Postman has one in Will Patton's Gen. Bethlehem.Will Patton is so excellent and convincing as the villain, I'm glad that I was not recruited into his army. The Postman incorporates an underlying romance that makes futuristic adventure worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Great post-apocalyptic drama, far better than expected","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Whether one likes or hates this movie seems to depend more on the personality of the viewer than the qualities of the film.  Personally, I liked it a lot.It doesn't have the whiz-bang visual tricks like The Matrix, nor does it have a lot of sex or gratuitous violence or car chases, so the under-forty crowd may not get its buttons pushed enough. It also has an optimistic viewpoint, overall, and portrays the few surviving Americans as largely decent and resourceful, which doesn't play well for the pessimistic, left-wing crowd.It was well-directed and well-acted, and it also did a superb job of translating the book into a movie -- something that is rarely ever done. Some criticize it as being over-long, with which I disagree. If the story needs an extra hour or so to make it work, I'd rather see it that way than chopped to pieces to fit some arbitrary show-length. Do these people avoid books that are too thick?  Yeah, they probably do.I like most of Costner's work, but I'd rate this above even Dances With Wolves. As an avid science fiction fan for over half a century, I'd rate this the best of the post-apocalyptic genre, hands down. Nine out of ten, definitely. "},{"Title":"Becoming a reluctant hero","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Costner's portrayal of a coward turned hero is more indicative of what most people would find inside themselves, when the chips are down, than we usually think we possess.The fact that his main nemesis is just a copy machine salesman in disguise also captures the relative weakness of our strongest enemies, and the fact that people will follow an eloquent speaker, even if his words have no real depth.Although I really can't imagine the supposed post Great war setting, in which nobody remembers Ringo Starr, I enjoyed The Postman, and the way he finally responded to the challenge.I first rented The Postman, but quickly decided it belongs in my video library, to be viewed periodically.Most so called heroes are not born that way, but simply do what is necessary when called upon.Here is to the hero in each of us!  "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When checking out The Postman, I had some reservations since it did poorly in theaters and with reviewers. Well, I was blown away at how great this film was.Note that the movie differs GREATLY from the book, but not in a poor way as is the norm in Hollywood. I like both! Heck, I may even like the movie a little more.Look, I don't care much for Costner, but he does a fine job in the film. There are plenty of others who help make this movie enjoyable, and that helps a lot.I find that people who see this movie either hate it or love it - there doesn't seem to be much in-between. If you are a fan of post-apocalyptic stories, check this one out. It's a little more positive than your usual post-apocalyptic stories, so if you want doom and gloom you may be disappointed.Another warning is that this is more of a story movie - not a shock and awe type of movie. It's a little long, but worth it for the story. "},{"Title":"Be your own judge.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie and I don't care what anyone else says about it. It has a great story, a great cast of characters and will bring a tear to your eye once the movie is over. You need to really watch the film closely in order to understand it. Kevin Costner played a great character in the movie but the weird thing is that you never know what his name is. Costner is only referred to as The Postman or by the General Shakesphere. It was a good one to watch though. Will Patton played a good role as the general and even Tom Petty's cameo was well done. One drawback for the movie is that it is a little bit long but a great story and cast of characters make up for that. I loved this movie, I give it 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While visiting some friends I noticed they had The Postman. I heard this was pretty bad I said. My friend said he found it quite good and asked if I would like to decide for myself? We all sat down and watched it. I was really not looking forward to 3 hrs of a crappy movie. I got caught up in it and ended up loving it. I think part of it was because of the low expectation. I love seeing movies that turn out better than I thought. This is now one of my favorite movies you never saw. I since bought the DVD and can not wait to show it to someone else that missed it because of the KC haters. I am still not sure what that is all about. I think Mel Gibson is getting the same treatment now. Another of my favorite movies you never saw is also a Costner The War see it. "},{"Title":"WEIRD film","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a rare one for Kevin Costner - a flop. However, the whole film is just so dang weird that it's no surprise that it flopped so badly. The premise is that a man would resume regular mail service after THE war to bring back a sense of normalcy. He doesn't start out to do that but eventually realizes that he's bringing back hope to people. Costner is that Postman. I think the film is overlong and is basically too slowly paced to keep many peoples attention - mine certainly wavered on more than one occasion. A 5, no more. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I heard but pretty bad","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I actually read the book for my English class.  They took a really good book and tortured it.  They got rid of almost every single important thing in the book.  They even got rid of Corvallis and Cyclopes which was the most important part of the book until he gets captured by the Holnists.  It did have some really good (funny) parts but don't see it.  Instead of waisting 3 hours and watching the movie take a month to read the book it is much better and worth it.  If you have seen it and never read the book read it as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"What's the deal, it's not that bad...","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I do not think this movie deserved all the RAZZIES that it garnered. I thought it was actually a decent movie with an interesting story.  The only thing wrong might be the length, but for those with patients, it's no biggie. I would recommend the movie to anyone.  "},{"Title":"Okay for its genre, dull otherwise","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I guess this film has plenty of vocal defenders, but I'm not one of them. It's not the worst film I've ever seen, but it's not a film I particularly liked.  To sum up it's boring, it's treacly, and I couldn't force myself to care for any of the characters.  Then again, compared to a number of post-apocalyptic films, The Postman is far better done than, say, Damnation Valley or Year of the Comet.  But I'm not a big fan of post-apocalyptic Earth films, overall I find that pretty much all of them lean heavily on the same few cliches and they're all populated by rugged loners in brownish-gray tattered coats with a resistance to both radiation and pessimism.  "},{"Title":"underrated post apocoliptic movie!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I cant believe how many bad reviews this movie made. To tell you the truth i really enjoyed this movie. Kevin Costner is not the greatest actor in the world but i have to admit i liked him in this film. Had it been any other big time movie star it would have made it. Unfortunately it didnt. i can admit a couple of flaws in the movie. First off like i said before, Costner's acting. Had it been me acting in the movie i would have had a face of more concern and sadness. Costner had the still face that he always has. Second it could be a bit slow at times. It reminds me of some of the old movies where they need to get to the main point and less talking. Third the dialogue is a bit weak but i dont hold this against the movie because dialogue is weak in every movie made nowadays. I guess this is some what of a cult film. I only recommend it for post apocaliptic movie fans. "},{"Title":"One of my top five favorite films","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe this movie did as poorly as it did. I see many bashing it and have to wonder what their perfect movie is. Complaining that there isn't enough action? Since when do movies require action to be enjoyable? If you were looking for action, you missed the point entirely. This film requires you to THINK, which I realize is difficult for some.People scoff at the idea that a postman could be important. We have so many lines of communication open to us today that it's difficult for people to even consider the idea that we could be closed off from the rest of the world. Ask settlers of the old west how important the mail is. What about the armed forces? You don't think they get excited at the prospect of receiving mail, especially if they are stationed in a distant country? Try looking at these peoples point of view. They leave they safety of their town, they don't come back. There is a tyrannical organization that makes frequent raids on their town. Many of these people haven't heard from loved ones in YEARS. I for one would think that if the opportunity to correspond with my family presented itself, I'd be pretty damn excited as well.This movie focuses on the lives of these people and how a small glimmer of hope is all they need. Excellent movie, if you are willing to ignore the critics and open your mind. "},{"Title":"Great realism","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie, regardless of what you critics think of it.  I think it tries to be as accurate in it's portrayal of the future as any movie I've ever seen.  I know that some of you just can't stand the fact that there's no futuristic army battles, no 600 horsepower car chases, and Iron armored costumes I honestly think that's how the world would go if all government and basic infrastructure were brought down.   Think about it. What would you do?  Drive a 600 horsepower, supercharged dune buggy that gets 3 mpg or ride a horse.  Gasoline supplies would deplete after about a month.  Hoarding gas will not work.  (it goes bad after about a year of storage) Most people raised in big cities would starve within a couple of months due to lack of survival education or tyrany by people with guns.Secondly,  In the film, Costner ends up being the hero in the way that real hero's do.  Hero's aren't the people who are tough and beautiful. They're people who are forced into a situation and do the best they can. He starts the new government purely by accident. The only real mistake I see in this movie is that in the beginning, Costner is portrayed as being weak and unable to defend himself.  In reality he would be in extremely good shape strong as an ox and very wilely.  (he's been dragging a mule around for years. Try that sometime. It'll make you strong as an ox or kill you) I give it 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Whats everyones problem?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Overlong, but not at all as awful as alot of other post-apocalyptic movies. Never could figure out what everyones problem was about this one. Ok, sure. A mailman isn't really a sign of patriotism, but Costner is good enough as the wondering actor who becomes a hero to all. Look for Tom Petty in a small role. Check it out, I don't know why it got such horrible reviews. "},{"Title":"What a delightful diversion!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I rented this tape, I had no idea that it was anything but another conventional adventure film.  That's okay with me.  I like adventure.  But this unusual movie had me laughing and crying for nearly three hours. Like my favorite Costner film, No Way Out, it kept surprising me.  I enjoyed every minute, and Costner has never looked more handsome.  Nice to see a star who ages so well.  Yum! "}{"Title":"Hated Waterworld, liked this one.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really did not like Waterworld, but Costner attempted a post apocalyptic film again, and actually did quite well.  The cinematography is excellent and the story interesting.  It is too bad the critics ripped it apart and it didn't get the press it deserved. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why this movie had so bad critics. OK, it may be a little bit long, but that's not the point. I found this movie great and, I confess, I cried at the end. It seems that Kevin Costner likes this post - apocalyptical movies. I found The Postman even better than Waterworld, but that doesn't mean that Waterworld was bad.The most important thing, which maybe not all people found out, in this movie is that the Postman, even if he told a lie, by saying that there  was a new government and a new President, only to have something to eat, he gave the people hope and something which is worth to fight for. By telling them that there is a new government, he gave them the power to build up a new world.Well done Mr. Costner!   "},{"Title":"Far-fetched but worth the effort","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw The Postman on TV recently. Once you suspend your disbelief in the far-fetched givens of the story, it is a great movie to immerse yourself in even if you've seen any number of other post-WW3 fantasies. I didn't find it over-long, in fact the length helps the experience by shutting out the real world longer, which in turn helps one who thinks 'yeah right' about the whole sub-genre of post-WW3-dom to change their mind and relax. "},{"Title":"Better than you thought","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is much better than its reputation. Somehow Kevin Costner movies have become some sort of joke in Hollywood - it is 'IN' to joke about how bad they are. But aside from a cheezy moment or two, and the overuse of the word Postman this is a good story and an above average movie.Give it a look and you may be surprised.  "},{"Title":"A Costner Classic!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think most of the films of the Costner genre are underrated.  I think most people find the plots hard to understand simply because they aren't the pre-package plots that they're used to.  Films like Dances with Wolves, Water World, and The Postman all transport the viewer to an alternate reality that have a strange nostalgic familiarity.  In any case, The Postman clearly realizes the Costner ideal of the defiant individual discovering the possibility of overcoming his current situation and offering the world a chance to save itself.  Simple, but still powerful.  That's why I enjoy his more traditional movies, even if they are more like epics. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Film on mail delivery","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Actually I really enjoy this movie and have seen it many times.  I don't know why it got such bad reviews.  But if Kevin Costner really knew what the postal system is all about, he would have chosen a different character, such as a fast-food manager or an IRS agent.  At least he didn't go 'postal' in this movie and behaved like a hero. "},{"Title":"Schmaltzy Apocalyptic Fun","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is Costner's attempt at Mad Max with depth. And there is depth in terms of  length at more than three hours the pacing is incredibly slow in parts. Costner  is likeable as the self deprecating unlikely hero. Patten is also very convincing  as an angry little man who finds his purpose in terrorizing others.There's a lot of plot holes, and the numerous disasters mentioned make onewonder how anyone survived at all. There's less patriotism than one might think  (some incredibly sentimental scenes where a young girl sings the nationalanthem) but the Postman could indeed be set in any country. What is moreoffensive in this film is the automatic assumption that governments are going to  get peopple out of this mess, and that the president (no political parties says  Costner- sounding oddly fascist) is necessary for survival. Considering the fact  that the US govt couldn't cope with the apocalypse perhaps the good citizensof the new US should think of something else.Depressingly, Europe is reduced to a sentence, but what did you expect? Thisfilm is incredibly sentimental and has no sense of irony but is less offensive  than Braveheart and The Patriot, with their inflammatory and innacuratedepictions of history.The ending scene is too abrupt, and it would have been nice to have seenmore of the post-post-apocalyptic world. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costners Triumph","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Warning If you haven't seen the movie, this comment might spoil the ending, but I recommend you read this before watching, you might enjoy the movie more!Many people thinks this is a very bad movie. But I think this is the perfect movie to see what a great director can do with the worst script of the 90's. I think Kevin Costner did one hell of a job, transforming Brian Helgeland's terrible screenplay, Kevin made an epic tale (not the length) of a postmans resurrection of a nation, Kevin took the screenplay with it's bad dialog, bad story, and made it into one hell of a ride, from the perfect cinematography, James Newton Howard's powerful score, and a cast that does a great job delivering the bad dialog. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, but too sappy","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The story is interesting, but formulaic. The acting is barely above average, but the film failed to build some emotional atmosphere and relying too much on too many melodrama. The screenplay is sometimes stupid in some scene. Reasonably entertaining, 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Leonard Maltin is a j***","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you believe Leonard Maltin as a writer of gospel, the Postman is a misfire, it's pretentious, and it's a waste of time.I think Maltin is a j***  I may be the only person in the United States to feel so, but there it is.I saw the Postman when it was first released and I enjoyed it vastly -- enough to go back to see it again with my teenaged boys.  Costner is not, and has never been, my favorite actor, but he turned in a good portrayal within his limits, and although the patriotism went a little overboard at times (could've done without the little girl singing America the Beautiful) I found the movie overall to be fun, entertaining, and with some nice things to say about the SPIRIT of America.Recently the movie has appeared on TNT and/or TBS (can't keep those two stations straight) several times, and I've watched it again for the first time in a couple of years.  It's still fun, entertaining, and with some nice things to say about the SPIRIT of America.  How many movies can hit you the same way after multiple viewings?  Some that you really like the first time or two get washed out with repeated viewings.  The Postman does not.  It's long, but it's time well spent.  "}{"Title":"Why the bad reviews?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Because this movie deserved it.  I gave it a 5/10 because it was watchable, but it's VERY pretentious.  Come on people, the critics didn't miss the very obvious theme of this movie.  It was jammed down the throat of the viewer.  There are some touching scenes, especially if you're patriotic, but the movie really drags for no good reason.  If you want to watch a movie that's slow but actually makes you think, try 2001.  I thought the acting was sub-par, and the editing was horrible.  Some transitions between scenes were confusing.  An sorry, the ending was just plain corny; Both the fight, and then the completely unnecesary frame story with the statue.  If Costner would have made this movie with the intention of it just being something to do for 2+ hours that would be ok. Instead, he presents it as some sweeping epic with a well developed theme to get the viewer thinking, but it completely fails to achieve this.  Here are some other movies you should see if you thought this was epic or thought provoking Dune, Blade Runner, The Grapes of WrathOh, and to the guy who complained about the cruelty to animals.  What the heck?  Was your wife not bothered by the humans dying?  How was it cruel to shoot a horse to stop 3 people (including the baby) from dying?  You'd do the same in that situation nobody how much of a raging vegan you might be.  I suppose the Lion eating that one guy alive wasn't cruelty to humans though?  Geesh.   "},{"Title":"Wrongly branded a bomb","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I almost didn't bother to comment on this movie, since pretty much all I wanted to say has been said by other reviewers, and usually more eloquently than I could.  Still, it bears repeating this movie is not the stinker it has been portrayed to be.  In this movie of big-budget high-explosive blockbusters, movies based on old movies or TV shows, and big-budget high-explosive blockbusters based on old movies or TV shows (all which seem designed to annoy, dissappoint, or bore the audience), The Postman stands out as imaginative and entertaining.The oft-maligned Kevin Costner (is there some sort of anti-Kevin conspiracy going on out there?) is good as the wanderer who dons a letter carrier's uniform and becomes the embodiment of the shattered and destroyed United States rising up and restoring itself after a cataclysm.  Will Patton is even better as the erstwhile copier salesman turned generalissimo - as chilling a figure as presented anywhere in the movies these days.This movie is not the fetid pile of compost some people like to say it is.  In fact, it is not bad in any way.  I'll go so far as to say... it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Though a good story, The Postman is particularly a great message.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is a good movie and and a good story but, much more than that, this film contains various messages intertwined and some of them are very interesting.  In particular, I though that using the building up postal services to show how communication works against dictatorship was a genial idea.  In fact, since old days it is said that you should divide to conquer and isolating people from each other is one way of dividing them. The Postman shows this with great simplicity, elegance and, I could almost say without really understanding the reasons for my feeling, honour.  I loved it "},{"Title":"One of the best bombs ever made","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Despite all the critics saying how bad it was, the only reason it didn't make number 1 at the box office was because it was released at the same time as Titanic.  In my opinion, and many other people I know, This Movie was 50 times better than Titanic.  The plot of the movie sounds stupid, but when you watch it it doesn't seem stupid at all.  "},{"Title":"THE CRITICS WERE WRONG PEOPLE!!!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Just like most of the others who wrote an opinion here, this film kept nagging at me saying to me see me!!! So I actually went to Blockbuster two months ago and bought the film for 5 bucks.  It wasnt a tour-de-force thats true.  But it was very thought provoking and somewhat quite patriotic. Hell, my brother who told me he hated it (yet never watched it) finally DID watch it and enjoyed it.  I am sorry to say that the critics are wrong this time around.  The only thing I didnt care for was the length of it.  Mabe if they could have trimmed 15-25 minutes, it would appeal a lot more.  Also do you notice the massive amount of reviews here that DO in fact like this film!  Just rent the film and you will hopefully see what I mean.  And to Kevin Coster, keep up the good work, in years later this film will finally appeal to all who see it.  On a rating of 1-100 I give it a 86, which is far better than Jar Jar Episode One or Crap Crap West. "},{"Title":"Awful?, I have to disagree","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After hearing the panning this movie has taken since its release, I was really put off seeing it.  I eventually watched it last night and have to wonder what was so bad about it. Have the cinema-going public got so shallow that mediocre films like Scream 1 & 2 and the Matrix see no end to good publicity and rave reviews, but thoughtful, well acted, beautifully filmed movies like 'the Postman' receive Golden Raspberries. Is it some kind of hatred (or dare I say jealousy?) of Kevin Costner.I remember when everyone was looking forward to seeing 'Waterworld' fall flat on its face. "},{"Title":"A Promising Start","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Kevin Costner, but I saw the trailer for The Postman when it was originally released in theaters and was genuinely interested in seeing the film.  I saw all the bad reviews, both here at IMDB and in the press, but this film kept nagging at me.  It seemed like such an intriguing concept.  So, I rented the DVD recently and decided to check it out for myself.I wanted very much to like this movie.  The concept of taking elements of a post-apocalyptic story and combining with what is essentially the Pony Express and, to some extent, the Civil War seemed like a very good idea.The premise, to me at least, seems quite logical.  If there were such a series of events, it would probably knock us back to, more or less, the technology of the 19th century.  The dictatorial leader is not that far off -- unlike other readers who find it unbelieveable that a manical copy machine salesman would take off with right wing hate speech and a self-help book to create a movement isn't really that far off.  Just browse around the Web or listen to shortwave radio to some of the disestablishmentarian material coming from fringe groups these days.While watching the film, there's a strange dividing line somewhere around the one hour mark where the film just loses it.  I've considered what happens to make the film not work in the end.  Throughout that first hour, we see a great deal of humor and little touching moments -- the scene in the camp where they show The Sound of Music, the makeshift stage presentation of Shakespeare, the Postman's little scenes with the mule.What makes that part of the film work is Costner's characterization of Shakespeare/The Postman as a bit of a bumbling intellectual, hanging on to the simpler things in life.  Suddenly, however, at the point where he takes a bath and shaves in the small community where he delivers his first batch of mail, Costner, the Director, takes a back seat to Costner, the Actor.Despite a script which depicts the Postman as reluctant hero, Costner's portrayal of Shakespeare/The Postman after that first hour leaves behind the nice grungy bumbling nature of the character in favor of a depiction that screams I'm the Hero, See My Glow.  The humor disappears.  The pace slows down to a crawl.  The characters get more and more ridiculous.  The film starts taking itself too seriously as an epic, rather than a science fiction piece.Cutting would have helped -- I noticed many sections in the second half where characters basically do or say the same thing twice in one scene, as if we didn't get the point the first time.  What would have really helped, however, would have been for Costner to have simplified the plot of the last half of the piece, stripped out alot of the love interest, eliminated Tom Petty's character (and I thought some of the acting in Star Wars  The Phantom Menance Was Bad, but Petty really takes the cake), and strengthen the ending -- to keep with the theme, it needed to be the people of the small repressed communities that had a direct defeating the tyrant in the climax, not some little wrestling match between Costner and the Bad Guy.In the end, that would have made the scene where a statue is erected to the Postman filled with -- dare I say it -- irony.  Costner could have kept the character simple, a little bumbling, and truely reluctant, making the eventual myth of the Postman a nice little statement about, well, myth.But, all we are left with is the myth of Kevin Costner.  Too bad -- in that first hour, Costner, the Director, shows a very promising start.  Isn't it ironic that the story of a reluctant hero is eventually completely undone by the Actor that is far too enthusiastic about being a hero? "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie before I heard any bad things about it. All I heard was Filled with adventure, excitement, and hope. That review was right. There is nothing wrong with this movie at all. It was a great movie. Kevin Costner is a good director. He showed that with Dances with Wolves. Why does everyone say his direction in this was bad? It wasn't. I think there is something wrong with everybody if they said this was bad. You don't understand this film. It was about a man who just wanted to live whatever life he could even though America was destroyed. When he found out about the terrorists lead by Will Patton, (Who portrayed one of the best villains in film.) He knew they were bad but thought he couldn't do anything about them, so he escapes them after they catch him earlier, and since he knew they would look for him, he disguised himself as a postman just to be safe. The thing was about this movie was it made the people have hope again. There was no more America. The sign of a postman which symbolized America made these people believe again. Kevin Costner realized how he helped people too. I'm not good with words like I try to be, but you should try and look for what I'm saying. You don't have to be dumb to like this.This is a serious movie. Just as serious as something lik Braveheart or Glory. Kevin Costner and Will Patton were great in their roles, the story was pure epic, and. Well, everything about this movie was great. I liked every moment of it. I think the people who didn't like this movie are dumb. The Postman is a movie I support greatly, and I can try  "},{"Title":"Not the book, but a very good movie","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie before I read the book. I think I understand why the critics didn't like the movie -- it bears shockingly little resemblance to the book. Critics need to say bad things in order to look smart, and this was easy for them to jump on. All that aside, the book is a 10, one of the best sci-fi books ever written. The movie is not as good as the book AND it is not very much LIKE the book. But it is still a very entertaining and uplifting saga of one good individual and a very powerful would-be oppressor and his entire army. The book had a totally different point to make, but Kostner did a good job making his point in the film. Read the book AND see the movie. "},{"Title":"Deep & Thought Provoking","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had to watch this one 3 times to pick up the finer points of the film. The first time I was a little taken back by the brutality and the seemingly randomness of the script. The second time I began to understand the message and the 3rd time I figured I knew this character pretty well. Costner's idea of hope being eternal and the fortitude of man after WWIII was a testimony to his personal beliefs that good will win every time. I felt the supporting actors did well, though could've been more evil. Costner is knocked a bit by critics because of his artsy ideas and executions of scripts. This movie rates highly in my book for the simple fact that it portrayed a seemingly selfish and unmotivated man who became a hero without any doing of his own. And through it all he grew up. That was Fate in action. Good story line, good ending. A little soft on romance, but maybe that's what he intended. Definetely a see again with a mature audience. "}{"Title":"Critics, may they burn in hell! Costner CAN direct.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No way is this movie anywhere near as bad as the critics (may they burn in hell) say. Sure there are lots of close-ups of Kev but, hey!, I didn't mind! What I did mind was the overly patriotic bits. I'm not American, thank God, and so am not impressed by Americans and their heart-on-the-sleeve mentality. In general, I think they're the most over-rated (mostly by themselves) people on Earth. The ending, with its white, middle class, conservative vision of future society spoiled what is, otherwise, a really good action flick. The acting is very good throughout. Costner, unlike that other Kevin he's worked with, has the knack of getting the absolute best out of ALL the cast. The main characters are utterly believable and the bit players aren't allowed to fall into the Reynolds trap of over-acting. Costner's use of the camera is, I think, second to none. A lot of the time, the actors don't need to act, the camera does it for them. There have been many criticisms of the script but few seem to recall that the original premise was written by David Brin, not Kevin Costner.I have watched this movie many times. Now I just skip the final scene with the statue. The rest of it is just so well made. It's an epic and, for the most part, one KC can be proud of.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that nobody saw","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have been a big Kevin Costner fan since I saw him in Field Of Dreams. He continues to prove his worth in The Postman. As The Postman, Kevin Costner brings hope, faith, and joy to the people he delivers the mail to. The first 45 minutes of the movie is nothing special, but as soon as he finds the Postman's uniform in the abandoned car; my attention is glued to the television to see what happens next. In order for an action movie such as this to work there must be an equally terrific villain; this movie has one in Will Patton. Will Patton is so excellent and convincing as the villain, I'm glad that I was not recruited into his army. The Postman incorporates an underlying romance that makes futuristic adventure worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Bad review....Great movie...huh go figure","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie!  I don't understand why it got such bad reviews?  Of course, I'm the type of person who goes and sees a movie that got bad reviews.  Most of the time they are good movies (waterworld?!).I like the epic movies.  I like to sit at the movie theater and watch a movie that is not over done  with special effects.  So this movie is right up that alley.So basically I loved it and so did my wife. "},{"Title":"one word-horrible","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the lamest movies ever. I give it a three simply because Kevin Costner seems like he is trying so hard. Giving it a one or a two is simply mean.It is horrible,just like the critics said.The most insipid scene is when the little girl starts to sing God Bless America.It was unbelievable how cheesy that became.Will Patton played a good bad guy, but other than that ,it was poorly acted.Especially Tom Petty.I am a fan of his music,but please Tom.....No more acting! "},{"Title":"Not great, but better than the critics said","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Listening to the critics, you would think this was a pretty bad movie. However, I was never bored with it. It has some good action scenes and an unusual vision to it.The climax, however, is a little anti-climatic, but still the ending is a relatively happy one. "},{"Title":"An entertaining post-apocalyptic epic","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I heard all the bad reviews about this film, but still wanted to see it. The idea caught my interest, so I gave it a look.This movie held my interest for most of its three hours. The story kind of wandered for about twenty minutes and got boring, but it recovered nicely. I didn't care much for the corny dialogue, but the musical score and scenery were very good.Larenz Tate did a very good job, and it was cool to see Tom Petty make a cameo appearance.No way was this show deserving of the horrible reviews it received. But, I don't take much stock in them anyhow... "},{"Title":"Good Flick - Try not to take it too seriously folks, it's fantasy after all.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Fine movie.  What compelled me to offer my two cents was that I read some other reviews and it seems like the only scale available was loved it or hated it.  I liked it and would give it a 7.  I expected it to be a 3 after thinking back on reviews I heard when it was first released.  Costner does not have a lot of range but I certainly like the majority of his movies - including WaterWorld which I liked a lot.  True I'm a sucker for movies that use Hope as a theme but I thought this one did it right.  A lot of corny scenes but what do you expect from a post-apocalypse flick - would be beloved if done in animation.   "},{"Title":"A large dose of boredom with a side order of ham.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not very often do I see a movie and think, Wow.  Now THERE'S x hrs. of my life I'll never have back.  Dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb...(you get the picture). Mr. Costner is having little success with his post-apocalyptic dramas (Waterworld ring a bell?).  My opinion - leave the Mad Max routine to Mad Max.  "},{"Title":"It isn't bad","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why critics thought this movie was so bad. Many went on and on about it as if it was a Van Damme movie, but when I finally rented it, it moved along pretty well, and had some good moments, some genuine emotions to go with the manufactured ones. Despite its length, I stayed with it the whole time, and was only tempted to fast-forward, but never did.Costner had a lot of charming moments, and you have to love any movie where Costner plays the part of the world's worst actor. You might call it the role he was born to play. And he does it quite convincingly, I might add. It is surely the worst Shakespeare of all time, unless Tim Curry has done any Shakespeare. It is probably the worst acting ever, except for Costner's Robin Hood, but in this case, Costner's mumbling, foolish intonations, and clueless accent are exactly what the part calls for.It did have some drawbacks1) The postman, asked near the end if there's anything he believes in, says I believe in the United States (which doesn't then exist). He worded it with such excess serio-comic gravitas that all I could think of was Slim Pickens saying I'm workin fer Mel Brooks2) What is the reason why he rides that cable car? I know the movie is already about a week long, but they could have maybe taken a minute to explain that better.3) 177 minutes long? Does Costner think he's David Lean? Cut this puppy back to 120 minutes, and it'd be a good watch. "},{"Title":"A welcome alternative to Il Postino","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Costner should be congratulated for taking an obscure Italian movie and making it accessible to the masses.  I heard raves about Il Postino, but I can't stand subtitles so I skipped it.I jumped at the opportunity to see it in my own language, English.  I was delighted that they cut out all that annoying poetry!I'm sure the Academy wanted to give The Postman an Oscar, but that honor had already been stolen by the imposter one year earlier. "}{"Title":"What's with the Costner bashing?","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why have so many people criticised this movie as well as Waterworld? There is so much negative hype about these two movies that all the sheep out there just followed along without judging for themselves. Sure there were a few cliches- what Hollywood movie doesn't throw American patriotism in your face? Think about these movies on a scale of everything else you saw this year and surely they would be in the top 25%. The concepts of both of these movies were plausible and very original. "},{"Title":"Missing the point?","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've read a lot of reviews of this movie, partly to find out what other people thought about it, but mostly to see if anyone else shared my view of it.  So far I haven't found any.  For some reason no one who has seen this movie has noticed one thing  this movie is completely ridiculous.  Forget about the jingoistic America first! mumbo-jumbo.  Forget about Costner's character spouting warmed-over Shakespeare at the drop of a fedora.  What about the fact that this script is as goofy as all get-out?I rented this movie a while ago, plunked down the popcorn, and laughed my head off.  It wasn't just because of the inherent lameness of the movie, but because of the way Costner kind of gave up on pleasing the American public after Waterworld.  I would have thought he'd try much harder to win the hearts of the nation; I guess that's where the heavy-handed patriotic theme came in.  I didn't expect him to yell after the mother of his unborn child, You're really weird...you know that?!  Must admit, it was a nice surprise.Overall I didn't like the movie, but it was a close call.  It came down to the way the script was laid out, which was very inconsistent.  It did keep me on my toes mentally, though, because I could never predict what they were going to do next.  My dream wasn't fulfilled, though; I wanted to see Shakespeare and Bethlehem duke it out with wooden spoons. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is quite frankly one of my favorite movies.Much like Dance's With Wolve's this is as much an epic. Running nearly 3hrs one would think the board em would set in after the first 2 however the story captivates you into following each of the characters and their plight to survive.Kevin Costers gives an amazing performance as a man who brings hope to the hopeless with the ultimate bad guy and his army of brainwashed thugs always on his tail,there's no blazing lasers,exploding volcanoes or any such end of the world hype but more a believable post apocalyptic aftermath or what you would expect. Watching a recent interview with Costner he was most up front to the fact that he was well aware that a lot of his movie's were not to everyones liking yet over the years it had not stopped him following his instinct into making movie's that had meaning to him...the audience gave him a standing ovation..and well deserved. The critic's panned this movie before it even hit the theatres and can be blamed for all the bad press it got even before it opened...do not believe one word they said....this movie is about the characters,their relationships,their struggles plus a great cameo from Tom Petty. The Postman is a wonderful experience..... "},{"Title":"Reasonably good movie despite panning by critics","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I avoided watching this movie for years because of the bad press it received -- and because it's not particularly my favorite genre. Running thin on movies to watch one evening recently, however, I popped the DVD in the machine, sat back, and was pleasantly surprised. Dark and totally unpredictable (the unpredictability is a good thing), the movie starts out a bit too slow for my tastes, but eventually ramps up in both plot line and suspense to where I was literally on the edge of my seat several times. Better written than expected, often poignant, believable characters well developed and well acted, occasionally humorous, and chock full of cultural iconic references that causes one to smile. "},{"Title":"Despite inconsistencies, this is a great movie.","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Usually I'd trust the opinions of Roger Ebert or Rotten Tomatoes, but I have to disagree with the negatives here. Sure this isn't the greatest film of all time by any standards, but in a time dominated by Doom & Gloom generic post apocalypse movies, The Postman was a breath of fresh, positive air and if you can ignore the little things like Why is there a lion in Oregon (Portland Zoo?) or How did the Holnist come to power?  this is a great movie with a great message. The main character may have initially only used the story of being a Postman to get food and so he wouldn't get shot when he walked into a village, but his lie inspired hope. The movie has a comedic lightness to it, but it has it's serious moments and there are some great quotes like Wouldn't it be nice if the a--holes who started wars were the ones who had to fight them? General Bethlehem represented the aspects of the violent, racist, misogynistic gun-hoarding survivalists, taking advantage of the ''clean slate'' provided by the apocalypse to re-create civilization the way he saw fit, but with all the bad parts of it. His idea of a society was more like medieval times. He killed people who were mere children, just to get at his foe and he recruited people into his army who didn't want to be a part of it in the first place. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After catching it on cable recently, I was reminded what a rather decent film it is. Its strengths and weakness have been well chronicled here over the years. I'm not one to buy a DVD of every film out there. I was glad to add this film and its message to my modest collection. It is a film/story with a good wholesome message of faith and pride in our country and its people. A message of hope when all looks bleak. A film that will endure long after the critics have faded. Tom Petty has a cool cameo along with a decent supporting cast. Well worth the watch with an open mind. DVD easily found at a fair price on-line. Also, the sound track isn't half bad. Costner and Amy Grant have rather nice duet at the end. Got an afternoon to kill, give it a try. "},{"Title":"Critics be damned, and they really need to be","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The reviews posted here have restored my faith--kind of like the film--in humanity. I found this movie moving, extremely well done, funny and entertaining, but due to the pro reviews I had read, I expected it to be lambasted here. Anyone wanting a great evening watching an intellectually provocative film should take this one in. Many, many other posters have written why, so there is no point in being redundant. I join their ranks, and applaud those wise enough to see it without falling for the critic's review trap. All movie critics are Holnists, plain and simple, and I issue the challenge of Rule Seven for leadership of the clan, ye who write and ye who whine. "},{"Title":"Possible outcome for our path in the world to come","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Interesting view of the new world, saved by the common coward in all of us. A real hero's story as hero's are never made, only by accidental situations do they become.This movie has it all, romance, hero's, bravery, cowardice. Like all of Cosners movies, it delivers a heavy message. You probably need to enjoy message movies, and understand what is in Cosners brilliant mind.Certainly not just an action flick. This is one to remember, and watch again.Let's hope the world does not end up as we see in this movie, but you may never know. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed with a stirring plot.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was made in my county. The cimetography was so well done of this beautiful country up here. Costner produces a film that is so awesome and believable, I found myself inside the movie itself. I could feel this could happen someday. Its one of the more real futuristic films that is believable I have ever seen. I laud him for doing such a superb job of belief and having the young kids makes it so much more interesting. I also thank him for his great hospitality while in our area and using so many of our folks here that wanted to just be in his film to be around him. He was/is a very gracious man from all reports I heard from friends and our folks were proud he chose our county for his film and did it so magnificently. thank you, Kevin!! you are our star!! "},{"Title":"Compared to the book, The Postman","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you've ever read The Postman by David Brin (last printing Feb.1990 - the book this movie is based on - check amazon.com), and THEN saw this movie, you would have enjoyed the movie all that much more, and understood WHY it had to be so long.This really was a good movie, and a very good adaptation of the book itself. Sure, Mr. Costner took a little artistic license with regards to occurrences in the book, but that's allowable.A very good friend of mine played Sheriff Briscoe (Daniel von Bargen), and I would still give this movie a favorable review even if I didn't know someone in it.  I ENJOYED this movie and still watch it just about anytime it comes on cable.Read the book.....watch it again.....  "}{"Title":"An excellent surprise and a great movie !","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The only thing wrong with this movie is that it should have been 4 hours instead of 3 !I went to see  THE POSTMAN  almost dragged , because i had seen so many bad reviews in american television channels, that i was totally brainwashed into thinking this would be a waste of time.I thought this was going to be another  WATERWORLD . One more excellent idea wasted in special and stuntman effects, with nothing more than lots of battles and chases. I was wrong.This is a very good movie, with a great story and to my knowledge very well directed. Excellent use of the enviroments with magnificent images without forgetting about the characters. Costner is becoming one of my favorite movie makers and i can´t wait to see his next project.My first intial impression of this film was not that great, and i thought that it was going to be nothing more than a Mad Max rip-off set in the States, with horses instead of trucks. But after the first chase suddenly the story started to become very good and filled with small details that added beauty to it. By the first hour of movie i was loving every minute of it.By the end i couldn´t believe that this movie was so trashed down in it´s own country. Why ?!!99% of the reviews here in Europe apparently don´t understand it either. I never did find a bad review about this movie in more than 30 that i read, then I decided to compare it with the american reviews and what surprised me was that most of them, only talk of how the movie was filled with complete impossibilities. One reviewer even wrote that Costner should have ask forgiveness to the american public for presenting such a bad image of America´s future.It was the last american review i read.What´s a matter with these people ?!! This is just movie ! An almost sci-fi story. Fantasy !And in a country were a good movie is destroyed because of its content, i don´t find that dark future is  that unbelievable !Some critics said, that this movie was nothing more than a giant mirror for Costner´s ego. Why ? Because he´s the hero and the director at the same time ?Others attacked the casting saying, that the actor who played the bad guy, was a terrible choice because he wasn´t convincing enough and didn´t looked like a villain at all. EXCUSE ME ?!!!!Is  THE POSTMAN  a new VAN DAMME movie ?!!The fact that the bad guy looks like the neighbour next door, i think it´s even more creepy than if he looked like the devil. He´s the one who gives instant credibility to that devasted world, because he looks just like a normal person.This was an excellent casting choice. Probably the best in the movie. Anyway the actors do a great job in it, specialy the kids.There is nothing wrong with this movie. This is an excellent story and very well writen, acted, photographed and directed. Even the patriotic stuff, usual in this movies is tolerable and it´s never a shore to watch, because the story compensates.I loved this movie, and i only wished it had a few scenes in a big devasted city like New York or something.Now i understand why in Europe it is said, that if a film is a success in the States, it´s going to be the same in here but we never know what we get.But if the film is a flop there, then nobody should miss it here, because it has quality for sure.I´m starting to agree.And i hope Costner keeps doing this kind of epics, because until now, his movies have neen an exception , in that ocean of idiotic products that Hollywood is making this days. "},{"Title":"THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES OF THE YEAR!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly one of the best movies of 1997.  Kevin Costner is in top form.  This movie, despite what ignorant people think, has one of the best stories.  It is a story about hope and courage, one that inspires and uplifts.  I hope that more people will see this movie and ignore its bad reviews. NOTE TO ALL THE CRITICS THAT P****D ON THIS MOVIE there are a lot of other movies out there for you to p*** on... i suggest you leave this one alone and go do it, since you like being so critical.**** "},{"Title":"Terrific movie","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my most favorite movies every.  Its plot was awesome and it shows that are whole society is based really on communication.  I thought that the acting was great especially great just before the big fight.  It was a very long movie which was the only down side of the whole movie.  It was exciting through the whole movie, and kept me on my feet. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable patriotic movie requiring an appreciative audience","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   From reading prior comments, it seems that a lot of people have a hang-up about Waterworld (or about Kevin Costner).  The Postman is a wholly different movie with an epic scope (more so than Road Warrior to which it's compared), higher levels of cinematography, multiple scenes of highly choreographed actions, and an anti-hero who assumes the hero position rather than remaining an anti-hero at the end of the movie.So why do so many people hate it?  From the negative comments, a lot of people didn't seem to understand it or if they did, they did not appreciate the patriotic wistfulness of the plot.The Postman was an excellent two-part set of science-fiction short stories first published in an anthology magazine.  The pair of shorts had such promise that they were combined and an extended ending sequence was added.In print form, the story and plot are appealing since the reader is able to bring his or her cognitive processes to bear on the patriotic aspects of the self-fulfilling prophecy of a man who inadvertently unifies a broken region of cynical people.The symbol of a postal service is a strong ICONIC reminder of the lovable past that was lost to the inhabitants and the awakened patriotic emotions lead to a better life for everyone (except the cynical survivalist holnists).I enjoyed the short story version the most for its epic enigmatic ending, but feared the day the movie optioned book would make it to the screen. Would a thinking man's epic movie make a financially successful movie or not?  It is hard to tell in these cynical times whether or not a movie can kindle feelings of patriotism without resorting to huge amounts of special effects in space.   "},{"Title":"A very entertaining 3-hours.","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've heard slanders about this movie from every direction, but in the face of the actual product itself they all turn to wisps of smoke.I couldn't believe that this movie was 3 hours long. It just went by at a perfect pace, another hour and it would've been to long, less an hour and it would've been too short. Kevin made this movie just right.This movie carried not only strong undertones of courage but also of loyalty, to your friends and your beliefs. The scene with the Postman and the boy was a definite keeper and while the initial scene was great the reprise at the statue dedication completed it.  We could see that the boy was smiling in the original scene but it was the giddy laughter that we saw at the end of the film that really brought it to life for me.  One of my favorite scenes took place when Bethlehem was about to execute Ford and the other postal carrier. It's been an honor sir! "},{"Title":"You had to be there...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All right, I may be somewhat biased... I was a Holnist Cavalry Raider for 4 1/2 months, and have to say it was one of the most enjoyable times of my life.K.C. WORKS as a director, at least with his troops. Hopefully some of this comes through in viewing. I know for a fact most of the cast and crew would work as hard and long again.If you think the finished product was long, you should have been on set. The weeks of constant Washington rain, bitter Oregon cold, and Arizona heat and wind would drive most to distraction. Just the fact crew and cast were able to perservere and produce. Don't be too sure the possibility of such a thing actually taking place won't...So, I truly hope viewers give themselves a chance to see through the blinders that are placed on us. Things are getting better... better every day. "},{"Title":"Sadly underestimated post-apocalyptic Western","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman lasted for ONE WEEK in my town. I believe a total of less than 200 people saw it. That's probably a record low turnout. As a result of the short playing time I missed it and had to wait for the video. Which was a pity because it was a big-screen movie. I watched The Postman twice. The second viewing confirmed the impression of the first this was a good movie! Well-written, few dead stretches. It pulled through its long running time without me thinking of the time even once. It had everything a lone drifter, romance, villains, battles, heroic deeds, triumphs, tragedies, a goodly measure of corn and pathos. After the second viewing I decided that I didn't even really mind the ending, which I had first thought as just too corny. Somehow it fit. The movies metaphors, the sub-text, worked just fine, at any number of levels. Maybe there was too much sub-text for it to become a success. Or maybe the sub-text was just unfashionable. Also, critics have moaned about the length (as they've complained about just about every other aspect of the movie), but the fact is that it could not really have been edited down much further and still worked. It was a good example of 'just right'. It should also be noted that I'm definitely not a Costner fan. Still, he pulled it off and he did it well. So shoot me... "},{"Title":"Why? (A Rhetorical Perspective)","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have never understood why so many people, critics and moviegoers alike, list this movie among the worst ever. It was certainly not due to disappointment in the cinematic treatment of the 1985 novel by David Brin - for I doubt that anyone seeing the movie had actually read the book (first). And, on it's very long length and scope it differs little from Costner's own Dances With Wolves (and shares a great deal with the spirit of Field Of Dreams as well). In fact, long movies are often seen as good value for the dollar, and have always been celebrated as epics - think Lawrence Of Arabia and Ice Station Zebra - to name a few. When many movies are 90 mins or less these days, I really WANT to get at least 2 hours of entertainment for my money. So, the bad points? Is the acting bad, or is the production value low? Does the long movie tend to drag out too often? Is it just a bad story? I say none of the above, at least not in any fatal way. There are slow parts, and a few scenes of pretentious message delivery, but I would actually list these as positives, or be at least neutral on them given the subject matter. The movie is very true to the theme of the book, and therefore is not a Mad Max type of post-apocalyptic adventure. That is not to say there are no action scenes, and it is in the setting up of the conflict that I find the movie has its greatest strength - and greatest humanity, which is what Brin's novel was all about. Further, the differences in the movie compared to the book leave me feeling that the movie was, in fact, an improvement. As a study in human nature, there is a whole developing scenario regarding the rise of the militia that is classic in its understanding of military leadership quite unlike anything produced recently (start thinking more along the lines of Lord Of The Flies). However, as far as action movies go, this is the polar opposite of the current trend, using even Costner's own Waterworld as an example, though it too was a flop. Costner himself is an unusual Hollywood force, with a hit and miss scorecard that is unpredictable. In the end, I would suppose that like any leader, he must ultimately take the blame here, but I still cannot fault him for making an undesirable movie. The Postman is among my favourites, a good representative of the genre, and one I re-watch every so often. "},{"Title":"A tale about true heroism","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A saga about what must be considered the most important things in the world, democracy, freedom, each individual's possibility to make a difference and last but absolutely not least, the will to fight for these things, these rights which too many take for granted.A piece of artwork depicting the courage that lies within ordinary men, the courage to stand up for what is good, for what is right, for what should be offered to all men and women around the world, democracy and freedom for each human being.A movie that filled my eyes with tears of joy.That is what The Postman is. A tale about heroism in the name of freedom. "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I loved this Movie !!! Kevin did a Fantastic job in it.The critics unfairly bashed this film.The same critics give a '1' when they've never made a film and wouldn't know what to do with a camera if it bit them.Everyone in this movie did a great job, especially Will Patton. He is Excellent at playing bad guys.. i would love to go back to that time.. and hang out with them all.. it would be soo neat.. this movie is great, good acting, lots of action, and a good story to it.. i Highly recommend it to anyone who likes Kevin Costner.. i sure do Love the guy. hes a very talented actor.. he was great in The Untouchables and in Field Of Dreams ... "}{"Title":"To hell with critics","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I give ten points for the hard work and dedication that must have gone into this film and it got unnoticed and unappreciated.It's a great film. Especially a great Costner film cause there are a lot of unexpectedly ironical and self humoring moments in his acting. Great job. The script has some flaws or dramatic deficits, but if you watch the movie again and closely you might argue that these flaws are actually its best parts. Cause it's not just another action film which you might expect. It's a grown up and thoughtful piece of work that doesn't make it too easy for the viewer. I say To hell with critics who don't know how much energy and heart felt dedication it takes too make a film like that. "},{"Title":"Puhleeeeeeeeeeeeeze...","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had an exceptionally hard time accepting the fact that ANY postal employee would ever give a s*** if someone got their mail. Fun to watch if you're stoned, though. I'm reminded of a cartoon I saw in a magazine where Costner is on the phone telling some Hollywood producer that he has an idea for another film; The caption was Kevin Costner phones in a bomb threat. I mean, c'mon people. What a ridiculous premise. Don't waste your time with this cornucopia of bad acting and totally implausible plot, unless you want to light up a nice big fat J and have a good laugh. I do have to admit, however, that the scenery was quite beautiful. Kudos to whomever chose the filming locations. Other than that, I say Return to Sender. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie as an assignment for a class. I was not excited about this, science fiction isn't quite my thing. I was surprised that I really enjoyed this movie. It was corny, I agree, but the plot was amazing. I took notes through the entire movie, and as I look back on them now I can see different parts of the movie through my handwriting. The climax is definite as my letters became larger and the words were underlined. I stayed with this movie until the end. The idea of rebuilding the country through the postal service is odd, but realistic. I thought the plot was very uplifting and solid. I have recommended this movie to several people. I don't care what the critics say, watch it and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Watch paint dry instead (while hammering nails in your head)","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The only film that's made me walked out of a cinema. Sci-Fi should stimulate the mind...confront it with alarming/wondrous projections of our possible futures. This film (about a post-apocalyptic society revived by getting the postal service up and running - WOW!!! FUTURESHOCK!!!) is an insult to the genre and tedious in the extreme. I walked out when Costner (bland by his standards) stumbles across Tom Petty and the script gives a cringe-worthy nod to Petty's rock n roll past. Add in some stomach churning waving around of the stars and stripes, and you have one big turkey of a film crying out to have it's neck ringed .A truly appalling film. I feel duty bound to alert those lucky enough to have not seen it, to give it the very widest of berths. "},{"Title":"An excellent post-apocalyptic film!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this in the theater back when it first came out and thought it was an excellent film.  Since then, I've seen it a few times and just the other day watched it yet again.  I honestly cannot figure out why so many people find this film boring and give this film such a low rating.  I thought it was excellent from start to finish and very well paced.  Usually I'm the kind of person the notice when a film is longer than 2 hours, but this one didn't have me checking my watch at any point during the film.I thought the story was a quite interesting take on the whole post-apocalyptic world.  At first I thought the idea of a mail-service of sorts starting up any kind of feud between two groups was just absurd, but I have to hand it to the writers and director Kevin Costner, it was done extremely well in this film and works very well.As far as acting goes, I thought everyone did an excellent job in the film and showed a great deal of emotion in their scenes.  I thought Kevin Costner did a particularly good job in The Postman, as did Daniel von Bargen, Olivia Williams, Larenz Tate and Will Patton.  Will Patton was definitely a bright star in the film, I couldn't believe this is the same guy from Armageddon.  His character is a truly sick individual in the film and Will does a phenomenal job showing it.  Personally, I thought he was a perfect choice for the role of General Bethlehem.In all honesty, I thought this was a better film than Dances With Wolves, but I must admit that I've only seen Dances With Wolves once or maybe twice and don't remember a great deal about it.  I would definitely recommend The Postman to anyone that hasn't seen it.  I hope that you like it as much as I do and can enjoy it for what it is.  Thanks for reading,-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Do you know what war is?","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you dont like Kevin Costner, dont see this movie. If you dont live in a place where war has taken place, dont say anything about missing war scenes in this movie. I voted 10 for this movie because it points out 2 of the most important things in our lives - hope and communication. And it points out what real power is. It is having the opportunity to kill and then not doing it! Please all people remember this Hope is life. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Postman is really a masterpiece of film-history. I can't understand why so much people don't like it, because this movie has nearly everything a good movie needs good actors (also playing good), a great story and a nearly breathtaking atmosphere. It's of course no movie for people who just want to see a lot of explosions and gunfire (i'm not saying there is no action, this movie has a lot of action). But the real reason why I like this movie so much is, that it has so many hidden messages. I think you only like this movie if you understand this hidden messages. Don't let you foolish by the bad respond it got, because I did in the first place, but this movie showed me that the mass of people is not always right. I believe there are exactly two kind of people One half will give this movie a 0 because it was too boring and the other half will give it a 10, because they did understand what this movie is really about. But I also have to warn you don't expect a Waterworld 2, because Postman has less Action and enormous more depth. Just one little thing to the end remember that 7/10 could mean that 100% of voters did like the movie to 70%, but 5/10 could mean that 50% gave it 0% and 50% gave 100%, so to which of the 50% you will count yourself? -) "},{"Title":"Entertaining Futuristic Saga, Despite the Many Flaws","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The reviews have been truly awful for Kevin Costner's The Postman. but I've liked Costner since No Way Out and Bull Durham and I'm a fan of post-apocalyptic movies a la Planet of the Apes, Mad Max, Escape from NY, and Soylent Green. But then I even liked Waterworld. Sure Postman has some corny bits - a little girl breaking out into America the Beautiful etc., and Costner's direction doesn't accent his sexiness, but no different than Mel Gibson's Braveheart for length, ego, etc. Costner's always good as the Everyman pushed into a leadership role; a more charismatic actor wouldn't have made sense.Sure, the choice of slo-mo's under James Newton Howard's schmaltzy music at climactic scenes is not great.Sure Will Patton is a bit over the top as the fascist general, but the complex conception of his army in the first part of the film is well done.Sure the choice of Costner dueting with Amy Grant on Wouldn't It Be Nice over the closing credits is unfathomable, when there was a perfectly sweet original song done during a dance scene in the movie that would have worked better, Almost Home, that will get lost in Best Oscar song noms. I liked the politics and understanding of human nature post-catastrophe. The scenery is stupendous. (12/30/1997) "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The photography, lighting, portraying of human emotion was incredible. The scenario is entirely possible given the condition of the world today, and the hatred of so many people against their fellow humanity. Moments of darkness are uplifted by the exuberance of youth and the portrayal of hope when there is nothing left to lose. When I started watching, and realized the length of the movie, I was prepared to be disappointed and maybe a bit bored, but that never happened. Costner came through again with another great movie, making this film the Dances With Wolves of science fiction films. Great special effects and cinematography. "},{"Title":"Another post-apocalypse film, this time with Kevin Costner starring as a drifter turned hero.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Probably the best post-apocalypse movie I have seen. Kevin Costner brings a quiet dignity to the role of hero which is a nice change from your typical blast-all-enemies-to-hell hero which is overly prevalent in the movies today. It definitely gives a more interesting view of morality than you are going to get from any Chuck Norris or Arnold Schwarzenegger film. Don't get me wrong, I love a good action film too. I just like to see a thoughtful film every now and again too. The cinematography is beautiful and the story line intelligent. I don't like to give away endings so I will just say that it is satisfying and maintains the dignity of the film. Overall it is well worth the 3 hours. I would hate to see any of these scenes left on the cutting room floor. "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.It's not exagerrated and the story is good.Costner does a good job maybe the best since dances with wolves.Because of this long movie you feel more for the characters and feel sorry for them.It's a good ending in the movie too. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up!","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is according to the critics one of the worst movies of 1997,  thats is wrong, totally wrong.The Postman is a masterpiece, Costner does a great job, so does Will Patton , Larenz Tate, Olivia Williams and Jame Russo. And Costner is still one of Hollywoods best directors. Give Postman a chance, i promise that you will like it!Grade **** out of **** "},{"Title":"In short, a good film with a great story","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film starts with it being made clear we are in a post-apocalyptic USA. If memory serves, the cause of the apocalypse is not made clear, it is not important, but whatever the event was, the impact of it was worsened with severe droughts and food shortage.The baddies are the Holnists (named after their dead founder Nathan Holn) - an army led by Will Patton's excellently played character, General Bethlehem, a terrifyingly cruel man that has no mercy and was never in the army before the apocalypse (look out for the reveal of his job before the apocalypse is one of many lighthearted moments in the film).The goodies are led by Kevin Costner's never-named accidental hero, a self appointed postman, The Postman.One of my favourite films. The story is absorbing. For those of you with an open mind, watch it yourself, leave any bias outside, and then decide. "},{"Title":"(Maybe) the best film ever made!","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step Opportunities are all around you Nothing takes the past away, like the future Life deserves a chanceThese are the feelings I was left with after the end of the film. In a post-apocalyptic America law an order has vanished. People live in small towns, with no contact with the outside world and terrorised by warlords who roam the countryside. They expect nothing and if they're alive it's just because they happened to be.The postman (Costner) is an ordinary guy who wants to do something with his life. Not knowing what that would be he travels around the country giving performances of Shakespeare. He gets pressed-ganged by warlord Bethlehem, who rules his men with fear. While the others are too afraid to run away, Costner gives life a chance. He then finds a fifteen years old post bag and exhausted of Bethlehem's chase he pretends to be a postman of the restored government, in order to be accepted in a town. This is enough to change the world...The delivery of letters from long forgotten relatives reminds the inhabitants of the life they used to have. Suddenly they find an interest in life &#150; to write letters to the lost loved-ones and wait for news from them. But a young boy wants more and asks to become a postman himself. The next time Costner meets him, the lad has established a proper postal service, manned with young people with a thirst for life...Having found an interest in life the people gradually come to understand how nice it is to be alive. From then it's only a matter of time until they decide that they deserve better than being terrorised by psycho warlords like Bethlehem...What I particularly liked in this film is that it's not about a great leader who defeats the bad guys, or does something good for the people. The postman does nothing and the people's lives change exactly because they do it themselves - once they only decide to. This is about the power of hope, the power of getting out and do something, the power of taking things in your own hands, the power of believing in yourself. This is about the blessing of life.The last scene, where years later the statue of the postman is revealed and the crowd applauds (I couldn't help joining in), clearly implies that the end of Bethlehem was only the beginning of even better things, in the same way the first arrival of the postman once was. Making life better can become a habit... I was shocked to read that the critics didn't like this film. "},{"Title":"Costner films are good","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i have watched a few films with Kevin Costner in them and have never understood why critics rubbish every thing he has done.The postman is a great film which for some reason 1 critic said it was bad and every other one of those lemmings followed.If people remember when cable guy came out a great maybe even the best Jim Carey film ever came out and the critics lay ed into it at first now they are all saying how great it is.Thats the problem sometimes critics give it a bad review and people actually listen and turn into a lemming and totally agree with them.This film and many other films by Costner are great so just watch enjoy and never listen to critics,if people don't understand something they call it rubbish and disregard it. "},{"Title":"Postage Declined (The lying Postman)","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" At this point I'm still struggling to catch my breath after ingesting this quasi-epic masterpiece from our man THE Cos. I recently read a riveting interview with said Cos where he compared his pitiful Oscar groveling bomb to It's a Wonderful Life while calling his alleged Postman a mythical hero... WOW!!! Let me get this straight. So the world has pretty much come to an end (except for the plentiful lush forest settings), most of mankind is wiped out and taken over by a mad band of fascist braveheart-style warriors. People are down, they're out, they scratch and claw for the basic essentials of human survival... food, clean water. Their spirits must to be lifted in order to maintain the will to go on. Who could possibly achieve such a momentous task among such despair? Kevin Costner with an electric bill from 2002. Obviously. So here he is, apparently bored enough to bring back the IL' postal service therefore delivering unity to the masses. Of course, Kevin. Here's 70 million dollars, start shooting in the spring. Anyway, along the way he impersonates a federal employee while publicly claiming to have close correspondence with the President of the United States who is currently operating out of the Metrodome... where the Vikings used to play. All this in order to recruit a rag tag posse of wanna be Postmen who have a tendency to gather in large groups to bask in the glory of their virtuous leader before and after working a hard day in a makeshift mail sorting facility for three LONG hours. Wait a second Kevin. On second thought, I want my 70 million back! So let me make sure that I have this right... He's basically a non-truthful, dishonest, delusional, misleading, egocentric, self-centered, less than forthright, and down right lying for lack of a better term... Postman. Due do his not quite honest approach to team building many young, dead, pretend postmen littered the post-apocalyptic landscape. Bravo, Kevie, BRAVO!! I've followed suit with the film and built a large statue of the lion hearted Costner galloping bravely toward some sort of postalocracy ruling the new Metrodome based government with Big-Cos at the Helm. It sits in my front yard inspiring all who look upon it. So kick back, clear three hours from your schedule, and prepare for a rip roarin' laugh fest. Filmed exclusively in CostnerVision for a richer Costner viewing experience, this Postman won't let you down. "},{"Title":"I'm clapping because you stink!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSThe Postman is a much-disparaged film, and has a lot in common with Waterworld. Like that film, it's overlong, overwrought and overpriced. Yet also like Waterworld it's really not all that bad. Nothing special, just a plainly average film paid undue attention due to its $80 million budget and panned as a result.Its formula initial violent clash, romance with gratuitous sex scene, conflict, love and resolution is nothing new. The murder of Olivia Williams' husband merely exists to serve the plot, and using her rape as a character motivation is deplorable. However, in its initial stages things are actually almost watchable, and while Costner isn't the world's greatest director, he's not the worst either.Things take a dip as soon as Costner takes on the postman mantle, where every letter he delivers is a written piece of exposition. The Mad Max references are obvious, though there are some reasonable allegories in the text. And where Max itself was inspired by man with no name western idents, so too Costner's titular character has only Shakespeare as a moniker.An oddity is the fact that the advertising billboards give us the year in which it's set as 2013, yet this is never revealed on screen. Rather odd that to discover major plot points you don't have to watch the film, but look at the marketing. Into this Costner emerges as a saviour in a post-apocalyptic America. The back to basics stance isn't always subtle. In one scene Costner's battered hero lets out a series of guttural groans as he discovers a cigarette lighter &#150; a parody of the caveman discovering fire. The humour is also a little naive, with the postman falsely claiming that the president is Ringo Starr and his policies come from Sgt.Pepper lyrics. Yet Costner's unsure delivery (no pun intended) lends them a sort of feckless charm.However, his postman guise must be effective because as soon as he dons the cap and shaves he becomes completely unrecognisable to Will Patton. Patton co-stars as a hard case villain who can beat large men in six second fights, sets fire to American flags and cuts off tongues and testicles. Of course, it's a little hard to believe that a redheaded balding beardie is so tough so most of this is revealed via dialogue. While not a bad actor, the one-note, singular dynamic of the role does start to get rather tiresome. Take two character dimensions into the shower? Not me! Larenz Tate, making an appearance as the token black kid in a Hollywood movie, reaches Sunset Boulevard levels of screen realism. Choke back on them crocodile tears, son. And somebody get Tom Petty some acting lessons, for God's sake!While the first half of this film is so-so entertainment, the conclusion sees it's ultimate distillation into overearnest sentimentality. In fact, it's often so extreme it makes The Sha, er, Patriot seem underplayed. Costner talks about beating back vomit, er, despair, and replacing it with hope as teary-eyed, impossibly white-teethed youngsters salute and look on with patriotic pride. Silly quotes, er, soliloquies abound, with Costner being told you give out hope like it was candy in your pocket. Just when you think you can't heave your guts up any more, Costner gets a daughter... named Hope. Mind you, he was lucky to get Olivia pregnant after just one attempt.In fact, I dunno why I started reappraising it now, as it's rubbish, really, ain't it? The sort of mealy-mouthed, sentimental/gung-ho tripe, so saccharine it will give you the cinematic equivalent of tooth decay. And didn't you just know the film would end with a slug match between Costner and Patton? I mean, I'm soft, but I could have him, no problem. Probably the stumbling block with this review was that I made the mistake of taking down notes and thoughts at the half-way point. Every time I wrote it's not that bad something would happen to make me realise it really IS that bad. Still, I've seen worse. Not very often, but I have... I think... 4/10. "},{"Title":"All I get is junk mail.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Want to see a good movie entitled The Postman? Then don't see this movie.Instead, rent a movie entitled Il Postino (The Postman). Well, in this movie Kevin Costner sails the world to save the world...no, that was another bomb, Waterworld. Well, in this movie, Kevin Costner, as a phony mailman, delivers 15 year old letters to save a post-apocalyptic world. They say that a pen is mightier than a sword, but Costner tries to prove that old letters are mightier than howitzers and automatic weapons wielded by a large army of ruthless cutthroats. To accomplish his task, he reluctantly leads a small band of teen-aged postal carriers who, with their mailbags, foment a revolution to reunite the United States. The movie pulls out all the clichés to tug at the viewer's heartstrings--husband killed in front of his pregnant wife, teen-aged postal carrier witnessing execution of his father, executed postal carrier's father using his last breath to proclaim Ride Postman, young boy standing forlornly with letter in hand for the driven horse-backed postman, etc., etc., etc., yawn, etc..Hoping to receive an engaging movie in the mail, I was disappointed to get yet another piece of junk mail from Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen in a while","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The beginning of this David and Goliath epic seemed like a  stereotypical war movie.  I was bored.  But after Costner left the camp of the martial bullies, it got great.  There are so many scenes where the humor is laugh-out-loud funny that I stopped the tape to call my friends and recommend it.  Bravo, Kevin!  This is your best work yet!  Thanks for a wonderful, fulfilling three hours! "},{"Title":"An amazing screenplay - a charming movie.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie really moved me emotionally. Despite it's length (3 hours) i was charmed the whole time.This movie is original and has all the great ingredients of a great epic.It's also interesting to see how the Postman transforms when incidents thrust him to hero status - how can he live up to what people believe him to be ? The answer is courage.Of all the Hero that saves the world movies, this is by far one of the best - unlike many action movies, the only resource this hero has is his courage.A well told and touching story. Certainly one of the best movies in its genre.10/10 "}{"Title":"Outstanding Performance","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must commend Will Patton on his Outstanding Performance in The Postman.I had never heard of Will Patton until this movie, and was so impressed, that I have now classed him as one of my favourite actors. He is very versatile, but unfortunately for his sake I think he is very under-rated. I have seen Patton in many roles, and am impressed every time. "},{"Title":"Whoever thinks this movie sucks is just plain stupid!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great all the way through. There was'nt one boring moment. It was wonderfully acted and it was a really good story.I don't understand why all the reviews made it out to be a terrible movie and it was voted one of the worst movies of all time. Movie reviewers never get it right! "},{"Title":"This movie is really recommended to watch at least once","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I think it is one of the most underrated movies. I haven't posted any review prior to this but when i saw the overall rating of this movie on IMDb, couldn't help adding my own few lines. The message this movie wanted to put across, is portrayed so beautifully, without involving too many emotions.I couldn't leave the movie in between as I found it quite captivating. Though the era shown seems little too fictitious but the storyline, acting , cinematography , direction everything is just so wonderful. Till date, can't really imagine how one can beautifully direct a movie and at the same time act so well in it. And I really believe, One man can actually change the world. "},{"Title":"The Postman","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Directed & starring Kevin Costner, this film isn't great but it certainly isn't as bad as everyone said back then. For fans of Dance With Wolves, a masterpiece (i believe), The Postman comes across as a failure regarding the plot & the various flaws of the scenario. Now that being said, the film is well shot, entertaining & Costner is truly gifted because you never feel the length of the film dragging on. It's not a great film but it's a nice one. I know a lot of people out there would skin me alive for writing this but i'm answering to them this very simple line. You can hate it, you can be mad & highly critical of the film.... but it's just a film.... A film filled with good intentions but that failed to meet his audience. Now when you know how hard it can be to direct big budget films with huge sets & hundreds of extras, one must soften it's criticism. The Postman is disappointing but i enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"An epic movie that ends up fall flat","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In a sentence this film has a very good background but I found that its execution was a little poor. It was a epic movie yet there was something about it that just did not click with me. Maybe it had to do with the bad guy - he seemed to rule the region, while I would expect that in such a situation as this, there would be numerous bandit kings fighting each other, but even then that was not my problem with the movie. It just did not seem to be that right.The Postman is set in 2013 after a great war and the United States has disintegrated. All that remains are small farming colonies that are dominated by a Bandit King, Bethlahem, who rules the region, the Northwest, with a iron fist. The political code has become might means right, and those who do not submit to Bethlehem's rule will pay the consequences. Into this region comes a man without a name, which is similar to Costner's previous movies Waterworld and Dances With Wolves. I have not seen the later, but have been told that it runs along a similar themes.Costner is an actor and performs with his mule Bill for food and shelter in the towns he passes through. Unfortunately he gets caught up in Bethlehem's army when he is conscripted while trying to get out of the town unnoticed. Later he manages to escape, but has nothing. Fortune is shining upon him as he finds an old postal van and stays there the night. He then hits upon an idea and decides to deliver the letters, only for a chance to spend the night in a town. He does this, and though the townspeople love him, the sheriff of the town distrusts him, but is still unsure. Thus having cottoned on to a good thing, he decides to bluff his way from town to town. What he doesn't realise is that he has started up something as he makes a young Negro a postman before he leaves.The next town he visits he meets Bethlehem's army and escapes with a woman and is trapped in a valley during winter. When the winter passes he and the woman decide to make their way back to civilisation, if there is any. While they are traveling they meet a young girl who is a postman, and Costner discovers that he has started something which has blossomed out beyond his control. He is now a legendary figure known as the Postman.The theme behind this movie is hope. No matter how dark the times are, there is always hope. This hope comes from the Postman, who in essence is a Christ figure. The world has been destroyed and the only person who seems to offer anything is a bully. Thus when Costner arrives speaking about a restored United States, everybody turns to him. There is a big difference between Christ and the Postman, Christ did not do it for his own benefit, the postman did. In the end, both figures offered hope, it is just the Christ's hope is lasting.I guess this movie shows us that we need hope and this desire for hope will send us following anything to find it. There is one kid in the movie that joins Bethlehem's army believing it to be fulfilling, but it is not. Everybody else follows Costner, though the hope he brings is a lie. The statement made is not that it is a lie, but that he brings hope to people who are looking for it. Those who bring hope bring people to them. This is what happened with Christ - people saw him as providing hope, but many turned away because they could not understand the hope that he offered. Things are different now because many people speak Christ's words for him and distort the truth and thus offer hope. The truth about Christ's hope is that we must be prepared to drop everything to follow him, which is something that many of us are not prepared to do.I guess the problem with the movie is that it was long and the theme is getting a bit stale. I could see potential in the movie, but it just didn't come out as good as it could have. The movie kept me riveted - it was not boring, but still, there was something missing. "},{"Title":"The Postman &#x97; After destroying itself how can society get back up on its feet","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is a post-apocalypse survival movie geared toward society and what it means to be a society.The good. The settings are well chosen and built. Great main characters with nicely developing personas. Interesting story. Good pace. The intro is solid and really puts us in the right mood.The actors. Kevin Costner is a great fit for his role as a loner surviving on his wits. Olivia Williams is disarmingly charming as the sweet girl with a budding iron determination. Will Patton makes us hate his egocentric character right away. You can't help but get attached to Larenz Tate as the over eager young man looking for meaning to his life. Daniel von Bargen as the suspicious sheriff is just right. And finally, Giovanni Ribisi in the small role of an almost psychotic blind follower is astounding.The bad. Just a few things. Galloping horses before the siege. Really? You needed to do that to build the tension before the attack? The cable ride. A horse would have been just as good.The ugly. The 30 years later ending. F*ck that! It ruined the movie. Cut it out and it's an additional star, easy.The result. The length of the movie is not for everybody, but it's good entertainment. "},{"Title":"The Best Post Apocalypse Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am glad that 15 out of the last 20 reviewers over the last two years have given this movie 6 stars or above. As the wicked hatchet job the professional critics did on the movie when it first came out in 1997 gets forgotten, I believe more and more people will discover just how brilliant and classic this film is and 3/4ths of people who see it will enjoy it.In the year 2013, after an apocalypse, only small bands of isolated, frightened humans are still alive in the western United States. Apparently all electricity and electrical communication is gone. People are suspicious of each other and live in fortress-like towns. Loner Costner discovers an old mail truck with a dead mailman inside. He takes the clothes of the mailman and carries his mailbag filled with mail. Desperately needing food, he approaches the guards at the gate of a nearby town and tells them that he is a postman appointed by the new President of the United States, Richard Starkey, from Minnesota to deliver mail. The people of the town believe his story and are excited that civilization is starting again. One of the town's young men demands that Costner tell him how he can become a postman like him. Costner appoints him the postman for the town. The town's sheriff discovers Costner's deception and kicks him out of town.The following year, Costner returns again. He is astonished to find a fully functioning post office with dozens of new postmen and women delivering mail to different towns in the region. Costner gets welcomed back as a hero and nearly a God. Everyone now believes Costner's fable about the United States starting up again and the new president living in Minnesota. Costner's great lies about a new country starting are ironically actually causing a new country to be started.Why did the movie get such bad reviews? It believe it was because of the movie's ideology. I think the extreme negative reaction was only because the movie presented the idea that total lies can be believed and start new movements. It is an offensive thought for many true believers. The hero, Kevin Costner, makes up a fabulous lie. It leads to a new cult centered around him.The movie at one point makes the connection to Christian ideology transparent. Costner asks his companion Abbey why everybody believes the nonsense he made up. She answers, You made Mrs. March feel like she could see again. You made Ford believe he was part of something. You give out hope like it was candy in your pocket. If you like Westerns or Science Fiction or just thoughtful movies, you'll probably enjoy this movie. I am sorry that I listened to the critics and did not see it for 15 years after it came out. "},{"Title":"Sorta like vampires, huh?","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Story/Plot &#x96; We have arrived in the year 2013. The United States of America are no longer united. A war has since passed and the civilization of the world has near enough destroyed itself. A lone wanderer (Costner) drifts along with his beloved donkey until he is captured by a savage militia led by the notorious General Bethlehem (Patton).The drifter manages to escape and by chance falls upon a Jeep. Inside this Jeep he finds a skeleton donning a postman's outfit. Desperate for dry clothes he takes the uniform and mailbag. He goes from town to town delivering the mail in an elaborate con to gain food and shelter. Soon though the postal service is revived and the legend of the postman ensues.Bethlehem is determined to put a stop to the revolution caused by the postman. In reply the postman rallies support and takes on the general in a bid for leadership of the militia. A fight that could turn civilization back to the ways of old.My verdict &#x96; A brilliant epic tale of one man's quest to put the right back into the world that has long since gone. A must watch for everyone. I now rate this film in my top 5 all time favourite films. "},{"Title":"we can see this movie when we want a memory of 1990s","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" first of all I mention that I like this move . and kevin costner is my favorite actor or director. As I watched this movie I felt cozythe story is just soso.. and entire movie impression is just normal but the soundtrak is wonderful.. even it provides moving images I admire James Newton Haward who is the composer of this movieif you didn't watch this movie then I recommend to you OST of 'postman' if you have a time to see any movies then see this movie !don't follow prejudice of people who saw this movie the decision is yours also opportunity to watching movie is yours !) "},{"Title":"one of the greatest comedies ever made","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What an extremely laughable post apocalyptic stolen theme movie. I would compare this masterpiece to two other classics of extreme distaste and fun the first would be beyond thunder dome. Postman does not quite measure up to thunder dome; although the mad max adventure story has it's moments where you are laughing and its not the intended reaction the filmmakers were hoping for- moments of laughing with the filmmakers, or smiling at clever points and the boyish appeal of two man enter one man leave help you forgive awkward moments. The Postman however, contains none of these elements. This is where I draw my comparison to a second film. the movie SHowgirls starring jesse from saved by the bell, is the only movie i can think of that compares with the postman in its particular brand of humor. Don't allow the layers of clichés to fool you, there is a funny and entertaining film here if you look beneath the surface. the moments that ring the truest are when the music and the dramatic beats build up and the pay off usually has something to do with the heroics of the reformed postal service. This movie clocks in at nearly 3 hours so the moments of extreme humor abound, don't believe all the hype go see postman.- "}{"Title":"unintentionally good","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's a movie that will make you CRINGE in terms of the moral or political values it espouses, giving the glory of America to brave idealistic white men.  Its definitely politically incorrect.but this movie is too WIERD not to watch... its full of cliches, but these cliches are so horribly done its SURREAL.  Let me describe the movie this wayImagine that you have just made a lot of pancakes, and that you've been watching bad made for tv movies on USA or TBS for maybe 10 hours straight while eating these panckaes with too much syrup.  You fall asleep on your couch, and as you dream, shards of these movies come flying at you and assemble themsleves to some wierd semi-cohesive whole.  westerns, sci-fi's, dramas, comedy's, romances, religious sermons ...you wander through this chimera, and -- as you are both resident and God of your dreams -- women throw themselves naked at your feet, children adore you, men give you their respect, and your enemies (maybe that coworker at the copy machine supplies store that you work at) die bloody deaths.all that's missing is the part where you wake up.  anyways, you want to see it now don't you. "},{"Title":"This man just loves ripping of Mad Max, doesn't he?","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That's about all I have to say. Waterworld was Costners Road Warrior, this is Beyond the Thunderdome, you know, with kids who think he's some kind of saviour. The third Mad Max movie was a disappointment, so a rip-of of a disappointment ... you do the math. "},{"Title":"Dead letter office","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman represents the total squandering of 80 million bucks by people who should've known better.  With this turkey and Waterworld back-to-back, somebody may have finally wised up and driven a wedge between big budgets and Kevin Costner's crummy, dated, post-apocalyptic ideas.  (His more recent success, Open Range, is carried out on a more modest scale.)As hokey as it is overlong and dull, The Postman presents a post-nuclear-war 2013 in which, apparently, not a stitch of 20th-century clothing has survived.  Everybody wears outfits that look homemade from drab gray and brown rags and tags; not one leather jacket, or sweater, or red windbreaker, or even a pair of jeans, is anywhere to be seen.  Even the marauding army of the villain (idiotically named Bethlehem, as in What rough beast, etc.) aren't dressed in camouflage.  If the military's entire wardrobe perished, then how did their guns and ammo survive?  It's also unbelievably inconsistent that the survivors, who sing '60s pop songs as though they're ancient folk tunes, don't recognize the name of Richard Starkey (aka Ringo Starr) when it comes up.All told, an amazing colossal waste of time, talent, and money, good only for unintended and derisive laughter, and as more evidence that Dances with Politically Correct Overlong Incredibly Boring Wolves was a fluke. "},{"Title":"If you like Costner as a Messiah...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Costner does another Messiah role as The Postman, in a post-apocalyptic world sort of like his other Messiah role, Waterworld, except this one is set on land.  The movie is watchable, but the script is a lot like something from a TV mini-series.  Costner is the focus of virtually every scene, and it's hard to root for him or care about his character, it's so predictable that he's going to win and save everyone.  The movie is beautifully shot and intense at moments, but the line between the good guys and bad guys is so cliched, that it renders the movie silly and laughable.  I wanted to like this movie, since I enjoyed it on some level, but I also knew I'd forget it minutes after it was turned off.  In summary, well thought-out rubbish.5/10 "},{"Title":"I watched it","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The fact that I watched it while channel surfing, I guess, says something. It wasn't so completely terrible as to turn it off.  Maybe it was like watching a train wreck.I suppose as an idea - maybe it was interesting. So I wanted to watch it through to see how bad it really was or wasn't.Whatever happened to the guy we knew from Bull Durham, Field of Dreams and No Way Out?Costner reminds me now of Ed Wood with a larger budget.  He's just trying to darn hard to make the next great epic film - and failing miserably.  "},{"Title":"This movie sucked!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is another case of an excellent book being mutilated by a screen writer, and from what I understand the author of the book, David Brin, actually signed off on it! In the book, the collapse of civilization was due to a nuclear war but the movie gives no hint as to what caused it. The characters are all two dimensional and they all they are bored most of the time. I did however got a big kick of Tom Petty as the Mayor od Bridge City, he was by far the most memorable character. One few redeeming things about the movie is the scenery is beautiful and the score is done very well. Of you have enjoyed the book, you will be very disappointed in the movie.  "},{"Title":"The sound of music really makes it.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not a bad interpretation of the book, but did not really keep me entertained nor did it really transport me to this fictional time.The best bit was the clip of The Sound of Music, which the people, tired of war and misery, preferred to an action movie. "},{"Title":"A Noble Failure","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The main problem with this movie is that nobody writes letters anymore. Even in 1997, when this movie was released, e-mail and the internet had overtaken letter writing as a form of communication.  Thus the whole premise is flawed.  The idea that at some undefined point in the near, post-apocalyptic, future people will be writing letters again, and having them delivered by the US Post Office seems silly to us now.  Scenes of Costner's character sitting in the mail truck, reading through letters full of homey news and kitchen gossip simply don't ring true.  It would have been more realistic if he had come across heaps of junk mail and credit card offers.  At least then there would have been some satire.But the movie has its heart in the right place.  It's big, sweeping, beautifully filmed.  And there are some affecting scenes.  But Costner's vanity gets in the way of establishing the Postman as a real character. Hero?  Anti-hero?  Darned if I can tell. "},{"Title":"An Oblivious Comedy","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I believe one of the working titles for this film was  An Ode to Kevin. Talk about a movie that makes your sides hurt!  This movie tries to be serious with an absurd plot.  At one point in the movie an entire army silently enjoys the film The Sound of Music?!?!I give it a 5/10, some points for humor.  "},{"Title":"Corny","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was just too long. It could have been shorten a great deal. Which Might have helped it. Most of all the dialogue just sounded too corny and weren't thought out right. They tried to make too many heart felt speeches that were also just plain corny.  What was Kevin Costner thinking?  "}{"Title":"Return to Sender","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sorry about the postal reference in the summary - couldn't resist it.Two of my all-time favorite movies are Dr. Zhivago (1965) and Lawrence of Arabia (1962), so let it not be said that I have no tolerance for long movies.  The Postman, however, was just plain bad.To begin with, it was essentially a remake of Waterworld.  Look at the opening scene on the salt flats and tell me that isn't evocative of several scenes from Waterworld.Let's examine the plot of Waterworld-the Mariner, a solitary man, wanders the ocean-the Drifters, discovering he is different (a mutant) sentence him to death-he escapes-he takes on the responsibility of a woman and daughter-meanwhile, he is hoping to get to a paradise somewhere (Dryland)Now we'll look at The Postman-the Postman, a solitary man, wanders the desert-the Holnists, discovering he is different (educated) sentence him to a deadly task (finding the lion)-he escapes-he takes on the responsibility of a woman and daughter-meanwhile, he is hoping to get to a paradise somewhere (St. Rose)Let's face it Kevin, it didn't work in Waterworld.  It's not going to work just because its moved to the land.The amazing cinematography I hear so many people referring to is not enough to make a movie stand on its own.  A lot of it looks like it could be a John Ford movie - they even go so far as to transition the movie showing of My Darling Clementine (1949) into the film itself.  If you want to see this amazing cinematography as well as a good plot, go rent The Searchers (1956).I completely lost all respect for the film in the scene where The Postman gets the letter from the little boy outside the log cabin.  Costner rides by the house at full gallop, and it's obvious he didn't see the boy with the letter.  Slow motion is turned on.  He turns his horse around, and rides back, picking the letter out of the boy's hand at full gallop.  I mean, come on.  They only included that scene so they could make that statue at the end.  It was the most overly melodramatic scene I have ever viewed in a movie.Costner needs to be directed by someone other than himself.  He does okay in such movies as Field of Dreams, Silverado, and Prince of Thieves (though he's no Errol Flynn).  He failed miserably in Dances with Wolves, Waterworld (co-directed by him), and The Postman. "},{"Title":"Now why did he have to go and do that?","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  From water to sand - and from entertaining to cheesy, sappy, pretentious and BORING. The Postman is an overblown epic filled to the brim with classic clichés, single-minded characters and exasperating hero shots designed to make my stomach churn. What I don't understand is why on Earth Costner wanted to make a sequel to Waterworld and play almost exactly the same character again - bar the gills. Because that is what this is. A really, really bad follow-up. "},{"Title":"A cute little book made into an overblown epic film","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This cute little novel, some of which happens in Roseburg, OR, my home town, was Kevin Costner-ized into an overblown epic film (much in the manner of Robin Williams-izing your more dramatic film and/or the last few minutes of any episode of Mork and Mindy, but that's another rant for another time).Oregon is beautiful, both in the film and in real life.  Olivia Williams is quite beautiful, as well.  Tom Petty is hilarious in a minor role.  Will Patton is appropriately vile.   I understand the making of the film injected much needed money into the local economy (not here, of course, but rather in trendy Bend, on the other side of the mountains).  This is the good news.The bad news is much worse.  First off, it's way long, just short of three hours.  It takes less time to read the book.  Second, the sound track by James Newton Howard (had to check, thought it might be John Williams on a bad day) is cliched and manipulative (sort of like the script).  I am watching it now on TNT, even as I type this, the moment is coming (what, about 2/3 of the way through) when Costner rides past the little boy, then turns around (spoiler  the moment will be immortalized later).  Oh, Morning In America music is playing, Costner rides by in slow mo ....  Be still my heart, be calm my gut.Anyhow, finally, just read the book, if you can get it.  (Our public library has two copies, but that's probably because Roseburg is mentioned.)  The plot in the book is more intricate and deals much more deeply with the issue of lying to keep up hope -- which is, after all, what the movie is about.  Kevin Costner seems to have tried to make the book into a movie about building it and they will come, which is not quite the same thing.  "},{"Title":"Make it a better movie, cut out one hour maybe one and a half.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I have decided to never see another one that is directed by Kevin Costner.  In fact if he is a major star it is questionable in my book.  What a total waste of time, all of the self-indulgent shots of Kevin and his blank expressions.  Unless he has a strong director it is a waste of time.  (Something that also goes for Eddy Murphy.)  This could have be a decent film if it was edited down by a minimum of one hour, although one and a half would have been better.  Thank goodness that this was a financial disaster and another studio is unlikely to give him carte blanche "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  David Brin's novel The Postman is an original piece of work, alternately exciting and moving, and always absorbing. Kevin Costner has taken this premise, ripped out much of its interest, inserted a lot of trite moralising and added a glutinous and ridiculous ending. It's much too long as well. So why bother watching? Well, some of the scenery is nice (!) and the concept just about keeps it going. But how COULD you, Kevin? "},{"Title":"You're all wrong","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was told I wouldn't believe what I read in the comments section.  And they were right.  There seem to be people here that liked this movie.  I don't understand at all.  I watched an hour of this movie.  That was all I could stomach without vomiting.  And here I see that people thought it was better than the hype.  Let me tell you something it was worse. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I rented this...","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  To start  I really like post-apocalyptic stuff.  Books, movies, TV, games, etc...Unfortunately I didn't like this.  While watching this, I couldn't help wondering if this movie was simply Cliff Claven's wet dream.  The scene where the Postman first spots the post office in Pine Valley and the music gets dramatic and serious, I laughed.  I laughed hard at the supposed tea-jerk ending when the man looking at the statue of the Postman realizes that is him as a boy and cries.  I thought I was going to pee my pants.  I can't believe how crap filled this movie was.  Postmen do not fill me with pride and national fervour, maybe I'm funny that way.  "},{"Title":"If this movie just weren't so long... and clichéd... and boring","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was more than a step backwards from 'Waterworld' which had released two years prior in 1995.The pacing of the movie is incredibly slow and their were a lot of moments in the film where there's really nothing going on where you're just watching a character's reaction (or non-reaction) for 10 extra seconds. This movie could have easily been edited down at least 15 or 20 minutes without sacrificing any exposition.The modern staples of a good action-drama film are more or less non-existent in this film. (SPOILER ahead!!!) Case in point, the final fight between Kevin Costner's character, 'the Postman', and Will Patton's character is laughably unchoreographed and motion-blurred.The only two things that I felt held up in this film were the performances by Kevin Costner and by Olivia Williams. I thought everything else about this movie was pretty bad. "},{"Title":"Superficial Epic in the key of too damn long","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the type of film I absolutely despise. The Postman is a nice little sci-fi parable that wants to be epic so much that it forgets the word subtlety. It presents itself as epic far beyond historical epics, beyond sword and sorcery epics. Yes, we have reached the definition of epic as applied in comic books. Here he comes to save the day! It's the Postman! No, Kevin Costner doesn't fly or wear a cape. Not in the literal sense. He does come eerily close at times, however. At one point a boy holds out a letter &#150; holding it up towards the heavens from an ultra-low angle (a la a comic book frame) &#150; as the Postman rides at full gallop (in slow motion) past the kid and snatches his letter up. Later, Costner flies &#150; er, rides &#150; in a cable car across a river so he can pose for the uplifting montage where hope is spread across the land.You can feel every inch of the celluloid about to break a blood vessel in its intense strain to touch the audience (or impress the Oscar voters.) It's quite disheartening when the story is quite the stroke of genius and quite capable of standing on its own without all the dramatic posturing, thank you very much. In true sci-fi form, David Brin exploits a mundane aspect of everyday life and uses the unthinkable as the salvation for a scattered and dying race. In a post-apocalyptic world where most technology (and with it, long range communication/transportation) has fallen, governments have collapsed, a simple letter reaching its destination inspires an entire town which in turn inspires a revolution.So, my question is why the hell is this movie so eager to run over this brilliant concept for the sake of the hackneyed spectacle that is its presentation? Early in the film (okay, about 45 minutes into this 3 hour journey) Costner swears in Ford L. Mercury as a fellow postman. Costner, of course, only stumbled upon the Postman uniform by accident and wore it because he was cold, wet, and the skeleton didn't need it anymore. Thus, he's a fraud standing face to face with an aspiring lad who wants to be a post man just like him! So in typical Hollywood fashion Costner makes up a story in the typically awkward and unconvincing delivery that such scenes require; he eventually swears the lad in with an oath he reads off the engraving on a nearby wall &#133; and Costner quite blatantly reads it off the board. In a comedy, I'd of gone with it and laughed. In this movie, I wanted Ford to &#150; I dunno &#150; notice and call him on it.In fact, when all the sheep were following this horrible liar, and when the audience should be touched by the good-heartedness of the film's intentions, I just wanted someone to say, Hey pal! You're full of crap! Get the hell out! and actually stick to his guns. Yes, I rooted and cheered for the Sheriff of Pineview right up until he pulled out a letter in a dramatic after thought, after which I started counting the Hollywood gimmicks.In all fairness, many films I like fall victim to these same contrivances without complaint. It's simply amazing how much these things bug you when you're no longer on board. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie, Give it a Chance!","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is one of the best apocalyptic movies and you can write that down. It was one of those movies that was trashed because of Kevin Costner, who actually was a good performer in this film. The basic premise is that is 2013 and war/disease has ravaged the world (war destroying technology and disease annihilating the population) and people are basically living in mid-19th century society, technology-wise. Enter Costner and his false persona that rallies people into a very patriotic war. I have a feeling that the reason many critics don't like this movie is that it has a pro-American tint to it. It has the feeling of a 50s Western and could easily have starred John Wayne or Jimmy Stewart and it is an excellent and entertaining movie. Watch it and I'll let you be a judge. "}{"Title":"Must See For Post End Of Civilization As We Know It  Film Fans","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Overly long, corny premise, and Kevin Costner....all drawbacks to this film, but if you are a post end of civilization film fan it should be on your list. I'm saying this from a standpoint that I actually enjoyed Waterworld, and I don't think many people will have that opinion (or admit it if they did). So let me also say that I watched Postman in bits and pieces on a retail showroom floor in between TV sales in the early 2000's, that probably made the film a lot more tolerable because I didn't know it was like 3 hours long, that would have been pretty tedious. So what other movies did I like in this genre? I liked the AI film Panic In Year Zero with Ray Malland, I liked Def Con 4, I like The Day After, I liked On The Beach, I liked When Worlds Collide, I liked Dr Strangelove, I like The Last Man On Earth, Omega Man, and I'm sure I'll like I Am Legend (all 3 based on the same story I think), Night Of The Living Dead, and 28 Days Later. I liked all those flicks and also liked the Postman, not as my favorite of all of those but entertaining. Watch it if your an end of civilization film freak. 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"It takes a while to kick in....","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I believe this was a totally underrated film, at its debut. It took me a few minutes to 'settle in' to this movie myself, but once I got beyond the weakish beginning, I came to realize that this was indeed a very good movie. I think it's tough for folks to reconcile the post-apocalyptic sullen theme of the film as there aren't any melodramatic special effects, nor any signs of urban mass destruction. There is no visual indication of ruin and destruction and the only indication we have is the opening commentary. Maybe the critics didn't seem to like it much because it is quite a lengthy film at nearly 3 hours. Personally though, I really enjoyed this film, there are good performances all around, a very believable storyline (history proves; Hitler, The Roman Empire, Napoleon, Saddam, etc.) and since the 'dog' is presently man's best friend, well in a post-apocalyptic world, what's wrong with having an ass to tell your secrets to, lol. You'll soon discover that General Bethlehem is a real piece of work and you find yourself just waiting and wishing for him to get his comeuppance, but will he? I'm afraid you'll just have to watch and see, but don't be too disappointed, it's only a movie after all and this really couldn't happen right? "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman isn't a terrible movie. The acting is well done, and so is the  action. It's the story that doesn't work. I couldn't get into it's idea of  the future which it saw, and the idea of a postman trying to change the  world in anyway possible is too dumb for me to believe or care about. It's  a shame that such talent in this movie is wasted on a bad story.   "},{"Title":"The Postman is nearly as good as Dances with Wolves","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman is a movie I have avoided for years. For two reasons. The post-apocalyptic theme is the first reason and the second is the bad reputation that is attached to this movie. After having seen this movie I can honestly say that this movies deserves a lot more. Especially if you compare it to movies with similar themes. If you compare this to Waterworld than The Postman is a big improvement in storytelling and character development. I do have a hunch why most viewers didn't like this movie. And that is the lack of action. With a movie that is 3 hours long you expect a lot to happen. And a lot does happen only on a complete another level. The story in fact is very simple. (SPOILER!) In the gloomy dark world there is someone who appears who gives hope to people. (END SPOILER) The moment you get introduced to the bad guy you expect Costner to take him on and rebel against him. And he does so only not in the way he did in Waterworld. As heroes go he takes a more realistic approach. This doesn't mean there is no action to be enjoyed,there is just enough. But probably nearly not enough to satisfy the viewer who expected some serious action scenes a la Mad Max. To me The Postman is a very moving drama that has a theme that is universal even when this movie seems to be a bit patriotic. (But I believe that Costner just made an example of what have could been any other country in similar situation). Overall this movie offers a very positive look on humanity which is refreshing to see especially considering the genre. "},{"Title":"The Postman","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had heard about this film purely because it is known as one of the biggest high budget film flops in Hollywood history, I just had to see why, from Razzie winning actor-director Kevin Costner. It is the year 2013, civilisation has destroyed itself and there is no government, and people are struggling to survive against starvation and armed rogue groups, one of which being the Holnists, led by the delusional General Bethlehem (Entrapment's Will Patton). Many men are kidnapped by the groups, forced to become soldiers, including a drifter (Razzie winning Costner) who manages to escape. He hides in an abandoned jeep, where he finds a skeleton wearing a postal uniform, and also a mailbag full of undelivered letters, so donning the uniform, he cons his way into a small village posing as The Postman, and representative of a restored United States. He isn't believed by people for a while, but admirers and followers soon follow him with his faith in humanity, he becomes quite a famous man in fact, and they soon prepare to go against the Holnists and bring them down. Also starring Larenz Tate as Ford Lincoln Mercury, Olivia Williams as Abby, James Russo as Idaho, Tom Petty as Bridge City Mayor, Daniel Von Bargen as Pineview Sheriff Briscoe and Lost in Translation's Giovanni Ribisi as Bandit 20. It doesn't feel like one of those that should be one star out of five, but I can agree the film should have been cut down from two hours fifty minutes, it does get a little boring after Costner has delivered the letter that gets him on his way, and I do wonder how this film could cost $100 million to make? It won the Razzies for Worst Picture, Worst Original Song for the entire song score and Worst Screenplay, and it was nominated the Worst Picture of the Decade. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant  and touching !!!","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A surprisingly brilliant movie !!!! One of the best ever made... A message for those annoyed by the I believe in the USA stuff in the movie Hey folks, can't you read between the lines? A surprisingly brilliant movie !!!! One of the best ever made... A message for those annoyed by the I believe in the USA stuff in the movie Hey folks, can't you read between the lines? A surprisingly brilliant movie !!!! One of the best ever made... A message for those annoyed by the I believe in the USA stuff in the movie Hey folks, can't you read between the lines? A surprisingly brilliant movie !!!! One of the best ever made... A message for those annoyed by the I believe in the USA stuff in the movie Hey folks, can't you read between the lines? "},{"Title":"How Not To Make A Movie","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In the early 90s, Kevin Costner could do no wrong he was the epitome of the righteous, likable American hero, even when he stretched his range to play a British legend or an aquatic mutant. Even the tumultuous production of the record-budgeted Waterworld resulted in a positive balance-sheet for the studio, so why not keep a good thing going? And this leads us to The Postman.Playing to the leading man/director's strengths, the film releases its hero into a vast wilderness, doomed to wander until he finds a purpose. In Dances With Wolves, it was an adopted people and identity. Here it is a messianic mission, to unite remote communities through written mail against a tyrannical oppressor. Whereas Wolves was a perfect storm of harmonious parts, Postman is handicapped from the start by a number of fatal flaws.The first flaw is conceptual given the earnest tone Costner goes for, the choice of a Postman as a messianic figure could not have struck a worse cord with audiences around the world, where hardly any culture views mailmen as the epitome of courage, competence or decency. It might be unfair, but it results in a huge negative bias against the protagonist and the film from the get-go.The second flaw is the result of an artist misunderstanding his own strengths. At around 4 hours, Dances With Wolves was a huge success, commercially and critically. But rather than create a compelling story and allowing it to play out at the required pace, Costner turns that logic on its head, seemingly intent on crafting a 3 hour opus and then worrying about content. This makes it come across as a much longer, slower experience than his earlier film. These two main flaws would still allow the Postman to become an interesting misfire, even one with fine touches, but the end product is an embarrassment beyond measure.The screenplay, bafflingly written by Brian LA Confidential Helgeland and frequent Michael Mann collaborator Eric Roth, is a complete disgrace, a pileup of predictable, derivative set-pieces and cringe-worthy dialogue, the crown jewel among stiff competition being You give out hope like it was candy in your pocket. Say what you want about the Razzie Awards, this kind of thing is the reason they exist in the first place, and so they logically awarded it a trophy for worst script (one many the film justly earned).The performances are bland almost by design, as if Costner resented Dennis Hopper for stealing Waterworld from under his feet. No chance of the spotlight getting stolen this time around, with even capable veterans hung out to dry, and villain duties passed on to a very forgettable Will Patton. These are all lethal handicaps for a supposed epic.Having ensured that the film's grandeur would not stem from the human element, Costner also fails in conjuring any visual poetry not only is the cinematography as bland as the characters, a feat in itself for a film of this scale, but the action is poorly staged and even more badly edited. Even the great James Newton Howard, able to find poetry in the worst flop even on a bad day, fails to deliver a merely serviceable score. It says a lot about your prospects as a director when you just bring out the worst in everyone, an ability Costner transcends in the worst way imaginable by taking part in the dreadful closing song.The Postman was the worst film of the year despite hard competition from the likes of Batman and Robin, Speed 2 and Anaconda, all eclipsed by the epic arrogance of this particular dud. Even the worst sort of patriotism managed to save its performance on US soil, and that's saying something, and though Costner learned a lesson or two as evidenced by the admirable Open Range, his own career never truly recovered.As bad a film as you can come across outside the limits of IMDb's Bottom 100, where in truth it all to much belongs. "},{"Title":"Painfully bloated and overlong","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Why is this film three hours? More to the point why does anyone think this film should be three hours? The mind boggles.This is the story of a postman who accidentally begins to bring America back after its destruction. The problem is that the simple delivery of the mail doesn't sit well with the gangs that control the wastelands and the set out to destroy the mail carriers.And it goes on for three hours through every cliché about the end of the world imaginable but with an A list star and some of the worst sequences in any film in the genre.Its painful to watch simply because it never ends.Avoid this film, its just bad "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner's subtle sense of humour","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Consider this in the movie, after Kevin does some bad Shakespeare, one of the audience comes up and complains that he was bad. Kevin replies Oh Yeah? How much did you pay to see me? So, how much did you pay? I paid about $3.50 Canadian. "},{"Title":"Muahahahahahaha","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" So, this flick was good for the laughs. Since Costner directed as well as starred, I can just see the set now No, no, close up! That's right, make sure the wind is blowing my hair over the bald spot/receding hair line. My sex scene? Well, that chick's pretty hot. You wrote her as married? Make that guy impotent, then! At least, after the debacle that was Waterworld and this, people saw Mr. Costner for what he is- only suited to films like Wyatt Earp (A great movie) where he doesn't act so much as brood and be arrogant. I knew he was a fraud the minute I saw Robin Hood- the only one to have no sort of English accent in the entire film.This one's good for setting up a nap. When you wake up, it's usually still on, though, but at least it has served its purpose by then. "}{"Title":"Poor Kevin.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Like all futuristic/post-apocalyptic action movies, The Postman opens up with people dressing like they did in the 1800s. Kevin Costner looks like he rode in off the set of Dances for Wolves seven years late.The year is 2013, the world is a mess and its inhabitants have destroyed their land. A crippling war has taken place, we are led to believe, which has killed the government. So, it makes sense that instead of just Americans being left hopeless, the entire world is affected, too. Gotta love Hollywood.Anyway, this group of outlaws called Hedonists or something captures Kevin Costner and he's forced to join their group (don't ask why, maybe they're gay). He escapes and finds a skeleton with a postal uniform and takes it to keep warm. He also finds a mailbag with letters and begins to trick people into thinking the letters are for them.But soon he feels sympathetic towards them and decided to take on the Hedonists once and for all! (Gotta love manipulative plots.) Kevin Costner is so bad in this movie and this movie is so bad for Kevin Costner. The entire script reeks of Mad Max syndrome, only it's about fifteen years late. It comes across, ultimately, as a very bad rip-off of other - and better - post-apocalyptic movies.When the producers started considering making their hero a postman...well...I think that's when they should have realized they were heading for the gutter. "},{"Title":"Just add milk, cheese mix and boil.","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have seen The Postman twice within twelve years and upon the second viewing the same feeling of nausea and utter disbelief I initially experienced returned like a dormant cancer waiting to pick up where it left off by slowly ( painfully.. slowly) eating away at the remainder of my brain. The apocalyptic story of a bad actor turned postman is so silly, so pretentious and at times so bad it made me gargle with scope during commercial breaks. If anyone wishes to waste three hours of their life (I wasted three the first viewing and then one and a half more eleven years later) I would recommend thinking of this doo doo as a comedy and try not to think how much better $ 80,000,000 dollars could have been spent on breaking the Guinness record for the biggest bowl of kraft macaroni and cheese.It is disturbing to think that KevinCostner who made such a classy, wonderful film as Dances with Wolves, from time to time forgets to flush. "},{"Title":"Soft, strong and very long","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Will Patton is a great baddie, and in the main, this is an enjoyable romp through post-apocalyptical America. It's problem is not really the ups and downs of the storyline, the acting or even the cinematography. It's the over-indulgent dotting of all the i's, the underlining of every philosophical twist and issue and the music, oh boy the music. In a post-apocalyptical world, where the costumes seem to have come through relatively unscathed, the search for overweening patriotism goes on and on and on and on until eventually it feels mawkish even if in the main it's not. Whatever happens on screen, the music triumphantly punctuates it with stirring noble sentiment - its like having twenty four sugars in your coffee - whatever the visual dynamics, it becomes ever more difficult to stir and with the film running at a tad under three hours, by the time you eventually do reach the bottom, you find the ending barely lukewarm and you end up with a mouthful of dregs. "},{"Title":"Stunning concept, badly made.","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw the movie I was probably 10 years old and I was completely flattered by the movie. I totally loved the post-apocalyptic scenario pictured, how people try to reorganize themselves in small cities etc. However, 10 years later I still adore the basic story, of the postman building a new kind of network in this desert-like rotten place one called USA. I still feel so cozy when I see Costner inside this old car in mitten of the woods and its raining outside. But it is a pity how badly and superficial the dialogues and the characters are. The good guy/ bad guy roles are so very bold it gets simply ridiculous. I also think the love story is not accurate for such a dramatic film.Further Ed Wood completely fails in building a post-war atmosphere. Despite the fact that everything was destroyed during war and following weather-changes I felt more in a medieval movie or a western than in 2013. References to post-modern life are totally missing. And I think that is the biggest deception for me in this film. "},{"Title":"Son of Waterworld, grandson of Dances with Wolves","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Despite its well-deserved bad reputation, I watched this bloated and self-indulgent Kevin Costner vanity pic because I didn't have anything else to do. To my surprise, it had some nice moments but not enough of them to rescue it from loser status. Costner made the alienated-but-heroic-loner-in-a-hostile-environment formula work beautifully in 'Dances with Wolves but failed in 'Waterworld' and fails again here.Costner is a charismatic and athletic movie star but he isn't much of an actor &#150; as he demonstrates here. Listening to Costner quote Shakespeare (sort of) is painful and three hours of the man in a postman's hat, which he is supposed to have found but which fits perfectly and has a heroic fifty-mission crush are far too much Costner. The movie is saved in part by the terrific performances of Will Patton as the villain and Olivia Williams. Both are effective actors with a lot of range. Although Patton didn't get to show too much of his range here, Williams certainly did do so. Another plus is the excellent photography.I can't really recommend that anyone spend three hours watching The Postman if there is anything better to do. But if you are out of anything else to do you might be surprised by its occasionally moving moments. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why is Costner still allowed to butcher perfectly good stories? I read The Postman by David Brin, which is an excellent book. I became very excited when I saw the ads for the movie. Should I have been wary when I saw that Costner directed it? Yes. Could I have been more disappointed? Well, Costner is still directing...we'll have to see what story he destroys next. The movie is loosely based on the book at best. There are 3 things that the movie shares with the book. 1. It's post-apocalyptic. 2. The hero pretends to be a U.S. postman. 3. There are some bad guys called Holnists. That's about it. Everything else came out of left field of dreams. Especially annoying are the teenager postman wannabe's. (Spoiler) Then there's the monument Costner built to himself at the end. Wow, this guy is almost as egotistical as Steven Segal. Do yourself a favor, and just read the book instead, it's infinitely more satisfying. 5 out of 10. 2 for cinematography and 3 for chuckling at Tom Petty proving to the world that he can't act for beans. "},{"Title":"Cliche.  Waterworld 2 in desert + mountain","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Where to start?  Poor Brin, who wrote the book.  Poor Costner who's been losing it ever since Dance with Wolves.Seriously, what's the thing with 20000+ young teens acting as postmen when there just isn't that much else still standing?What about the oh-so-cliche scene where Costner gallops past a kid, who cries because he passes by without getting the mail.But... never fear.  A little bit of slow motion gallop back to the kid, Kevin grabs the mail (closeup of hand) and goes on to gallop in the opposite direction of where he was heading in the first place.  Hmmm... did he get lost or what?Sappy. "},{"Title":"Great book; lousy movie","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Brin wrote a wonderful, imaginative post-apocolyptic story about a drifter who pretends to be a postman to get a free meal. He gets caught up in his role, assumes the responsibility of his new persona and helps turn the world back from the brink of darkness.This movie had little in common with that book. As a post-apocolyptic sci-fi thriller it was not bad; but as a cinematic interpretation of a great book, it left a great deal to be desired.My sincere apologies to Mr. Brin. "},{"Title":"Dances with Letters......................","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I hate to kick a man when he's down......no,no,that's not actually true,particularly if the man is Mr K.Costner whose ego apparently knows no bounds.In The Postman we have Mr Costner's hymn to himself.Unfortunately not satisfied with the self-deification of Waterworld,Mr Costner gives us another long dose of mirror-gazing,rather like a megalomaniac millionaire's home movie.Just the sort of film William Randolph Hearst would like to have made for us to remember him by.Fortunately Mr Orson Welles saved him the trouble.Perhaps his shade will come back and do the business on Mr Costner - we can only hope. Mr Costner may well be bidding to become the new Stanley Kramer.He makes long pretentious movies aimed at politically acceptable targets hoping to wow us with his impeccable liberal/intellectual credentials.Sorry Kev,it isn't working. The Postman is merely an uninspiring mishmash of the work of superior directors - Frank Capra,Preston Sturges,John Ford,to name but a few,and,yes,even Stanley Kramer. A man pretends to be a postman in order to obtain food(surely a Federal Offence,Kev?).He wanders round the American Wasteland rallying The People together to throw off their chains.Yuk. As the world in 2009 tumbles towards the financial apocalypse I shall keep my eye open and if a scruffily dressed postman comes up on horseback to my door he'll get pretty short shrift from me,I can tell you. "},{"Title":"This sappy post-apocalyptic action-adventure will mainly appeal to young teen boys, though its way too long and meandering to maintain their interest.","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A nameless man has survived an apocalyptic war, he stumbles upon a dead mail-man and accidentally re-starts the United States Postal Service. Conflict is provided by an army of non-descript bad guys.The problem with The Postman is its grande old-time storytelling, old-school morals, patriotism and Americana, Christianity Parable, adventure, action, violence and romance, heros and hope is best suited to a young teenage boy audience - who will watch it with eyes wide open, and won't have seen anything like it before...but the movie is by far too long, slow and vague about its plot to maintain the interest of this audience!It seems to take a lot of persistance because it has these large chunks Costner's being a post-apocalyptic survivor, The Holnist Colony, Pineview Village, the running of the postal service, etc... these chunks which the audience get into and think the conflict will rise and resolve there, so when we just move on, the audience feel like God, where is this gonna end! In short, he invests too much into each of these chunks, so we don't know what the narrative drive is.The other main problem with this kind of movie is showing an audience a lot of people being excited about something - like the crowds of people who worship Costner's Jesus-like Postman, because if the audience don't share that enthusism, it falls very flat - and results in jeering and sniggering. Its as if it only applies as a religious allegory - because much of it just feels rather silly, a lot of people worshipping Costner just for re-starting the transfer of mail! Who cares about mail again?To its credit, though, it is beautifully, if predictably, shot. All the slow motion and unnecessary dissolves take away from all the good things in it, though. Plus, the music may lead you to believe you're watching some corny tele-movie...2/5 "}{"Title":"Couldn't make it to the end, sorry.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Hey Kevin, You just won an Oscar and the hearts of American film lovers everywhere. What are you going to do next?Throw away all that good will on clumsy post-apocalyptic Mad-Max wannabes.I caught a viewing of this movie on TV recently (didn't cost me anything but time). As a movie fan, I enjoy epics and I really did try to make it through the end of this one, but I could do it. The frequent assaults of corny dialogue, compiled with bad direction, finally got to me. There's probably enough corn in the lines of this movie to feed a third world country.**Spoiler warning** The only reason I stuck with this so long is because I figured there might be a decent final confrontation at the end. But no. Instead, what we get is a watered down wrestling match between Costner's Postman and Will Patton's bad guy general, followed by (you guessed it) even more corny dialogue. Will Patton's a good actor, but in this film, he gets stuck with the thankless task of playing a military meanie who seems to be brutal merely for the sake of making the audience hate him. This character would have been more at home in a Jean Claude Van Damme film. Just like this film would have been much better of not being made at all. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Kostner Movie","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Postman isn't a bad movie but this movie doesn't hold your attention enough for a three hour movie. The story is drawn out too long and is suddenly cut short near the end of the movie. It's as if the director was like,  oh I just realized we're approaching the three hour limit so we better cut this short at the end. The story could have been played out better and with these lackluster set pieces and unoriginality in its post-apocalyptic setting it falls short of what the movie promises. The Postman is a pretty boring movie that goes on and on with no real direction until the movie just closes up very fast near the end. It would have been good as a TV miniseries but for a three hour movie it is very nauseating. Oh and if you do watch it check out the cameo by Tom Petty at the end. "},{"Title":"Postal Service is slow in Costner's hands","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" If this motion picture does one thing, it will probably remind you of the value of email. Speed and efficiency are two things that postal service lack, as does Kevin Costner's second post- apocalyptic epic (the first being Waterworld). Though his performance here is a step up from his over done portrayal of a half-man half-fish, everything else in this motion picture is a step down, starting with the most obvious problem; its pacing. The Postman doesn't work simply because it is too damn long. Parts of it are entertaining, but the story is draggy, inconsistent and is not involving at all. It is a terrible movie? no, but it is in desperate need of a make over.The year is 2013, and American Union has crumbled. A lone wanderer in the Utah territory gets drafted in the the army of the Tyrant General Bethelham, who is the closest thing to government in the former land of the free. On the day our lonely hero escapes, he discovers an abandoned mail truck, and decides to rebuild postal service, as a way to bring the nation back together. In doing so, he is putting himself in danger of Bethelham. As the postal service begins to expand, the chances of a war grow ever more possible.I was expecting a bit more adrenaline from this movie. I guess I have myself to blame for that, considering I was expecting more of an action/adventure. This is essentially a drama with some western tones. Quite frankly, not even the idea is that appealing, which would certainly explain why this movie flopped. Who wants to pay to see a three hour movie about a guy running a kingdom of postal service?Despite such feeble characterization, the acting is not too bad. The best performance is turned in by Will Patton, who is smart enough not to overplay, his character type, 'the tyrannical bully'. Even though he doesn't look it, he brings a bit of mannerism to the role, yet when necessary he can also bring rage.Some aspects work, some don't, but in the end The Postman ends up falling kind of flat. There is nothing terribly enriching or memorable about this feature. "},{"Title":"About the UNITED STATES of AMERICA","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There are two lines I really don't like in some american movies The  president of united states & My fellow americans. In some movies United  states of america is enough. The Postman is that kind of movie. It seems  like Mr. Costner, after the less successful movie Waterworld, wants to call  out to the americans in an even more self-centred way. Beside the lousy  directing and the really thin story, this is a patriotic mess that doesn´t  say that the most important thing is to take care of each other. No..., we  must take care of the United States of America. "},{"Title":"patronizing formulaic travesty","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I *despise* movies that try to engage the viewer's emotions by depicting senseless bloodshed of the most unjust kind. Extra special boo! for showing dead children strung up upside down. This movie has scenery, a cuckold's wife that merrily 'puts out' for the underdog, and a cruel enemy that executes children for the crime of having dreams and aspirations. If you're a brain-dead pig that gets happily brainwashed by gutter-grade psychology then you will love this movie. It's like a Spielberg re-imagining of Damnation Alley meets Mad Max. About the only thing they didn't do is drag the holocaust into this, but man just barely, you can tell the little guttersnipes really wanted to by depicting the bad guys as racially-motivated whites, which I am really *sick of* being bludgeoned with in every movie the little pigs release. Plenty of stupid parts where Costner undoes whatever little good that he did in the beginning, to the deadly detriment of others, leading to cruel deaths of innocents that we are supposed to favorably attribute to justifiable 'higher principles'. And yet the makers of this trash still expect us to regard him as the 'hero'. Watch this movie if you're a sicko that's tittilated by the prospect of people being murdered for the crime of having morals or ethics or higher aspirations. "},{"Title":"Fun But Stupid","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Below Average movie that shamelessly rips off from movies such as Django(1966), The Road Warrior(1981), and Robin HoodPrince of Thieves(1991).  There are a couple of scenes that are entertaining to watch but overall the film is pretentious.  The Postman(1997) is one of the worst films to come out of 1997.  The only good acting in the movie comes from Olivia Williams and Larenz Tate.  The Postman(1997) uses a good premise only to ruin it with bad execution of story.  One of the least interesting films by an actor/director. "},{"Title":"Watch this Movie!","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, this is probably the worst movie that Kevin Costner has ever starred in... and that's saying something. My problems with the movie are about half related to the film adaptation from David Brinn's book and half execution of the film itself... speaking of execution, somebody should have put this one out of its misery during the development phase. #1 nit... Read the book.  David Brinn spun a very convincing yarn (ok... a few not so plausable parts, too) of a post apocolypic America.  In the story the Postman is a con artist, a likable con artist, but still a con artist, throughout much of the book.  His contact with the village/town of corvallis both inspires him and ultimately comes close to destroying what little faith he has in humanity.  (there's a lot more that could be made on this central and pivital plot of the story... so read the book!) #2 nit execution of the story.  The story flows badly.  The plot does a poor job of making the explanations plausable. It didn't bother me that the movie was 3 hours ( I've watched longer and enjoyed them), but it bothered me that those were not an enjoyable 3 hours. As a saving grace, I found most of the acting to be decent, even if it was wasted in this post-apocolyptic waste of time. "},{"Title":"2 and half hour love letter from Kevin to Kevin","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty bad movie. Costner preens and struts through the whole thing. By the time the movie came to its climax I just wanted it to end so I could return it to the video store ASAP.  Horrible script, egotistical actors and Tom Petty spells disaster. If you liked the concept of the movie then I would read the book instead. The movie had promise. The book laid out all the basics. Why they strayed I'll never know.  "},{"Title":"Sad to say, a disappointment","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I happened to be an extra in the film, and even then I knew there was going to be trouble. While the experience was one I'll never forget, the friction between the union extras and the average schmoes like myself created problems during the filming.Eventually, non-union people left because of the abuse, especially when some of the union guys starting trying to get their close-ups in every shot.Sadly, this movie turned into another ego-trip for a man who has made a career out of such emotions. After reading the book and seeing what Costner did to the film, maybe its a good thing his career has gone down the drain. "},{"Title":"Franklin Revolving","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Where do you start with Kevin Costner's The Postman? Certainly, you don't defend it as anything other than blithering idiocy masquerading as film making. The plot, the pacing, and the performances are all so amateurish that the only thing left to admire is the scenery.Patriotism and American values are turned on their respective heads because . . .Read this carefully Employees of the United States Postal Service do not, in my book, represent the end-all and be-all of what made this country great. They are nothing more or less than members of a for-profit company that somehow is administered by the feds; a prescription for failure.I just sat there watching this tedious monstrosity of an epic and wondering what Ben Franklin, the founder of the Post Office might have said.He would have shaken those long locks of his, taken his granny-glasses off the bridge of his nose, rubbed his eyes and warned us again . . .(You have a) republic, if you can keep it. "}{"Title":"Sooo Bad it was (almost) funny!!!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Is Kevin Costner terminally drawn to awful plot lines, hilariously lame scripts and characters that are so wooden you expect to see him being sprayed for woodworm/dry rot?? People should be spared this type of drivel! Thank goodness I didn't pay a cent to watch it!! Mr. Costner needs to consider a new career AWAY from the cinema!! "},{"Title":"A Three-Hour Mess","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Postman is one of those ambitious projects that collapses under its own weight.  Kevin Costner plays a drifter in the post-apocalyptic United States who brings hope to the people by pretending to be a mail-carrier.  It is as stupid as it sounds.  Costner's direction is prodding and overbearing.  The screenplay is terrible and the performances are sophomoric.  The Tom Petty cameo just adds to the ridiculousness of this disappointing motion picture.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Over the top disaster","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*This movie breaks one of the sacred movie laws. It clearly states that if you have two armies facing each other down, you must have a battle. But disaster strikes and Kevin Costner ruins a big battle scene on some technicality. Lame-o. I wept.Corny does not even begin to describe this movie. There are so many terrible lines your stomach will boil over. You bring hope out of your pockets Mr. Postman! I'm paraphrasing but you get the idea. Kevin Costner goes way over the top with this one. It even ends with a statue in his honor. Uhhhhh.. I'm getting that sinking feeling remembering it all.I can forgive a movie a lot of things if the violence and other crowd pleasing elements are there. This was a total rip-off. Post apocalyptic snooze.  "}]