[{"Title":"No Hollywood stereotypes, at last","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Murder at 1600 is an enjoyable thriller. There are some formula aspects as other reviewers have mentioned, but on the whole the plot &#150; a murder within 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue &#150; leaves the viewer in some suspense. As a whodunnit, the movie succeeds, and as for this reviewer, the murderer and the actual conspiracy isn't evident till near the end. Wayne Beach and the late David Hodgin create enough plot twists to keep most viewers guessing. Director Dwight Little keeps things tight and well-paced. There is a good sense of logic to Murder at 1600's execution.It's arguably one of the best films Snipes has starred in. Known more for his tough-guy roles in Passenger 57 and Demolition Man, it's refreshing to see Snipes as a detective who relies more on thinking than weaponry. Revelations keep Snipes' character, Det Harlan Regis, pursuing new leads &#150; just as any logical audience member would. Regis, a history buff who has recreated battles with miniature models in his living room and a well-respected detective, puts both his police training and interests to use. Beach and Hodgin have also humanized Regis he is about to be evicted &#150; a fact that is quickly introduced in the film's opening sequence &#150; and he and his fellow tenants' problem is solved in a refreshing way.Diane Lane plays a Secret Service agent, Nina Chance, who begins to suspect a cover-up at the White House and assists Regis. It's established early on that she brought home the gold in sharpshooting at the 1988 Olympics &#150; and her skills are put to good use in several action scenes. Unlike most TV heroines, her aim doesn't get better as the ending nears. There's a welcome consistency that's seldom seen from Hollywood, where the hero often loses a fight at the beginning yet miraculously triumphs at the end. It's a real pleasure to see Lane back in a high-calibre film; for too long we've seen her in forgettable fare such as Judge Dredd and Knight Moves. Lane's acting ability should keep her in the limelight, one hopes &#150; she is an actress who doesn't deserve to fade in her 40s. This will depend on whether the establishment will come to its senses about its ageist attitude toward actresses.The cast is ably supported by the menacing Daniel Benzali; Alan Alda comes to Snipes's aid as the National Security Adviser to the President; Ronny Cox is a president in crisis as American troops are held hostage in North Korea; Tate Donovan as the president's playboy son. Every character, with the exception of Snipes's sidekick played by Dennis Miller, has a part to play in the plot; thanks to a better-than-usual casting job by the duo of Amanda Johnson and Cathy Sandrich (often good with mysteries) the roles are very well filled.And refreshingly for Hollywood, we do not have a male European-American hero saving the day with his African-American sidekick. There have been enough biases against minorities in casting films. And there have also been enough films that take things too far the other way. The race issue is never played in this film director Dwight Little treats each character as a regular person, just like in real life where the majority of us don't give an iota what colour or creed someone is.Some parts of Christopher Young's score are not terribly fitting although on the whole he does a good job. Sound effects are well handled in this film as is the editing; both contribute well to the suspense and the mood. Steven Bernstein's photography cuts between the real and created White Houses well, and contributes well to the film's overall effect.This is one of the best and most logical films that has come out of Hollywood for some time. It will not insult many viewers' intelligence for starters. While not 100 per cent original, it is a very well-made film that rests on a solid plot and direction. "},{"Title":"'Thriller' at 1600","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At first, it appears as though it will be your typical, by-the-numbers political thriller. Then, as the movie progresses, it gets better and better, thanks to a fast pace and lots of exciting action scenes.'Murder at 1600' focuses on the discover of a brutally-murdered intern in the White House. Two detectives (Wesley Snipes and Dennis Miller) are assigned to the case, with White House security personnel limiting the detectives with classified information which may be useful to the case. Lucky for them, a dedicated Secret Service Agent (Diane Lane) reluctantly helps.Although it gets predictable at times (especially at the end), it's still a fun little thriller. It really gives you a deep feeling of paranoia as well! "},{"Title":"Right Off The Hollywood Assembly Line","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"23 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At least the whodunit puzzle left me guessing. But that's the only redeeming quality of this pretentious mystery, set at the White House. A lone, good guy cop (played by Wesley Snipes) goes up against the rich and powerful. Our hero fights the bullies and the bad guys with courage and daring. It's a tired, stale concept.The story is chock-full of pretentious, self-important, irritatingly hip characters, most of them conveniently photogenic. The plot contains lots of chases and some fight scenes. It also contains the obligatory in-your-face news media frenzy, and other tiresome film clichés. The dialogue is banal. Example Section 6 secure; Go. Freeze!. The film's ending is unimaginative and trite.Color cinematography is adequate, if conventional. Production design is detailed and quite convincing. Acting is average. The nondescript background music is very manipulative.Murder At 1600 comes across as your typical big-budget, high profile film right off the Hollywood assembly line. It's got visual pizazz and lots of action. But the story lacks substance and depth, the characters are stereotyped, and the dialogue is vapid. It's just one more example of how Hollywood throws production megabucks as substandard screenplays. "},{"Title":"Adequate thriller","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" MURDER AT 1600 came near the end of Wesley Snipes' theatrical career, before he went STV, and it is a decent-enough, Canadian-lensed thriller about the discovery of a young woman's brutally murdered body in the White House. Could the president's bully of a son (Tate Donovan) have killed her? Or are there more sinister forces at work here? For better or worse, the identity of the killer is made plain just past the halfway mark. But that doesn't mean you can't go along for the ride as shadowy assassins try to keep Snipes, as a D.C. detective, and Diane Lane, as a sympathetic Secret Service agent, from uncovering the truth. Snipes is in tip top shape here and is surrounded by several great character actors Ronny Cox as the president, Harris Yulin as a hawkish general and Alan Alda as a presidential adviser. Daniel Benzali, who some of you might remember from a short-lived TV crime show some years ago, is on hand as a senior Secret Service agent and Dennis Miller has a small role as a fellow D.C. detective. While MURDER AT 1600 is not a first-rate action film -- for one thing, it is chock full of tired plot devices -- it is certainly watchable. And it beats anything Snipes has done since going STV. "},{"Title":"An intriguing premise.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When it comes to thrillers I usually find that smaller is better. I almost always enjoy the small independent films with the second- and third-levels stars rather than the big Hollywood productions made with the A-team that cater to a broader public taste. But when your thriller is set at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in the District of Columbia, it's awfully hard for a low-budget production to pull it off credibly. Besides, I'm interested in the presidency and like films that purport to give you a behind-the-scenes look, even if it is fictional, so I gave 'Murder at 1600' a chance.Of course, if the movie is going to be longer than 15 minutes, you have to allow it some license. A lot of its success is based on how much you're willing to let go without saying, Wait a minute! A lot, too, depends on the cast and Wesley Snipes is a likable enough actor. Diane Lane is a big plus here as the Secret Service agent who works with him. They have a typical rocky relationship, but it's enjoyable. Daniel Benzali is ominous as the head of Secret Service. Snipes asks him what it would take for him to see some White House records and Benzali dryly answers, Oh, not much. Just an act of Congress. Other veterans in the cast include Alan Alda, Ronny Cox and Harris Yulin. Bigger wasn't necessarily better this time but it was good enough.  "},{"Title":"D.C. Detective Wesley Snipes plugs away at a murder in the White House","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Murder at 1600 is basically a mystery-thriller with neo-noir premises in the story. It succeeds by not letting its action sequences get out of hand or too extravagant, and by staging them realistically, so that the entire story comes across as reasonably realistic, or at least not wildly implausible. Another element creating success is that there is no over-acting. Wesley Snipes, a fine and substantial leading man, handles the role well with his usual aplomb and confidence. For a change, there is no needless friction built into the script between him and his Secret Service sidekick, Diane Lane.The story has a Seven Days in May angle at its heart, and there is one scene and line that shows that the writers were well aware of this. It occurs when Harris Yulin (playing a small part as a general) tells the president (the smooth Ronny Cox) that his behavior borders on the criminal. This was Burt Lancaster's line in the earlier movie, which also involved a plot to remove the president from office so that a new one could employ more military force in foreign dealings.In this case, the plot to get the president to resign is led by the National Security Adviser, Alan Alda. Alda relishes playing the militaristic part; compare his superb movie The Seduction of Joe Tynan in which he also skewers politicians. It involves the president's son and a murder of a pretty White House aide. The Secret Service is involved, its head making off with vital tapes in a cover-up attempt.The movie actually involves two more cover-ups, and they are the president's. They involve first his son, before he is found to be framed, and second, how the story is told to the public after Snipes finds the actual perpetrators. A story is concocted. Truth is shown to be breached almost routinely by the president who has been saved. This is a good twist of irony. In fact, what I like best about the movie is the contrast between the cynical and scheming federal officials and the straight arrow Snipes.The FBI was left out of the script because that would have ramped up the complications. One of the main ideas is to contrast local justice and police, in the form of honest and straightforward Snipes, with the national (federal) kinds of people involved in all kinds of lying, frame-ups, and cover-ups. Had the FBI been involved, we would have had the added complications of their leaders either kowtowing to the political figures or getting information on them to use against them or standing aside for their own advantage or else bumbling and failing to connect the dots, as the FBI is wont to do. Any of this would have been very hard to handle without extending the story by 30 minutes.This movie is not predominantly an action film, despite the final sequence, and those who expect big action scenes will not find them here. This film is much more about a complex plot to take over the presidency by those interested in military action, in this case, directed at North Korea to recover American hostages. It is much more about uncovering the conspiracy. And it should be noted that Diane Lane plays a critical role as someone who must decide where her loyalty lies, to her job and superiors who are misbehaving, or to her conscience.Although movies like this may seem fanciful, not a day passes that their themes do not become more and more pertinent. The years between 1997, when this was made, and now have been years of increasing propaganda emanating from Washington and media, militarism, and National Security Council spying. "},{"Title":"Loved the chemistry","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie undoubtedly has one of the best pairings of movies in late 90's,that of Snipes and Lane.Diane Lane is at her most beautiful and enchanting here and i liked her performance.Snipes is as always very cool and strong and shows depth.Its amazing how someone can show depth in action and criminal movies as he does.Blows my mind.Film has a decent story and issue.It has already been worked up by Eastwood in Absolute power.Its about people in key positions who use their power to achieve their own secret goals and do what they like.Alan Alda is very good as the stern villain who secretly works against the president played equally well by Ronny Cox.Benzali and Donovan make good supporting roles.But what is the best thing with this is the chemistry between lead stars.Even if Wesley and Diane dont get involved romantically,their relationship makes it worth to watch even without the love scenes.They have quiet strength and strong charisma.And their bond is a great one.This is a good 8/10. "},{"Title":"Standard fare, but well done.","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great performances by Ronny Cox and Wesley Snipes. A standard political thriller, made more interesting by Snipes' character's interest in history. He has made huge models of the DC area in his apartment, and uses them to solve a murder case that threatens to bring down the president. The gorgeous Diane Lane gives a creditable performance as a secret service agent. I liked the fact that the two main characters never have sex. Their relationship suggests it, and I kept waiting for the usual (and boring) bedroom scene. Sex is often used as a gimmick to hold interest in a boring plot and uninteresting characters. You either like the plot and this movie for what it is, or you don't. "},{"Title":"based on a novel by Margaret Truman","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is based on a novel by Margaret Truman, daughter of President Harry Truman and First Lady Bess Truman. For some reason, she is not given credit here on IMDb for the work that this film is based on.As to the movie itself, I would agree that in certain ways it would be somewhat implausible, yet I still find it quite entertaining, and easy to watch any time it pops up on TV, these days in High Def, looking far better then it has in years. I like Wesley Snipes - persistent, a pain in the behind, never willing to give up with so much at stake. And I find that Diane Lane is at her best here - not trying to be attractive, yet amazingly so, showing that she can and ought to be an action adventure type of actor as much as any other type of work that she gets into. And after all the lies and other nonsense that has come out of the Nixon, Reagan and Dubya administrations, maybe this doesn't seem all that impossible after all. "},{"Title":"Premise of entire movie wrong","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could not get three things out of my head the entire time I watched this movie, therefore ruining it for me.First, if a Federal employee is murdered on Federal property, it is a Federal crime, and therefore under the jurisdiction of the F.B.I., not the local city police department.  This movie would have been much better if the FBI was in charge, and the local city cop, who had no business being there, had to fight against both the Secret Service and the FBI to obtain justice for the person being framed.Second, the Secret Service agent assigned to help Regis did not realize the First Family was in the White House at the time of the murder until the movie was almost over.  Give me a break!  Any Secret Service agent assigned to the White House would know exactly where the President was at all times.Third, what was the motivation of the assisting Secret Service agent to help Regis after she had been told to stop helping him?  She stole evidence and killed several people without ever stating her reasons for doing so.  How about a little love story at least to make her character somewhat interesting!Also, it was too bad that Alan Alda's good name had to be soiled with such a bad movie.  His character was the only one that was remotely interesting.  "}{"Title":"Wow, Does This Deteriorate After A Good First Half","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first hour of this movie was very entertaining, even if it did offer up the normal clichés of the day. It featured good suspense and a likable hero played by Wesley Snipes. I was really enjoying this, but - yes, but - the film goes right down the tubes in the last 40 minutes. The last 20 minutes will really have you cringing.Not only does the story get convoluted, it loses all credibility. A murder at the White House and no FBI? That's just one of many loopholes. We wind up getting the same tired military-and U.S. government-are-the-bad guys bias that we've seen upteen times in the past 40 years. Hey, the film is entertaining but if you have a brain, you might have problems with this story. By the way, any film that includes post-MASH Alan Alda or pre-9/11 Dennis Miller is usually pretty bad. We get both in this film.The ending is so ludicrous, such an insult to anyone's intelligence, that is has to offend anyone, regardless of their political persuasion. This is one of the few films that ends so poorly that both Liberals and Conservatives would agree.In fact, most people agreed that this film was great for the first half, horrible in the second and was filled with too many clichés that ruined a movie which good have been a good one. Another clue to what you have here is that this was directed by the same guy who did Halloween 4 and Free Willy 2. "},{"Title":"Alright mystery thriller","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Murder at 1600 is an OK thriller film. The cast all does a pretty good job, especially Diane lane and Wesley snipes. Alan Alda also does a good sufficient job at portraying his role. The dialogue between characters is alright at best, nothing great, but nothing terrible either. The film does at least keep you guessing for the majority of the runtime. The mystery kinda builds as it goes, which is always fun. The mystery isn't the greatest one ever to be in a movie, but it is interesting to see how it all comes and works together to see who is behind everything and why in the end. The action scenes (shooting, punching, etc.) were pretty fun of the mill action sequences. That's not bad necessarily, just would've liked to have seen something a little different from the usual. 6/10 overall. "},{"Title":"Murder this Film Any Time.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Murder at 1600 (1997) Dir Dwight Little / Cast Wesley Snipes, Diane Lane, Dennis Miller, Alan Alda, Ronny Cox Disappointing thriller about timing and skill, which is something not demonstrated here. It regards the murder of a woman at the White House. Didn't Clint Eastwood run the same drill the same year in the superior Absolute Power?The quality of the film depends upon how long viewers are kept guessing and director Dwight Little doesn't utter a peep with regards to the killer's identity. Little previously made Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers. Despite familiar premise the structure operates well on plot twists with identities saved for the conclusion. It is just everything else that doesn't quite click here. Wesley Snipes isn't exactly branching out here. He gets to kick someone's face in within the first ten minutes. Diane Lane is featured because the screenplay called for a female and she obviously fit the bill. Dennis Miller plays Snipes's partner without a bit of humanity. Ronny Cox plays a bland United States president and that is the extent of his appearance. It is as if the right elements were in place for a decent screenplay but when filming began something else entirely appeared on the screen. It contains no point other than to involve viewers in a familiar mystery and a bunch of mindless scenes where Snipes beats people up. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"everything is going fine until the third act","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Young White House staffer Carla Town is murdered in the White House. D.C. homicide Detective Regis (Wesley Snipes) is assigned the case. Secret Service Director Nick Spikings (Daniel Benzali) is resistant and assigns agent Nina Chance (Diane Lane) to handle Regis. Detective Stengel (Dennis Miller) is assisting. The janitor is set up as the initiate suspect while Regis catches an assailant bugging his home. Secret service is hiding the evidence and the girl's relationship with President Jack Neil (Ronny Cox)'s son Kyle (Tate Donovan). There is a North Korean hostage crisis and General Clark Tully (Harris Yulin) is pushing to act. Alvin Jordan (Alan Alda) is National Security Adviser and Kitty Neil (Diane Baker) is the first lady.This starts off as a pretty interesting paranoid conspiracy thriller. Everybody is a suspect and there is lot of tension. Somewhere along the line, the movie goes over the top. It's probably when the DC cop investigating the White House murder becomes a wanted criminal without raising any flags. There are shootouts galore and I can't wrap my mind about how nobody could figure out something is going on. Then there is the secret tunnel into the White House. The movie pushes too far away from believability and it fizzles out. The explosive third act just feels weak, silly and formulaic. "},{"Title":"No Ordinary Murder, No Ordinary Crime Scene","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A brutal murder, a political conspiracy and an international hostage crisis are just a few of the ingredients of this movie which was based on the novel Murder In The White House by Margaret Truman (the daughter of President Harry S Truman). This entertaining murder mystery contains plenty of drama, action and interesting characters and a police investigation that quickly reveals the presence of a number of suspects, a potential sex scandal involving the President and his son and a great deal of interference from the White House Chief of Security.Washington Homicide Detective Harlan Regis (Wesley Snipes) is called in to investigate after the dead body of an attractive secretary is found in a White House toilet cubicle. Carla Town (Mary Moore) had been stabbed to death and when Regis visits the crime scene, he quickly runs into problems with Security Chief Nick Spikings (Daniel Benzali) who claims that the crime took place outside Regis' jurisdiction. Spikings orders Regis to be removed from the premises and this is only prevented by the intervention of National Security Adviser Alvin Jordan (Alan Alda).Spikings assigns Secret Service Agent Nina Chance (Diane Lane) to work with Regis and keep him informed of any developments. Chance is an ex-Olympic gold medal winning sharpshooter who is unenthusiastic about her assignment and initially conducts herself in a rather formal manner. When information comes to light about President Jack Neil (Ronny Cox) and his son Kyle (Tate Donovan) possibly having had intimate relationships with Carla Town, they both become potential suspects.Things start to get more sinister when the Secret Service set up a White House janitor to be the fall guy for the murder and then bug Regis' apartment. Nina Chance's conscience makes her uncomfortable with being involved in an innocent man being imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit and it's this development that gradually makes her start to warm to the task of actually helping Regis' investigation rather than hindering it. The events that follow show that the crime under investigation was no ordinary murder and was in fact, part of a complex political conspiracy.Wesley Snipes displays his character's humour, attitude and determination very convincingly as he continues to pursue his investigation despite all the obstructions that are put in his way and also shows the personal qualities of a guy who's been fascinated by history from a very early age. Diane Lane gives a solid performance as Nina Chance whose demeanour changes as she gradually becomes more suspicious about some things that are going on and gradually buys into what Regis is trying to achieve. The entire cast is top class in this movie but Alan Alda and Daniel Benzali really stand out in their supporting roles as two men who are not as straight-forward as they originally appeared to be.Murder At 1600 is well directed by Dwight H Little who successfully generates a great deal of tension at times (e.g. the sequence in which Chance goes into a storage room where some important records are archived) and the ways in which the characters develop as the story unfolds is also particularly enjoyable to watch. This movie's combination of intrigue and action is tremendously entertaining and together with the quality of Wesley Snipes' performance was, no doubt, the reason why it became so successful at the box office. "},{"Title":"You were born to become a chalk outline.","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Wesley Snipes in just about everything he has been in. I am not talking Academy Award stuff here, but just enjoyable action fare that will pass the time without making you groan.New Jack City, Passenger 57, Rising Sun, Demolition Man, Blade I, II, III, U.S. Marshalls, and this one all provide action and entertainment. That's what we watch movies for, isn't it? The story about a conspiracy to get rid of a President (Ronnie Cox) who is not a right-wing nut job like Alan Alda is interesting, and there are interesting characters along the way like Diane Lane (Unfaithful, The Perfect Storm), Daniel Benzali (Murder One), and Dennis Miller (Bordello of Blood).You won't go wrong here as Snipes shows the best character yet. "},{"Title":"Snipes is great, but what starts as a fine political thriller just ends up with explosions, grunting fights and snipers","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Murder at 1600 starts with all the clever thriller set-ups and intriguing plot grabbers of slick Hollywood at its best. It ends with all the pointless, cliché-ridden thriller hokum of slick Hollywood at its worst. What makes it work as well as it does is the appealing, intelligent performance of Wesley Snipes, an actor whose career has disintegrated into pointless, second-rate macho movies. Most of Murder at 1600 is an exciting ride, and I always enjoy boarding the roller coaster. Finally reaching the destination, however, is a yawn. It's all about the body of a young woman, one of the secretaries, discovered in a White House bathroom. Detective Harlan Regis (Snipes) of the D. C. Police Department is assigned to investigate. The head of the White House Secret Service detail, Nick Spikings (Daniel Benzali), isn't having any of that. The White House is his turf. Matters get complicated when the murdered woman is identified as the girl friend of the President's son. She might even have been the girlfriend of the President. Regis makes clear he's not going away. Spikings assigns one of his team to work with Regis. She's Agent Nina Chance (Diane Lane), small, highly attractive and, more to the point, smart. She's also a sharp shooter. That's a talent that will come in handy later. But is she assigned to help Regis or to spy on him and report back to Spikings? Will this be an investigation of a murder or a cover-up for a murderer? Or is the murder part of something worse...something like, say, an incursion into North Korea? What we quickly realize is that Benzali and Alan Alda, as National Security Adviser Alvin Jordan, are going to chew the scenery. By the time this complicated, high-potential mystery movie limps to its conclusion, we will have spent most of the time enjoying Wesley Snipe's charm and resourcefulness as he unthreads a conspiracy. Diane Lane's talent as an intelligent sidekick with great legs is not to be sniffed at, either. Of course, Hollywood also gives us a few nearly unkillable hit men who pop up here and there, a convenient tunnel to the White House, explosions, helicopters, car chases, kicks, grunts, the inaccurate idea that the FBI doesn't have jurisdiction over crimes committed on federal property (no big deal, some producer probably said) and a climax in the White House that involves a lot of people, including the President. But that's Hollywood big-ticket show biz. After Murder at 1600 Snipes seems to have decided that he wanted to be one of the big, macho, impervious Hollywood hero types, the kind who star in big-budget flicks aimed for the 16- through 26-year-old crowd...the kind of movies that feature awesome explosions and mano-a-mano fights with evil. Snipes was a good actor once. Don't know what happened, but Snipes personally and professionally seems to have taken the long drop. At any rate, I still enjoy Murder at 1600, and I like Snipes' performance so well I can even get past the last 25 minutes. He was one of several actors who made vivid impressions in the great, odd King of New York. In a sidekick role, he nearly edged Sean Connery off stage center in Rising Sun, and he proved he could handle comedy easily in White Men Can't Jump. "},{"Title":"Good Cast largely wasted...","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Finally caught this on Peachtree-TBS. I have to agree that the screenplay seems like it came off an assembly-line, and there are too many times where the viewers are asked to suspend their belief. Too bad, because the cast is excellent. I'm always glad to see Dennis Miller in a supporting role, and Daniel Benzali has a mesmerizing screen presence (he was the lead attorney on that highly-watchable 'Murder-One' TV show a few years back), but he is largely wasted here, muttering lines such as You'll tell us if he tries to contact you?. Dan you're the head of Security at the White House, you're supposed to know what's going' on. (Just ask the guys over at the Bourne Identity franchise).Also, we have a bumbling gang of Secret Service agents who keep letting their prey escape, the back door being the escapee's avenue of choice. A Tom Clancy novel this ain't.However, Wesley Snipes IS superb - he almost saves the day here. His Washington homicide cop is the only character that gets a bit of development. Nice chemistry between him and Diane Lane.And there's action, and some suspense. Despite the wooden story, I found it compelling that a pending conflict with North Korea serves as a background for the unfolding events. So, I watched it and didn't have a bad time... but I still think the character development and pure storytelling in almost any British TV detective show is 'heads n shoulders' above this. *sigh* "},{"Title":"Murder at 1600-Presidential Success ***1/2","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Taut thriller with Wesley Snipes investigating a murder at the White House.The picture becomes much more engaging then first realized. There are some very good performances and political intrigue abounds with the discovery that the first family was there when the killing occurred. It also becomes exciting when we find out that the first son is quite a Lothario and his father, the president, could be under suspicion as well.Diane Lane is effective as a CIA operative and we see how crude the latter organization can be.Alan Alda does some scene stealing acting as a presidential adviser with plenty on his mind.It's not The Manchurian Candidate but it's an effective film. "},{"Title":"Fairly watchable but totally routine whodunit.","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My Take Has the potential of being at least mindlessly exciting, but rarely reaches it. After just releasing the Clint Eastwood vehicle ABSOLUTE POWER, MURDER AT 1600 is released with practically the same plot. A murder happens to take place in the white house, it happens to be a women, there's the cop who believes the case breaks when the case breaks and suspects happen to be the President and his Chief-of-Staffs. MURDER AT 1600 isn't new film, as it is built upon ideas and storyline from other films. The plot is an interesting virtuoso, with some interesting plot twists and revelations, but it doesn't really grab you. It's interesting but not totally engaging.Wesley Snipes however is in fine form as a cop Harlan Regis, a cop who's assigned to investigate a murder that happens to take place at the White House. The Secret Service fails to capture the murderer, but decides that they close the case immediately, dismissing that the murderer is the victim's old boyfriend, but Regis thinks otherwise. Regis, with a little help from Secret Service agent and award-winning sharpshooter Nina Young (Diane Lane, also pretty good), tries to get on top of the case, with suspects that include the president's son (Tate Donovan), the White House staff and President Neil (Ronny Cox) himself.The climax and the conclusion has a few surprises, and there are a number of very good performances, but this is still fairly pedestrian territory. It's not especially exciting, with lack of some action, and the plot gets pretty confusing as it goes. Director Dwight Little isn't quite the professional when it comes to the action scenes. The plot is familiar, but the writers do their best to confuse us to make the plot seem like new material. Where's the fun in that? MURDER AT 1600 is not a bad thriller, and the film promises some few good scenes and a fine lead by Snipes, but with more potential than they got, it could have been better.Rating **1/2 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Decent film (Spoilers)","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film had some decent action, some decent suspense. I liked the fact that most of the loose ends were tied up (even though it was never stated that Snipes' building is saved, it seems a safe bet). I really love Alan Alda in almost everything I've seen him in, but I have to admit that I crack a smile every time I hear him make his you've never served, so you'll never know what it's like speech. I have to admit as well, that I liked seeing him get his comeuppance at the end--but I would have liked to see a bit more consequence for the president and his son. Once again, sexual misconduct is shrugged off as a boys will be boys thing.If that's the only thing that I can really find to complain about, then it was a decent film. Yes, some suspension of disbelief is needed, but not as much, for example, as in National Treasure. I would recommend it to anyone who does not believe that it truly represents the inner workings of Washington, D.C. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film, That Has A Great Cast, And A Good Story, With A Cool Twist At The End!, Wesley Snipes And Diane Lane Were Awesome Together!","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very good film, that has a great cast, and a good story, with a cool twist ending, Wesley Snipes and Diane Lane were awesome together!. All the characters are great, and it has some good action scenes as well, plus Wesley Snipes and Diane Lane are simply amazing in this!. Alan Alda is fantastic in his role, and i thought the finale was excellent!, plus Snipes and Lane had fantastic chemistry together in my opinion!. For the most part it's unpredictable, and while a lot of people may have figured out the murder at the end, i sure didn't!, plus i thought Snipe's acting was fantastic!. The opening is quite disturbing,but funny at the same time and Daniel Benzali gives a memorable performance as Spikings!, plus it's suspenseful at times as well!. Ronny Cox is great as the president, and while the film may not be all that original, it's still pretty entertaining to watch!, plus The ending was very amusing!. This is a very good film, that has a great cast, and a good story, with a cool twist at the end, Wesley Snipes and Diane Lane were awesome together, highly recommended!. The Direction is very good. Dwight H. Little does a very good job here, with good camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at a fast pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Wesley Snipes is amazing as always, and is amazing here, while his character was a tough guy, i found him to be likable, and often funny, he also had fantastic chemistry with Diane Lane, was fantastic in the acting department, as always, had a lot of charisma, he was amazing!. (Snipes Rules!!!!). Diane Lane is also amazing as always, and is incredibly gorgeous, she had fantastic chemistry with Snipes, was quite intense, and made what a little part she had, into an interesting one! (Lane Rules!!!!). Alan Alda is wonderful in his role here, he added a lot of class, had quite a presence, i just wished he had more screen time! (Alda Rules!!). Daniel Benzali is creepy as Spikings, and had an unpredictable character, i liked him. Dennis Miller does okay here surprisingly and wasn't that annoying!, go figure. Ronny Cox is awesome as the President, and also wished he had more screen time.Harris Yulin is okay here and nothing more Rest of the cast do fine. Overall highly recommended!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good Points","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are good points in this movie, but to discuss them would be to introduce spoilers. The most difficult thing with this movie is getting to the stellar cast and the somewhat flimsy story line past the colourless Wesley Snipes in the leading role - one has to either suspend normal expectations of how leading actors should carry a story line, or get a lobotomy first, or both. Word has it Bruce Willis was targeted for the Snipes role and turned it down, although word does not reveal why. Willis and Lane might have been good; Willis would certainly have had more than enough personality and acting skills to carry the story, good or bad; with Snipes there instead you might as well watch a rerun of Walker Texas Ranger. "},{"Title":"Good Action/Thriller","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harlan Regis (Wesley Snipes) is a homicide cop, Nina Chance (Diane Lane) is a secret service agent; when a murdered victim is found in the white house they are left trying to piece together the real truth behind the murder, finding plenty of smoke and mirrors that are trying to disguise the truth.Murder at 1600 is a good solid thriller, with an interesting premise and a strong cast, and even though its an enjoyable ride; it somehow seems to captivate less than it really should. Its still a good way to spend a few hours, but you'll find less here than initially meets the eye.6/10 "},{"Title":"No hackneyed thriller elements","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSNow, that's what I call a good, well-made, solid crime film. The plot is highly far-fetched, but in fact, I didn't find any bad holes, except maybe that it's quite unbelievable that in reality one single idealist could seriously endanger the President's regency. Apart from that, a good thriller idea is turned into film without special directorial ideas by Dwight Little, leaving away hackneyed Hollywood thriller elements e. g. there is no attempt at a love affair between Regis and Nina Chance, not too much emphasis on Regis' private life (was he ever maried? we're not interested!) and no emphasis at all on the fact that he is black. The screenwriters could have stressed the film by using all these elements but they decided not to do it, which is a big, big plus for this Hollywood blockbuster.Of course, for me the numberous surprising twists were interesting. At at least two points of the movie you thought okay, now the movie will take this or this course but you were always surprised. That's how a good crime story works. Also we don't miss the `Wag the Dog'-effect `Murder at 1600' is also a story about covering-up methods of the White House. "},{"Title":"What became of the American P.O.W.'s?","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though the murder was solved. The fate of the American soldiers, who were being held and tortured in Korea, was not really resolved, as far as I saw. I know that they were not the center of the story but still their presence was greatly felt. They should have resolved their fate along with the murder. "},{"Title":"Original Movie, good.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good movie.Ok, the story is old - a cop which has to solve a case.The only originality in the movie - if so can be defined - is that the Murder was commited at the White House. Detective Harlan Regis(Wesley Snipes) will solve the case with the help of Nina Chance (Diane Lane).The cast  I like Wesley Snipes - he's terrific when he plays a cop. Diane Lane ... well, I think that the movie would have had much more success if Wesley had someone like Jennifer Lopez with him.Vote  65/100. "},{"Title":"Not Bad for a Friday Night at Home","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With improbability firmly anchored to impossibility, Honest Dedicated Cop meets Wacko National Security Flacks in Murder at 1600. The viewer's time passes agreeably. No stress, no strain.A young woman is found brutally slain in the White House.  What else is new?  There's no depth to this film, just some fast action and quick takes of D.C. scenery.Wesley Snipes is a detective with steely resolve and an attitude.  Diane Lane is a Secret Service agent, an Olympics gold medalist (not irrelevant to the plot).  She's beautiful, very beautiful.  They make a great team.And Alan Alda - he's out of his usual acting persona here.  See the film to find out how.You have to totally suspend disbelief here and accept that not everyone in government is the best and the brightest.  But Diane Lane is beautiful, very beautiful.5/10 (a high rating for this kind of well-crafted but not exactly gripping drama). But Diane Lane is beautiful, very beautiful. "},{"Title":"Bog standard, workman-like thriller","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At a time when America's foreign policy has put them in a situation where American servicemen are being held in China and conflict is possible, things are complicated by the discovery of a young woman's body in a room in the White House (the 1600 of the title).  DC Detective Regis is brought in to investigate the crime but finds himself hampered by the secret service covering up and classifying key evidence sources.  Regis, with the help of Agent Nina Chance finds himself drawn up into a deeper conspiracy.This is quite a workman-like thriller.  It's not very good but it's not very bad either.  The plot starts well but gets a little ponderous at times and perhaps requires more than a little suspension of disbelief at times (a point where Snipes breaks into the White House through underground tunnels and walks round dressed as a cleaner is perhaps a step too far!).  However the overall concept is ok and it is easy to believe that the Secret Service would take any steps necessary to cover anything that could embarrass the Presidency.  However it's also a big leap to take for granted that Snipes and co. could get quite as far as they do.Snipes is OK in the lead, however he doesn't quite get above the role of tough cop that we see in tonnes of cop movies.  Attempts to give him a deeper character by having him build historical models in his spare time didn't really cut it for me.  Similarly Lane is pretty much a non-entity in the film - I just didn't have any strong memories for her or her character at the end, I don't know if this was her fault or the fault of the script.  The instantly recognisable Benzali is good and manages to bring a little menace to the role but doesn't have a great deal to work with.  The role of National Security Advisor is well played by Alan Alda - he does a good job, but I did have a problem at the start of the film because I don't think of him in this type of film (Manhattan Murder Mystery - Yes, any other genres - not really), however once I got past this I was fine.  Ronny Cox (he of so many screen bad guys) is given a small thankless role as the President.  He doesn't have much to do and again it just never feels like he's comfortable with the role - contrast with his characters in things like Robocop and Total Recall to see the difference in his performances.Overall this is a standard thriller that isn't very memorable but will pass the time easily enough.  Once watched I doubt that you'll rush to see it again. "},{"Title":"Really Underrated. One of Wesley Snipes' better performances","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For me this was a really enjoyable film, most action thrillers are. After watching Wesley Snipes in Art of War and in Game of Death, I felt that he was really wasted in those roles. He was fantastic as Blade and he was great in Passenger 57 and he is tip top in this too, one of Wesley Snipes' better performances. This is one of those underrated films that people seem to right off and somehow its really hard to find on DVD. But if you see it, pick it up.Murder at 1600 follows the investigation of a young women, who is found dead in The White House and its up to a tough D.C. Homicide Cop (Snipes) and a secret service agent (Diane Lane) to find out who did it and why. This leads him on to a host of suspects with all sorts of twists and turns and a lot of cover ups that have you guessing until the very end. I have given this an eight as I feel that the duration could have been a bit longer. This is one of those hidden gems us film fans seem to find now and again. "}{"Title":"Good Thriller....Wesley Snipes' best Movie. **** out of *****","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As this begins...especially seeing as it's a Wesley Snipes movie, you expect a by-the-numbers Straight to DVD type film....but actually 'MURDER AT 1600' Is a very good Thriller overlooked on it's release in 1997.A young woman is found murdered in the Bathroom at 1600 Pennsylvannia Ave, otherwise known as 'The Whitehouse'.A woman murdered at the Whitehouse, not too dissimilar to the same year's Clint Eastwood Movie Absolute Power, though both Movies tanked at the Box Office....Anyway, Wesley Snipes plays DET. Harlan Regis who is the Homicide detective leading the investigation on the scene, he soon realises that the man the Secret Service have in custody is quite possibly innocent and there could be a Conspiracy leading right up to the Commander in Chief, Regis digs deeper along with help from Secret service agent Nina Chance (Diane lane) and they soon find that both of their lives are in danger as they are getting closer to the truth.As I said in my Summary, This has to be Snipes' best movie,before he went the way of Steven Seagal & Jean Claude Van Damme in Trashy straight to DVD Actioners that are on blockbusters bottom shelf, admittedly it flopped on it's release taking only $41m Worldwide, but I think It's very well written Conspiracy flick with a superb supporting cast that includes Ronny Cox,Dennis Miller,Alan Alda & Daniel Benzali.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"By the book thriller","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I mildly enjoyed the film, but it could have been much better. They need to increase the subplots more in movies these days. More of Wesley being kicked out of his apt would have added dramatic suspense to the thriller suspense. It's so fast foodish, this film. Just like a typical studio executive's notes that miss the story-telling point. Movies have to be a 7 course meal for the price at the box office, but they deliver a burger and fries every time. That's why indie films are so good. Overall, the acting was good. Wesley always good, Diane is just great. Directing good. But again the story was a 6. Recommend only for a rainy night Overall a 6. "},{"Title":"another president saving film i am sick of this concept","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i mean it i have seen many films like these where only American president is at risk someone will assassinate him common.why not just choose other countries president there are so many countries.i have no problem with patriotism shown in films but this is too much.the most boring Wesley snipes movie this was.i told you the plot already some people must save presidents ass.but American films always have Russians as enemies this one got one of them own inside the white house.no action no real sex no nothing.it bored memy rating is 1/10 just forget murder at 1600 its another stupid film "},{"Title":"One of the poorer movies during Snipes' height of fame","Date":"10 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie, be invested on either how awesomely 90s it is or how interesting certain aspects were, but it fails. It's not a bad movie, it's a dull movie.Firstly, we have the sex scene in the Oval Office, which you can tell on how it's conveyed that director Dwight Little thought this was controversially awesome, and to tell us this is a mature movie. (Many 90s films had these shadowed sex scenes to signal this is going to be an intertwining tale of double crossings, sleaze and conspiracies.) We also have Harlan's introduction, using unorthodox methods to disarm a suicidal man with typical smart aleck. (Many 90s films couldn't shake off 80s cop maverick and were used not as a plot point or moment of hilarity like its predecessor, but as a quick ploy for character emphasis, only never to be used again throughout the movie.) Then a bombardment of clichés; Nina revolts against the Secret Service, Chief Spikings is heavily secretive and dismissive towards the detectives and Harlan is a 'man of the streets' with own problems but always gets the job done. Nothing original is presented.The closest we get to something a little different is Harlan's apartment where we see a miniature recreation of Washington in the 19th Century; he talks to Nina about his father being a history buff and through this he too is fascinated by American history but&#x85;this goes nowhere! He never talks about history, this trait quickly disperses and no reference is made later. I'm guessing the point is to emphasise his love for the city, but it needn't go to such lengths of making this.The cigar Harlan had throughout was a cheap, tacky attempt at conveying a hardened, maverick cop of the streets, a man with a problem with authority etc. because he never smokes it! It's not even alight, which you could forgive as Snipes is a non-smoker, but to have it there is really disjointing viewing.The performances from the surrounding cast weren't particularly memorable; none of them were bad or outwardly irritating but were just there. The closest to any intrigue was Dennis Miller who definitely tried to add humour to the script.Murder at 1600 is dull and unoriginal. Everything here has been done many times before and whenever its shows any signs of originality, it's quickly discarded for safer choices. A time-filler flick. "},{"Title":"Whose Jurisdiction?","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What happens when a homicide is committed at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, the Presidential Mansion, the White House? My own guess is that it would fall under the jurisdiction of the FBI. But they don't enter the picture here because guarding the president and his family falls under the purview of the Secret Service. I think the FBI would have first jurisdiction because the White House is federal property sitting on federal land, a murder in a Post Office would fall under the same rule.But when a White House staffer who's been having an affair with the president's son Tate Donovan is murdered and her body left in the public bathroom there, the Washington, DC homicide squad is called in. That would be Wesley Snipes and he's partnered with Secret Service liaison Diane Lane. They are called in by White House National Security Adviser Alan Alda who wants due diligence and as much help as possible in solving the murder. And of course he's got an interest in his president Ronny Cox and first lady Diane Baker not to mention the institution of the presidency itself.Snipes and Lane start pursuing one line of investigation, but soon get sidetracked into another because the clues given them don't quite pan out. While this is going on, the country and the president are involved in a hostage crisis with North Korea, another Pueblo like incident. And it turns out they are related.Murder At 1600 is a nice political thriller whose pace doesn't let up at all. There are two other good performances of note in it, Dennis Miller plays Snipes's laconic partner who acts a whole lot like comedian Dennis Miller. And Daniel Benzali plays one creepy head of the White House Secret Service detail.As for Alan Alda those of you who know and appreciate Alan Alda as Hawkeye Pierce from MASH, you will see an Alan Alda in this film who would probably have Hawkeye shot as a traitor.I recommend Murder At 1600 very highly, try to catch it when broadcast. "},{"Title":"Anonymous cop thriller but adequate enough to pass the time with - 65%","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Given that the last film I'd seen with the US President as a leading character was the excessively patriotic Air Force One, I might have been more sceptical of this film which has a murder taking place within the White House itself. Perhaps not entirely beyond the realm of possibility but this old-fashioned political thriller, despite maintaining my interest until the end, doesn't offer anything too original. Having said that, it is an intriguing way to pass a couple of hours - assuming you haven't figured out the killer too early.Wesley Not Denzel Washington Snipes (my girlfriend always gets them confused so that's for her benefit) plays DC Detective Harlan Regis, about to be evicted from his block of flats and assigned to investigate the murder of a young secretary within the White House. Monitored by secret service agents Nina Chance (Diane Lane) and Nick Spikings (Daniel Benzali), Regis quickly finds that the White House seem keen to cover up the whole incident while the President (Ronny Cox) struggles with a hostage crisis in North Korea. But Regis isn't about to be put off from bringing the killer to justice, even if it threatens to bring the administration down.Snipes seems to have an uncanny ability to appear in movies that, while technically sound, rarely achieve massive popularity and Murder At 1600 is another one of those films. An adequate script is enlivened by the performances of Snipes, Lane and Alan Alda as National Security Adviser Alvin Jordan. I did feel that more could have been made of the hostage crisis sub-plot, which never really seemed an integral part of the story. It also wasn't afraid of ploughing on with the tired cliché of the Secret Service being shadowy, self-serving and trigger happy - ground that has been covered many times before and even at the time of release. In fact, Mulder and Scully may have well been in the background, looking for aliens on the First Lawn! Having said that, this is a very old-skool cop plot even if Regis feels less like a cop and more like a paranoid fugitive.If you like your cop films with a twist but little else in the way of excitement or originality then Murder At 1600 will satisfy your needs. But for me personally, I never really felt engaged as a viewer. It did remind me of Denzel's foray into cop films, Training Day, but only because I wanted to watch that instead. I sound harsh but I didn't really feel that enthusiastic about it. It passes the time well enough but that's it and to be honest, you could do something more constructive in two hours than watching a movie this anonymous. Still, at least it's not as bad as Air Force One - I'd rather the President was a suspect in a murder enquiry than a Rambo-type character. "},{"Title":"Thunder and Lightning","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" made my dog start hyperventilating and gave her enough adrenalin to lope up the steep staircase to the bedroom, where we were watching this Wesley Snipes/Diane Lane mystery. Stroking and petting the canine helped me accept some of the implausibility of the story, and I watched it to the end.When it seemed that the First Son was the killer, I tossed out the opinion that maybe it was the First Lady, reasoning that some clever screenwriter stole the idea from Presumed Innocent. Pam guessed Alan Alda, but I thought that there were too many cold eye characters to settle on one. It was when Ronny Cox, Alda and a bunch of military types tried to decide whether to drop a few bombs on North Korea and start a war that my focus became clear. The writers were not channeling Absolute Power, but rather Seven Days in May. Kirk, Burt and Freddie March did it better, but they didn't have this DC Detective backstory to gum up the works. You know something is wrong with the writing when the running joke about eviction goes nowhere.Despite these problems, Snipes held my interest, the dog settled down, the rain let up and it finished in time to let me see the last three minutes of the Pistons-Heat game. "},{"Title":"Murder of Original Murders.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A murder of a beautiful female staffer in the White House leads to a strange and confusing case for D.C. cop Wesley Snipes and Secret Service Agent Diane Lane in this lame would-be-thriller. Naturally Lane is the only help that Snipes has and there are layers and layers of corruption within the government due to problems the nation is having in Korea. Murder at 1600 plays more like a cable movie of the week rather than a theatrical release. The direction is never solid and the screenplay uses every Hollywood cliche you can think of. Snipes and Lane make for an attractive, but ultimately boring pair and in the end Dennis Miller's one-liners as Snipes' partner are the film's greatest assets. 2 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller (A few spoilers contained)","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Murder At 1600 is that rarity these days, a thriller that places suspense over violence. While there is some action, this film relies more on good old nail biting suspense and mystery.The plot Wesley Snipes is a DC homicide cop called in when a Whiet House staffer is found murdered in a washroom. He sets out to investigate and immediately runs into opposition from all side. The Secret Service chief doesn't want a city cop on his turf and assigns an agent played by Diane Lane to keep an eye on Snipes. After a while though she realizes Snipes is on to something and the two of them enter an uneasy partnership. They soon discover that a sinister conspiracy has been designed to bring the president down.Good acting, lots of suspense and action. See it! "},{"Title":"A slick action flick","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had been warned that this was not one of Wesley Snipes best efforts. I'm glad to say those people who told me that were dead wrong. This is a stylish, neat little action flick that moves swiftly, and without a doubt, one Snipes best efforts. Diane lane is perfect as the secret service agent, who at first, begrudgingly helps snips uncover a murder plot within the white house. Several red herrings turn up as to who's behind it, and everything manages to make senses still at the end. Alan Alda manages to pull off what he did in NAd the Band Played On, a villain, that for some reason, you can't help but like. He plays the role with such genuine ease, you could almost see him perform the role in real life. Ironic that he character wanted a war in North Korea, when his M*A*S*H counterpart couldn't wait for his Korean war to end. This is one of a few action flicks that make you think. Despite the somewhat over contrived chase scene at the end though Lincoln's tunnels, in the movie is depth, and believable. Considering the film came out at a time in which the sitting President, Bill Clinton, was marred in his own scandals involving sex and the white house, the film makers where careful not to make any comparisions. Ronny Cox is at home playing a beleaguered president, and should be considered one of the best supporting players in film history. Kind of funny that Dennis Miller is cast as Snipes police partner, considering at the time, he was filming his own political stand up show, The Dennis Miller Show on HBO. despite his limited role, he provides the perfect wise ass t0 Snipes's straight lace character. Without a doubt this is a winner of a movie. One when The Killer is dealt with, you actually feel like cheering, not many movies can make that claim "}{"Title":"Standard, static, stifling piece of film laundry","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The flavorless Murder at 1600 does, at the outset, show some promise as a thoughtful, original thriller, one with style and flair. One cannot, however, venture too far into watching this picture without realizing that it is simply another standard piece of film laundry, one soiled with an inept script, forgettable performances, and an unbelievably silly and floppy ending.  The combination of Wesley Snipes and the always-great Ronny Cox cannot save this stale exercise in tedium.      "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well. Wesley Snipes does it again....yet another crap film...it seems like he's batting a thousand...Passenger 57, U.S. Marshalls...I mean really...Stop the Insanity......And Alan Alda....what is wrong with you?.....Alda is arguable the greatest television actor of all time, and gave great performances in Mad City and all those Woody Allen films...but he just falls flat here....completely unconvincing....But the film's problems are not just the actors' fault...the writing was horrendous...I'll never undestand why films like this actually get beyond the idea stage......... "},{"Title":"empty house","Date":"24 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another dumb mixture of uninteresting action scenes with a fake suspense mood associated with the political plot.The thing in these films is that none of the elements that are supposed to grab you is mildly interesting to make the film worthy. Check it - the action is the scent of action, or even less. A few shooting scenes, literally shooting, Lane's character is a specialist in straight shooting, and all the action scenes are dull and purely based on shooting; - the story is trite and useless. See how silly it sounds something about some guys who frame the president of the USA through framing his son, through implicating him in the murder of one of his lovers. That way they blackmail the president forcing him to choose between his position and the reputation of his family. The idea was to replace him so that the bad guys could get into North Korea with a few soldiers to free other soldiers... Oh the evil brain was a close friend and collaborator of the good president; - the previous point shouldn't matter. I can count dozens of films with similarly silly plots which are worth the time, because they layer other interesting things on the empty plot. But here nothing supports it. Snipes' thing only works when the plot allows it (demolition man), the direction is banal and boring, there's nothing to be seen.Diane Lane does have a presence. She's not a specially interesting actress, but she poses well, and has an enigmatic look, which attracts. She would have been a great femme fatal, should she have worked 60 years ago.My opinion 1/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Kind of Fagged Out Mystery/Action Story.","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler here. A beautiful young woman is found murdered in a bathroom at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. (That's the White House.) There is a jurisdictional dispute between the Washington, DC, police force, represented by Wesley Snipes, and the Secret Service, represented by Diane Lane. Before you know it, the pair overcome their natural rivalry and work together. That both are harassed and told to lay off by their superiors is by now a cliché.Suspicion falls on the President's son. Too bad for the President (Ronnie Cox) because now he's got his jewels in a vice. The North Koreans are holding some American hostages, which the Prez wants to negotiate for. Standing against him and in favor of military force are some of the President's chiefs of staff and his adviser, Alan Alda. It is constantly asked of President Cox how, if he can't protect the people in his own residence, he can possibly protect the country? The words in this question make it sound like an insoluble dilemma, whereas the facts of the matter are probably that, yes, somebody can be slaughtered in the White House and the President can still do a good job of protecting the country, as long as he's not sabotaged by his subordinates. It's a kind of bumper-sticker question that, when examined, makes little sense, but to the appealing simplicity of which, many Americans seem attracted. Surrender is not an option, and all that.Well, you ask, did the president's kid kill the beauty? It looks bad. The son admits he slept with her an hour before her death, and a condom has been found with his semen and her fingerprints on it. (Yukk.) However, as Snipes and Lane find out, the entire murder was a ploy to get the president to choose between saving his son by resigning or playing out a hand with no cards left in it. The President is only a few minutes away from announcing his resignation when the dynamic duo of Snipes and Lane, having squirmed their way through the White House maze of underground tunnels, show up and shout, Mister President, your son is innocent and here is the evidence on this secret tape! Alan Alda was behind the whole thing. He wanted to go in with Special Forces or whatever it took to free the hostages, so he had the woman murdered and the son framed. Informed of this plot, the President, no namby-pamby after all, socks Alda in the jaw and puts him under arrest.It seems to me that the President himself, having been given information relevant to the murder and deliberately withholding it from the investigators is himself guilty of obstruction of justice, accessory after the fact, first degree broodiness, and parking in a handicapped zone. But no matter. We don't care if Presidents fail in every little observation of the law, as long as they keep their pants zipped. There's an intermediate heavy, a bald guy, whom I find always an irritation. He seems to enjoy being on camera too much. And he has this little shtick that he always does, looking humorless and speaking in a hoarse whisper, and that's that. You want to see what a real heavy can do with his role? Watch anything that John Glover is in.It's an entertaining and distracting movie as long as you don't think about it too much. Action scenes with shoot outs alternate with a plot development filled with intrigue. But there's not much to distinguish this from a dozen other similar movies, except that this one has to do with a murder in the White House. It's as if somebody, maybe a teen-aged Mickey Rooney, suddenly brightened and said, Let's have a murder mystery, only this one will be in the White House! "},{"Title":"Movie of week stuff...","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Murder at 1600 never really rises above the level of an average TV movie of the week.  The cast is made up of some good actors Diane Lane, Ronny Cox, Alan Alda.  However they can't seem to save this picture from mediocrity.  Pretty much equivalent to Snipes' Passenger 57, so if you liked that you'll like this.  Watch if it's on TV and you have nothing better to do, otherwise, don't bother. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Fast moving","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Formulaic clichés aside, MURDER At 1600 is a classic Wesley Snipes thrill ride. He portrays a DC cop investigating the murder of a young woman in a White House restroom. Suspicion falls on the president's son, at a time when the president (Ronny Cox) doesn't need any more trouble. The North Koreans are on the warpath, and the president is being pressured to go to war, Alan Alda and Harris Yulin are among the president's advisers, and Diane Lane plays a Secret Service agent who teams up with Snipes to solve the murder. Lane is strictly window dressing, but that's OK. The movie is fast-moving, and Snipes was in his prime, battling both bureaucrats and black ops assassins as he inches closer to the truth. Movies like this were a staple of the 80s, and there's nothing really new here But with Snipes in the lead, MURDER AT 1100 makes for a fun time. "},{"Title":"You were born to become a chalk outline.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Wesley Snipes in just about everything he has been in. I am not talking Academy Award stuff here, but just enjoyable action fare that will pass the time without making you groan.New Jack City, Passenger 57, Rising Sun, Demolition Man, Blade I, II, III, U.S. Marshalls, and this one all provide action and entertainment. That's what we watch movies for, isn't it? The story about a conspiracy to get rid of a President (Ronnie Cox) who is not a right-wing nut job like Alan Alda is interesting, and there are interesting characters along the way like Diane Lane (Unfaithful, The Perfect Storm), Daniel Benzali (Murder One), and Dennis Miller (Bordello of Blood).You won't go wrong here as Snipes shows the best character yet. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, fast paced political thriller, not great but above average.","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was, for the most part, a fast paced and suspenseful movie. It recalled one or two other political thrillers for me a little. The same type of thing, Washington DC, Murder, cover up. For the most part an OK movie.I enjoyed this movie as a whole, though certain scenes I could have lived without. It's not a very original premise and some of the chase scenes go on for to long(way, way to long)! But it's a not to bad way to pass the time if one is bored and there isn't anything else on. The acting is pretty good and the story moves quickly so, other then the over-saturation of chase scenes, your never bored.I think the story itself was great and the movie fast paced, well cast and fun to watch. The biggest negatives are it being somewhat predictable and the above mentioned chase scenes that, besides being rather dull, also make the movie rather unrealistic. I'd have liked to see a bit more realism to an interesting story.This isn't a perfect movie but it's above average, even though it doesn't seem to be real well known. My rating is 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"It WOULD take a murder to get Wesley Snipes into the White House...","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first I thought to myself Wow, this thriller sounds promising, because it is about a murder... in the White House. And as far as I know, that's a place not frequently visited by D.C. homicide detectives. When finally seeing it I thought Wow, this thriller is awful. I almost expected a Harrison Ford-type of movie, but what I saw was something Steven Seagal could have starred in. Wesley Snipes is always a convincing action hero but he can not perform such miracles as making this movie look good and original. One strong point however a good supporting-cast. Alan Alda is always nice to watch, and so is Ronny Cox as the president. Daniel Benzali of Murder One fame is an impressive actor, and Dennis Miller is always fun, although his talent is a bit wasted this time around as Snipes' partner. However one can't help feeling insulted by the inept scriptwriters if they honestly think we won't figure out who the bad guy is WAY before Snipes does.  "},{"Title":"A good thriller","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie represents tension and action in a good way. The two main characters play really good. Do you want to watch an old styled thriller? This is the right movie!!!!! "}{"Title":"Wesley Snipes & Diane Lane Were Hot Together !","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"                The directing of this film and the photography was fantastic for a film dealing with Washington, D.C. and the great stage settings for the White House and the Capitol.   Wesley Snipes(Detective Harlan Regis),Blade II,'02, went to work immediately in the White House Ladies Room and avoided all the RED TAPE that Daniel Benzali(Nick Spikings),Screwed,2000, could throw at him.  Nick was determined to let Regis know that the WHITE HOUSE was his Home away from home! The shoot out scenes in the tunnels under Washington, D.C. were simply great and the magic of Diane Lane (Nina Chance),Mad Dog Time,'96 with Detective Regis got very HOT, both actors put their complete talents to work in this film.   Last but not least, Alan Alda,(Alvin Jordan),M*A*S*H,'72 TV series, played a very important role in this picture, he really wanted to the PRESIDENT! "},{"Title":"Not bad but not great either.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitively not in the best movie list but it still features a nice plot. I don't think there is any part of this movie that we can qualify as thriller but there's still something that captivates you. Fair  6/10 "},{"Title":"murder, intrigue, and coverup in the White House","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A cop begins an investigation into a murder in the White House. He is stymied at every turn in the name of national security or 'need to know'. With the help of a security agent, the officer learns of a coverup at high levels of the government for a bizarre reason. Pretty good film, but nothing new. "},{"Title":"you must be kidding.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a silly piece of garbage.  Ridiculous story, poor character and plot development, and substandard performances.  Add that to some of the most stupid dialogue ever written, and you have a film of such poor quality, everyone involved in making it should be embarrassed.   Someone got paid to write this?  Amazing. "},{"Title":"Wesley Snipes and Diane Baker","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having acted alongside Sean Connery who appeared in the Hitchcock film, 'Marnie', Wesley Snipes went on to act alongside Diane Baker who also appeared in 'Marnie'. Sadly, Baker was too old for Snipes to snog, but the film as a whole was entertaining enough to maintain interest. "},{"Title":"Doesn`t Gel Too Good","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie opens with a woman having wild crazy sex at The White House . Insert your own favourite Bill Clinton joke here < If she`s having wild crazy sex at The White House then she`s not called Hilary that`s for sure > No seriously that`s how MURDER AT 1600 starts and I had a sneaking impression this might have been a docudrama on the Clinton administration but the film doesn`t really play out like that . It starts of as a crime drama , then hints it`s going to be a buddy movie , then sort of becomes a political thriller , then ends up as a somewhat ridiculous conspiracy theory thriller , but these subplots never really come together convincingly . It`s entertaining enough I suppose but compared to what was really going on at The White House at the time MURDER AT 1600 is rather lame.Don`t talk with your mouth full Monica   "},{"Title":"Boring Wesley Snipes rip-off; even Absolute Power was better...","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rip-off of Clint Eastwood's Absolute Power has investigator Wesley Snipes getting caught up in a murder mystery involving the President of the United States of America. Predictable stuff. Watch Conspiracy Theory instead.2/5 stars. "}]