[{"Title":"a first-time filmmaker very well on his way...","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson's first film, Sydney (titled 'Hard Eight' by the distributors), has a story, but its more concerned about the characters, and how these actors play them. Like its inspiration, Jean-Pierre Melville's Bob le Flambeur, understanding who these people are in this seedy, desperate environment, is the key. The script is intelligent, and contains a truth that isn't found in most off-beat crime films. In fact, the crimes in the film, while not without the importance to the story, is secondary to how these people are around one another, the courtesy, the un-said things, the mishaps, and the truths. In tune with Melville, the film is decidedly European- the story is quite leisurely, almost too much so, but in the characters Anderson has created and fleshed out he has people we can care about.Philip Baker Hall, in a towering performance of professionalism (he's one of those great character actors who practically wears the years of his life on his face, not to sound pretentious about it), is the title character of Sydney. He offers Jimmy (John C. Reilly, believable in a role seemingly more like himself than his Reed Rothchild in Anderson's Boogie Nights) a cigarette and a cup of coffee, and then finds out through the conversation his mother's passed on. He offers up an intricate, but rewarding, way of making money in a casino without laying down a card (the slots, and a different scheme). Flash ahead two years later (awesome transition, by the way) where Jimmy is with Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow, a good performance). Things seem to be going alright all around, except that Jimmy has a violent (shown off-screen, of course) run-in, and needs Sydney's help. But there's another secret that has yet to be told.All the little details of the story are accentuated by a directorial style that is usually peerless, and the tracking shots that have become paramount in Anderson's films (i.e. opening of Boogie Nights, walking through TV studio in Magnolia) are as smooth and interesting as anything from Scorsese. The Vegas Muzak is a touch that adds, like with Melville, a cool kind of touch not at all un-like film-noir. It's actually a thin line that Anderson is walking; how to make the Melville story's elements (an aging gambler past his prime, watching over the young people in their own messes, seeing the old turn to new) as one's own. I think he's achieved that in the film with a sense of sincerity with the characters dialog with each other. Perhaps Sydney has a different agenda than just being friendly. But Anderson wisely allows Hall to make the right choices with just certain facial expressions, what isn't said that counts. And the scenes with Samuel L. Jackson bring out the kind of intensity, sometimes quiet sometimes not, that hallmark his best performances. Maybe not a masterpiece, but it certainly isn't the work of an amateur, assured in his own script as a director, and in the strengths of his four key players. "},{"Title":"Very intimate and compelling - a splendid debut for PT Anderson","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Though he is best known for two ambitious ensemble pieces such as Boogie Nights and Magnolia, writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson was first noticed thanks to a low-key, unpretentious character study, a gem called Sydney.The film takes its title from the main character, a lonely elder man played by Philip Baker Hall. At a diner he runs into John (John C. Reilly), a poor fella who has just lost all his money. Sydney buys him coffee, and after a little chat he persuades him to come to Reno. Once there, they manage to get a free room and under Sydney's tutelage John quickly becomes a successful gambler. All's well until he falls in love with Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), a waitress and part-time prostitute, and trouble ensues with a gangster named Jimmy, meaning Sydney will have to come up with something extreme to save his protégé.For a first-time director Anderson shows great skills and confidence even though he doesn't do much but follow four characters, he frames each shot to perfection and proves he is every bit as good as Scorsese at staging tracking shots (a thing he perfected on his next two features). But style doesn't really matter here the important thing is that the audience cares for the story, and this essentially happens courtesy of sublime dialogue and great acting.Anderson fought really hard to keep the movie's original title (and partially failed, which is why the film is known as Hard Eight in some countries), and the reason is clear from the beginning the picture rests entirely on Hall's shoulders, and he carries it admirably. His performance is nuanced and genuine, and he manages to ensnare the viewer even when we are not sure what his motives are (and once they are revealed, it is not that important). Reilly is equally good, in a turn that opened his way to becoming one of the most reliable character actors in Hollywood, and the same intensity emerges from Paltrow and Jackson, the latter in particular adding extra dramatic flesh to what could have been a rehash of his more famous roles (Pulp Fiction etc.). Even Philip Seymour Hoffman, who has a brief but memorable role as a cocky gambler, gets his opportunity to shine, showing beyond any doubt that Anderson has a great eye for casting. He also knows how to write the dialogue flows freely and seamlessly between the players, spawning some of the most affecting, realistic conversations ever heard in a movie, although the director can't resist the temptation to insert a couple of in-jokes as well (in one scene, Hall mentions two characters he wound up playing in Boogie Nights and Magnolia).Overall, a very good film, and a must-see for PT Anderson fans like many other directors who rose to fame in the '90s (Tarantino, Rodriguez, Bryan Singer) he proved right from the start what he was capable of, and has never disappointed the audience since that. "},{"Title":"understated, calm and brilliant","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Excellent movie. Excellent actors. I like the calm flow of the movie. Dialogs are strong very realistic, not cultivated in a predictable andunderstandable main stream drama form. The hostage scene is brilliant. In many movies the charactersreact in a movie-like way, shaped in how the characters wouldreact if...too cultivated, mostly showcases for actors to show howemotional and brilliant they can play their roles. In this movie the characters many times don't know what to say orhow to react and that's brilliant in my opinion. In real life you don't have strong and powerful one-liners at hand. But still it is a movie and put into a form, a calm and understated,but brilliant form. "},{"Title":"Sydney or Hard Eight Excellent movie 10/10","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"44 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Thomas Anderson's first movie and wow what an entrance to make. Its refreshing to see a film maker making films with characters that you care about and fine dialogue. Why dont people talk in movies any more?  If you think the same watch this film. This film is an absolute treat right from the opening scene, a true hidden gem which didnt even get a release in the UK!!! You will see some of the finest performances in film and be warned you will remember these characters for the rest of your life. 10/10 awsome! "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Philip Baker Hall's Sidney kept me riveted from the first scene to the last. He play the mesmerizing, enigmatic title character with rare mastery and grace. The supporting characters are no slouches either. John C. Reilly is marvelous as Sidney's sweet, if somewhat slow witted protege. Samuel Jackson could have easily coasted on this one, simply repeating a performance from any of a number of previous tough guy types. Instead he creates an entirely new character, one with a reptilian quality not seen in his usual thugs. Even Gwenyth Paltrow is unusually strong as Clem, the waitress who wants it understood that, even if she sometimes sleeps with men for money, she is definitely NOT a prostitute.I've been a fan of PT Anderson for a while now, and this film gave me new insight into why it is I like him so much. Anderson is that great rarity in modern filmmaking, an actor's director. He gathers terrific actors and inspires them to career-topping performances. There's no fiendishly complex plot here, no nailbiting suspense, no big payoff at the end. Just marvelous actors making the most of an excellent script. "},{"Title":"If you liked 'Atlantic City', you'll love this one.","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Caught it last night on Belgian TV. A little gem. An old guy, superbly played by Baker Hall, trying to relive his youth by helping two young losers (O'Reilly and Paltrow) get their lives back together. Of course they'll never make it once a loser, always a loser. But Sydney still has to try. The claustrophobic, rip-off world of casinos, anonymous 'luxury' hotels, sleazy motels, is superbly portrayed. Surely, after watching this film, nobody would ever want to visit Vegas. Paltrow is brilliant as the whore with zero self-esteem, ready to destroy her chance of a new start for the sake of 300 bucks; money is the only way of validating her self-destructive promiscuity. Samuel Jackson swaggers through the role of Satan as if born to it. The only jarring note, preventing this one getting a 9/10, is the stuff about Sydney wanting to atone for shooting the young guy's father. This feels like it was written in as an afterthought, by some dumb studio exec who'd missed the film's whole point 'The tragedy of youth is old age' (Oscar Wilde). "},{"Title":"A Calm and Collected Character Study","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Eight (1996/Paul Thomas Anderson) ***1/2 out of ****The camera opens to a diner called Jack's Coffee Shop. A semi is pulling out of the parking lot. After it pulls away, two people are revealed. A young man sitting by the door with his face to the ground, and an older man who is walking towards him. Even though we can't see his face, we know he is old, just by the way he moves. He asks the young man if he would like some coffee and cigarettes. And this is how Paul Thomas Anderson's first film begins.Hard Eight is about a down and out loser named John (John C. Reilly), who sits outside a diner, until he is encountered by a mysterious old man named Sydney (Philip Baker Hall). Sydney offers him $50, and a lesson in gambling. Before to long, they are in Reno, making lots of money. Then two people get in the way of their friendship Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), a hooker/waitress; and Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), a mischievous security guard who seems to be hiding something. I never thought that Paul Thomas Anderson could make such a grounded film with substance. His usual films are flashy ensembles, and they move fast. But Hard Eight is a different story. It is a slow paced Film Noir, that is both quiet and observant. The cinematography is drab, and the direction is tranquil. Philip Baker Hall and Paltrow turn in good performances. But it is Jackson who really shines. The twist could have been over done, but instead, it is handled nicely and effectively. Hard Eight is by far one of the most interesting character studies of the 90's. I like this cool side of Anderson, and I wish he would use it more often than his usual over the top formula (although I like both). This is no classic, but I found it worth buying.-30- "},{"Title":"Off-beat casino drama","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is also known as Sydney (director Paul Thomas Anderson's original title) after the name of the movie's central character, a somewhat mysterious casino gambler (and murderer, by the way) played by veteran Philip Baker Hall. The new and more commercially-viable title comes from the game of craps in which the dice player can roll an eight with a six and a two or with a five and a three or with two fours. Since probabilistically the hardest way to roll an eight is with two fours, that's called a hard eight. Such a choice occurs twice in the movie, and symbolically a hard eight may represent the gambler's psychology.Co-starring as Sydney's protégé is John C. Reilly as John Finnegan, a kind of lovable schmuck who falls in love with a Reno waitress/prostitute named Clementine, played quirkily by Gwyneth Paltrow. Samuel L. Jackson has a modest but very convincing part as a casino security sleaze.Anderson's direction of these very talented actors was excellent. I wish I could say the same for his script. Most viewers I suspect will find this a bit dull; and, as it unfolds and we find out why Sydney is playing guardian angel to John, viewers may even be disappointed. I know I was. I had expected something original as Sydney's motivation, but what we learn in the last reel is quite ordinary (as movie motivations go).What kept me watching was of course trying to figure out what makes Sydney tick and why and how he can spend his time so aimlessly gambling (and almost always losing), and where his money comes from. I also was intrigued by the originality of Anderson's treatment as opposed to his story per se. The stylized, slightly off dialogue, especially well-suited to Reilly's studied interpretation and Philip Baker Hall's inscrutability, reminded me of something that might have been written by David Mamet or even Quentin Taratino. Finally I was interested in seeing how Paltrow would play a role seemingly quite removed from her screen persona. I thought the delicate and very winning star of Shakespeare in Love (1998), etc., worked hard to create the sort of lower-class, uneducated, victim of the Las Vegas/ Reno casino culture that Anderson had in mind, and I thought she did it well. However, hers was not a sympathetic role and it did not test Paltrow's range as a actress, although playing a prostitute is something many actresses find interesting. I am thinking of Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman (1990) and Elizabeth Shue in Leaving Las Vegas (1995) or even Catherine Deneuve in Belle de Jour (1967).Bottom line here is that this is a studied, arty movie well worth seeing because of the performances and as an example of Anderson's unique style, but not something for a mass audience or for those viewers looking for a diverting thriller.But see this for Philip Baker Hall, one of those rare actors to actually find his best roles and do his best work in his sixties. Indeed, his performance here revitalized a career that had long languished. In this regard I am reminded of the Swedish actor Victor Sjostrom who gave perhaps his greatest performance in Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries (1957) when he was 80 years old. Although I have seen little of Hall's work, I am willing to bet that this was one of his greatest performances.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Promising debut from Anderson","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This first film from Paul Thomas Anderson shows the promise he would later fulfill with BOOGIE NIGHTS.  The writing here is as sharp as it was in the later film, but it must be said as a director, he sometimes lets scenes go on too long (ironic that BOOGIE NIGHTS, which is a longer film, is also a tighter one).  The main connection between both films is Anderson's obvious affection for his characters.  Also the relationship between Sydney and John doesn't turn out the way you'd expect.  And Anderson is to be commended for avoiding melodrama.Philip Baker Hall is one of those actors who you may not know by name, but when you see him you instinctively feel he's right for the part, no matter how small.  This is one of his rare leading roles, and he's perfect, showing the character's success and also his loneliness, without sentimentalizing it.  John C. Reilly is properly eager and naive as John.  Samuel L. Jackson is dependable here, and Gwyneth Paltrow proves she doesn't need a British accent to give a good performance.  She and Jackson should also be commended for backing Anderson when he had problems with the studio. "},{"Title":"An incredible film from the maker of Boogie Nights","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"26 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most people didn't catch this movie when it was released (in the cinema or on video), but did discover Paul Thomas Anderson's work with the phenomenal Boogie Nights.  Make no mistake this film is every bit as good, perhaps better, than Boogie.  It's a small film whereas Boogie is a huge film, but it's packed with outstanding performances (many from actors and actresses who would go on to appear in Boogie), a great script (and a tighter story than Boogie), and the same fantastic  direction.  Everyone who loved Boogie, and even those who didn't, should go back and rent this film.  A very stylish, moody drama/mystery. "}{"Title":"A low key but effective film that is effortlessly carried by great performances","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney is an old gambler who shows kindness to a man he meets outside a diner.  He helps out John by lending him £50 and then teaching him enough about gambling to make his way.  Two years later finds John loyally sticking with John and adoring him.  However, their relationship is put under pressure when John hooks up with Clementine, a cocktail waitress who also turns tricks and Jimmy, a low life with no respect for Sydney.Although it was pretty badly treated in the UK and mostly ignored and overlooked, the success of Anderson's films since has given many a reason to look back on Hard Eight (the much better but less meaningful title given it for the UK release) and `discover' it.  It certainly is an impressive film and it is difficult to see why it received neither financial or critic success when it was released.  The plot is deceptive - starting as a character piece, changing violently with a series of twists and then reverting back to the character piece we started with.The film is totally driven by it's characters and they are very well written to the point that we care about them even before we really know all about them.  The title `Sydney' is more meaningful simply because the film is pretty much all about Sydney himself.  He is a kind man and we wonder why but are gradually won over his gentle nature.  This makes the second half of the film more thrilling simply because we think we know Sydney but then he has to do things we think are not in him.  Anderson directs with a remarkable assurance; he has style and a real sense of framing.  He mixes close ups with wider shots using the fluorescent lighting of the gambling joints to good effect - his direction is as good here as it was in his other, more acclaimed films.The main thing that makes this film so good though, is the cast.  Hall is excellent; I cannot stress how good he is here - his character is well written but it is Hall that makes it work so well with a performance that is subtle and controlled.  Reilly is a great character actor and he does the same here with a hangdog expression and put upon attitude.  Paltrow is very good for someone whom people seem to have forgotten can actually act.  Her Clementine is more complex that first appears.  However despite her good work, I think that Paltrow's limited screen time actually helps the film - she is not the focus here.  Jackson is his usual cool self and turns in a memorable performance while Anderson even has a part for Hoffman.I can imagine some people will not like this film it is talky for long sections and it ends with questions to be answered - this may frustrate some people but for me I felt it allowed me to think for myself and use what I had learnt about Sydney.  This is a surprisingly mature film from such a young director and one that you owe it to yourself to undercover in retrospect. "},{"Title":"Soft Eight","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed Boogie Nights, as it seems most people have, and I totally hated Magnolia. I feel asleep twice trying to watch Punch Drink Love and have since given up. So the other night I thought it was finally time to watch Hard Eight and see what all the fuss was about.Throughout the entire film I was left waiting for some real character development, or maybe some characters with an IQ greater than 35. Yes, Sydney seems cool and really deep, but in fact we never get to know anything more about him, what makes him tick, or how he actually makes his money. Who is this guy? Who are any of these people? Why do I care? Characters don't have to be super smart or crafty or ultra deep to be likable or interesting, but when all they add up to at the end of the day are a bunch of sketches about as thin as playing cards, it really makes you realize you're watching a very amateur or at least poorly written film. Such great acting talent is wasted here on performances that look and feel right out of a theatrical stage play or a student film trying to play on the level of Pulp Fiction, but with massively undeveloped characters, motivations, and plot turns that are totally arbitrary or just downright illogical. We never get any real back-story about anyone until almost the end of the film and many of the most interesting questions about what motivates these people are never answered. Instead we are left with what amounts to a collection of scenes that fail to tell a compelling or evolved story with only one major twist that comes out way too late.Hard Eight is essentially a great short film or one act play with enough character development appropriate for those formats, but as a feature it simply lacks enough subject matter and overall development to be anything more than a sketch of a film with a threadbare storyline and one-sided, unidentifiable characters who end up reacting more like animals than humans.Philip Seymour Hoffman despite having only one scene still manages to steal the show. "},{"Title":"Gambling Facts don't add up","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could not get past the scam where they were comping rooms for points accrued through coin purchases. No casino has ever rated players that way.  Also, what was Sydney's great professional gambling technique? Every time we saw him playing he was making high-risk and not very smart bets that failed to pay off.  "},{"Title":"WHAT???","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, after seeing Boogie Nights (which i thought was good, but overrated) and Magnolia (a great film), I decided to check what else PTA had done. Seeing that the users of this sight liked it, i decided to check it out. ....AWFUL! Of the 36 reviews given on this sight, i've seen only 3 or 4 honest and sensible ones. I shoulda noticed that all the rave reviews came from people who were already in love with PTA for Boogie Nights and Magnolia, and never failed to mention those movies in reviewing this one. This movie has a great start, then just takes an hour to drop the ball - by which time the movie's almost over and I just didn't care anymore because i'd spent the last 60 minutes watching contrived filler. Perhaps PTA forgot one of the first lessons in film school is 3 act structure. If you don't abide by it, you have a lopsided movie (unless your name is Quentin Tarantino). Glad to see PTA figured it out in time for Magnolia. And as for this film (As Leonard Maltin shoulda put it) - BOMB.  "},{"Title":"He follows you and worships you like you're a captain.","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Eight is written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. It stars Philip Baker Hall, John C. Rilley, Gwyneth Paltrow and Samuel L. Jackson. Music is by Jon Brion and Michael Penn and cinematography is by Robert Elswit.Wise old grifter Sydney Brown (Hall) takes gambling loser John Finnegan (Reilly) under his wing and teaches him some tricks of the trade. As their friendship develops a strong bond forms between them, but when John falls in love with prostitute &#x96; cocktail waitress Clementine (Paltrow), and shifty friend Jimmy ( Jackson) starts muscling in on the group, things start to go bad&#x85;Anderson's debut feature is a savvy character study, unhurried in execution, it thrives on bearing out the flaws of the four principal players. Anderson clearly has an affinity with early cycle film noir, for Hard Eight nods appreciatively in that direction. With the onset of fate sticking its oar in, dark secrets and murky motives, there's certainly noirish glue pinning the dialogue heavy screenplay together.Visually and technically it's well accomplished, the director deftly painting a brooding gambling city backdrop onto his character studied canvas. There's some nifty camera touches, but nothing extravagant so as to detract from the grounded and believable flow of the tale. The score is a bit out the ordinary, but innovative in its own way, and Elswit's colour compositions are sights for sore eyes.Anderson serves early notice of what a good director of actors he is, the four up top performances here are excellent, while Phillip Seymour Hoffman pops in for a boisterous cameo as well. With ambiance set at disquiet, claustrophobically fogging the characters, film plays out as an impressive piece of work. Some minor narrative missteps not withstanding, this is thoroughly absorbing cinema. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Film Noir","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Philip Baker Hall plays Sydney, the charismatic and enigmatic title role who meets John Finnegan (John C Reilly), outside a diner. Reilly's character is down on his luck, without enough money to pay for his own father's burial; and so Sydney offers John help in the form of fifty dollars and a ride to Las Vegas. There Sydney, the mysterious fatherly looking man with good intentions, shows John a trick or two to help him get back on his feet. John sticks with Sydney, and later we meet the lovely Clemantine (Gwyneth Paltrow) , an attractive, vulnerable waitress; and Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), John's rather dubious looking new friend.What follows is an appealing and involving tale filled with mystery and good intentions. The script is sublime. Outstandingly sophisticated and unbelievably, a first attempt at serious film making by Paul Thomas Anderson.The acting is also exceptional. There are no clichés or irritatingly familiar mannerisms to be found. Even the 'tough guy' of the movie seems somehow refreshing and original. I cannot praise Philip Baker Hall enough for his portrayal of Sydney, it was intriguing and utterly convincing.A very original story also.'Sydney' or 'Hard Eight', as it's sometimes known, is a classy and thrilling film reminiscent of old, great film noir. 8/10 -One to Watch. "},{"Title":"A less than impressive debut for a spectacular filmmaker.","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottom line, Sydney. No matter how hard you try...you're not his father.I consider myself to be a die-hard Paul Thomas Anderson fan. I love the guys work, I think he's a brilliant writer and director, and There Will Be Blood, Punch Drunk Love, and Magnolia are all among my favorite movies (Boogie Nights is up there, too).With that said, Hard Eight didn't do much for me.I just didn't find it interesting. Maybe it was the characters, or maybe the casino setting (which always has a hard time interesting me in any movie). Maybe his writing skills just weren't fully developed, yet. Whatever the reason, despite great actors like Philip Baker Hall, Samuel L. Jackson, and John C. Reilly, Hard Eight is the only P.T.A. movie that I haven't enjoyed. I didn't hate it, but I probably won't be watching it again any time soon.  "},{"Title":"The term Underrated is overly used regarding movies, BUT...","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I cannot think of any movie that I have ever seen which was more underrated when it was released than Hard Eight. I say this because of what happened to the film when it was released at a downtown San Diego theater. On opening day, it was scheduled to be shown five times. But absolutely NO ONE showed up for the first show, and every other screening that day, except for one, was canceled. And the film was not shown again after the first day.I found this very surprising, because when I had seen the trailer for Hard Eight, I was captivated by the glimpses at the characters, and I was mesmerized by the soundtrack. And when I saw the film in its entirety, I was very, very impressed.One of the strengths of this film is the careful casting that was done for even the smallest of roles. Nathaniel Cooper's restroom attendant and Michael J. Rowe's pit boss are seen for only the briefest of moments, but they leave a lasting and indelible impression for their realistic portrayals. And Melora Walters, in a split second portrayal of a panicked reaction, is unforgettable. So even those tiny roles make it clear that this film was meticulously cast as a labor of love.Philip Seymour Hoffman has a small role as a craps player taunting an old timer. But that small role gives a promising look at the talent of a future Oscar winner (Best Actor for Capote).In the lead roles, though, we get backward and forward looks at talent of the highest order. Philip Baker Hall echoes a bit of his mob character Sidney from Midnight Run, and Samuel L. Jackson echoes even more of his hit-man Jules from Pulp Fiction. Watching the smooth performances of John C. Reilly and Gwynneth Paltrow leaves the viewer aching for more, which will be delivered several years later by John C. Reilly in his Oscar-nominated performance in Chicago and by Gwynneth Paltrow in her Oscar-winning performance in Shakespeare In Love. The dismal box office failure of Hard Eight at the time of its release has been completely offset by the steamrolling cult following that has developed over the years.This truly UNDERRATED film is gradually being recognized for the true gem that it is. "},{"Title":"Very memorable Philip Baker Hall performance, and great script...","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw this movie on cable back in the nineties, I fell in love with it, especially since it was about Vegas. Paul Thomas Anderson directed this right before Boogie Nights, and his incredible screenplay talent has never been better, and his outstanding direction than in Hard Eight. Philip Baker Hall, in an always impressive character study, portrays Sydney who takes on a young John C. Reilly he finds at a diner sitting outside on the steps away from Vegas, and teaches him the ropes of Vegas. His motives are not sure until the end, and his great confrontation with Samuel L. Jackson. Along the way, Sydney and John meet a waitress/prostitute, Gwyneth Paltrow, who is also outstanding in this dynamite cast. Philip Seymour Hoffman has a small role as a jerk at the craps table, that gets under Sydney's skin. The story moves along with some tremendous dialogue scenes, especially in a motel room, where John and Paltrow have kidnapped a client of hers that refused to pay her, and this is after they had gotten married during the same afternoon. Not knowing what to do, they call Sydney, who works as a cleaner to straighten out their mess as best he can. The story pulls you into the characters and why Sydney is doing everything he's doing. Tremendous movie in every respect, check this one out, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An Incredible Drama","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Philip Baker Hall, who I've never seen in a lead role before and does a fine job in one, plays a very realistic person, and also a complete mystery to the audience. He is honest and sincere, but never completely on the same track as everyone else. He knows how to shortchange a casino and knows how to clean up certain types of messes, but who is he? Hall's portrayal is a very memorable one, a very deep and different sort of main character.John C. Reilly proves once again to be one of nowadays' most versatile and likable actors and Gwyneth Paltrow definitely turns in a good one here. Samuel L. Jackson brings an element of grit to the cast and, like Philip Baker Hall, has an unpredictable disposition. His scenes are riveting.Paul Thomas Anderson's script is not quite a crime film and not quite a crime drama. It's about the characters and the goings-on that would normally populate one of the two. We are intrigued throughout its slow, steady unraveling not because of the subject matter but because of the characters and the dialogue, and because we truly do not have a full understanding of what is happening until the last fifteen minutes.Anderson, a natural born master at the craft of film-making, has impressed me greatly with Boogie Nights and Magnolia, and I'd never seen this earlier and lesser known film of his. It has the same perfection in setting and mood, the same mixture of cold detachment and sad intensity, the same slow but steady and fixating pace as his later works. And as always, he leaves a lasting effect on his audience. "}{"Title":"A package of matches...","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" During my teenage years, I did not have much of a life. I don't have much of one now either. My time was filled, then and now, with work, words, and images. School has become a stressful mid-management position, but the words and images remain the same--slightly offbeat.Unlike my friends and peers, I watched a lot of randomly selected independent films during adolescence. I'm not sure who else in my rural town was renting Cold Comfort Farm or The Funeral (maybe the video store owners). In any event, as a preview, I first came to know this tale of down-on-their-luck individuals in the vast emptiness of Reno. I loved the look of Philip Baker Hall and John C. Reilly. I fell in love with Gwyneth. I additionally laughed gutturally when the pack of matches in John's back pocket self-combusted.Mind you, this was before I saw the movie.Eventually, the video came to Hudson Falls, and I dutifully rented it, watching it one evening when my parents were out. I must admit that I expected a comedy (based solely, of course, on the pack of matches), but what I found was something better and something that left an indelible mark upon me for the rest of my high school years. I've come to appreciate Boogie Nights and Magnolia more than Hard Eight, but this film still stays with me.There is terrible sadness in this film--in the eyes of the characters, for the most part--that you cannot escape. Gwyneth's mascara caked orbs haunt me to this day, as do the sacks under Philip's eyes. The one bright spot too comes from the ocular apparatus--that of John C. Reilly. Though he has come to play a similar role in many films, here is the first time you see him as the naive innocent. He performs beautifully, as does everyone else.It's truly a remarkable, though minor key, film. Magnolia and Boogie Nights are epic, in a sense, but Hard Eight, with its slim plot and grim photography, is a sonnet of awful beauty. One is not blind-sided by the movie; you can see easily the direction it is heading. It's impossible to look away, even though one knows they are awaiting a train wreck. For all the (welcome to me) bombast in Boogie Nights and Magnolia, I am happy to know that PT Anderson has the ability to subdue his more manic and excessive tendencies, as he does here. This is a movie for those that love Boogie Nights and Magnolia; it might also be a movie for those that hate Boogie Nights and Magnolia. "},{"Title":"Promising Debut","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Small town America... only this isn't the pleasant and white-picketed small town America of film noir fame, it's the gray and colorless small town America of neo-noir, and there's the man on the sidewalk looking like a lost bum to prove it. A bum who's being approached by that famous Man in a Black Trenchcoat...Hard Eight (AKA Sydney, but I've yet to see a version of it anywhere that actually claims that title) is a debut pretty much as promising as Blood Simple to the brothers Coen. Paul Thomas Anderson immediately sets out to give us only the best, with actors he wants to make famous and a script that has characters doing almost nothing we want (or expect) them to do, but who yet remain completely sympathetic throughout.Anderson also uses neo-noir color to great effect, allowing red and blue to do what harsh black and white contrast is supposed to do in classical noir. That said, Anderson still knows where the majority of the talent lies, and despite the long takes and steady-cam shots that would develop into those dizzying long takes from later movies, he focuses most of his time on the characters' faces, and just lets them be.If he hadn't already done the amazing and always stunning later work of Magnolia, Boogie Nights, and Punch Drunk Love, I'd say that this is a promising debut that makes me impatient for the next Anderson picture to come out, but since he does now have four classics notched into his belt, I must say, See this to see Anderson at his roots, and Man I can't wait for his next feature! --PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"a well done character study","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a very well-acted film about a man trying to atone for his past sins. From the few facts we are given about Sid's past, we can speculate that he was once an infamous gambler and cold-blooded killer. His former tough-guy lifestyle is probably the cause of Sid's divorce and the reason his children no longer communicate with him. But Sid in the movie, is much older and wiser and finds surrogate children in Clementine and John. Sid's father/son relationship with John is especially important because Sid was responsible for the death of John's father and feels overbearingly guilty.Both Clementine and John were initially cynical of Sid's altruistic nature, but later come to accept that he has no alterior motives for being nice to them, even though the viewer later finds out that Sid does. In order to mitigate his guilt, Sid wants to insure that John is happy and will do anything to guarantee this, including resorting to being his former callous, calculating, killer self.The final scene is very symbolic of Sid's character it depicts Sid covering up the blood on his sleeves. Although Sid is sincerely attempting to make up for his past mistakes, he can not change who he is; he can only do his best at covering it up and keeping it hidden from those he love.I deeply enjoy simple movies like this one that concentrate heavily on one character, his/her development, and relationships with other people--which is why I agree that the movie should have been called Sidney as PT Anderson intended it to be. I can understand though that some people do not like character oriented movies and will find it slow and even boring, but for those who really enjoy character studies, you will appreciate Hard Eight greatly. "},{"Title":"simply amazing","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most overlooked movies of the past decade.  I first viewed it after seeing P.T. Anderson's other masterpieces Magnolia and Boogie Nights, and this one is right on par with the others.  Philip Baker Hall delivers yet another incredible performance as Sydney.  He is not only a respected father figure for John C. Reilly's character, but for the audience as well.  Hall's amazing acting transforms Sydney into one of my favorite onscreen characters ever.  Samuel L. Jackson and Gwyneth Paltrow shouldn't be ignored either.  Hard Eight begins the career of the best ensemble cast ever put together including Philip Baker Hall, John C. Reilly, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Melora Walters.. who all appear in all three of P.T. Anderson's movies. I can't remember the last time that a story was presented so beautifully with such amazing shots and flawless acting.  I give this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Glimpse At Future Brilliance","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me preface my remarks about this movie by acknowledging  that I did not see Sydney/Hard Eight until AFTER I had seen P.T. Anderson's following films, Boogie Nights and Magnolia; and at this point I had become a rabid fan of the young director.  That said... I did not love this film the first time I saw it.  Or the second time.  But by the third watching a slow love for the picture and it's unique characters and characteristics grew in me.  It takes time to follow this film, which is much more low-key, subdued and slow-paced than Anderson's subsequent works.  The characters are quieter, simpler and not as easily accessible in their delivery; they hold back the words, but he lack of which, coupled with quite readable expressions (or none at all) often tells the viewer so much more than unneeded, over-done dialogue truly could. The performances put in by John C. Reilly, Philip Baker Hall and Gwyneth Paltrow are REAL.  Very real.  Never did I perceive the actor behind the character on screen.  Never did a line of dialogue, or even a single word, sound out of place or untrue to a moment or the persona uttering it.  And the actions, now matter how miniscule, stayed the course, as well.  The pacing of the film seems to be the only real conundrum in that it doesn't resemble the highly crafted and executed use of movement, weight and framing that would come to epitomize Anderson's other films (athough his trademark extra-long tracking shot does make it's debut here!).  And the sound track is sparse.  Perhaps this is because, as Anderson has alleged publicly several times (in particular in the Boogie Nights DVD edition director's commentary), Rysher Entertainment took control of Sydney during the editing process, barring the director's subsequent involvement with the film (changing the title to Hard Eight in the process).  Which leads one to wish for a true Director's Cut to see the light of day. Overall, this is still a great film, with a compelling, mysterious story, brilliant acting and the debut of an incredibly talented and promising director.  Sydney is only a taste of what's to come from the magnificent P.T. Anderson. "},{"Title":"excellent film noir","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul T. Anderson has been described as the epitome of fresh, but this is not in keeping with his film making style.  In Sydney, Anderson keeps his viewers in complete suspense by not showing them.  How many of you were anxious to the point of giddiness to find out what John was talking about?  Brilliant, right?  But a completely obvious and trusted film making device.  Maybe it's so fresh because Anderson employs it better than anyone has in a long time.The dialogue is wonderfuly believeable, stuff you'd hear on any given day, but with a sort of cinematic quality that you can't put your finger on.  Maybe it's best described as a Mamet thesis/anti-thesis.  Thesis, in that it has a beautiful, memorable film maker's ring to it.  Anti-thesis, in that it isn't stylized or flashy.  Truly, Anderson is the epitome of fresh.  "},{"Title":"An excellent picture","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"     P.T. Anderson's debut feature film, Hard Eight, or Sydney, is an excellent picture from beginning to end credits.    I saw Hard Eight after I had seen Boogie Nights and Magnolia (two of my all time favorite movies) and loved it. I think it highly ranks up with his following films.   One thing that I really love about Paul Thomas Anderson, especially in this movie, is his focussing on people and emotions.    Hard Eight follows the story of a young man down on his luck (John C. Reilly) and his unlikely meeting with a veteran gambler (Philip Baker Hall) and their friendships and confrontations in Reno, NV.   I liked Hall and Reilly's performances, some of the best of both of their good careers. Look for Samuel L. Jackson and Gwyneth Paltrow's performances as well.    This is a great movie that ranks high with Boogie and Magnolia. One of Anderson's best!   "},{"Title":"Smart, interesting film. A rare find.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Outstanding performances and a superb script make this a movie not to be missed. Hard Eight is one of those films that doesn't pull any punches and leaves you wanting to watch it again. A fantastic movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"undiscovered gem","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  hard eight is an understated,underrated gem of a movie...phillip baker hall is outstanding as an aging professional gambler and john c.reilly gives the best performance of his career as the hard luck drifter...gwyneth paltrow and samuel l.jackson also shine as a hooker and a hustler respectively...somehow this small movie is actually moving-and without gunfights and pyrotechnics. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie with and without commentaries maybe about 12 times, and I'm still pretty knocked out by it. It's not even as great as the other P.T. Anderson pictures exactly (released up until this point at least), but it's just so good and the pacing is so deliberate and everyone is so on the mark acting-wise. It's just a fantastic movie, and it gets better the further you crawl inside it. Simple, but just great. I can't say enough good stuff. I think that the main thing is really maybe just this this movie makes me excited about movies. that sounds so stupid. who cares. I mean it.  "}{"Title":"Sublimely crafted never predictable","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I came to this movie being a fan of Boogie Nights and Magnolia.  I'd never heard of this film until a normally very hard to please friend, who had rented it at random, enthused heavily about it.  The cast is recognisable; most of the Magnolia cast are there and even an Aimee Mann track features over the end credits.  Philip Baker Hall stars as Sydney, a mysterious figure who helps out John, a guy he meets sitting outside a diner who's fell on hard times.  Their relationship develops, with Sydney acting as a mentor for John (John C Reilly).  Time moves on and John and Sydney meet a stewardess, Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), and John becomes friendly with Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson).  I won't go any further plotwise, as part of the joy of this film is the way it unravels, but there are some truly fantastic moments such as the last frame is beautifully symbolic of Sydney's life as a whole.It's highly recognisable as a production with many techniques later used by the director.  The feel is warm, the characters take centre stage and the dialogue is superb and engaging.9/10. "},{"Title":"Hard Eight holds its weight","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is quite possible that P.T. Anderson has not yet surpassed this extremely impressive debut with his subsequent, and much more noticed and accoladed, efforts (Boogie Nights or Magnolia).   A film that is ultimately about atonement, Anderson weaves a fascinating set of wildly unpredictable characters and coaxes luminous performances out of John C. Reilly, Philip Baker Hall, Sam Jackson, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Phillip Seymour Hoffman. This film constantly surprises the audience with the reality of its characters. The writing and dialogue here evidence a filmmaker with much more maturity than one would expect.  Anderson is also willing to take risks with his characters, an all too rare phenomenon.  Rent this movie next time you are at Blockbuster.  "},{"Title":"The early signs were good...","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Thomas Anderson's debut picture is by no means as good as his more successful ventures, Boogie Nights (1997) and Magnolia (1999) but there is still a lot to appreciate in the film.  Re-titled as Hard Eight, the film is all about a middle-aged gambler who takes a young homeless man under his wing and proceeds to teach him the tricks of the trade.  Right from the very start, the performances of Philip Baker Hall and John C. Reilly (who would become frequent Anderson collaborators) in the two lead roles grab your attention and manage to keep a hold until the credits roll.  This is a sure sign of a successful film (critically that is, financially is a different thing altogether).Some time later, when the pair have established themselves in the gambling fraternity, they look after a young prostitute (a change of pace for Gwyneth Paltrow) and John (Reilly) soon falls in love with her. The story is a little bit patchy in places, something you'd perhaps expect from a young film-maker's first feature and there are one or two plot holes, but don't let that put you off, for it is a great film in its own right.  Anderson, in my opinion, is one of the most technically gifted directors in Hollywood and I'm sure he'll continue to entertain us long into the future. Lacking the assuredness of his next two films, Hard Eight (or Sydney) is still a very enjoyable film and a worthy debut from Anderson.  Catch it if you can. "},{"Title":"Truly excellent","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney (which is a much more appropriate  title than Hard Eight) is a beautifully done character study, directed by Paul Thomas Anderson.  It revolves around a professional gambler named Sydney (a superb Philip Baker Hall) and how he tries to help two people down on their luck John (John C. Reilly) and waitress/hooker Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow).The acting is top-notch, all around.  Philip Baker Hall gives the performance of his life as Sydney in this movie.  His portrayal of the lead is nuanced, subtle, and expressive, even with little dialogue.  (What he doesn't say is just as important as he does say.)  Before this role, he was one of those guys who looks familiar but whose name you never know.  This movie really gives him a chance to shine.  John C. Reilly, likewise, gives an excellent performance in a naive and diffident role.  Gwyneth Paltrow is quite memorable playing a tough, gritty role for all its worth.  I like Paltrow the most in the smaller supporting roles she had (like in Se7en) before she hit it big and got the real glamorous parts.  Samuel L. Jackson also has a supporting role, which he executes with his usual skill and talent (though his character could be a brother to the ones he played in Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown).This was Anderson's first feature-length picture.  A lot of people have cited big differences between it and his two later films, Boogie Nights and Magnolia.  On the surface they are very different.  Sydney is a small, unassuming film-noir character study.  Boogie Nights and Magnolia are, by contrast, almost epic in scope, covering many characters at once.  Magnolia was also a bit pretentious (I still love it though) and used tons of camera and editing tricks, whereas Sydney used photography that was quite direct and narrative.  All three movies have two important things in common they are all character-driven films, motivated by a desire to understand these people.  The second was the genuine affection that Paul Thomas Anderson has for his characters.  Anderson shows us his characters at their worst moments and forces us to love them.  It takes a true artist to do that.In some ways, I think Sydney is a better film than Magnolia.  While Magnolia was a much grander picture, it was almost too grand to actually pull off.  Sydney, on the other hand, is a little gem that was made perfectly.  Also, in Magnolia, Anderson gets a little more hung up on dialogue than Sydney, where silence can be as communicative as sound.I also like the lounge-music/easy listening music soundtrack.  It sets atmosphere and tone beautifully (though I'd hate to have to hear outside of the movie).  Sydney is also a good movie for people who like movies about gambling or casinos, especially because it provides an interesting counterpoint to the glamor of professional gamblers in other movies.  Here, Sydney might as well have had any monotonous paper-pushing job.Anyway, go see the movie.  Remember, the video is called Hard Eight. "},{"Title":"A rare but wonderful experience","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this in the year of its release twice, due to the wonders ofuncensored multi-choice viewing on Virgin Atlantic. I was very lucky as I don't believe it got a release in the UK. So I went to see BoogieNights because of Hard Eight. It was one of those exceptional firstmovies, like when I saw The Cohen Brothers' Blood Simple, theWachowski Brothers' Bound, and Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs (whenTarantino's name was totally unknown). All four, in quite different waysrevealed an unique film-making talent to watch out for. Hard Eight wasastonishing in its unlikely choice of leads, the then comparativelyunknown Phillip Baker Hall and John C. Reilly. Baker Hall's performanceis for me one of the great cinematic performances of the decade andit's sad that it is buried in obscurity. I'm not sure what this may belike if accompanied by expectations from having seen Boogie Nights andMagnolia, but I see from other comments that it has not disappointed.However, from my own experience it stands out as a great experience inits own right. I remember thinking it should have been, (as shouldReservoir Dogs), but could never have been, one of the Oscar nominationsfor Best Movies in its year. Anderson has certainly carried onfulfilling to all those who loved this movie, all the promise that wefound in it....................................... "},{"Title":"The best small-time film ever made.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney (I prefer to call it that) is the greatest small film ever made. The characters so well-drawn-out, and nothing is wasteful, excessive or over-the-top. It's so perfect, see it with an open mind. Cept for it's film noir I compare to Frank D. Gilroy's Desperate Characters and Once In Paris, other small psychological studies that are flawless except for the fact that they're not big-budget, giant opuses (like Boogie Nights and Magnolia). But that's not really a flaw if you can appreciate it, is it?  Whether you choose to accept this one-of-a-kind film experience is up to you. I loved it. Christmas Time so fitting. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful study of the intersection of character, environment, and personal history, displaying P.T. Anderson's great crossing of cool (brain, strategy, starkness) and hot (love, passion, sadness, etc.). With superb cameo by Philip Seymour Hoffman. Truly interesting from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"a first rate, modern noir film, Three stars ***","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"    Hard Eight is an excellent debut for Paul Thomas Anderson, he has gathered a strong cast led by Philip Baker Hall, and leads us into a world of small time hustlers, and their struggle for a meager existence on the tattered fringe of society. John C. Reilly is terrific here, as a naieve man, down on his luck in a city where luck is everything.  Samuel L. Jackson proves again that he is one of the better actors working today, in character roles like this one, he provides a worthy foil for Philip Baker Hall's, Sydney, as a man trying to acheive a measure of redemption.  Gwyneth Paltrow makes the most a lesser role with her performance, in a film where all the characters are developed just enough to draw the viewer in for an interesting ride.  Three stars out of a possible four. "},{"Title":"A great character study as well as a great location study","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot has been said about the acting already. Needless to say, Hall and Reilly are the best things coming out of Hollywood today and PT Anderson directing them is just an added bonus.The truly amazing part of this film is how it captures Reno (in a few reviews reported incorrectly to be Vegas) as it has never been captured before. It becomes a character as important as any other.Reno is a town living in the shadow of it's big brother, Vegas. It can never reach the level or notoriety of Las vegas but it doesn't try to. It's become it's own creature of grind gamblers trying to eek out a living a dime at a time, tourists coming in on junkets for 5 hours at a time, hunters stopping by the brothels outside of town on the way home and cheap buffets and tails. The smoke filled casinos with worn carpets and cheap 2-story motels fits these characters like a glove. The parking lot scene is Reno.A great film but won't appeal to everyone's tastes...but that's the beauty of Anderson's works. "},{"Title":"Somewhere between Casino and Swingers lies Sydney","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney is the first film from director Paul Thomas Anderson better known as the director of Boogie Nights, this years loathed and loved Magnolia and several Fiona Apple videos. This film is essentially about a man who seems to pick up kids off the street (John C. Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow) and teach them the ways of the casino and gambling and helps them out. Sydney knows everything about everything, the man is flawless, or is he? Paltrow is good as a waitress who just can't stop prostituing herself. Reilly is funny and sweet as John the serrogant son of Sydney. Jackson is slimey, sleazy and somehow likeable as only Jackson can be. And of course Philip Baker Hall as Sydney is amazing. Sydney is merely a taste of what was to come from this young director. There are some long steadicam shots and there is the funny, Tarantinoish (minus much of the swearing and less pop culture references) dialogue. Anderson knows how to use a camera and editing to their full effect and make a scene that could be boring if directed by anyone else, exciting. Look for cameos from many future Andersonites (Philip Seymour Hoffman, Robert Ridgely) The film is a cut above most crime thrillers, this one is more light hearted (for a crime movie, it's not light hearted for say a romantic comedy, no no ), funny and even touching in some parts. If you are a fan of Anderson rent this, see how he has  increased his creativity and grown on his talents since this film. If you are not a fan of Anderson rent this, cause if the things you didn't like about Magnolia were the long running time and some pointless steadicam shots, you'll be happy to see this one is little over 1 hour 40 min and only has several long steadicam shots that are used for a reason. Listen for the great score by Boogie Nights composer Michael Penn and Magnolia composer Jon Brion and a Christmas song at the end credits by Penn and his wife, Magnolia soundtrack star Aimee Mann.  "}{"Title":"it all begins with cigs and coffee","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  So,this was the start of PTA film directing career!What a wonderful start. A good cast,(as always,I think Phil Hall is an undiscorved gem. I wish that his peers will give this man,at least an oscar nom!!)with an interesting story of a man who is trying to make right the mistakes of the past. Phil Hall plays the character Sydney very cool,poised,and confident.Things aren't always what they seem and we could find ourselves into a situation way over our heads. A very good film and this is only the begining of the very talented mr.anderson. "},{"Title":"Impressive debut for Paul Thomas Anderson","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before P.T. Anderson dazzled moviegoers with his incredible community mosaics Boogie Nights and the operatic Magnolia he showed the film industry what he could do on a minimalistic budget with Hard Eight. Phillip Baker Hall is very low key and captivating as the protagonist of the story named Sydney. An ex gambling pro and small time crook he meets and helps a man named John ( John C Reily) by showing him out to make a living, working casinos. Anderson through his brilliant direction establishes a mood and tone, which is sustained through out. Gwenyth Paltrow who I generally think little of gives a suprisingly effective performance as Clementine, a cocktail waitress and part time hooker with no brains. Also rounding out the cast is Samuel L Jackson, a opportunist hood who befriends John and is at odds with Sydney. The film is very atmospheric. Anderson captures the cold and emptiness of hotel and  motel rooms, which also exudes a feeling of claustrophobia, as well as the unpredictable moments of violence.  While Boogie Nights and Magnolia show Paul Thomas Anderson's  maturation and evolution as a master director this film shouldn't be overlooked. Highly reccommended.Anyone who watches  this film should also check out Robert Altman's 1974 movie California Split with a similar theme and setting. "},{"Title":"Ok, then...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have now seen two of Paul Thomas's films, the perfect Magnolia and now Hard Eight.  This film was pretty impressive, especially for being his debut.  I thought it was very similar to Magnolia in its themes but not in the over all presentation of them.  Both dealt with flawed character trying to make right the past, but the character development in Hard Eight was not as good as Magnolia.  I know that I should not expect it to since, Magnolia was perfect in every way, IMHO, but I just did not care as much for these characters.  Don't get me wrong I really liked them, I just was expecting brilliance again.  The movie seemed drag on a little and I did not get to know the characters like I wanted to.  It seemed to short, but at the same time to long.  I wanted more character developement, but I also wanted it to be visually and narratively better.  If I had not seen Magnolia before I do not think I would have enjoyed this movie as much, but since I got used to PTA and I now see his brilliance in writing I appreciated this film for what it did offer.  What it did offer was sensational acting, and excellent writing.  The direction was only mediocre to what he can and has proven to do, but still decently above average.  PTA has a sense of what real life is about.  He shows that humans are flawed, but good, although in this movie I think it ends on sort of a flawed aspect.  Life is not what you expect, no one is who they appear to be.  Over all I think I give this movie an 8, and Magnolia an infinite. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, colorful, moving film","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Thomas Anderson's first film shines!  A beautiful, colorful journey through one man, Sydney, and his protege John.  A wonderful story that touches many deep themes and issues, with four great core characters. Phillip Baker Hall delivers a flawless performance as the aging, enigmatic Sydney, a man who wishes to turn over a new leaf.   "},{"Title":"Was this movie overlooked or what?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, I gotta admit, although I heard about his movie on it's first release, I did not get around to watching it until after I  saw PT Anderson's magnificent 'Magnolia', but I have to say that had I seen it previously to Anderson's later two movies, I would have enjoyed it more. The story begins with Sydney, the fabulous Phillip Baker Hall, 'saving' John's (John C. Reilly) life.  He teaches him how to scam in casino's and, after a two year jump in the story, we see the former treating the latter like a son.  We soon meet Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow) and Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson) who are integral to the development of the film. If you see this movie then you will notice that Anderson does not use his camera to it's full extent, as proved in 'Boogie Nights', but the visual flair has the marks of a cinematic genius in the making. The acting is sublime, with Baker Hall on form only seen in Anderson movies, Reilly proves his rep with a performance that is both naive and telling, even Paltrow-who ordinarily makes me retch-is very good. Jackson, post-'Pulp Fiction', is no Jules Winnfield, but he rarely will be.  Making cameos are even Anderson stalwarts Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Melora Walters and the late Robert Ridgely. So, to recap, 'Hard Eight' is no 'Magnolia', but is still a damn fine movie all the same. "},{"Title":"A great first film for Anderson","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney (aka Hard Eight) is an amazing movie for one reason Phillip Baker Hall.  He's an amazing actor.John C. Reilly, Samuel L. Jackson, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Gwyneth Paltrow all nicely added to this surprisingly gripping film.  While Sydney is less flashy than Anderson's Boogie Nights or Magnolia, it's worth seeing for proof that great character development, tension, shocks and humour can all easily fit into a film that's under two hours. "},{"Title":"Hard Eight is an improvement....","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Eight, as it was titled when I saw it, is definitely an improvement over Sidney, don't you think?And, this is probably the only improvement this movie needed. I was sucked into it from the very beginning. Phillip Baker Hall's voice just seemed so right, as if you could believe every word he said. I've always wanted a voice like that. I suppose acquiring that level of assertiveness requires a lifetime of work. Mr. Hall shows here that he learned his trade well. "},{"Title":"Terrific debut from P.T. Anderson, well written dialogue.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  P.T. Anderson has proven himself to be a brilliant new talent, incredibly skilled with the pen and behind the camera.  Although a bit too much in love with himself (listen to his commentary on the DVD's), his first two movies have both showed amazing strengths.  Hard Eight, a wonderful story about a man seeking redemption, at least within himself, is played by Phillip Baker Hall, one of those actors who never seems to give a bad performance.  The supporting cast is equally as strong with John C. Reilly, Sam Jackson and Gwyneth Paltrow both doing a great job.  Along with Boogie Nights, these two films provide as solid a start to a career as one could hope for. Anderson is wonderful with the camera and with the actors, giving us a story that keeps us interested throughout.   "},{"Title":"A self-assured first film","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Eight (AKA Sydney-dumb title), is a wonderful film. That this was made by a guy in his twenties, makes it even more remarkable.It's worth noting that Citizen Kane, was Welle's first film, too, though I'm sure Mr. Anderson would agree that his film is not in the same league as Welles' picture. I saw Hard Eight prior to Boogie Nights, and even then, you could see that Mr. Anderson knew precisely what he was doing. As everybody has commented, Philip Baker Hall is terrific - the plot is good. It's gritty in its depiction of lives on the brink.It went straight to video here in Australia, and if it wasn't for a friend of mine, who bought a tape of the film in the States, I (and friends I've recommended it to), would have missed one of the best films on that subject I've seen. I am waiting patiently for the next film from Paul Thomas Anderson "},{"Title":"gwenyth paltrow looks good no matter what","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i had never heard anything about this movie, and i only rented it because i like gwenyth paltrow. since i had no expectations for this movie, i may like it more than i should. i am a fan of the movie that takes a different approach to existing themes. i would call this the really odd buddy movie. and it works. there is one scene in the movie where miss paltrow may look her worst ever, and she is still quite appealing.  "}{"Title":"If you liked Boogie nights then see it again because Hard eight has nothing to do with it for good.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had two big reasons to see this movie the first one was Philip Baker Hall, when I saw him playing Bookman on Seinfeld I said to myself This guy is the man. The other reason was Paul Thomas Anderson I did like Boogie nights a lot and I wanted to see previous movies from him and Hard eight looked just great.If you liked Boogie nights then see it again because Hard eight has nothing to do with it for good. Hard eight is a slow movie and there's not too many things happening on it though. Even so, there's a well-created atmosphere and some very amusing characters that made of Hard eight a tremendous movie. I can't have enough Philip Baker Hall he's a magnificent actor and it seems Sidney's role were made just for him; He's tough but pretty gentle at the same time, he's disturbed and quiet but he seems able to manage any situation no matter how difficult it can be. Sidney is a big reason not to considerate this movie as a slow David Mamet movie-wanna-be but a great movie about a very particular man and the though way he deals with life under the shinning neon lights of Reno.The rest of the cast is superb Boogie nights' John C. Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow and Samuel L. Jackson.I would give it a 9,3.  "},{"Title":"You will congratulate yourself.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films that was buried by a studio that just did not know what it had.  So when you discover it in the video store, or see it on T.V. late one night (or, even more appropriate, are drawn to it because of P.T. Anderson's Boogie Nights.) you'll just have to congratulate yourself on finding this noir-ish masterpiece.  Whereas Boogie Nights used subtlety of character in a bodacious, byzantine story structure, underscored by suitably attention grabbing direction, Hard Eight uses the exact opposite, and the end result is every bit as transfixing.  Phillip Baker Hall shows us what real acting is all about and the great John C. Reilly gives us another effortless and wholly believable performance (he looks and acts like Tom Hanks' brother).  Although not the instant classic Boogie was, this is still ripe for discovery. "},{"Title":"I wish all film-makers had this ingenuity","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Needless to say Boogie Nights is one of the best movies to come out of the '90s.  Right alongside of that most original and daring of movies should go Hard Eight.  I rented this movie about four months after its theatrical release...it had that short of a life span, however, it remains as a true statement to the directorial leadership of Paul Thomas Anderson.  This guy has made all the right moves and it wouldn't surprise me if Magnolia is better than both of these movies.  If you're thinking about renting Hard Eight...do it.  Sam Jackson kicks in a typical performance, but besides that the whole cast outshines their expectations. "},{"Title":"enthralling","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was an incredibly riveting movie, I could not stop watching it. It was suspenseful, happy, sad, and a bit bizarre. I just had to find out what happened next, had to find out where the story would lead. And I won't ruin it for you, but it didn't ever quite lead where I expected it to. I was pretty much puzzled throughout the whole movie, and I loved it. ) "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled across Hard Eight on the Independent Film Channel a few nights ago, and began watching without knowing anything about the director  or cast. Well, what a nice surprise. Philip Baker Hall gave one terrific performance, as did Paltrow, et al. It's nice to see a film in which the actors aren't that well known (although Paltrow is in the big leagues now). Their relative anonymity gives the film a chance to prove itself. The work either stands or falls all on its own merits or lack thereof. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"You really should see this movie","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw The Sweet Hereafter, which is a kinda lethargic character study in which the plot is moved forward primarily by dialogue interrupted by brief moments of action. It deals with themes of death and redemption. Ebert gave it four stars. Yet it is by far one of the WORST movies ever made.Hard Eight is somewhat similar in these respects, but Ebert gave it only three and a half. Yet it is one of the BEST. What's different? This one has a STORY, some CONFLICT, a REVELATION, some GREAT DIALOGUE, and some really cool ACTING by people who you felt really liked this script. What more do you want in a movie? "},{"Title":"Cool lo-fi movie.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Made before Boogie Nights, this movie was lots of fun to watch after having already seen Boogie. There are lots of folks from Boogie in this film and Anderson uses some musical elements from Boogie Nights in this movie as well. Notice the music when Paltrow comes up to the Captains room. Same music is later used in Boogie Nights when Rollergirl beats down the old high school classmate outside the limo which cross cuts with Mark Walhberg's character beaten down by johns. Check out the rude dude at the craps table busting the captains chops.....look familiar? This also happens to have the best performance I've seen from Paltrow before. Quite recommended. "},{"Title":"Casino-centric pulp noir","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Some fine acting and some interesting quirks. I was surprised though that Anderson fails to really tell the story well. There's a certain amount of contrived obfuscation, an attempt to create tension and mystery. I got the feeling that the big secrets, once revealed, were Anderson playing lip-service to the expectations he'd set up as if he wasn't really interested himself in the first place. (Hmm, I wonder if a suit got bolshy in the editing suite..?)All this let-down doesn't stop Philip Baker Hall doing his thing. He looks craggy and worn but not weary. A convincing gent in a notoriously seedy environment, he seems to appear from nowhere and do nothing but retain a sense of purpose. Reilly and Paltrow both manage to curry sympathy despite playing remarkably juvenile individuals and Samuel L. Jackson's chancer is entirely the actor's creation - horrid and immensely watchable. The performances and some Anderson trademarks (like the truck acting as a sort of symbolic screen-wipe at the very beginning) are the reasons to give this a try. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Roll the dice and bet the house on this film","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a powerhouse movie with solid and intense acting.  Director Paul Thomas Anderson takes the viewer inside the outside of the gambling rooms and motel rooms of Reno Nevada.  It is a shame that this movie fell between the cracks and is now collecting dust at your local video stores.  John C Reily is especially powerful as the father figure to all the main characters. His eyes burn holes through the screen.  This film proves that the ugly side of the street is more interesting than the side that is beautiful ,perhaps even phony. Highly Recommened "},{"Title":"Woefully predictable","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so bad. I find it hard to believe that anyone likes this film but that seems to some that PT Anderson can do no wrong. Whilst Anderson's other films are passable (but overrated), this one is filled with clichés and wooden acting. None of the dialogue is original; every single line has appeared in another film before it. The characters are banal stereotypes. The old mentor teaching a sassy, overconfident maverick has been done to death. I found the character of Sydney (apparently the original title to the film) offered nothing to the world of ideas and Philip Baker Hall could have mailed in his performance from the set of one of his many other films that he acts in (this guy is not very picky when it comes to choosing parts). I can see why the distributors changed the name from this inane character but the later title is probably worse. When Sydney talks about the hard eight in the film I was filled with the nausea that always comes from a gratuitous reference to the title within the film. As for John Reilly, I don't know what his strengths are but I often assume it is knowing people with talent. If you are one of the people who thinks that Reilly is talented then this may be the film for you. But if you are looking for someone who can go beyond being himself in a film then Reilly's performance will surely disappoint. Forget the art-house raves; this is a film to avoid at all costs. "}{"Title":"Melancholy beyond cunning","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a bit ambivalent here. Like young Tarantino, it moves the story by gaps away from story, small talk around a table over coffee or drinks, omitting and jumping ahead. Like Jarmusch, it has a languid air and characters shown to be hurt but still retain their kindness. He may have known Kaurismaki or not. Scorsese definitely.Reservoir Dogs was upending the ordinary heist movie by wandering around the main piece, this one is upending the casino movie by setting us up to imagine some cunning scheme that will maybe backfire, but what really backfires is that these people aren't cunning, aren't in calculating control of their emotions. The 'scheme' is that the old fox was trying to set up a happy life for him, subtly guiding the narrative, to make up for what he took away. Like all these filmmakers, PT knows all the different bits from movies, as movies, and leverages a tentative control over both camera and narrative. He would later leverage more and more of that control in his art, size, strident ambition, first via Scorsese, then Altman, then Kubrick. In fact, as a matter of forces that move the world, I prefer this to some of his later projects. It's all very well prepared and he's good with actors but, unlike Altman, it doesn't break away from that control, it stays in my eyes as a certain kind of film that he's trying to make. It was early but you can tell even here, he wants a music that is tentative, flows and surrounds but tries to construct it by plucking each note carefully instead of allowing his hands to dance along the keys. It's the most talented guy in his film school showing that he has skill.(It's also mentioned as modern noir by some and that's how I came to it, more apt to simply call it about messed up lives and it has something to do with a crime. Noir is a different thing altogether.) "},{"Title":"A solid but flawed debut film by a master director !!!","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have always been a big admirer of Paul Thomas Anderson's films. His vision, style and attention to detail has always fascinated me. I had not seen his debut film and decided to watch it. 'Hard Eight' or 'Sydney' starts in a very mysterious fashion. An unknown man suddenly walks up to another unknown man sitting on the pavement outside a coffee shop and offers him a cup of coffee. The storyline gradually gives us more and more information about these characters and their motivations.This film at the basic level is a character study. The primary themes underlying this piece of work are redemption, guilt and parenthood. Sydney is a fascinating character. Anderson doesn't bombard the viewer with a lot of exposition about the central character. He allows the narrative to flow and gradually the character gets more and more fleshed out. The style of storytelling is very typical and similar to Anderson's later films. He uses very interesting camera-work, characteristic Scorsese inspired long tracking shots and long conversation scenes which raise tension. So the style of storytelling as has always been the case with Paul Thomas Anderson is brilliant, but the problem that I had with the film was the writing related to the characters other than Sydney. The characters of John and Clementine played by John C. Reilly and Gwyneth Paltrow are sort of underwritten. These characters make decisions and choices that seem odd, unrealistic and utterly far- fetched. I found it very difficult to convince myself that these two characters would decide to do some of the things that they do in the film.The acting is good from the others, but the main attraction is Philip Baker Hall. He sells every emotion and the psychological dilemmas the character of Sydney faces and along with that brings an air of reticence that makes the character very mysterious and interesting.Hard Eight being a film directed by a master storyteller has its positives, but the fact that Anderson was at his infancy when it comes to direction and writing at this stage is also on show. The writing at times is unimpressive and the good direction and the acting can't make me completely overlook that. "},{"Title":"Hard Facts!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Eight (1996) Dir Paul Thomas Anderson / Cast Phillip Baker Hall, John C. Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow, Samuel L. Jackson, Philip Seymour Hoffman Intriguing view of guilt presented as the game Hard Eights itself. Phillip Baker Hall invites a depressed John C. Reilly to coffee. Reilly claims to need $6000 to bury his mother and offers Hall fifty for a trip to Vegas where he is taught how to win at the slot machines. Reilly meets a waitress played by Gwyneth Paltrow and not long after they are married. Director Paul Thomas Anderson employee many surprises including an ending that solves nothing. What works is intriguing well written characters that elevate above the plot. Great performance by Hall smitten with guilt over the death of Reilly's father. This is an opportunity for Reilly to play a lead. He plays an individual broken by family loss and attempts happiness with this sudden romance that turns ugly when prostitution plays a factor. Paltrow is interesting as a waitress who marries Reilly only to end up with a stranger handcuffed to the bed in a prostitution scam. Samuel L. Jackson is excellent as a blackmailer who knows Hall's past and the secret he conceals. Philip Seymour Hoffman makes an appearance as a craps player. Anderson gambles simple setups yet comes up with the winning hand on a screenplay that addresses guilt and the ever conscious need to hide sin. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Well Written,Character Driven Story,","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Eight is a terrific movie with a very well developed storyline and a terrific cast.The storyline is not extremely interesting or exciting,it all relies on writing and performances ,two things which I think this movie succeeds very well at,if the characters dialogue wasn't so well written and the actors failed to deliver natural performances then this movie surely would have failed,but it did very well on both grounds.The best performance has to go to Phillip Baker Hall,his character was very unique compared to anyone I've seen in any other movie and was certainly given the best lines,Sydney is a very memorable character.I don't have much complaints about this movie,I'm giving it an eight because I didn't think it was outstanding,but it knows what it wanted to be and certainly succeeded at that.It has great characters and very natural performances,I would recommend Hard Eight to anyone looking for a good drama or crime film. Two men who make a living conning casinos are threatened by a security adviser.Best Performance Phillip Baker Hall "},{"Title":"Hard men and soft ones","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson's first film really had everything - Gwynneth Platrow! Samuel L. Jackson! John C. Reilly! Philip Seymour Hoffman! and of course, a magisterial performance from veteran actor Philip Baker Hall in the lead role. But it's not just the mostly not-yet-quite-so-famous cast that make the movie stand out. Structured as a taut three-act play, the movie is mesmerising but never easy Reilly plays a loser's loser, Paltrow's role is not the sort in which her contemporary audience to seeing her, Hofmann is just repulsive, there's something faintly effeminate (on first glance) about Jackson, while Hall is supremely enigmatic right until the end. A heavy score guides us through the confusion. In contrast, Anderson's later films seem overweight and comfortable (although the director has re-used some of the same cast in his other works). Although it has something of a beginner's feel to it (the low budget, and there's a certain show-off property in the depths of it's stylish restraint), it's still my favourite of his movies. "},{"Title":"I want you to see that my reasons for doing this are not selfish, only this I'd hope that you would do the same for me.","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" John played by John C. Reilly, has lost all his money. He sits outside a diner in the desert when Sydney played by Philip Baker Hall, happens along, buys him coffee, then takes him to Reno and shows him how to get a free room without losing much money. Under Sydney's fatherly tutelage, John becomes a successful small-time professional gambler, and all is well, until he falls for Clementine played by Gwyneth Paltrow, a cocktail waitress and sometimes hooker. Roger Ebert wrote, Movies like Hard Eight remind me of what original, compelling characters the movies can sometimes give us. I agree completely that Hard Eight is full of compelling characters such as Sydney who I find to be extremely wise; an example of this is where Sydney states I want you to see that my reasons for doing this are not selfish, only this I'd hope that you would do the same for me. Hard Eight is an underrated film but an extremely well made film with a marvellous script that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"Low key, but still pretty damn good","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" (69%) A precision made crime drama that tells its very neat plot with a fine degree of characterisation and thought. The cast only consists of four different people, each adding an integral part to the movie, and once the main intention of Philip Baker Hall's character is let out there's not a lot else to be told in what is a very low key movie. The cast is pretty faultless, even the sometimes too bland Paltrow gives a good performance, but this is Hall's movie as he is one of the coolest older men ever to feature in a movie. Scriptwise this is watertight, with every section finely crafted, and the movie has aged well in nearly 20 years. Without doubt this is worth tracking down, but it does lack the substance required to make it a true classic. "},{"Title":"A solid debut","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The last film I needed to watch from Paul Thomas Anderson was his debut Hard Eight and it was a solid start of his illustrious career. I liked how mysterious Philip Baker Hall's character Sydney is for the most part of the film, making you always wonder what are his real intentions with John. Samuel L. Jackson, John C. Reilly and Gwyneth Paltrow give fine performances too, but none of their characters were likable or very interesting for me, so I didn't really care for them. John and Clementine make some bad and even ridiculous decisions sometimes, so it's a bit hard to feel sorry for them when things so wrong. I enjoyed the big reveal of Sydney, being an unpredictable turn of events and that was a great way to establish his real ties with John. While the ending is quite predictable and didn't have much of an impact for me, Hard Eight is still a nice effort from Paul Thomas Anderson. "},{"Title":"naturalistic and character driven.","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" In Hard Eight, first time director Paul Thomas Anderson has constructed a subtle yet powerful commentary on redemption, it's prices and ultimately, its viability.Sydney (Philip Baker Hall) is a professional gambler, we know nothing about his background for most of the film but it becomes quickly apparent that he spends most of his time in casinos (with only brief respites in dinners). At the outset he comes upon John (John C. Reilly) a down and out, apparent loser, whom Sydney takes under his wing. Sydney teaches John, first how to gain casino hospitality with very little loss and eventually mentors him in the ways of professional gambling.For the majority of the film, the intrigue lies in the fact that he seems to have no motive for doing any of this, and it only grows when Sydney seems only too willing to help Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow) out of her damaging lifestyle as well. A cocktail waitress and part time hooker, Clementine, had captured Johns affections and ultimately brings things to a head with a particularly senseless mistake.The fourth (and last) main character is Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), who is a friend of Johns, but who Sydney has little time for.The Film is almost entirely character driven and contains impeccable performances by all involved, indeed it has to since the plot is not nearly strong enough without them. Of course it's no bad thing that the plot isn't strong, it's not that type of film, largely any situation that happens isn't there for any reason other than to show how the characters react. Hall's performance is particularly impressive, chiefly since his characters motivation isn't fully revealed until about 15 minutes before the end. Despite this he carries the film majestically and one cannot help but get the sense that Sydey is significant and incredibly fascinating. No mean feat when the audience knows so little about his character. Reilly, Paltrow and Jackson's performances are commendable also, but for me, their characters serve mostly as secondary characters to Sydney's. That's not to say that they come across as anything but very three dimensional, each actor has at least one scene in which to shine and shine they do.One of the films many strengths is in it's extremely naturalistic tone, not of course uncommon in many films, but done to perfection in this one. The script constantly has all of the characters stumbling over or at a loss for words, and we're often given the impression that they're completely clueless and out of their depths, they seem like real people! Two scenes in particular stand out as testament to this, the motel room scene and the car scene towards the end with Jackson and Hall. Both are so realistic that one can imagine they were hardly scripted at all.The film, though perhaps not a masterpiece, is extremely good and upon it's release, demonstrated great promise in it's director, who of course went on to direct the sublime Magnolia. It entices the viewer to contemplate the very idea of forgiveness. To what extent does a persons past affect how we perceive him, are some acts truly irredeemable? "},{"Title":"Haunting, Poignant & Tense","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The unusual circumstances in which two men meet before going on to become good friends, provides Hard Eight with an intriguing opening to a story which also features kidnapping, blackmail and a brutal killing. First-time director/writer Paul Thomas Anderson takes time and care to develop his characters and this approach pays off handsomely, as it's the strength of these characters and the relationships between them that ultimately make this movie so interesting and memorable.The tense atmosphere and deliberate pacing, which are established right from the start, create a closeness between the two men and also add emphasis to the anxieties and suspicions that are present between them, especially during their first meeting.As he approaches a roadside diner somewhere in Nevada, Sydney Brown (Philip Baker Hall), a professional gambler in his sixties, sees a young man who's clearly down-on-his-luck sitting on the ground close to the entrance of the building. He offers to buy him a cup of coffee and give him a cigarette. Sydney soon learns that John (John C Reilly) has lost all his money whilst gambling in an attempt to raise enough cash to pay for his mother's funeral. Sydney offers to show the young man how to be successful in the casinos and despite his understandable scepticism, John agrees.A couple of years later, John has prospered as Sydney's protégé and after having paid off his mother's funeral costs, gets married to an attractive cocktail waitress called Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow). John has also become friendly with Jimmy (Samuel L Jackson) who's a security officer and a man that Sydney dislikes and really doesn't trust.Clementine's part-time work as a hooker leads to trouble when one of her clients refuses to pay and she and John keep the man hostage in their motel room. Sydney is called to help them out and soon takes control of the situation but also runs into bigger trouble shortly after, when Jimmy threatens and blackmails him.Philip Baker Hall gives a top class performance as the lonely, well dressed, experienced gambler with a face that's filled with sadness and lines. He's dignified and shrewd and looks as if he's been through some tough experiences but also finds it gratifying to help John out. John is another lonely person who appreciates the progress he's made under Sydney's guidance but his poor judgement and gullibility will clearly make it impossible for him to ever fully emulate his mentor's success. John C Reilly, in a consistently strong performance, is very natural and convincing in the way that he portrays John's naivety and impetuosity.Clementine is not as streetwise as she needs to be and Gwyneth Paltrow conveys her character's underlying sadness very effectively. Samuel L Jackson is also on great form as the violent thug who totally underestimates Sydney.Hard Eight is haunting and poignant and its overall tone and tempo is perfect for a movie in which a dark secret, hidden motives and a need for redemption affect so much of what takes place. "}{"Title":"Quirky and confident - decent debut","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie starts of with the silent and reserved Sydney (Philip Baker Hall) entering a roadside cafeteria, where he comes across a down-trodden John (John C. Reilly). Sydney takes a strong interest in John, where he attempts to offer the younger man solutions to his problems by offering his key services the talents of a professional gambler. After this encounter John ties himself to the old dog and becomes his protégé. A few years down the line John finds a love interest in Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), waitress / part-time hooker, which in turn initiates a sequence of events that change the nature of the relationship between the two men.American cinema loves its cars, its gangsters and its gambling, while art-house delves passionately into quirkiness. I for one never really found inspiration or admiration to either of the mentioned themes. Hard Eight dabbles with two of them gambling with a touch of quirky characters. Nonetheless the story does prove emotionally involving to some level, although underdone and at times hollow or open-ended. The latter is in part due to the restrained character development and jumpy plotting, which delivers us to required locations, but ignores opportunities to connect the dots. Basically Hard Eight (in almost Tarantinesque fashion) concentrated the movie around several key scenes, full of emotional full, content and a decent amount of talking, while the rest of the scenes are subservient and essentially meaningless filler.The sell of the story heavily lies on Philip Baker Hall's shoulders, as he does his job excellently with a even-handed, but scene-grabbing, performance. Nonetheless not a thoroughly involving and passable debut (full of beginner's jitters) by the great Paul Thomas Anderson, which nonetheless shows his qualities as a director, especially in regards to actor interaction.Some of the cinematography was questionable and slightly amateurish. "},{"Title":"Well thought out character study","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" PT Anderson's first film is a good one, it may be low budget but it packs a quartet of gripping performances. Many people may look at this and think it is an action/crime movie but it is not. This film is a study of a man reaching out in guilt to help others and of the consequences when his protégé makes some poor friends.The best character in this film to watch is Sydney himself as the kind of man who has been doing the same thing for the last umpteen years and realizes he needs to make an impact in someone's life to make his life worthwhile. Baker Hall's performance is scene stealing, and he takes a character who uses subtle gestures and queues to make a point and lets him dominate the other characters with it. Much credit must be given to Anderson's screenplay for it's ear for character not plot driven dialogue, much like Tarantino, Anderson lets anecdotes and quips reveal details and traits of his characters.My personal favourite scene was the scene in the beginning when Sydney meets John's new friends and is able to read them both like books all without interrogation style questions. This film is worthwhile and rewarding, a good choice for a person who likes thoughtful dialogue and engaging characters. "},{"Title":"Final Eight","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson's debut feature film 'Hard Eight' is rather different from his other films, namely the better known 'Magnolia' and 'Boogie Nights'. It's rather downplayed and lowkey in comparison. 'Hard Eight' is a character-driven piece that centers around three loners Sydney (Philip Baker Hall), John (John C. Reilly) and Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow). Each character are presented with a second chance after leading a life of misery. Things seem to be going well for all three until Clementine makes a mistake that drags John into a mess and, in event, Sydney's past comes back to haunt him. The execution is very subtle as the lighting and score are effectively underused and the cinematography is excellent. I also found the intriguing dialogues to be both clever and amusing. The characters speak volumes using just a few words. It's great to see Philip Baker Hall in a lead role after a long time. He effortlessly carries the part and owns his scenes. John c. Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow and Samuel L. Jackson are also superb in their respective parts. Anderson's style of direction brings an creates an enigmatic atmosphere which is very noir-like. While 'Hard Eight' can be described as offbeat compared to Anderson's other works it's certainly worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Hard Eight","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Just as expected, Hard Eight is most interesting as a document of young Paul Thomas Anderson finding his footing. Anderson's style is well developed; the film is full of subtle, effective camera movement and he constructs a fully realized world both in and out of the frame. The writing is a bit more problematic Hard Eight lacks the personal/political weight of his later material, and Sydney is really a bit racist--why parking lot security, man? The material is elevated by a commanding performance from Philip Baker Hall, but it's most interesting as a precursor to Boogie Nights, Magnolia, Punch-Drunk Love, There Will Be Blood... holy sh*t that's a filmography. Watch those first. -TK 11/16/10 "},{"Title":"Paul Thomas Anderson makes a Coen-style movie","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson's first notable movie has the feeling of a Coen Brothers film. Anderson regular Philip Baker Hall plays an elderly man who helps a young man (John C. Reilly, also an Anderson regular) pay for his mother's funeral by teaching him how to get by in Las Vegas, only to have to get involved later due to an unpleasant situation. Hard Eight isn't any masterpiece, but definitely has a realistic feeling, with dialog that really strikes me. Despite its weaknesses, the movie also has the same strengths that Anderson later brought to Boogie Nights, Magnolia, and There Will Be Blood. Worth seeing.Also starring Gwyneth Paltrow, Samuel L. Jackson, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Robert Ridgely, and Melora Walters (the last three are also Anderson regulars). "},{"Title":"An amazingly assured first feature","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Very original, fascinating, amazingly assured, unique first feature from Paul Thomas Anderson. A darker, creepier, more depressing side of the Nevada gambling world than we usually get to see. Anchored by an absolutely stunning performance by Philip Baker Hall, and very good ones by John C. Reily, Gwenth Paltrow and Samuel Jackson. The themes that haunt much of Anderson's work are all here. The need for a family structure no matter how dysfunctional, the failed attempts to find happiness through material things, etc.Yes, there are a few weaker moments, but overall this heralds the arrival of a major contemporary filmmaker. Great use of music, camera work, and Pinteresque dialogue. Really worth your time to see. "},{"Title":"Subdued brilliance","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson is absolutely one of the greatest contemporary filmmakers. If you're not familiar with his work it is all worth checking out. His other films include Boogie Nights, Magnolia (an all time favorite of mine) Punch Drunk Love, and the Best Picture nominated There Will Be Blood. Hard Eight is Anderson's first film and while you can tell that Anderson's directing style is rough around the edges and still developing into the masterful artistry it is today, the film itself is still a work of art. It's the story of Sydney, (Phillip Baker Hall) an older gentleman who has built his life and his wealth around exploiting casinos. At the beginning of the film he meets and befriends a man named John (John C. Reilly) and teaches him his trade. The movie makes a two year time jump and the character of Sydney and John develop and a couple more intriguing characters are thrown into the mix. Events happen at seemingly odd intervals, yet it is all for the purpose of developing the characters in the story, mainly Sydney's.The most notable thing about this film is that it does not have the abundance of pizazz and ecstasy that Hollywood films of today have. It is a very subdued film that moves at a very calm and collected pace. The film never dives head first into action and excitement, instead it stays at a low level that possesses a subtle brilliance to it. And the film never strays from this. It keeps its even pacing, even as events heat up and the story starts to become more enthralling. Yet even after everything that happens, the film still maintains its subtlety and slow paced nature. It's not to say the film is boring in any way. It is very engaging, the characters are fantastically illustrated and the plot progresses nicely, even with some unexpected twists. Everything is just done in a timely and orderly manner.Hard Eight establishes that Paul Thomas Anderson is indeed a risk taker. He makes his directorial debut in a very unconventional way. He doesn't try to blow his audience out of the water with a rampant melodramatic flick. He keeps the whole film at a consistent heart rate and pieces it together with careful precision, where all elements are fine tuned to the most finite level of cinematic perfection. Something like this would not exactly be memorable to the general public. But Anderson was willing to tell his own fantastic character driven story in his own way that doesn't fit in with the over-dramatic art pieces of this stature. The film is not grand or robust in any way, but it never tries to be. It is the story of four people and how their lives are affected by their actions.Hard Eight is a great taste of the early development of Paul Thomas Anderson's style. It is carefully made and constructed with a keen and respectful eye for film. It is on a much smaller scale than most films we see today, but this makes it a great break from the norm. Definitely check this one out. "},{"Title":"Very solid debut with signs of destined greatness.","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson is considered by many today to be one of the premier filmmakers working in American cinema. However, only about 15 years ago, he was a young cinephile hoping to make his major break into directing due to the success of his short film, Cigarettes and Coffee. His debut as a feature-length director is Hard Eight, a strange and unique film that deconstructs the myth of film making to its basic core. There is very little action or over-dramatic scenes. Most of it consists of two or three actors in a close-up or medium shot just talking. For this to work, the dialogue must be good and the actors must deliver it convincingly.Amazingly, Anderson pulls off both of these, particularly with the casting. Phillip Baker Hall is very good as Sydney, a world-weary gambling shark very knowledgeable of the Vegas/Reno universe. His knowledge comes in handy when he meets a down-on-his-luck gambler, John. He takes him under his wing and soon has him sitting comfortably. Yet, Anderson is not your typical director. He soon shifts the focus from gambling in the casino to the relationships and characters that occupy this neighborhood. We are soon introduced to a waitress named Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow) and a shifty security man named Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson).Hardly anyone is who you think they are and by the time secrets and hidden agendas are revealed, there is a sense of intrigue and spectacle. We may not be completely sure of what it all means, but Anderson is more often interested in how people react to a secret than how or why the secret occurred. Though at times stiff in its pacing and some scenes stretching too long, this is still a very solid debut that has at times sections that foreshadow the type of filmmaker Anderson would become. And it took just one film more; by 1997 he had made Boogie Nights and the rest is history. "},{"Title":"Be patient and you'll be rewarded","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" *Jan/28/10*Hard Eight, Paul Thomas Anderson's first feature film, is nowhere to be found in my city, so as a huge fan of PTA I didn't miss the chance to buy its DVD last week when I visited the US. So, today I finally finished watching the entire filmography of PTA and, in my humble opinion, Hard Eight is definitely the least good, but at the same time a very fine debut for one of the very best filmmakers working right now. I never do this but this time I'll copy the summary of the film exactly as it appears in the back of the DVD since I think it will help me to make my point. The summary goes exactly like this Sidney (Philip Baker Hall) is a poker-faced professional gambler with a soft heart for a hard luck story. He plays guardian angel to unlucky John (John C. Reily) and a hooker, Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), whom he grows to love like family. When John and Clementine's honeymoon night leads to a disastrous hostage situation, Sydney takes care of it, as usual. But when slick casino pro Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson) threatens to reveal a secret from Sydney's past that could destroy his relationship with the newlyweds, Sydney decides to hedge his bets and not leave anything to chance. Reading this summary is basically reading the summary of a typical film, a film with a sort of typical structure, I mean, it seems that the summary only reveals to you the first half of the film or less, or better said, just the setting and that the sort of main plot will deal with the secret that Sam Jackson's character may reveal. At least I though that when I read it, then I watched the actual film and when I read again the summary it totally gained my attention since in Hard Eight nothing is clear, in Hard Eight we have a setting but not quite as the one that the summary makes you think in. Hard Eight introduces its two main characters outside a coffee shop, Sydney and John. PTA says if you don't what you're writing just put two people on a coffee shop and have them start talking and that if you don't know what they're saying but you know one the guys will lead everything, guide you, the movie will come. So the setting here is as simple as this old man Sydney meets a needy stranger, offers his help, and we are like why?. Is always interesting to watch Hard Eight, after all it's basically Philip Baker Hall's fantastic show (we're watching for the sheer pleasure of the dialog and the acting, remarks Roger Ebert. I would not say that Hard Eight a film with that really memorable kind of dialog but the acting is amazing). However the film falls into being a situation film, sort of. And while interesting, it wasn't very convincing, I mean, sometimes I wondered where the f*** PTA was taking us. So it's basically and simply a film that gets better when you think of it after the credits rolled. You get to think about the redemption, about the hidden blood, about all of those aspects you didn't know at the time. It's definitely a regarding film for the patient viewer. "},{"Title":"great first half","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i loved the first half of this debut film from Paul Thomas Anderson.i liked the crisp dialogue and the interaction between the characters played by Philip Baker Hall,and John C.Reilly.the film was sparse and economical,until the second half.The tone changes into a much darker picture,a sort of crime drama.plus,there's the pointless cameo appearance of Philip Seymour Hoffman.his character made no sense at all.Sam Jackson and Gwyneth Paltrow also show up along the way.i liked Jackson's character,but i found Paltrows character too border on silly .anyway, as i said,i loved the first half of the film,but as the second half progressed,i like it less and less.for me,Hard Eight is a soft 6/10 "}{"Title":"Precisely done drama.","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" You get the impression that this inexpensive film turned out just about the way the director, P. T. Anderson, wanted it to. It was shot among the neon casinos, shadowy parking lots, and motel and hotel rooms in Reno, Nevada, The Biggest Little City in the World as the sign over the highway used to read. The photography and lighting are hypnotically low, though nothing is obscured. The direction is straightforward without being headlong. There is no directorial razzle dazzle. Events take place in real time. No car pursuits, no exploding fireballs, no shoot outs, no ugly guns. The performances are about as good as they get for this type of smallish film. Not that the actors necessarily have a good deal of range, but that they fit their parts well.Philip Baker Hall is the central figure, an ex hood who hangs in a hotel apartment, dresses in inconspicuous suits and ties, has a little money stashed away from previous enterprises back East, and adds to it by a little well-calculated gambling. Hall's character is polite but inexpressive, and he doesn't like profane language used around women. You may recognize him from currently running TV commercials of a comic nature for a product whose name I never cared to remember. He runs across John C. Reilly, a young guy who is down and out, and more or less adopts him. He also takes under his wing a cocktail waitress, Gwyneth Paltrow, who adds to HER income by hooking on the side. The two young folks get along well under his avuncular tutelage.Enter Samual L. Jackson in essentially the same role he played in Jackie Brown, the savvy and self-interested dude who sees through all the rhetoric and hears all kinds of stories about all kinds of goings on. Nobody could do it better than Jackson. He smiles readily, extends a friendly, reassuring pat on the back, and projects an attitude of You and I are men of the world and we both know what's really happening. The self interest is never too well hidden though and it proves his undoing.John C. Reilly looks and acts a little dumb, as he should, but he doesn't bring any poetry to the part and gives the weakest performance. Gwyneth Paltrow is a little hard to believe as the put-upon, reluctant whore, but she brings it off by investing the role with a winsome quality, as if she'd just been snatched off an Iowa farm and sold into white slavery racket.There is no musical score as such, no thumping electronic percussion to pump up the adrenalin and damage the inner ear, but there is source music. A trio plays in one of the lounges -- vibes, bass, and guitar -- quietly reproducing the kind of modestly jazzed-up old standards that Frank Sinatra would have eaten alive.It's an unpretentious movie about affection, love, greed, and murder in Reno. Nicely done. But one carp. Philip Baker Hall stars. And there is a small scene with early Philip Seymour Hoffman rolling the dice against a hard eight. Philip Baker Hall and Philip Seymour Hoffman. I only mention the director, Philip Thomas Anderson, in passing. I won't mention the name of the writer -- Philip Thomas Anderson -- at all. That's enough of that stuff. No more three names. It's an affectation that's pompous enough for women like Jennifer Jason Leigh but it's inexcusable in men. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, okay. That's history. But what's next? Ernest Miller Hemingway? I'm warning you guys -- cut it out. "},{"Title":"Hard to Watch, but...","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I adore and respect the opening scene. All stories need to start somewhere, and this one started with style, in a setting that most of us have frequented...a Denny's Restaurant basically.Throughout the film, we are made acutely aware of the precious value of food, a bed, coffee, cigarettes, cable movies, and companionship, for someone who has been deprived these things before. Most of us probably take them for granted,unless we have been down-and-out like one of the film's protagonists.But think about how relieved you feel on a long road trip, when you stop at a motel, and partake of these things, after being trapped in your car for hours. They satiate us and bring a sense of domestic tranquility.I needed more character development. Sorry, to those who loved this film. I get the fact that it was a portrayal of outsider life and the casino-bubble, but I still needed to know a bit more about how these people became who they are. The plot device of not knowing why the hell Hall is being a caretaker, worked for a while, but eventually I became annoyed with guessing.The final explanation was anti-climatic and cheap. Come on, you can do better than that.Hoffman stole the show with his very brief cameo. Jackson was his usual profane loudmouth stereotype. Hall and Reilly did not have to stretch much, but they were still quite adept at portraying unspoken sadness. I'm not a fan of Paltrow, but she conveyed the torn nature of her character quite well.One other reviewer mentioned the fact that sometimes the characters don't know what to say, but that made it realistic. I totally agree. Real people rarely speak like movie characters. But in this one, the characters did speak like real people. Great job with that.There were enough good aspects to this film, to make it worth seeing. But it is a labor to watch after a while, because not much happens, and not much is said. If you like art films, you will probably like this one. It reminded me of the work of Jim Jarmusch. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie, Disgusting Characters","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie tells of the turning point in the lives of three main characters, played by better than competent actors, against a background of gambling in Las Vegas. Sounds OK, right? But the three characters are all without any morality or redeeming qualities, the most I can say for them is none of them do drugs as far as we know. The language is unrelentingly obscene. None of the three hesitate to commit crimes whenever the occasion demands, and we're not talking about lifting a six-pack, we're talking felonies. The guy and the gal are just plain stupid, not retarded in a way to invite sympathy. I cannot imagine why Gwyneth Paltrow's agent would let her do this movie, she's a fine actress and doesn't belong in an outhouse like this. The movie begins with a plot line for the guy, which is never referred to again after the first few minutes. It proceeds on to a totally false method of screwing a casino. Then we meet the Gwyneth Paltrow gal, whom we are led to believe is a fallen angel who deserves better, but she turns out to deserve worse.I honestly believe they changed the name from Sydney to Hard Eight or vice versa, don't care which, in hope that the bad word of mouth from the earlier showings could be ducked with a new name. My advice is to run, not walk away from this one. "},{"Title":"Anderson's debut makes for an interesting character study","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first thing one ought to know about the film Sydney, originally released as Hard Eight, is that the former name is most appropriate. Hard Eight sounds like a gambling thriller and this film is a very far cry from that. Craps just has a metaphoric role in the film. Sydney is the name of the lead role and considering how this is an ensemble, character-driven drama like nearly all of director/writer Paul Thomas Anderson's later films would become, that's a fitting title.Sydney stars Philip Baker Hall in his most intensive role ever out of the hundreds he has had. Sydney is a puzzling character. All we know about him is that he used to make himself by appearing to be a big gambler and he passes that skill on to John (John C. Reilly) in the first part of the film. This is really the premise of the film and then things take a turn. The interest in the film is purely in its characters. From scene one, Sydney's motivation is unknown he appears very morally enigmatic, always wearing a black suit with a white shirt and a black tie and never stating what it is he wants, only telling John what to do. He ends up appearing as a father figure to John and his girlfriend Clementine (Paltrow).Trying to understand Sydney is the film's only interest point. Otherwise, the film is rather boring. Such a small cast makes it seem like it would be better off as a play. Thematically, the film is strong in the way that its characters and theme work together. This has always been Anderson's biggest strength. His later films show a greater plot strength in addition to the characters, which frankly this film lacks. Its beginning is rather misleading and superficial in making you think it might turn into a gambling/con movie with slick dialogue. The end result is positive, but nothing truly special. "},{"Title":"Great debut from an incredibly gifted filmmaker","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film only reinforces my hunch that Paul Thomas Anderson is probably the single most naturally talented filmmaker of his generation. His camera-work and dialog are so seemingly effortlessly assured it's just stunning. That said, of course, his huge talent also lends itself on occasion to crippling self-indulgence (as displayed in Magnolia). Fortunately his debut never falls into that trap, although it still probably comes in third behind Boogie Nights and Punch-Drunk Love. Actually, considering how little there actually is to this film, i'm surprised that it comes off as well as it does, although i'll credit that mainly to the great dialog and the fact that PTA displays an extremely impressive sense of personal aesthetics even on his first film. Compared to Wes Anderson's similarly minimalistic debut Bottle Rocket, which certainly displayed many of that filmmaker's unique stylistic traits, although in a simpler, almost embryonic form, Sydney seems to already display PTA's completely well-defined style. But, like i said, the film often feels more like a sketch than a complete story. Considering how engaging it is, it's almost surprising to realize how little there actually is to it. What are there, like six scenes in the whole film? Unlike Boogie Nights, which started off very quickly in order to fit in a huge number of events within three hours, this film feels like it could have taken it's time a little more to me. It seemed kind of short (even though it really wasn't) and as if not a whole lot happened. But at least what did happen happened engagingly. Plus, Philip Seymour Hoffman's cameo was great. Oh, and it's probably the only redeeming thing Gwenyth Paltrow's ever done. "},{"Title":"A real hidden gem","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A late night, staggered through the door, collapsed on the sofa, exhausted, flick on the TV.....and sit the there, wide awake and transfixed for the next 90 minutes! This is a real hidden gem of a movie. Its not flash, its not overly clever but it is so well crafted and the characters are so fascinating that I have looked for the DVD of this almost every time I've been shopping since (online too).I was already a big fan of PT's work but had no idea that Coffee and Cigarrettes had led to this, but I'm glad it did.Superb cast, enthralling plot, choice settings and a strange feeling of despair pervade....HIGHLY recommended. "},{"Title":"P.T. Anderson's first feature","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" First feature from the young director Paul Thomas Anderson, who would several years later make the brilliant movie Magnolia, but also Boogie Night and Punch Drunk Love. The leading roles in Sydney are for Philip Baker Hall, who plays the title role and John C. Reilly. By the way, these guys are also casted several other P.T. Anderson movies, as well as Melora Walters in (she only has a very small part in Sydney).Philip Baker Hall is wonderful in this crime drama. I'm not going to tell much of the story, because that would spoil a lot when you haven't seen the movie, but still have planned seeing it. Anyway, he certainly deserved his indie-nomination for Best Male Lead. John C. Reilly plays the role he always seems to play a simple and naive, but good guy. As first feature this is certainly a good movie, but it's small stuff in comparison to his later work. It thought Magnolia was an amazing piece of art, but Sydney is absolutely worth watching as well.Great acting! "},{"Title":"Good performances and sharp script","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love Paul Thomas Anderson's films. There all original and they all have an excellent meaning to them and I have fell in love with his films. I saw Boogie Nights, Magnolia, and Punch-Drunk Love before, so I wanted to see his first film, Sydney, or Hard Eight. It's not exactly a very popular film and didn't catch to many audiences but it caught my attention. The performances for Sydney were really good and PTA does an excellent job in delivering good performances and fine dialouge for the characters that you begin to care for. The script is of course great because PTA did it and it comes out really clean in the film. The only down side I can give to this film was that it was a little slow and needed a little more build up to it, but above all a fine little film that I recommend.Hedeen's Outlook 8/10 *** B "},{"Title":"Can be deep, can be easy - something for both extremes","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has the unique characteristic of having a plot that appeals to the extreme ends of the moviegoing crowd.The movie has a very deep and complicated plotline, which, in my opinion, is some kind of live-action metaphor for Freud's human psyche (for the most part... the analogy falls apart late in the film, and with a few odd points).The movie also has stuff that appeals to the low-attention-span folks - the kids, if you will. You have John slinging profanities and rediculous statements early in the film, Sydney's trick of playing the casino for comps, John's hotel PPV movie trick, Jimmy's statements about women... Sydney's climactic scene (which I won't describe)... and Clementine's diner scene!!!! I think that REALLY sums up this section, and can also help with the previousThe movie appeals to both ends of the spectrum. It can suck you in with its deepness, and it can suck you in by keeping you interested by playing to your nanosecond attention span...In short, it's a film that can be enjoyed by many. "},{"Title":"Genre Crime / Drama / Thriller Says it all!","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has perhaps the best performance's of Philip Baker Hall, John C. Reilly, and Gwyneth Paltrow. It moves like a Quentin Tarantino film with interesting characters and edge of your seat, caution to the wind. The suspenseful energy of a David Mamet story keeps you watching and worrying about the next scene as the story peels like a Hollywood 40's Drama onion. Magnolia writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson's best thriller to date and Hollywood will be a better place if he continues this genre. Only his decision to limit further discovery of all the other great talent's character development, keeps this film from getting the kind of recognition it deserves. Get all of your refreshments ready so you don't have to stop watching, and enjoy this one.  "}{"Title":"moody but doesn't always work","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After viewing this film I realized that it wasn't altogether successful. It tries to be a good character drama, but feels uneven in spots. As it was moving along, the film has these lulls where the characters don't seem to know what to say to each other. The characters have difficulty communicating, but I'm sure this is because Anderson is looking for a type of mood. There are not very many smiles. Everyone is quite sullen..just living day to day. I guess the characters are trying to find their way. John(John C. Reilly)is a rather pathetic shlub who is being guided by Sydney(Philip Baker Hall)to learn the ropes on smart gambling. John meets a hooker/waitress(Gwyneth Paltrow in an oddly nuanced role)and they fall in love. They have a difficult situation with a client and Sydney must fix things. John has a friend who appears to be rather sneaky(Samuel L. Jackson)and he complicates things for Sydney. There is a reason why Sydney helps John in the first place and John's sneaky friend knows why. The film is a showcase for Philip Baker Hall, but was just seemed to stretch for effect and drama. It moves too slow which hurts. ***1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Fathers & Sons","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Eight is a film about Syd (Philip Baker Hall), a man with a shadowy but likely criminal past. It begins when Syd takes a younger guy, the hapless John (John C. Reilly) under his wing for reasons that are at first unclear. Syd later takes a similarly paternal interest in a prostitute named Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow). Without giving away too much, I will say that things get a bit complicated when a dude named Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson) finds a way to exploit Syd.Know that this is not your basic thriller. It's more about inner conflict and characterization than action sequences or grinding plot mechanizations. However, viewers who fall into step with this film will be rewarded. Paul Thomas Anderson makes a strong directorial debut while avoiding the first-timer temptations of being overly clever and cute.Reilly is fine as the sad sack John, Jackson does his inimitable tough guy thang as Jimmy, and Paltrow finds the humanity in lost girl Clementine. But the film belongs to Hall and his turn as Syd. While the other characters resort to violence as a means of asserting their own worth, Syd strives to redeem his dark past through good deeds. He has seen it all and acts with consummate professionalism at all times. Always speaking in measured, even tones, Syd acts with chilling proficiency when he must revert to his former life as a means of outrunning it. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Actually this is probably my favorite Paul Thomas Anderson film besides Boogie Nights. Excellent Screenplay, Direction, Characters, and Actors. I recomend to any guy that likes gambling films or grifter pictures. Phillip Baker Hall and John C. Reilley are excellent. Gwyneth Paltrow and Samuel L. Jackson show up for small parts and are good. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Good movie. Not great but better than many others.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie suffers from just 3 faults which keep it from being greatA. John C Reilly is just plain bad.2. The scene in the Hotel Room with the hostage. This has to be one of the worse played out scenes I've ever seen in an otherwise good movie. I busted out laughing more than once from something Reilly and Paltrow said or did. (note They weren't trying to get a laugh. It was a matter of drama being done so badly it was funny)C. We're not really being told a solid story. Instead we are just meandering through a bunch of things that just happen.Hard Eight is still a very good movie and very well worth a viewing. When there are few things wrong with a film, it's easy single out and best recall those very few things.Philip Baker Hall and Sam Jackson are great and, aside from her performance in the scene mentioned above, Gwyneth Paltrow is as well. "},{"Title":"An underrated movie that not only foreshadows the greatness of 'Boogie Nights' and 'Magnolia', but is an excellent film in its own right.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was totally knocked out by Paul Thomas Anderson's 'Boogie Nights' when I first watched it in its original theatrical run here in Australia. At that time Anderson's debut 'Hard Eight' wasn't available here but as soon as it was released on video I immediately watched it. I was pleasantly surprised at just how strong it was. It always stayed in my mind as an impressive debut, and when I watched it on TV again last week it proved to be as good as I'd remembered, maybe even better. Of course it's a smaller and less ambitious movie than 'Boogie Nights' or 'Magnolia' but it's still an excellent character study that shows just what a talented writer Anderson is. It's a brilliant showcase for Philip Baker Hall especially. He is just amazing in it. John C. Reilly is also first rate, and the chemistry between the two actors is really something to see. I normally can't stand Gwyneth Paltrow but she is very good, as is Samuel L. Jackson in a small but strong supporting role. The cast also includes the late Robert Ridgely and Melora Walters, who both went on to 'Boogie Nights' (Walters also having a much more important role in 'Magnolia' as Hall's estranged daughter). Another Anderson regular the wonderful Philip Seymour Hoffman plays a cocky young gambler. A small bit but memorable. Hall is the real star of the show though and his performance is as good as you'll see anywhere. 'Hard Eight' must stand alongside Tarantino's 'Reservoir Dogs', Aronofsky's 'Pi' and Jonze's 'Being John Malkovich' as one of the most promising directorial debuts of the 1990s. I highly recommend all four movies. "},{"Title":"Intense and quite gripping.","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this by accident on late night television and I feel sorry for the people who can't persevere and appreciate this kind of film. It started off very slowly but it maintained an intensity right through and was quite intriguing. Director Anderson took a rather well worn plot and a not very good script and gave it to excellent actors. Even though I found it hard to empathize with the characters, (except for Sydney, they seemed like a bunch of no-hopers,) I enjoyed it enormously.  "},{"Title":"solid","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SYDNEY forshadows the prominence of wonderboy Paul Thomas Anderson.  With strong delinable characters, the boundary of his drama expands far beyond most indie garbage.  And with unassuming writing, PTA can lead us into a fine crafted world that is not dragged down by overly self-conscious efforts at style and junction.  Yes, this one is a gem.  Like an early Stooges song that teases and delights you with the notion that something is coming.  Something that is true and right                Punk Rock. "},{"Title":"A dark look at friendship and betrayal.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Philip Baker Hall gives an outstanding performance as Sydney, and John C. Reilly does his usual excellent job as John. All of the actors here make you feel exactly what is going on during the film, and Gwyneth Paltrow gives one of her best performances in this underrated story by Paul Thomas Anderson. If you've seen Boogie Nights, you'll recognize the dialogue and tone of the movie. The characters are very well written, and each of the performers bring them to life perfectly. Philip Seymour Hoffman has a great cameo, and Samuel L. Jackson caps off a wonderful cast with his turn as the un-trustworthy Jimmy. If you liked Boogie Nights or Jackie Brown, check this one out.  "},{"Title":"Computers can't act!!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  We don't make involving movies like this anymore and more's the pity but, put simply, they don't make money.   Bogart, Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, Mary Astor, ASTA, Myrna Loy, etc.  have all moved to a higher casting department as have the wonderful writers responsible for their dialogue and characters. Phillip Baker Hall is a gifted actor we have seen many, many times but this film is truly his 'tour de force'!It breaths; the characters are real; they speak real speak; they win some --they are mostly losers.  It's a tough but beautiful piece of cinema. Congratulations!   "},{"Title":"Excellent character study","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Andersen is the best director for creating characters that are real and mean something to the audience. This film is no exception, fine directing and fine preformaces all the way around. Every element of the film is completly real, excellent film. "}{"Title":"A movie that slowly sucks you in","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie that starts off in a rather bizarre way, and moves along in kind of a slow, strange way. I can see that this would be a movie that would be rather tough to stick with for some.But, if you do stick with it, you will be rewarded. A rather haunting, searing account of people who exist at the fringes of society. An excellent character study and portrait of down-on-their-luck people who stumble on each other, and stick to each other out of loneliness, fear, regret, etc. A part of the Las Vegas/Atlantic City scene that most people probably don't even know exists.A well-acted, well-directed film. "},{"Title":"Nothing to dislike about this one","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After taking on a hard luck loser and teaching him the ropes of gambling a newly united pair if drifters do well until one of them meets and falls in love with a 2 bit slut. A dangerous situation occurs at one point because of the greedy tramp, and later a friend of one of the men creates an even worse problem which could drive a stake in the partner's friendship. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Oddball gambling movie from PTA","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This hard-edged casino-set thriller from the creator of Boogie Nights looks a treat as one would expect, sets up some genuinely original and interesting characters, and gets them entangled together very nicely before dropping them into the big old heap of trouble demanded by the genre. The cast is near-perfect as one would expect, and a lovely, mysterious, quietly intense mood is set up to go with the deep, rich visual feel of the piece. Towards the end however it does seem to tail off somewhat, giving us neither the wham-bam all-loose-ends-sorted finale, nor leaving everything up in the air, real-life stylee; while the action points are sort of sorted, few if any of the intriguing moral and personal questions are resolved in a rather disappointing ending.  However, for a glimpse of the genius to come, it is well worth a watch, and it may well be that the story is deliberately ambiguous and hazy to concentrate attention on the fascinating characters. Interesting film. "},{"Title":"I have to disagree with you all!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sorry to say, but I thought this was a stinker! I'm a BIG BIG fan of Boogie Nights and checked this movie out because I was so impressed with PTA's directing in that movie.However, Sydney/Hard Eight really failed to live up to my expectations. Firstly, I really liked the obvious Scorsese/Tarantino references and steals in Boogie Nights e.g. the long opening steadycam shot. It felt in Boogie Nights like PTA had soaked up and understood his influences and was using them in an original way. However, this movie felt to me like  PTA was too heavily influenced by Tarantino and hadn't found a style of  his own yet. For example, Samuel L. Jackson's speech in the hotel room with Sydney is laughable! The dialogue is clearly trying to imitate Tarantino's fast, witty, colloquial style but falls a long, long way short. Certain camera shots are also highly reminiscent of Pulp Fiction (e.g. in the casino bars), as are Samuel L. Jackson's clothes and Sydney's dark suit amongst a long list I could give if I had time.In addition to Tarantino, the film is also overly indebted to Scorsese (who was obviously a heavy influence on Tarantino too). Sydney's character is a cheap and simplistic copy of Eddie in The Colour of Money, as in fact is the whole premise of the film. Scorsese's Casino springs to mind too.There's nothing wrong with wearing your influences on your sleeve - as Quentin T does to great effect. It's just that I don't think PTA has got them under control here. It sometimes feels like he puts stuff in because he thinks it would fit the QT-influenced style rather than because it really works in the film. For example, the scene in the motel room (I'm trying to avoid spoiling it here) with John and Clementine which requires Sydney's help is completely pointless. Those of you who  have seen it, ask yourselves whether your understanding of the film would be any less if that whole scene had been cut. My answer is no. It was a great idea and I was sure there were going to be repurcussions but there weren't. The whole episode just fizzled out and was ultimately a waste of time. The ending of the film wouldn't necessarily have been any different if PTA had chopped that whole thirty minutes out.However, I did find the film really interesting as it enabled me to see  how PTA's style has developed. And I'm a big fan of the genre so I liked it anyway. But I'm glad PTA has gone on to make some other, brilliant films   "},{"Title":"interesting movie that takes place in Reno","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of casino gambling, I decided to rent this film based on that alone. I was not disappointed.  I thought this movie was great with terrific acting from Phillip Baker Hall, John Reilly, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Samuel L Jackson.  I found the beginning when Sydney instructed John how to take advantage of a casino in order to earn comps.  I also liked the element of surprise in the film. For the majority of it, we have no idea why Sydney is helping John so much.  I think almost anyone will enjoy this movie, but probably especially people who like gambling. "},{"Title":"Tough blunt movie","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Throughly enjoyable movie with a great cast.  Gwyneth Paltrow was good as the self destructive hooker.  Samuel L. Jackson menacing and Philip Baker Hall effective as tough Sidney.  Nicely paced with a notable and likable lack of rock music background.  Worth looking for and watching.  Jimmy's Girl was great. "},{"Title":"Phillip Baker Hall stole the show","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bought this DVD since I am a PT Anderson fan, and had never heard of this film.  It wasn't as creative as his later stuff, such as having music in the background of the majority of the scenes or having multiple scenes occurring simultaneously, but it was good nonetheless.  Phillip Baker Hall, who played Jimmy Gator in Magnolia, was superb.  Good plot twist, good acting, weird characters and bizarre behavior make this an entertaining film.  Samuel L Jackson is also great. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Start, But Loses Focus","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Eight or Sydney is the first film by acclaimed writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson of Boogie Nights and Magnolia.  I haven't seen either of those films.  Several other users here complained that those who reviewed the film positively only did so after loving Boogie Nights.  I haven't seen it, so perhaps my opinion will be less biased.I have to say that Hard Eight has one of my favorite first half hours in all movies.  Sydney (The wonderful Phillip Baker Hall) finds John (The also wonderful John C. Reilly) outside of a coffee shop broke, and offers to help him out.  We watch as Syd shows John the ropes at a Vegas casino.  It is a ton of fun to watch, very well shot, edited, with great music too.  After this setup, the film fast fowards Two Years Later and while the first scene after the jump is very strong, the film tends to drift and by the end has grown quite odd and different from the film we started with. That's not to say the film is bad overall, in fact I still recommend it.  As two seperate films the two parts may have played better.  I personally would have loved to see the movie continue the whole gambler's underworld aspect that the first piece examines.  And in another film, the second half might have fit better.  Still it's a strong film, and I do intend to see Anderson's other work. "},{"Title":"A very interesting and entertaining movie for anyone","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film had a very brief theatrical release, and the plot outline on the box would most likely lead you to believe the film was one of those made-for-tv crime dramas. WRONG. From start to finish, this film packed a whallop, while still managing to be unrushed and well written. The performances were very effective, especially Phillip Baker Hall. The atmosphere was so realistic that you could almost smell the brisk morning air in the beginning scene. Paul Thomas Anderson really took some time on this one. Rent with confidence; this is a very good motion picture. "},{"Title":"An exercise in pointlessness","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading all of the rave reviews of this film, I figured it was a sure shot.  But instead, though film begins with promise, it quickly gets pointless after the plot makes random, unengaging, and almost amateur twists.  And by the time anything interesting happens, the movie is over. Do yourself a favor and rent something else. "}{"Title":"Roles for Younger Paltrow and Reilly Make This Interesting","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although perhaps better known as an introduction to the work of Paul Thomas Anderson, who was later to make Boogie Nights, this film (which I saw under the title Hard Eight), was of interest to me mainly because it was among the earliest films for both Gwyneth Paltrow and John C. Reilly, she as a cocktail waitress who also works as a prostitute, he as a hapless and clueless young man whom Philip Baker Hall (Sydney -- the movie's other name)befriends and tutors as a gambler for reasons unexplained until very late in the film. The hard-working Samuel L. Jackson also has a role in his early persona as a happy-go-lucky but threatening presence. I thought this was a mediocre movie. Neither Paltrow nor Reilly distinguish themselves exactly, though Paltrow does not normally show up in the movies as a brainless bad girl. Philip Baker Hall, however, is excellent as the gambler-tutor. And to my knowledge, I don't believe I'd ever seen him before in any film. "},{"Title":"Does the end justify the means?","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before he walks into the diner, the old man stoops down against the exterior of the building and asks the younger man if he'd like a drink and meal inside. Together they enter, sit down at a booth and talk, and the old man offers the younger man to drive him back to Atlantic City and retrieve his losses so that he can bury his mother for six grand. The younger man is confused. What's in it for the other guy? Nothing. The old man is apparently just a genuinely nice guy.The old man is Sydney (Philip Baker Hall), and his newfound friend is John (John C. Reilly), and together they travel back to Atlantic City.Sydney is a veteran gambler; he knows how everything works and what to do to make everything work for him. In one of the film's better scenes, Sydney teaches John how to make $2,000 dollars with one hundred and fifty bucks. It doesn't even involve much gambling.What starts out as a sort of strange con man movie soon evolves into a tender character piece when the film skips forward two years. Both men are happy rich gamblers, with John looking up to his mentor and falling for an Atlantic City waitress, Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow). Clementine dabbles in other fields when she's not playing waitress -- particularly selling herself to drunken gamblers looking for action. Sydney and John decide to take Clementine under their wings, and soon the trio spawns a deep admiration for each other that are firmly rooted in their hearts.After a somewhat wandering beginning (that is nevertheless fascinating), Paul Thomas Anderson's film debut picks up speed and introduces one of those sinful chain reactions that I love ever so much in cinema. The same sort of downward-spiraling events that occur in Fargo, A Simple Plan, and Bound, when characters are faced with their destinies and try to avoid them by outsmarting their own fate. You can't outsmart fate. It's been proven before. In Hard Eight, a.k.a. Sydney, the characters learn this rule once again.But it's also a film that asks the age-old question, Does the end justify the means? Towards the last stretch of the movie, we find out some things about Sydney that we haven't really expected, and how he deals with these things begs us to reconsider just how far we would go to protect our loved ones.This was Anderson's first feature film, and it's clearly evident that he had a firm grasp on filmmaking even at such an early stage in his career. The man would go on to make some of the most successful, bizarre and off-beat films of the past two decades Boogie Nights, Magnolia and Punch-Drunk Love, which offered a breakthrough role for Adam Sandler. (Who hasn't taken the opportunity to improve upon himself since.) Hard Eight may not be Anderson's best, but it's one of his most effective.And if the film has any flaws at all, they certainly don't lie in the cast, which is top-notch. Hall, as Sydney, is superb -- caring, calm and grandfatherly, he displays a sort of repressed sadness in his face that leads us to believe there may be something beneath the surface. But it isn't until later into the film that we realize that look is indeed there for a purpose.Reilly, who appeared in many Oscar-nominated films of 2002, is just as likable as John -- a sort of dim-witted, good-natured klutz who is a bit apprehensive when he first meets Sydney. Watch his eyes tear Hall apart. He's looking for motive but can't find any.And in what is arguably one of Paltrow's most daring roles, she tackles an occasionally annoying character and turns her into a likable, sweet innocent. Together, John and Clementine make a sort of Clarence and Alabama pairing -- they're innocent and likable enough, but dabbling in areas that should be restricted to people who possess the opposite characteristics of themselves. It's hard to classify Hard Eight in any distinct genre. It's a drama, it's a gambling movie, it's a thriller, it's a romance, and yes, it's even a violent crime story. After the film ends, it leaves a sort of uneasy feeling in the pit of your stomach. You don't know what's just happened, but whatever it is, it's the best at what it does.So, does it even have a point? Yes, it does. But unlike most films released nowadays, Hard Eight challenges the viewer to probe deeper into the material. Different people will come away with different opinions about Hard Eight and its morals, but I think it's supposed to be that way.4.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I'm a sucker for casino movies.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't help but enjoy films that take place in casino's.  Maybe I am addicted to gambling, but oh well.  I enjoyed it because it focused on characters more than the action going on around them.  I was confused about why Sydney would just take John in.  I was convinced he did it because his own children were not in his life.  As it turns out, there is more reason than that.  Philip Baker Hall is awesome, as he carries the movie from start to finish.  His character never shows any signs of emotion even though we know he cares.  6/10  Good "},{"Title":"A film about true desperation","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can do alot more with true emotion than with too much sex, too much violence and too many drugs. Imagine if the graduate or midnight cowboy were made today - they'd be oversexed and over the top, instead of leaving you to connect the dots yourself and using that precious time for character development.Such is the case with Hard Eight/Sidney. These are desperate people who have done bad things and made big mistakes. Instead of dwelling on the seedier aspects, we hear the emotions of the characters - and Sidney makes sure no one feels too sorry for themselves. A fine work overall - how did this one fall through the cracks while the likes of bully (which, if you think about it, doesnt have the same desperation) is a darling of the celluloid set? "},{"Title":"can i have a cigarette?","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything wonderful about this film gets flushed down the noir toilet.  Brilliant actors (Paltrow, Jackson, Reilly) all portraying stupidity with the just right flickering wattage.  The beautiful old hood (a ronin or samurai type) who can't provide the brains for the kids he loves, no matter how hard he tries.  Visuals of fine, pure simplicity within ambience that causes me to remember remarkable this-is-it Italian film experiences of the mid-century.  And the point is?  Aye, there's the rub.  Can't quite find the essential human spirit in the story.  Too many sordid details distract?  Tragic stupidity too deep a hole to climb out of?        "},{"Title":"Hard Eight is an incorrect title","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of P.T. Anderson. Basically, his movies are quality, but I don't consider them classics or really great. Still, for the most part his movies will not disappoint and this again shows that point.This movie had good acting and great performances from Anderson's favorite crew of actors (Phillip Baker Hall, John Reilly, and a small bit by S. Hoffman). Gwyneth Paltrow is great against type and Samuel L Jackson is just a bad-ass.The best part of the movie is probably the beginning (from when Sydney picks John up at the restaurant to when he instructed John how to take advantage of a casino in order to earn comps).However, the movie is a really slow mover and while all the questions are answered by the end (like why is Sydney helping John?), The answers come as a bit of a shock and violently.While it does stay true to the movie (which is really about Sydney and less about playing the Hard Eight in craps), it is easy to see how the movie did not do great at the box office.Its a good rental and I gave it a 6 (recommended only if you like the style).  "},{"Title":"Much to like, much to hate.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It doesn't surprise me that this movie came from the same Writer/Director as Boogie Nights. I disliked that movie for much the same reasons as I dislike this one. I do agree with a previous reviewer that Sydney is a better movie. Both films held my attention. Sydney has an interesting storyline, quirky, gritty, sometimes fascinating characters. I think my problem with this movie is that I have overdosed on neo-Noir movies and Tarantino wannabes. Pulp Fiction is deservedly considered one of the greatest movies of all time. I knew Pulp Fiction. This is no Pulp Fiction. I'm tired of seeing Samuel L. Jackson play the same character (see Jackie Brown). I'm tired of seeing stupid characters. I don't identify with stupid characters. They aren't interesting. The movie doesn't make you feel good. It doesn't make you feel bad. It makes you feel nothing. Is that the point of Noir? Maybe. "},{"Title":"Paul Thomas Anderson clearly knows how to make a film, but has absolutely no clue how to tell a story (MAJOR SPOILERS)","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Veteran gambler Sydney (Philip Baker Hall) stumbles across John (John C Reilly) sat outside a diner. The two men strike up a conversation and Sydney quickly learns that John has tried his hand at gambling in order to pay for his mother's funeral. Sydney offers to help John out and gives him a crash-course in how to hustle the casino out of a fortune. Although Sydney seems to be helping John out, is there more to what he's doing than meets the eye? This is Paul Thomas Anderson's debut picture (both as writer and director) and under normal circumstances I would normally go easy on a debutant's picture. Unfortunately, I've seen a few of PTA's films such as Boogie Nights, There Will Be Blood and Punch Drunk Love and therefore I can't really be that charitable and sadly all of these films suffer the same problems as Hard Eight (albeit to varying degrees). Anyway let's try and evaluate this film.Well I have to admit that it started well and seemed to tell the tale of a young man called John who needed a bit of a direction in life. John then stumbles across Sydney who teaches him how to hustle the casino and teaches him a bit of self-respect and how to value himself as a person. OK so far so good, but what happens beyond this point is almost beyond a travesty....The film then skips by two years and we now find ourselves in Reno, Nevada. Sydney is in a casino there and John is in there too with his new friend Jimmy (Samuel L Jackson). It's clear from this point that we're lead to assume that Jimmy has lead John astray, but is this actually true? From this point on the film goes from telling an interesting story about John (a misguided individual) getting some direction in life (from Syndey) to a stupid story about his shotgun wedding to casino waitress and prostitute on the side Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow)and them keeping a guy hostage because he didn't pay Clementine for sex - I get what Anderson was getting at here, but it's so badly handled that it becomes laughable.The film takes a turn for the worst when Jimmy and Sydney meet and we learn that Sydney killed John's father. I suspect Anderson intended this to be a plot twist that got the 'Wow' factor from the audience, but it's one that's so ludicrous and jars against the narrative so much that it's almost too ridiculous to believe. Yes it at least explains why Sydney wanted to bond with John at the start, but I felt a bit cheated when this was revealed. The story struggles more under scrutiny when you realise that Jimmy and Sydney were both in Atlantic City when Jimmy saw Sydney murder John's father, but then the two just happen to both meet a few years later 2,500 miles away from the crime scene with the son of the dead dad just happening to be there as well. I'm all for trying to suspend disbelief, but this was just too much.The ending is even worse when we see Jimmy get killed by the very guy that killed John's father; yes Jimmy was wrong to blackmail Sydney, but it's clear that Sydney was the worst of the two. This aspect of the film is even worse when you consider that Anderson offers no real commentary on anything that's happened and ends the film in a lazy way whereby you don't know whether or not Syndey gets away with his crimes. Even if this aspect of the plot didn't bother you the fact that Anderson didn't even bother to make Jimmy's assassination surprising or suspenseful just showed a real lack of care.The only positive I can take from this film is that it is very well-made. Anderson's direction is stylish and the performances from the likes of Baker-Hall, Jackson & Reilly were all good (the first two gave rather stock performances, but Reilly really excelled in giving his character a gawky nervous charm). I like the late Philip Seymour Hoffman as an actor, but he was actually really annoying in the 5 minutes or so that he was in this film. Ultimately, the big problem with Hard Eight is that it's really badly-written and whilst I got the feeling that Anderson was attempting to make this an insightful character study he doesn't give this film or his characters anywhere near the required depth to make these aspects work as well as they should do. "},{"Title":"The much lauded PTA's 1st feature film is not spectacular","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Eight, Paul Thomas Anderson's first feature film, is a somewhat adapted from his short film Cigarettes & Coffee and follows an aging gambler named Sydney (Philip Baker Hall) who helps out a young man down on his luck (John C. Reilly). I had a hard time suspending my disbelief because the dialogue was pretty clunky and I don't think PTA got the best out of the young actors. Also, the music was jarring and didn't seem to fit with what was happening on screen. I know this was his first film, but PTA is supposed to be the greatest artist to come out of Hollywood in decades, so it seems like his films should live up to the hype. The film does have some original elements and Philip Baker Hall does a good job. "},{"Title":"Amazingly accomplished debut","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Let's be clear. This is 2013 and I've seen all of Anderson's other films. While this is probably his weakest (although it's hard to say weakest when they are all great) it's still astonishing how accomplished it feels. You could tell from this film the filmmaker that Anderson would go on to become, and with just six films he's already one of my 5 all-time favorites. The whole cast here is solid, but Baker is amazing in his role, not very spoken, his motivations always ambiguous. Anderson isn't here to spell out everything, and instead the film plays out very nicely and smoothly. Great accomplishment, and it's also fun seeing Philip Seymour Hoffman in his great little cameo "}{"Title":"Decent debut for Anderson, but it's not quite there","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Thomas Anderson's debut shows off some of his talent - the excellent work he drives out of character actors in lead parts, effective atmosphere creation and great camera work. Hard Eight doesn't have the spark of There Will Be Blood, Magnolia or Boogie Nights, though, and the script feels half-baked; as a result, the fantastic actors do a great job with very flat characters, and neither them nor the story holds any interest. The effect of this, ironically, is that the film's best scene is a five-minute nameless cameo by Philip Seymour Hoffman. Not surprising that he's had the most impressive career of these actors, while Philip Baker Hall is still to all intents and purposes Detective Bookman. "},{"Title":"4 + 4 =  a hard 8","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" (Spoilers) The film Hard Eight or Sydney, take your pick, begins at this little out of the way diner-Jack's Coffe Shop- outside Reno city limits. It's there where Sydney, Philip Baker Hall, spots this lonely and disheveled young man John, John C. Reily, sitting outside looking as if he needs a meal and a place to stay for the night.In what seems like an act of kindness Sydney offers a startled and confused John not only a cup of coffee and cigarette but also offers to help him make some money at the Reno Casino with this rate card trick that he developed over the years.John who at first thought that the overly friendly Sydney was gay and looking for action, with him, soon realizes that he's genuinely honest in what he's doing. Sydney also agrees to help John pay for his mother's funeral expenses, that amounted to $6,000.00, which was the reason he went to Reno and ended up broke, when Sydny found him, playing Black Jack and Roulette.The movie then goes two years into the future where we see John now a Big Macher-or big shot in Yiddish-at the casino who's now friends with the head of security Jimmy, Samuel L. Jackson. Syndey who's still around helping John out gets very bad vibes as soon as he lays eye on the so sure of himself Jimmy and for good reasons. Jimmy is on to Syndey in what he did in the past and is planning to blackmail him for it! It's also around this time that John gets involved with casino cocktail waitress Clementine, Gwyneth Paltrow, whom he later marries. It's this combination of characters, Sydney John Jimmy & Clementine, that will set off a series of emotional and even deadly explosions for the remainder of the movie.***SPOILER ALERT*** We later learn what's the reason for Sydney's a strange attraction towards John from his friend Jimmy himself! Jimmy a cool operator from the east coast, Atlantic City to be exact, has the goods on Sydney and is planing to blackmail him, for $10,000.00,in order to keep his mouth shut! What goods Jimmy has on Sydney has to do with John's late father who was involved with him back east!Slow moving with almost no action at all, until the last five or so minutes, Hard Eight or Sydney is about as good a movie about human relationships and gambling that you'll ever see on the both big and small screen. It's when Sidney is confronted with the truth, by Jimmy, that he's been keeping secret all these years about his past life as a gangster that he's finally forced to resort to violence. Not only in preventing himself from being blackmailed but from preventing his good friend John from knowing the truth about himself and the real reason he feels so obligated to help him! We soon get to see the reasons why Sydney is what he makes himself out to be, without giving away the reasons for it, in why he goes so far out on a limb to help John and later his newlywed wife Clementine. And the reasons for Sydney doing that are about as honorable and unselfish as they can get! "},{"Title":"Classic Casino tale","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very good crime drama film that is well directed and well acted by a good cast.This film is a great example of simplicity with skill.Does not over do anything and flows very well.Could have been a masterpiece if it had a better screenplay and cinematography.The ending,although adequate was too quick and leaves the viewer wanting more.A good sequel would be nice.Paltrow shows off her star quality and is a delight to see.Only for crime drama fans and big fans of the lead actors...... "},{"Title":"I was mesmerized by the script and dialogue to the end.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A screenplay, direction and acting worthy of being seen more than once.I was working at my desk when this came on Bravo and something in the dialogue caught my attention enough to pull me away from my work.  That in itself is rare.  I was mesmerized by the script and dialogue to the end. What a nice piece of film work.  "},{"Title":"Very good, but not satisfying","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of Paul Thomas Anderson, I was looking forward to his first film, and I must admit, by the end I was disappointed because as a viewer I wasn't satisfied.The picture is character driven, which I'm a big fan of, and for the most part it works. Anderson is obviously influenced by Scorcese (who isn't?) and it does show, but I felt this was not entirely a great film.The acting is stunning, John C Reily is excellent, always worth watching a film when he's in it. Philip Baker Hall is equally good, as is Palthrow, but Jackson never had enough quality material to work with, subsequently he didn't feel part of the picture.The direction is good, using the camera to good effect.The screenplay was good, but should've been much better towards the end.Overall, a good film, but don't satisfying. "},{"Title":"Jonathan Demme Noir?","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sydney (Philip Baker Hall) is a man out of time. Immaculately dressed in 1961-looking black suits, he speaks without contractions in a remorseful, decorous, gravellish voice. He walks around the low-rent casinos of Reno, seeming to make a living--but how's that? He picks up a kid (John C. Reilly) sitting dejected outside a diner and gives him life lessons--teaches him how to hustle his way into a bed and a meal while only spending fifty bucks at the dollar slots. And when the kid becomes his protege, he gingerly tries to slide him together with Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), a hooker-waitress who's as slow as the kid is. But the kid befriends Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), a casino security guy and would-be Slick Rick who knows a thing or two about how Sydney got there.The first forty-five minutes of the writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson's debut feature are probably the best work by a tyro director in his early twenties since BEFORE THE REVOLUTION. The style--a strange equilibrium between noir, starchy David Mamet drill, and Jonathan Demme humanism--is maintained with a discipline and quiet control you don't associate with young look-at-me directors. The whole work has a gravitas, a desire to score small, touching, truthful moments rather than big contrived ones, that's wise beyond its years.But then the plot kicks in--regarding an outbreak violence and a secret from the past--and the movie loses its way. Jackson's hammy performance (how could a kid have controlled him?) helps fumble the compass. He grossly overacts; a cast-against-type Paltrow has flashes but never convinces. And the almost embarrassed father-son relationship that seems to be the core of the movie wanders away; Reilly is offscreen for almost the whole last third of the movie.But Anderson seems, in this movie and in his second, BOOGIE NIGHTS, to have more feeling for, and a more clear-headed appraisal of, human beings than any American filmmaker since Cassavetes. You can niggle--particularly with his penchant for dumbo characters we smile on fondly--but the fact remains that he's the last best hope for keeping the torch of classical cinema alive in the United States. "},{"Title":"The world's worst movie?","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This may be the world's most tedious film but it seems to be very difficult to find a bad review. Why? I think most people saw this movie on the strength of having seen Boogie Nights (a great movie) and are expecting to find at least something that would point to the excellence of his next film. Good luck looking but it's not there. The characters are all one dimensional, the acting wooden and the dialogue pathetically boring. If he had to make this movie to make Boogie Nights then thank god he made it but don't feel the need to see it.  "},{"Title":"My darling Clementine","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Here you are not gone and lost forever .The beginning promised great things an old man comes up to a young lad down on his luck .He wants to help him to make money with the slot machines.Why?has he got something in mind?He does not seem to want any compensation.This elderly gentleman resembles Roman Castevet (played by Sydney Blackmer) the neighbor who helped Rosemary in Polanski's celebrated film.The subject could have given rise to a Gothic story à la Pouchkine's Queen of spade.Unfortunately,the movie does not rise to these expectationsas soon as Paltrow/Clementine ,the movie has nothing in store for the audience.The story turns too predictable and sometimes downright ludicrous (the hostage sequence) and even the stunning revelation -why Sydney had to behave as he did- is terribly trite.Dreadful sorry Clementine! "},{"Title":"Everyone makes a bad movie sometime and i guess this one was Anderson's low point.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, im going to start of by saying that i'm a big fan of Paul Thomas Anderson. I liked Magnolia and i consider Boogie Nights one of the best movies i've ever seen. The directing from this movie reminded allot of Anderson's other movies, long scenes and very good cameramoves. The plot on the other hand was weak, and i think the acting was a little weak too. The movie was pretty short, around 1h40min, but it felt like it kept going for hours. I found myself in a state where i only continued watching since the movie was made by P.T Anderson and i felt i just Had to give it a worthy shot. After about 1h20min i started realizing that the movie could'nt be saved, it had just gone to far in being boring allover. Even though the plot developes allot during the last 10min's it can't save the endless, unnesessary, converations and scenes that could have easily been cut out. For example, the scene at the craps table with Philip Seymour Hoffman, what was all that about? Presenting a character and then never letting him back in the movie? What was the good of that? I said to myself This can't be happening, this character has to be important somehow for the movie, hes gotta come back and atleast beat someone up or something! but nothing, and Philip Seymour Hoffman's acting was also really bad in that scene i might add. Anyhow, i have to remind you once again, this movie was beautifully shot, but overall really boring and the story wich i'm not gonna go into more was really bad. I would guess that Anderson was still a rookie while making this and he concentrated himself more on how to direct the movie then how to write a clever storyline. My thoughts is also that this movie only have 7+ point ratings because it's made by Anderson and people feel like they have to give the movie high points or they will seam stupid to the rest of the critics here. My advise to you who have not seen the film, keep away from it, it might make you want to keep away from the other work of Anderson and that's not worth it. Everyone makes a bad movie sometime and i guess this one was Anderson's low point. My ratings 3/10 (For the good camerawork.) "},{"Title":"Long and tedious","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not a big fan of many modern movies, so I don't often watch them, and even less often comment on them.  I am making an exception for this one, however.There is NOTHING good to say about this movie.  The characters are uninteresting, and the pace is as slow as any movie I have ever seen.I am not trying to start a flame war with those who liked it, but my recommendation is to avoid this stinker.  "}{"Title":"Stereotypical Independent Rubbish","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Digital cable presents many great movies to audiences that would have no (moderately easy) way of viewing them otherwise.  Certain channels, like the Independent Film Channel, contain just as many gags as it does pleasures.When people say Independent Film as a genre, the stereotype is a bunch of pre-midlife/post-graduate aged students wearing black framed glasses with cosmetic greased hair and cigarettes crammed in a small room with a reel-to-reel watching a bad film on a wall who applaud just because the camera angles are tight, and it invokes thought.In this case, the thought is Why would such promising actors subject themselves so such a filthy waste of 110 minutes?This movie appears to have plots, but it could be summed up in a 30 page short story.  Other than that, it seems to stand still and only observe some unusual scenes.  At the end, you don't find yourself enlightened, entertained, or relaxed.  Only upset, and wondering Why did I just watch that?Another one of those films that is hailed simply for the fact that it's so bad.  Don't get me wrong.  The actors played the (bad) parts very well, and the scenery and camerawork was great.  That's a reason why I'm so upset at having watched this film.  It was a pure waste of otherwise good talent.In short, the film is way too long for its own good.  The plot goes virtually nowhere, and most annoying of all, it hooks you in at the beginning with interesting plot devices, but shuts you down very fast, and that's only in the first quarter of the movie.  In the last eighth of the film, it picks up again, only to abruptly end.  Cut out the middle hour-and-ten and the movie is golden.  The only flaw is, well, that they didn't.Don't watch this film.  Just because it's labeled independent doesn't mean it's free of useless crap.   "},{"Title":"Slow and dull.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Thomas Anderson's debut is clearly an attempt to capitalize on the then-new film style that the highly overrated Quentin Tarantino brought. This flick is a light, low key Pulp Fiction/Reservoir Dogs wannabee, complete with Samuel L. Jackson and two main characters who are molds of Harvey Keitel, and Quentin Tarantino himself. The fast atmosphere of Las Vegas is brought to a torturously slow pace in this movie as Paul Thomas Anderson attempts to create an Ingmar Bergman atmosphere with no avail. Paul Thomas Anderson obviously tried to find quick success as a newcomer by copying the style of Tarantino, but Tarantino has now disappeared off the face of the earth, and so should this kind of filmmaking. Gwyneth Paltrow is, of course, lovely and gorgeous here, but that's all this movie has.      "},{"Title":"I was not impressed","Date":"18 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I notice from other reviews here on IMDb that lots of people seemed to like this movie. Maybe I should have toughed it out for a little longer? I got eight minutes into this badly scripted, badly acted and badly directed bomb before I gave up and slipped a different DVD into my player.My message to the Director You have to give me a reason to stay with your movie beyond the first few minutes. You failed. If I had payed $10 to see this in a cinema I would have stayed longer but I saw it at home. Even when watching a DVD borrowed from the library I place a value on my time. "},{"Title":"Gambling Facts don't add up","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could not get past the scam where they were comping rooms for points accrued through coin purchases. No casino has ever rated players that way.  Also, what was Sydney's great professional gambling technique? Every time we saw him playing he was making high-risk and not very smart bets that failed to pay off.  "},{"Title":"Overrated already","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is another one of those small independent films that everyone says is great, but it really isnt.  The story has been told before in several other better films.  This film isnt even acted well, Gweyneth Paltrow is as annoying as ever in her slutty character.  This film is just boring and a waste of time. Skip it. *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Hard Eight","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Paul Thomas Anderson (Boogie Nights, Magnolia, There Will Be Blood), this was a film I would obviously have never heard of unless it was broadcast on television, and it looked interesting because of an impressive cast list, and was likely to be an independent film, so I was up for trying it. Basically Sydney (Bruce Almighty's Philip Baker Hall) is a sixty year old gamble, who outside a diner meets young man John (John C. Reilly) and offers him a cigarette, then a coffee, and then the opportunity to make the money that he needs for his mother's burial, this would mean travelling to Las Vegas and learning ways of making the money and getting by. After some scepticism John agrees, and he follows the advice of his new friend, and two years later John has the money that he needed for the funeral, he has become Sydney's protégé staying in Reno, and he has made himself a friend in security worker Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), and he is also attracted to and dating cocktail waitress Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow). Late one night Sydney gets a frantic phone call from John, and at the motel he is staying in with Clementine he finds they have kidnapped a man and held him hostage because he wouldn't pay Clementine for her prostitution, and the situation is a little worse because John and Clementine got married. The situation is resolved in some way by Sydney, but he advises the newlyweds to get away and go on a honeymoon, he suggests Niagara Falls, and after they do leave Sydney is confronted by Jimmy who is demanding money in blackmail because he knows a secret that the sixty year old doesn't want to come out, this is that Sydney killed John's father. The old man gives in and pays him the money, but he later goes late at night into Jimmy's house to shoot him dead, and the end sees him return to the diner where he first met John, brushing the blood off his shirt cuff, it is unclear whether his friends finds out the dark secret he has. Also starring F. William Parker as Hostage and Philip Seymour Hoffman as Young Craps Player. Normally a character or supporting actor Baker Hall is actually a good choice as the elderly lead character because he is a wise presence, Reilly is likable as the slow but nice guy that wants to get somewhere in life, and Paltrow does pretty well as the promiscuous woman who is caught in the middle of situations, the story is simple enough, it could have used a bit more action, or the scripting could have tweaked to be wittier and with more pace, but it isn't too bad of a film debut from Anderson, a not bad crime drama. Worth watching! "}]