[{"Title":"Firing Blanks & a little romance","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"99 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love this film! Starring John Cusack, England's patriotically-named Minnie Driver, plus Dan Ackroyd, Alan Arkin & Joan Cusack, &#145;Grosse Pointe Blank' is funny, clever, action-packed & has a great &#145;eighties soundtrack.John Cusack - as the film's protagonist Martin Blank - is superb, & virtually carries the whole movie. He plays an assassin who started out working for the U.S. Government but has now gone freelance, having managed to rationalise his cold-blooded killing. He is an amoral, sharp, ruthless killer, but also vulnerably human, neurotic, conscience-ridden, tender & romantic. Despite these ostensibly impossible personality contradictions, you never once question that his character is real, you can't help but like the guy, & never stop hoping that things work out for him. Pulling this off is a remarkable achievement & Cusack does it brilliantly.He reluctantly accepts a commission that takes him back to his hometown, Grosse Pointe, coincidentally at exactly the same time as his old High School reunion. While there he visits his childhood sweetheart, local DJ Debi (Driver), for the first time in 10 years &#150; when in a fit of madness he had ditched her on their prom night to run off & join the army. As neither she nor anyone else had heard anything from him since then, her feelings about this are understandably rather mixed!Blank visits his institutionalised Mum & the family home, which to his great distress is now an &#145;Ultimart', & eventually convinces Debi to go with him to the reunion. His reacquaintances with his former schoolmates are very funny & even quite touching, & are sure to strike a chord with anyone who's ever been to one of those things.Meanwhile various other assassins, chief of which is Blank's rival Grocer (Ackroyd &#150; brilliant as ever) are out to kill him. Their reasons are many & varied &#150; mainly involving an &#145;Assassin's union', secret Government operations & a dead dog (yes, really!). As you can probably guess, these are not the sort of things that are conducive to a successful High School reunion, & mayhem ensues.&#145;Grosse Pointe Blank' is extremely funny, full of deadpan, twisted humour - mainly from Cusack, but ably supported by Ackroyd & Arkin. I particularly liked the running gag of Blank's response to the inevitable what do you do for a living? question a completely matter-of-fact professional killer, which of course not one person takes seriously. I also loved the hilariously neurotic exchanges between Blank & his hounded shrink (Arkin), who ends every conversation with Don't kill anyone! There's also a lovely little story involving a pen...The film is also a great action flick - it has some brilliantly choreographed & executed gunfight & hand-to-hand fight sequences &#150; in fact some of the best I've ever seen. Cusack looks, or at least is made to look, like a pretty decent athlete himself. The finale is a real tour-de-force, & for me sums up the movie itself a great gunfight, clever & hilariously funny.This film is wonderful from start to finish &#150; if you haven't done so already, see it now!  "},{"Title":"Consistently surprising and entertaining","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"82 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the complaints about movies these days, and justifiably so, is that they're predictable.  This movie is not predictable, and I never thought I'd be able to say that about a movie with four credited writers.  Every time you think you can guess where it's going, it throws a curve.  It was also very funny, which is nice because good comedies are becoming a rare species. John Cusack continues to show what a great actor he is as hitman Martin Blank.  He doesn't wink at the audience, saying, Oh look, I'm a hitman, but plays him as normal, with the right amount of misgivings and tenacity. Minnie Driver is quite good as the woman he's still obsessed with (although she was good in GOOD WILL HUNTING, she should have been nominated for this performance), and Alan Arkin and Jeremy Piven were good, as ever, in support.  The surprise, however, is Dan Aykroyd.  Just when I was prepared to write him off forever, he comes through with a great performance here. The soundtrack is terrific too, avoiding the cliched 80's songs to provide a fresh, and compatible, score.  "},{"Title":"I'm drawing a complete...","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"64 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Good movie. Particularly the part where John Cusack is using the frying pan to put his point across to the bad guy on the kitchen floor. It's hard not to belly laugh. I thought it took cues from 'Blue Velvet', with its uncommon blend of humour and ultra-violence.I read that parts of the dialogue were contributed by Cusack and a couple of real-life school friends, though cannot confirm this. It's believeable though - for example when he meets the legal guy propping up the bar at the re-union. His offering of the pen, the aside that Cusack should 'read the cap' and asking to use the funny quip - 'they all seem kinda related' - must have been based on a real person. Too sad to be fiction.Minnie cab Driver, Joan Cusack and Dan Ackroyd personalise their performances very well. The support cast were excellent too. The music was an oddly enjoyable mix and the fight sequence with the pen was the most realistic (and exhausting) I'd seen. It was the attention to small detail which swung it in the end though. Cusack's buddy's coke-fuelled, paranoid banter was spot on (Jenny Slater, Jenny Slater) as was the burning the fingers on the furnace, to name just two random details. The effect of this, is that they all add up to a movie which you can enjoy watching many times. And that makes it a rare gem.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Some movies have a good story that is made great by the casting. This is one such film. It has a cast to die for and makes what could have been an interesting film superb.John and Joan Cusack play great characters along with Minnie Driver in a film about a hit man returning to his home town for a high school reunion. he reconnects with a lost love while competitors are trying to rub him out.There is an assortment of characters in the film Alan Arkin (Little Miss Sunshine) as Dr. Oatman; Dan Akroyd as Blank's main competitor; Hank Azaria, K. Todd Freeman and Jeremy Piven.This film has enough laughs amid the shooting and romance to satisfy anyone. "},{"Title":"A '90s classic!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Although not nearly as popular as it deserves to be, GROSS POINTE BLANK has become an increasingly respected cult flick in the year following its theatrical release and it's not hard to see why. The movie is probably the only film on earth that is able to blend comedy, graphic violence, and romance together perfectly, which is what makes it such a classic. John Cusack is excellent as Martin Q. Blank, a hit-man who attends his ten-year high school reunion. At first he doesn't want to, but decides to go since he has a case there and he wants to see his old girlfriend Debbie (Minnie Driver) again. This dark comedy is heavy on exciting action, suspense, gunfire, laughs, and fun, but it doesn't have not quite enough character development for my taste (a bit more on how Martin became accustomed to killing would have been nice). Still, GROSSE POINTE BLANK was one of the best films of 1997 and one of the better comedies of the 1990s. There were rumors of a sequel happening for a while, though the chances of that happening are slim to none. Too bad. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. Grosse Pointe Blank is smart and witty and has a stunning 1980s soundtrack. Martin Blank (Cusack) is an angst ridden international hit-man who has stopped enjoying his work. He searches for meaning in his life and returns to Grosse Pointe, Michigan for his 10th year High School reunion and one last job. Blank meets his mom, some old friends and discovers that his childhood home has been knocked down to make way for a convenience store. He ponders his life choices and has recurring dreams about Debi Newberry (Driver) the girl he stood up on Prom night. Blank's activities have attracted a collection of hit men trying to find an excuse to kill him. These include Aykroyd, two federal agents and a freelance Basque hit-man. There is a shoot-out at the end and overall the film has a large body count, but Cusack makes Blank seem like a lovable version of Jason Bourne. The film is something of an ensemble piece with great comic performances from Alan Arkin, Joan Cusack, Jeremy Piven and Aykroyd. The film pokes fun at the loner tough guy hero featured in so many Hollywood movies. At the time of its release the story was a little unusual but Mr and Mrs Smith has since explored similar territory of rich cosmopolitan assassins trying to blend into ordinary American life. Blank spends most of the movie in pursuit of Debi. Will she forgive him? Will he have time to complete his assignment? This is my idea of a great movie. It's funny and clever and the characters are flawed but likable. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully fun comedy","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"40 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  About the same time as this film was made there was a spate of hitman focused comedy dramas (from Leon to Coldblooded) so this risked being viewed in the same way as these.  This is strictly a comedy - there's no deep soul searching here, the analyst is also in it for comedy value.The story is funny and lively, the soundtrack reminded us that not all 80's music was rubbish and the whole feel of the film is one that it must have been fun to make.  John Cusack is excellent as the hitman, he just seems to bring the character to life and play him in a jokey way without making fun of the film, Dan Akroyd gets the best role he's had in years as the hitman trying to get Cusack to join his union, while Minnie Driver is girly and fun - the whole cast are excellent in fact!The film is not a classic by any means and many see it as a down side that it ignores any serious issues or that the film is set so far away from reality but for me this is part of the fun.  Sit down, don't take it seriously and just enjoy the ride! "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Grosse Pointe Blank (1997)","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've keeping my run of John Cusack movies with each trip to the library. Not that I'm on the lookout for his old movies deliberately, it just happens. Not that I'm complaining, but he's always been one of the few who play characters so diverse, it's almost impossible to stereotype him. He's fast becoming one of my favorite actors, besides Morgan Freeman, and Denzel Washington, amongst others.School reunions are one of those social events that you either love, or loathe. If you're a somebody back then, and are sort of somebody right now, it presents to you an opportunity to brag about it. If you're cruising along fine, then you're probably curious about how others are doing, and want to take stock. If you're a nobody then, or now, then you'll probably not want to attend at all.John Cusack plays Martin Blank, a professional hit-man whose at the crossroads of that decision. 10 years ago, he abandoned his date for the prom, and never made contact ever since. Also, he's wondering how he could possibly tell anyone about his current profession. He's also finding that life is becoming meaningless, and is seeking for something to lift him up from the doldrums.His secretary (played by real life sister Joan Cusack - there are a total of 4 Cusack siblings in this movie) arranges a perfect opportunity for him to mesh work and play, and packs him off back to Grosse Pointe. Naturally he seeks out his old flame Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), and tries his best to make amends by offering to go to the reunion with her.However, his nemesis and hit-man rival Grocer, played to hilarity by Dan Ackroyd, is mad at Blank for not wanting to join up in his union, and he wants to bump Blank off. He's provided with some of the best dialog, and banters with Cusack so well, you just beg for more of their scenes together.It's a quirky movie (aren't most of Cusack's movies) which is thoroughly enjoyable with its excellent selection of songs, wonderful dialog, and delightful action toward the end. Watch out too for a short appearance by Jenna Elfman! The Code 1 DVD is nothing to shout about - the bare bones version. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Light and Fluffy, Yet Dark Comedy","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sometimes one bad apple ruins the whole thing. One drop of taint makes the best things in life go bad. An this movie was full of potential taint. It could have been Minnie Driver (the weak point of Good Will Hunting). It could have been Dan Ackroyd (whose comedic routines can go from great in Ghostbusters to stupid in Coneheads). Or maybe it could even have been the fact the writers and director really have no prior experience in making a big film. But the potential taint never happened and this film came out almost flawless.Minnie Driver was given such a small role that her poor acting and unbelievable character (which, I guess isn't her fault) could be overlooked and placed in the margin. Not her worst performance, but not her best (which might be Beautiful).Dan Ackroyd was superb, actually presenting us one of the funnier yet darker villains in cinematic history. His delivery of Bible verses while shooting willy-nilly through a target's house? Diabolical! The directing was respectable and the writing was spot-on. Some great dialog between the characters and the story could not be beat. Seriously.The Cusacks? Oh my! John Cusack is a winner in everything he's ever done (besides maybe One Crazy Summer). This movie is one of his best, almost as memorable as Say Anything (though that one is flatly unbeatable). Joan Cusack was also pretty cool as a receptionist and her rapport with John is clear and shines in the film. I'm not buying a phone from her, though. And John's sparring with his kickboxing instructor? Those lessons have paid off! Jeremy Piven? Stupendous, as good if not better than his Chasing Liberty role. Having starred in 10 films with John Cusack, this is probably their best together.There are so many more praises I could heap on this movie, but I shouldn't have to. If you want to see a funny, quirky and well-crafted tale about a professional hit-man and a high school reunion, this is your film of choice. You might rent Michelle and Romy, but not only will you not get the hit men, but you'll get a piece of dog doo, as well. So choose wisely. "},{"Title":"I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork. How have you been?","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Directed by George Armitage, Grosse Pointe Blank stars John Cusack as Martin Blank, a neurotic hit-man who has spent the last ten years of his life stuck in an existential rut. As such, Blank spends most his time contemplating the meaning of life, reading magazines titled making sense of creation and brooding about the perceived pointless of all existence. If life has no worth, Blank muses, then why not profit from killing?In true Woody Allen fashion, Blank discusses all these issues with his psychiatrist (played brilliantly by Allan Arkin). He's searching for some meaning, anything to fill a certain existential void, an emotional roller-coaster which Cusack has made a career out of conveying. Indeed, Cusack made a name for himself in the 1980s playing wisecracking teenagers who struggle with adulthood, are contemptuous of others and posses an inner wisdom. You might say Blank takes these characters and pushes them toward sociopathy.Cusack has always been cool, but here he oozes ultra-cool, ever body motion, mannerism and gesture fine-tuned. The film offers an endless stream of witty dialogue, numerous neat, subtle touches (Blank is very picky about where he sits), a killer soundtrack and a hilarious subplot featuring Dan Aykroyd as a fast-talking, overweight hit-man. Aykroyd's attempting to set up a hit-man trade union (Solidarity!), but Blank's not interested in joining. The duo share a priceless scene in a café, both men with weapons hidden under a table.Bizarrely, Grosse Pointe marries at least six genres. It's a high-school reunion movie, an assassin flick, a return-to-small-town movie, a romantic comedy, action film and 1980s teen nostalgia flick. Armitage handles the tropes of all these genres well, but outdoes himself with the film's many action sequences. They're surprisingly well choreographed, particularly an intense fist-fight with famed martial artist Benny Urquidez.Much of the film plays like a 1980s, teen flick. Here Minnie Driver's the object of Blank's affection, she playing the girl Blank abandoned 10 years earlier at a high school dance. Blank's attempting to reconnect with her as a means of escaping what is essentially a stasis borne of nihilism and apathy, a fact which gives the film's eighties nostalgia some touching subtext. Blank wants to mend his childhood, to start over, but the universe won't let him. In the end, it's Driver who embraces Blank's philosophy, though Blank changes a little too. In one scene, holding a baby whilst Queen waffles on the soundtrack (...dares you to change your way of caring....), Blank learns something about the fragility and preciousness of life. Seconds later he kills a guy and dumps the body in a furnace. Baby steps.The film's romantic climax is rushed and unconvincing, and Minnie Driver irks with the facial bone structure of a caveman. Still, Grosse Pointe is some kind of classic, and in a way continues the evolution of the hit-man genre (from Yojimbo to Le Samourai to The Professional (1980) to Nikita to Leon to Ghost Dog to Grosse Pointe Blank). Here, Cusack acts as a sort of deconstruction of the Hit-man. No longer is he an angel of death (Melville's film), or a mentally damaged human, but a totally self-aware, thoroughly postmodern, neurotic wreck. The film completely autopsies the genre, which will probably lead to a lot of noble, somber, stable and righteous hit-man movies in the future. Every genre's eventually reset.9/10 &#x96; Cult classic. See High Fidelity and Pump Up The Volume. "}{"Title":"Just not funny","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What a confused movie this is. Is it a comedy? A Pulp Fiction wannabe? A John Hughes Eighties High School movie? It tries to be all three, but in doing that it fails to be what it needs to be a good movie.It's very Pulp Fiction-ish in its use of witty banter during extreme gunplay. The John Hughes element is obvious...Cusack could even be the same character from Better Off Dead ten years later. In fact, THAT would have been funny, but I digress.If it's an action movie, I think Cusack and Aykroyd are miscast. Maybe not Cusack so much, but Aykroyd just sucks. As in most action movies, the characters use their guns like hoses and only reload after 50 shots have been fired from a pistol that holds 10 bullets.The romance is not convincing. There's just no chemistry between Driver and Cusack, and not much time is spent on them. Nor is enough time spent with Cusack's old school friends and enemies, which could have been fodder for a better movie.Particularly shocking is the violence in this supposed comedy. (SPOILERS) Cusack's encounter with the ghoul in the school ends disturbingly, in my opinion. And I have no problem with violence...Pulp Fiction was great, but of course it wasn't marketing itself as a comedy! And the gunning down of the two NSA agents at the end just makes no sense and didn't seem to even fit with where the movie was supposed to go. The movie could have been FUNNY if Cusack's character was a bumbling hitman, not an expert assassin. But hey, that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"So-so Pointe Blank","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is an enjoyable, quirky movie about a contract hit-man (named Blank) with a point blank predilection returning to his home town Grosse Pointe, Michigan for his dreaded ten-year class reunion. Once he gets there, romance is in the air betwixt him and his highschool-sweetheart (whom he had ditched at the prom), and also a good amount of lead from a disgruntled ex-customer and a competitor. The acting is solid and there are several funny scenes and dialogues. And the soundtrack is packed with 1980ies hits and misses.But I still found this movie unsatisfying it doesn't gel. It's of course a farce rather than a documentary, but everything seems slightly implausible or doesn't add up. Many scenes reminded me of those DVD-extras which the director decided to throw out in the final cut because they didn't help with the story. Here they kept them in and made a movie out of it.Example, when hit-man Martin Blank (John Cusack) comes to pick up his reunion date Debi (Minnie Driver), she goes like Come in, my dad's *dying* to meet you!. On earth why? Because he's got a role to play later on and so must somehow be introduced, that's why. Which is also why sassy DJane Minnie inexplicably still lives with him. And his role is actually that, by a 300 million  1 coincidence, Blank's manic main competitor (brilliant Dan Ackroyd) happens to have a contract on this dude.I'm not saying that that one scene broke the movie; but there are plenty other scenes like that, which makes the script a bit too dumb and forceful for my taste. But if you manage to switch your cerebrum one notch back and just go with the flow, and if black comedy is up your street, then you won't regret checking this one out. "},{"Title":"Hit men need love, too...","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" ... but where to find it when even your own therapist is afraid of you? We all have feelings that maybe old friends are quietly judging us when there's a meeting after a long time and we're invited to share what we've accomplished in our lives; so imagine how persistent that sense of awkwardness must be if it turns out that you've become a professional killer. In such a position, is it possible to rectify past mistakes, or will you always be marked out as a loner following a lethal agenda?One of my favourite sequences in the film is when Martin Blank returns to the house he grew up in, only to find that it's been razed to the ground and turned into a convenience store. Any fond memories he might've held concerning his old identity have been destroyed, and instead of the chance to reminisce, he finds himself pitched into a gun battle inside this most blatant symbol of personal change. How can he complain about such mercenary corporate acquisitions of land, when he himself has chosen his morally dubious career also for the pursuit of profit? The person who is the highest bidder wins the spoils, and if he wants to rekindle his lost love, then he'll have to be brave enough to confront old ghosts from the past at his high-school reunion.John Cusack has always been skilled at projecting a low-key, angst-ridden conscience on film, and Minnie Driver is also perfect playing the level-headed lass who often evaluates situations with a kind of bemused detachment. With the help of the rest of the cast, the pair make this off-kilter romantic comedy glide smoothly along, and help to guarantee that there's also room left over for a few moments of poignant reflection. Grosse Pointe Blank is a film that hits all of its Gen X targets with ruthless efficiency. "},{"Title":"Sloppy and unimaginative","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found Grosse Point Blank messy, confused and unimaginative.  From the opening scenes, with upbeat music clashing with what should have been a tense contract killing, I could see that the movie was going to abandon sensible values like pacing, mood setting, etc. for random gimmicks and quirks.  (Even naming the lead character Blank in order to give the film its oh-so-clever title was probably a lot funnier to the filmmakers than the audience.)Minnie Driver does a great American accent, but if you listen, you can hear a little British slip through in a couple of scenes.  John Cusack is good, but his sister Joan seems to be acting too intensely in her scenes.  "},{"Title":"A movie to forget","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of the most boring movies I have seen so far. In this movie there are only two good scenes and the pace is okay, but otherwise it is a rather silly or even preposterous movie. Story is as well ridiculous. There are no other funny things about and everything is exaggerated. The actors and actresses are okay, although I have seen better movies from Cusack, Akroyd and Driver. I would recommend Blues brothers for Dan Akroyd, Good Will Hunting for Minnie Driver and Con Air for Cusack. If you haven't seen this movie, you haven't missed much. The percentage of reality is very low (what could happen in reality) and also as a fiction there are better ones. "},{"Title":"Public Is Smarter, More Moral Than Film Critics","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" When it comes to movies, the public usually will give you a lot better idea about the merits of a film. I can't recall how many times I have seen a critics favorite be a piece of garbage while another film the critics dismiss was a big hit and a good movie to watch.This is another example of one of those critics' favorites, one of these modern- day black comedies in which the humor is almost nonexistent and the characters are mostly annoying. Make no mistake Minnie Driver IS annoying, big-time, in the female lead Debi Newberry.I like quirky characters in films, but if you don't pull it off right, those weirdos aren't funny, they are just dumb. In Fargo, they are funny; in this they are stupid. And if you are looking for good-guy hit men (oxymoron?) stick with Jean Reno in Leon,. not John Cusack's character in this box-office flop.Give the public credit it has infinitely more sense than your daily newspaper critics. "},{"Title":"Proof that high school reunions cannot possibly be 100% worthwhile.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've been to one high school reunion last decade, and by my reckoning must be due for one next year. I was a reluctant participant at the last one and in all likelihood won't bother with the next, for reasons I am about to explain.I imagine most reunions pan out in much the same manner, the initial 'boy is this awkward' feeling that pervades proceedings for the first hour, the bragging morons who use the night to talk themselves up and delight in the perceived failures of others, followed by the inevitable drunken conclusions, fights and ultimately long drives home in more awkward silence. Add in the fact that anyone worth catching up with couldn't (or wouldn't) make it anyway and you've got a recipe for boredom right there.This situation is exacerbated for Martin Blank (John Cusack), as he seemingly vanished from the face of the earth just prior to his original high school prom, standing up his sweetheart Debi (Minnie Driver) in the process.The ensuing decade saw his carve out a career path in the assassinating arts as an expert contract hit-man, a successful sole trader in a growth industry. His parent's would be proud of him if his Father wasn't already deceased and his Mum wasn't nuts and didn't recognise him.So the only people who know what Martin does &#x96; and even that he is still alive &#x96; are his efficient and cheery personal assistant Marcella (Joan Cusack), and his business rivals who are looking to team up and form a hit men union, the face of these gents being Grocer (Dan Ackroyd).Blank may be finding his occupation a little boring and stale of late, even his shrink wants to end their business relationship and continuously blanches when being told of Blank's true work activities, (I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork)&#x85; but Martin Blank is a one man show and wants no part in the union &#x96; even if it provides dental. This proclamation angers Grocer, so as well as having a contract and a high school reunion to deal with, Blank also has multiple nefarious characters wandering through his home town of Grosse Pointe.The initial stages of Blank's stay are reasonably low key, he runs into some locals who recognise him, finds his childhood home was bulldozed to make way for a mini-mart, and discovers Debi is now the local DJ. After he and Debi meet once again Blank feels the spark once more &#x96; even though Minnie Driver has a head like a permed pumpkin &#x96; and asks her once more to go to the dance with him.At the dance all the things mentioned earlier indeed come to pass, but there are also the unexpected complications brought about by other hit men being in attendance and a rekindling of a romance that an entire decade passed by&#x85; Like many films in which he appears John Cusack deserves credit for making things appear to be better than they are based purely upon the audience's goodwill toward him. That was also what made Hot Tub Time Machine and 2012 more tolerable in recent years.His fast paced dialogue and thoughtful gaze brings immediate comfort and perhaps allows you to ignore (that in the case of Grosse Pointe Blank) that he is the only likable person in it. (It is also why a film like 1408 works so well, we don't mind only one guy being on screen for over an hour if it's Cusack.) If you are a fan of Cusack you'll probably love Grosse Pointe Blank as he pretty much makes the film his baby, including an indulgent personal best of soundtrack. If you are neither here nor there on all matters Cusack you might not be so forgiving, as while he busts a gut as usual to make the film at least watchable there isn't much behind him worth watching.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. A couple of moments and the usual John Cusack reliability aren't enough to make this more than a middling effort. "},{"Title":"This is an offbeat, very likable film about a hit-man who takes an assignment in his hometown.","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is a bright burst of action and comedy with a cast that makes for rousing good company. A hit-man (John Cusack) attends his high school reunion in Grosse Point.The one-joke premise is unpromising, but this skillful black comedy pays off with a tone pitched somewhere between jaunty and edgy, and amusing performances all around. The lead role seems custom-built for Cusack. In 2000, readers of Total Film magazine voted Grosse Pointe Blank the 21st greatest comedy film of all time. The film's soundtrack features mainly independent music hits from the 1980s. According to Joan Cusack, the 2008 film War, Inc. is an informal sequel to Grosse Pointe Blank. "},{"Title":"Mostly Hits the Mark","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A hit man returns to the Detroit area for his high school reunion, coincidently the location of his next assignment. This is an enjoyable comedy that just doesn't quite put it all together; the mixture of comedy and violence is somewhat jarring. The cast is terrific. Cusack does well as the hit man who tells everyone that he's a professional killer, and of course everyone thinks he's kidding. Sister Joan is amusing as his loyal secretary while Aykroyd has fun as a maniacal rival hit man who wants Cusack to join him in some sort of hit man union. Arkin is funny as Cusack's reluctant shrink. Even the much-maligned Driver is fine as the love interest. "},{"Title":"I Killed The President Of Paraguay With A Fork - How've You Been ?","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank has a problem - he's going to his ten-year High School reunion. Not only is he rather embarrassed he has become a professional killer in the intervening period, but he really should apologise to Debi, the girl he stood up on prom night &#133;This is an extremely funny fast-moving black comedy with a crackerjack performance by Cusack, some wild action scenes, hilarious dialogue, a great ensemble and a fabulous soundtrack of indie hits. The premise is (literally) a killer, and Martin is a terrific mix of intelligent, amoral professional and neurotic, self-obsessed whiner, constantly trying to overcome his doubts about his chosen vocation. The real reason he wants to avoid the reunion is not because he's done something bad with his life (that's maybe debatable) but that he's done something meaningless with it (that's a given), which is gently driven home in little moments like the scene where he visits his mother, or the moment with the baby at the disco. At the same time, the film is curiously authentic, thanks to some excellent stuntwork by Buddy Joe Hooker, which explores Martin's bloody business to the full, and is all beautifully shot by the underrated Jamie Anderson (Piranha, The Gift). The mix of breakneck dialogue, humour and action is dizzyingly entertaining and the whole cast are terrific, especially Aykroyd as a rival hit-man who wants to set up an assassins' union and Arkin as Martin's nervous and much put-upon shrink. Equally uplifting is the soundtrack, which consists of some spine-tingling guitar riffing by Clash frontman Joe Strummer, and a large collection of oddball pop songs. Pop music in movies is often ineffective product placement, but here the deftly picked tunes both augment the story and are great toe-tapping fun; listen out for Johnny Nash, The Specials, The Cure, Pete Townshend, The Beat and many others. There are literally dozens of knee-slapping one-liners in this flick - I think my favourite is when Martin finds the old family pile has been bulldozed and replaced by an Ultimart. Distraught, he phones Arkin and notes philosophically, You can never go home again Oatman &#133; but I guess you can shop there.. Extremely well written by Tom Jankiewicz, D.V. DeVincentis, Steve Pink and John Cusack; DeVincentis and Pink also play small roles. Don't miss this genuine feelgood flick. "}{"Title":"Indescribably Funny","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Easily the best aspect of this laugh-out-loud funny film is the great cast.  Of course the main characters get the most points, but even the little touches, like the convenience store clerk, add to the overall oddball appeal.  Unique, fast-paced, and never losing its comic tone, GROSSE POINTE BLANK is a must-see for everyone who is tired of the cliches of the action genre. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Despite owning this film on video, I've only had time to watch it about three or four times over the last couple of months.  However, I can honestly say that this film is one of my all time favourites, each time I watch it it gets better.The film has some really nice touches, like when Martin takes a picture of the baby with his spy camera.  The cast is also great, there's some great chemistry between Cusack and Aykroyd (spelling?) and Joan Cusack is hilarious (occasionally).Overall, I give this film 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"real small town values","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One more thumbs up for this beautifully observed, witty movie that manages to be romantic and disillusioned at the same time.  The key thing is the route to possible redemption rather than the (clichéd) possibility of redemption itself for the professional-killer hero.  In returning to his roots, Martin Blank discovers that his apparently bizarre career choice is in fact perfectly normal; he's no more nor less suited to his job, unsatisfied by it, and unscrupulous in it, than any of the other professionals (indifferent grocery store workers, estate agents, security guys...)  If there's a chance that normal society will have him back, it's because he was never really away.Don't confuse this smart and poignant comedy with a Tarantino wannabe.  In fact, think Coen brothers and you might be nearer the mark, but there's never any suspicion of style winning out over substance (the usual, if usually questionable, critique of the Coens).  If you're reading this review, chances are you've seen GPB already.  What the heck, see it again, treat yourself. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, horrid pop music","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you hated the pop music in the early 80's as much as I did, then avoid this movie.  Although it's a pretty good movie, it's not enough to make up for the music if you hate it.  Of course, if you loved early 80's music, then see this movie. "},{"Title":"Wittiest Violence in Town","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It's always the lesser-marketed films that pack the biggest punch, isn't it? I had never even heard of Grosse Point Blank before I happened to catch a showing of it on premium cable.  Thank goodness I did sit for it, because it is without a doubt one of the most memorable films I have ever seen.The line between action and comedy is a clearly definable one, and one would assume that to combine the two is no easy undertaking.  This is why I so admire Grosse Point Blank; it flawlessly blends the seams of the two genres, all the while developing characters we can all associate with  the loner, the workaholic, the mantra-spouting shrink, and that guy who hasn't done a thing in the ten years since you graduated.When John Cusack and high school pals D.V. DeVincentis, Tom Janckiweicz, and Steve Pink get together, they write some of the funniest lines and situations you will ever see.  This movie goes down in history with Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory as one of the most quotable movies of all time in my book.  My personal favorite?  I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork.  How have you been?  Intrigued?  Go rent the movie; there's plenty more where that came from. "},{"Title":"An en-Grosse-ing Cinematic Treat","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Point Blank is one of those tiny, little, quirky films that come along, and no matter how little you know about it, when you view it, you fall head over heels in love with it.It features a terrific performance by John Cusack, who also aided in writing the screenplay, as Martin Blank, a young assassin who is experiencing a crisis of conscience.  Cusack's humorous charm and quietly introvertive personality turn Blank into a believable, if not affable, character.  Cusack also performed all of his own stunts, including an incredible unarmed clash with a fellow hitman during his high school reunion.  Also look for great turns by Minnie Driver, as Martin's stood-up prom date and true love; Jeremy Piven, as his luckless best friend, Dan Ackroyd as the dumpy, yet deadly mercenary Grocer, intent upon creating an assassin's union;  Alan Arkin as Martin's overly frightened and in need of therapy psychiatrist; and Cusack's sister, Joan, as his overworked, well-meaning secretary, Marcella.  Also look for a great cameo by Simpsons-voice-over master, Hank Azaria, as one of two bumbling National Security operatives.The movie is full of great dialogue and interplay between the characters, but is also filled with some stark, ultra-violent scenes which despite their shocking tone, totally serve to move the film forward at a good pace.I was pleasantly surprised by Grosse Point Blank, and it made me a true admirer of Cusack's work.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank makes other high school reunion movies pale in comparison. The dark wit, fantastic one-liners and top performances make it a real classic.John Cusack and Minnie Driver are excellent, although Minnie's accent was a little off at times (always bugs me). John in particular is one of the most under-rated actors around, with a stillness of delivery that makes a huge impression. He under-acts and so acts to perfection.I'm an 80s babe so remember all the songs the first time around - partic 'Blister in the Sun'. Top "},{"Title":"Oh, me?  I'm a hitman.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Let's just say this is a very satisfying and smart movie.  The first time I saw it in the movie theatre I thought here is a sort of funny movie that was okay.  I didn't feel strongly about it one way or another, probably because not all of the humour is instantly realized.  I again saw this movie on videotape not long ago and was shocked to see the many fast fired tidbits of comedy that were definitely more apparent the second time through.  This seems to be a characteristic of intelligent movies these days.  The first time you watch it, you want to just try and understand the plot.  On the second time through though, one can pick out the smaller details and is awarded almost with a completely new movie.  This feature is definitely true of Grosse Pointe Blank which will not be immediately appreciated by those with short attention spans and those who believe Farrelly Borhter's movies are the peak of high brow comedy.I also really like the cast of this movie who seemed perfectly cast. John Cusack (who I normally think is boring and one-dimensional) is wonderful as a hitman who needs a shrink.  Minnie Driver perfectly plays the love interest who can not believe she is going to fall for the same guy she knew ten years ago.  And lastly, is Dan Akroyd who shows up in so many crappy movies nowdays it is amazing to seem him in a good one. There is no weak link to the cast, even Joan Cusack turns in a good performance.A great cast not to mention a killer soundtrack which perfectly fits the fast-paced dialogue.  My favorite line in the movie is when John Cusack and Dan Akroyd are ordering breakfast in a diner with guns pointed at each other under the table.  Cusack says he wants an omelet with nothing on it  no cheese, onions, mushrooms, etc.  Then the waitress tells him in the intensity of the moment that what he ordered really isn't an omelet then.  Cusack replies, I don't want to get in a discussion about semantics with you.  If you don't get this line, don't bother seeing the movie.     "},{"Title":"NEWSFLASH! ! ! Comedy Hits Pointe Blank Target!!!!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is so great in so many ways. The subtle humor. The funny violence. The dozens of great one liners. This film is for everyone for hated Empire Records! ! ! Because unlike Empire Records, Grosse Point Blanke is witty, has a talented cast, a great story, and most of all it is howlingly funny!All the people who have condemned this film are the ones who love stupid films like Empire Records, Billy Madison, Happy Gilmore...and who think a fart joke is classic comedy material...these people who I am describing are the dim wits who can't find the subtle humor in Grosse Point Blanke because they are simply STUPID!John Cusack is in top form playing the kind hearted hit man, this could be the best role of his career (I'll wait for Thin Red Line before deciding)...he fits this role like a glove and his delivery is simply superb......he is an excellent comedy actor. He was backed up so greatly by Minnie Driver, who is destined for huge things after this, Good Will Hunting and Circle of Friends. She is so funny. She is the new Gwyneth Paltrow (meaning she is english and impersonates an American accent to perfection. Gwyn is the other way around)The rest of the supporting cast were superb, with Dan Akroyd in top form, and Alan Arkin delivering a fine if a little unseen performance...and then there's Joan Cusack who steals every scene she's in......simply because she has talent and knows what comedy is.......Over all Grosse Point Blanke is fresh, fast paced, fun, and different......for all those dim witted people who loved Empire Records stay away from a great movie like this....  "},{"Title":"8/10? That Good?","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie to see some more of Minnie Driver who I first saw in God on the Rocks (a movie located in Saltburn close to my home town). I saw Minnie in Good Will Hunting earlier in the week , for which she has already been critically acclaimed. She was also very good here. The movie, I thought was very light, the plot a bit uninteresting, but the performances were comparatively good. Cusack was also a star performer. Very aloof, as any contract killer should be. I was surprised to see this movie had receievd an overall 8/10 from imdb users, I hope they were voting for the individual performances rather than the movie itself as I and my partner thought only a 6 was deserving for the movie overall. I can't help but compare the movie to Leon, who looked at this profession in a light way, and Leon comes out tops! "}{"Title":"A spurious self-spoofing student movie","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The pun in the movie title says it all Grosse Pointe Blank is a brat movie, a movie students could have written (and shot for a portion of the budget) as a joke and a tribute to their teenage years.Basically the dumb thing that cries mediocre student joke here is the discrepancy between reality and fantasy. If you're seriously about to make the best movie possible, you have to choose to spoof or not to spoof. Spoof comedy is OK as long as everything is a joke and that it runs at Mach 3.9; conversely a serious hit-man drama/thriller is OK as long as you stay the course.Spoof is already aiming at the lowest hurdle, but when you just spoof up an otherwise straight drama/thriller/romcom... (you name it) that is just blatantly incompetent. Cusack's fans and lenient teenage souls amongst IMDb reviewers rank this movie high yet the average reviewer is bound to be bored by the tone skids, the funky violence shootings that bury the attempt to tell a clever story about an isolated hit-man and a rush of nostalgia. Those shootings were gross and plundered a storyline which already verged to much on the spoofy side (cf. Blank's contracts before leaving for Grosse Pointe). "},{"Title":"Pretty poor","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a professional assassin who is sent on a mission to Detroit which by sheer coincidence is the same city that his 10 year school reunion is taking place. Complications ensue for Blank when his rival Grocer (Dan Aykroyd) discovers that he's pursuing the same target as Blank. Blank also ends up side-tracked when he becomes more interested in rekindling his romance with Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver) who is the girl that he stood up 10 years ago.I'll be blunt and admit that this film bored me to tears. I don't understand how it's garnered its current IMDb rating of 7.4. The film has a good concept and I liked the idea of 2 rival assassins being at loggerheads and the idea of them pursuing one other certainly makes for a funny idea on paper. The problem is that the film doesn't play out this way and for the most part it was a dull and tedious film revolving around Blank and Newberry attempting to turn the clock back and rekindle their romance that never was. The problem is that their characters are quite poorly developed and not particularly interesting and the same could be said for their romance. I honestly couldn't have cared less whether they got together or not. Had this aspect acted as a sub plot rather than the main plot then I probably wouldn't have been as annoyed, but this aspect of the film is too weak and uninteresting to drive the majority of the narrative.Other problems with the film are that it quite simply isn't very funny. It's billed as a 'Black Comedy' so I didn't expect a laugh riot, but I did expect for there to be a moderately humorous tone running throughout. Alan Arkin was great as Blank's therapist and I wish that he'd been given more screen time. Sadly, the limited screen time he was given wasn't enough to save this shambles. No-one else really stood out for me.The film shifts up a gear in the final 15 minutes and I must admit the finale was quite fun, but again it wasn't enough to even raise the film to 'average' as a whole.I think the problem for me with this film was expectations; I expected this to be a fun, dark edged rivalry between 2 assassins, but what I got for the most part was a dull, tedious largely unfunny rekindling of a romance which I neither wanted nor cared about. I was tempted to give this film a 1 out of 10 as it was shockingly bad, but I raised my score to a 3 out of 10 as I felt that it deserved a little bit of credit for the couple of laughs that it got from me. "},{"Title":"More like a club. Work less, make more.","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank (1997)More like a club--work less, make more.Get past the glitches and a couple slow spots and the iffy romance, and look at the dozen or so utterly hilarious scenes and you have a movie to die for. There are lots of subtle comments, and subtle facial movements and gestures, to make a careful viewing really pay off. If you stick to the big effects it might be disappointing, so give more weight to the writing and acting. It's a comedy, don't forget, and almost every line is funny.John Cusak is restrained and comical, and can be clever and combative with Dan Aykroyd, wistful with Minnie Driver, and neurotic with Alan Arkin, who has the funniest moments in the film. Throw in three (count them) other Cusaks as supporting actors, and the ever pointed Jeremy Piven. Oh, and Hank Azaria, too. Quite a cast, and each has his or her great moment. The plot isn't really the point, so it barrels along from hit to hit (so to speak), and has a terrific soundtrack to pump it up, and basically serves as a way for us to see one funny situation after another. There is a purpose to most of it, though, and by the end there is a climax, and a resolution to the love situation that may or may not be satisfying. But who cares? You'll be laughing, and marking the times for the funny scenes so you can see them again. "},{"Title":"The Detroit Blues","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Being a person born and (mostly) raised in Michigan, I can say with complete confidence that all of the nutty things that happen in this film would probably never have happened anywhere else. Michigan is a state where just about everyone is crazy in some way, the most conspicuous being the gun toting nuts in the Michigan militia. It's obvious that John Cusack was born and raised in Michigan, because this movie perfectly captures the oft times amusing madness that seems to permeate the entire state.Matin Blank is a neurotic, angst ridden, but at the same time completely cool and professional hit-man, who ran away from his High School prom ten years ago to join the Army and learn how to kill. The girl he left behind haunts him, so that when he gets a letter about his high school reunion in Detroit, and a job offer for the same place, he decides to return to his old haunts to work out some of his kinks.Debbie(the old flame), is single and working at a local radio station. He starts to bond with her again, meets some old friends, and learns that his childhood home has been converted into a convenience store. His good old days jaunt is complicated by several rival hit men out to punch his clock, some FBI guys with the same mission, and the fact that his old girlfriend is more than mildly unhappy to learn what he does for a living. There is a hysterical shootout in the convenience store between Martin and a nasty little Eastern European hit-man, which culminates in a hand grenade in the microwave. Priceless.The reunion is an odd mix of nostalgia and weirdness as Martin duels yet again with the same hit-man in the upper halls near his locker, after dancing to some 80's hits played by an atrocious band. The dichotomy of the scenes is jarring and amusing at the same time. The movie culminates in a bloody shoot out between Martin and a hit-man out to start an assassin's union, of all things. Martin wouldn't co-operate, so the hit-man is trying to get rid of the unaffiliated competition. There's a bit with a t.v. that is just wonderful. The whole movie has such a peculiar, almost dreamlike quality, because it is such an amalgamation of bloody violence and the most mundane details of life. I mean, a high school reunion couldn't get more sappy, and side by side with shootouts and hand to hand combat it presents an interesting joining of two seemingly opposite situations. Funny and twisted, it is a fabulous film by the family Cusack. Wish they'd do more. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Who did not like this movie? I have recently watched for the second time, to give it another shot. Did not like it. Cannot stand Minnie Driver and know if John Cusack would pick a great script I could really like him. Grosse Point Yawn  "},{"Title":"Two movies colliding = mediocrity","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A lowbrow comedy about professional assassins crashes into a semi-serious class reunion movie and the result is the mediocre Grosse Pointe Blank. If this had been played as a farcical comedy all the way through, it might have worked, but this movie actually asks us to care about John Cusack's character, who is a PROFESSIONAL ASSASSIN! I was uninvolved, infrequently amused and never laughed out loud. This is not a bad movie; Cusack is good, considering the movie doesn't know what it is, and Minnie Driver again is excellent in her own showy way. But their relationship was a head-scratcher. I kept asking myself Why are they acting that way? Curious, curious. And there's just too much shooting, shooting, shooting. Damn! So it's a disappointment then, but not all bad. (5 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Just Boring","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well, I find myself again in disagreement with most of the other viewers who saw this film and cared to comment it for IMDb. I just cannot say too much good about it, I gave him a 5/10 mark, and I confess having fought through the screening time with a strong tendency of switching channels. I resisted but I am not proud of myself ;-)This is the story of a professional killer who happens to have his new assignment in the city of his college days, at the very time of ten years reunion. The issue is not that the premises, as much as the end are completely Hollywood-style fabricated, we have seen worse. The problem is that the main humor line is based upon the contrast between the main character's profession and the very common and realistic background of the small city atmosphere and characters. This makes the whole story not to work.There are very few nice ideas in this movie - for example the small killing business office is one of them. The professional killer going to the shrink predates 'Analyze Me', but what to do, we are in 2002. John Cusack acts decently, Winnie Driver is sweet, but overall I hardly smiled for the whole time of what should have been a comedy.  "},{"Title":"A funny dark comedy, but not for everyone","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Before you watch this movie, realize that this is an absurdist movie much like Dr. Strangelove or Catch-22. It laughs at something that is very serious, and as such the humor may not appeal to everyone.That aside, this is John Cusack at his best. I never really appreciated his other movies, but this one he pulls off with finesse. John Cusack plays hit-man Martin Blank, a professional and effective assassin who is down on his luck after some hits gone wrong. His secretary, Joan Cusack, tells him his High School reunion is coming up, which he absolutely does not want to attend. After he is given what may be his final hit there, and is already set up to go, he returns to his home town of Grosse Pointe, which is outside of Detroit. There resides his former love, Minnie Driver, whom he stood up at the prom and disappeared from town.You catch about half the humor the first time around, and you'll catch the rest the second time. Most of the humor is very good, especially near the end. A lot of the humor is based on the absurdity of the moment, like the school bully reading poetry after Blank confuses him, Blank threatening his psychiatrist whom he drives crazy by threatening, the convenience store cashier playing Doom II oblivious to all hell breaking lose around him (there's double irony to that statement if you've actually played a Doom game), or Grocer (Dan Aykroyd) menacing Blank with his gun concealed in a brown paper bag, as Blank menaces Grocer with his gun concealed under a napkin. Some of the humor does fall flat, like Blank telling people he is an assassin and them shrugging it off as a joke (it gets old after a while).The line 'It's not me.' is way overused, but makes a glorious comeback as the final shootout begins.All the actors do a wonderful job, but could be better. Minnie Driver is convincing but nowhere near the caliber of the other actors, who fit their roles seemlessly. Her role is well scripted, but could be much better since they do a horrible job of transitioning her from hatred of Blank to Puppy love of Blank. Aykroyd fits his role especially well as the neurotic hit-man, and John Cusack is absolutely convincing as Blank.My only real qualm is that there are a lot of unanswered questions. By the end we still don't know Blank's life story, We don't know what happened to his mother, we don't really know what the hit on the final target (I won't reveal who) is all about, and we don't really know what the feds are trying to do (are they on Gorcers side?, do they want to catch both?, what is their purpose really?).Other than that, it's a solid movie that, while not for everyone, is well executed and hilariously funny.8/10  "},{"Title":"Disappointing - Blank is a good word for it...","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  They say a camel is a horse designed by a committee.  Well, with four screenwriters, this is a camel of a film.  John Cusack and Dan Aykroyd don't make it as hit men for me to begin with.  Cusack was great playing against type as Nelson Rockefeller in Cradle Will Rock, but he keeps just enough of his lovesick blues to make himself look miscast here.  Aykroyd is just too much of a goofball to pull of this role. The buildup to any sort of satisfying payoff just isn't enough to sustain you through the film.  And the payoff isn't much anyway.Even though this predates Analyze This and The Sopranos, the psychiatrist scenes seem a little derivative, but Alan Arkin does a great job, and the scenes with Arkin and Cusack are wonderful.  As usual Cusack and sister Joan have some great scenes together, but they don't compensate for what is otherwise a rather tiring story. "},{"Title":"Another Cusack disappointment","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What is it with John Cusack movies?  They always sound good but when I see them, I don't like them.  In this movie, a hit man with a burgeoning conscience decides to go to his 10-year high school reunion but has to deal with a hit man union out to get him at the same time.  It sounds promising and as with all Cusack movies has a great soundtrack and some pretty good lines.  But I had a very hard time believing that Cusack was a hit man.  He always strikes me as somebody trying very hard to be cool but can't quite pull it off.  The only other person that I would have an even harder time seeing as a professional killer would be...Dan Aykroyd.  His performance as a psychopath is even harder to watch.  This movie was also too violent.  I know that it is a black comedy and some other good comedies are more violent but in this one, the violent scenes seem to belong in another movie.  The ending is particularly unsettling, with Cusack and his snappy patter blowing away the bad guys.  The only thing that keeps this movie from sinking into the really bad movie morass is the aforementioned soundtrack and a nice performance from the always welcome Alan Arkin. "}{"Title":"Over-hyped and under-plotted","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've played video games with better plots than this film. The writing is insultingly dumb and needlessly violent. John Cusack gives a better performance than his sister, and Minnie Driver as his love interest is competent as usual, but otherwise this film is unwatchable for the sheer idiocy of the events. You couldn't pay me to watch it again.Supporting performances by Dan Akroyd playing a competing hit-man, Alan Arkin as Cusack's psychiatrist, and George Lopez mom Belita Moreno as a former high school teacher are memorable. Akroyd's performance almost finds the fine line between cool and over-the-top, but not quite. A small role by Hank Azaria is well-played if somewhat underdeveloped.Luc Besson's Leon (aka The Professional) is a vastly better film in the somewhat similar genre of uncomfortable, hit-man romantic-comedy. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Can you say boringgggggggggg!!!!!! This movie took an hour and a half of my young life that i will never get back. The only good and funny thing about this movie is Joan Cusack. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I don't really see the appeal of this movie.  I thought Hey, hitman goes to class reunion... That ought to be good. and was really looking forward to seeing it, but boy was I disappointed.  It's not very funny and I find it impossible to like John Cusack's character (or any of the other characters, for that matter.)  Not to mention the presence of the ever-aggravating Joan Cusack.  Ugh.  Why does John keep dragging her into his movies?  Or is it the other way around?  Anyway, it is better than High Fidelity, so at least there's that.  For a funnier, more exciting, just-plain-better hitman movie, check out The Big Hit.  For a better class reunion movie, see... oh wait.  There are no good class reunion movies.  For a better 80's soundtrack, see The Wedding Singer.  Or even American Psycho (though, technically, much of that music is early 90s, I think.  But hey, it's also a better movie where the main character kills folks regularly.)   "},{"Title":"One of the best dark comedy's ever","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I love this film the dark comedy and choice of soundtrack is amazing and the cast work so well together . It works on many levels and I have to say it's amazing. John cusaac is a great actor. His ability to portray a dark souls and yet keep aspect of him redeemable and funny. Dan ackroyd is comedic genius and has a good touch of phycopathic lunacy. Joan cusaac has a great ability to to go hot and cold in a blink of an eye is perfection as the put upon assistant. Minnie driver displays a range not seen in her earlier rolls and to be honest not seen since. The whole film set around a hit man reaching a midlife crisis of sorts and having the ability to go back home. Choices made and a future of new found respect for life is fun. The action sequences are completely believable and no gratuitous unrealistic expectations of gun play and hand to hand fighting. The pen really is mightier than the sword. "},{"Title":"ultimate Hollywood bumble bee movie","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Great and recommended for a variety of reasons.A bumble bee movie, on paper it seems crazy, hi-concept, and unlikely to work. In reality with a killer script, killer direction and great acting, one of the most memorable and entertaining films of the era.Holds up well on a second or third viewing.Is a comedy or an action film with elements of satire? That is the genius. It is hard to tell.A demarcation point for Cusack -- likely the last film in which he was able to recreate the charm of his brat pack days, and he milks it for what it is worth. Shortly thereafter he became (according to his agent) the hardest working actor in Hollywood and went for clearly adult roles.Great film. "},{"Title":"a very entertaining movie, just as long as you take it seriously enough but not too much","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I miss movies like Grosse Pointe Blank. I don't think that this could get made today by a major studio. Or maybe it could be, but I wonder if it would need even more star power than what's here (John Cusack and Dan Aykroyd were names, but Minnie Driver wasn't, and this and Good Will Hunting were her breakthrough roles), and if it would be a lower-budgeted film or independently released. This is the sort of project that could be easily pitched in the 90's - a hit-man with some existential issues and at a crossroads in his late 20's, goes to do a job in his hometown at the same time that he goes to his high school reunion and meets up with his girlfriend he left behind - and it would be eaten up and ready to go. I miss those days, and in a way seeing it today brings on that nostalgia with its soundtrack pumped full of 90's and 80's songs (since it's the Class of 1986 it has very much a 80's soundtrack).It's also just a consistently entertaining movie, with Cusack giving us a character who can nonchalantly tell people when he gets back home he's a professional killer and, by the way he says it and his tone, no one takes him seriously (the way he brings it up in conversation, the 'what do you do now' thing, who would?) There's also great supporting work from Aykroyd, who gets into it in a few scenes with Cusack as if it's a screwball comedy, with that very quick pace and the wording very specific and stylized (and Aykroyd, surprisingly for me, is believable as hell as a psychotic hit-man), and also Alan Arkin as Cusack's therapist. It's an interesting thing to see his part in the story since it isn't exactly realistic - any therapist would've called the cops on Mr. Blank as soon as they hear about him using a fork on the president of Paraguay - but because he sticks around he's a guy who listens barely and when Cusack calls him up he doesn't pick up the answering machine. Smart, clever character bits are abundant here.And Minnie Driver makes for a great romantic interest, especially when she first meets up with Blank again; he comes by the radio station where she works and she puts him on mic for people to call in and ask him questions. They have just solid chemistry, and it especially helps when things turn a little darker (but not too much) in the third act of the story. There's ingenious little things throughout the movie, like the use of a Guns N Roses cover of Live & Let Die from original version into Muzak cover in a convenience store, but always the movie is grounded in some level of reality. It reminded me in a way of what was wrong with a movie like American Ultra from 2015, where it's also got hyper-kinetic action but the characters outside of it don't get quite enough build up amid the surprises. Here, I always believed Blank as a real guy, even when he has to get out his gun for a shoot-out or hand-to-hand combat.Is it the best ever? No, but you can sit back and watch it maybe on cable (or if you got it old school VHS) and the effect is surprisingly fun. "},{"Title":"Quirky black comedy","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" GROSSE POINT BLANK is a unique black comedy that concerns an unlikely career hit-man who attends his ten-year high school reunion in his former town only to bring along some decidedly dangerous baggage. The film is in essence a 'fish out of water' type situational comedy in which a ruthless assassin attempts to counter his way of life with an ordinary situation which is completely alien to him.First off, I'm not a huge fan of John Cusack and his central performance here left me typically cold. The same can be said for Minnie Driver, stuck in a stereotyped 'romantic interest' type role which has little going for it. On the other hand, GROSSE POINT BLANK does have an ace up its sleeve in the presence of an on-fire Dan Aykroyd, playing a rival hit-man. Aykroyd grabs all of the film's best lines and his scenes with Cusack are the best of the movie.Elsewhere, we have usual rom-com situations enlivened by some sudden bursts of violence. The action scenes are typically Hollywood, in that they're over-stylised and don't really ring true to real life, but then the film does have a second ace the presence of Benny 'The Jet' Urquidez as an assassin. I never thought I'd see this top guy (who so memorably fought Jackie Chan in WHEELS ON MEALS and DRAGONS FOREVER) in a mainstream movie so kudos to the casting director for getting him on board. In addition, the film boasts a top '80s soundtrack, so it ends up being relatively entertaining for what it is. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining!","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" 'Grosse Pointe Blank' is among the best films from 1997, that's high on entertainment. Its tremendously acted & the writing, for the most part, is charming!'Grosse Pointe Blank' Synopsis Martin Blank is a professional assassin. He is sent on a mission to a small Detroit suburb, Grosse Pointe, and, by coincidence, his ten-year high school reunion party is taking place there at the same time.'Grosse Pointe Blank' never loses pace, despite a few clichés in its Writing. The narrative is strongly constructed, while the madness between its characters keeps you engrossed. Tom Jankiewicz, D. V. DeVincentis, Steve Pink & John Cusack's Screenplay is wonderful, although its predictable & not free from clichés. George Armitage's Direction is skilled. Cinematography, Editing & Costume Design are perfect. Action-Sequences are commendably executed. Joe Strummer's Soundtrack is peppy.Performance-Wise John Cusack is in remarkable form, enacting the conflict driven protagonist to perfection. Cusack is an under-rated actor, who's not gotten the recognition, he truly deserves. Minnie Driver is cute, as always. Dan Aykroyd has his moments, while Alan Arkin is top-notch in a brief role. Jeremy Piven is alright. Joan Cusack is first-rate.On the whole, 'Grosse Pointe Blank' is very entertaining! "},{"Title":"1986 Luftballons","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Professional assassin John Cusack (as Martin Marty Blank) carries out a killing while he receives an invitation to attend his ten-year high school reunion, in Grosse Pointe, Michigan. Since he kills people for a living, Mr. Cusack's first instinct is to skip the reunion. He changes his mind when offered the chance to assassinate someone in nearby Detroit. Back home, Cusack is shocked to discover his family home has been turned into a convenience store. He tells classmates he's become a hit-man, which they take as a joke. Most importantly, Cusack reconnects with old girlfriend Minnie Driver (as Debi Newberry). She's a disc jockey, and still single...Don't worry, it's not exclusively a love story. Cusack is joined in Grosse Pointe by a trio of angry assassins, led by rotund rival Dan Aykroyd (as Grocer). It's nicely directed by George Armitage. He makes the actors in his action scenes look fun and comic, which keeps the film on track. Even ex-1960s Dark Shadows vampire hunter Mitchell Ryan becomes a softy; in the movies, he's usually a hardened criminal. And veteran Alan Arkin (as Oatman) is an excellent therapist. The writers capture the 1990s and the music evokes the 1980s. The decades are effectively recalled and, here, they seems to relate to each other and the Class of 1986 very well.******** Grosse Pointe Blank (1997-04-11) George Armitage ~ John Cusack, Minnie Driver, Dan Aykroyd, Alan Arkin "},{"Title":"Sometimes you can go home.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Saw this movie a long time ago and thought it was cool then, but couldn't actually remember it too well. Would it still be cool? Affirmative. I wish they still made movies like this. It's got an odd and quirky plot, but not to the forced extremes of a Wes Anderson production, and it has a great mixture of verbal deadpan comedy and sporadic unexpected action. It also dates back to when both John Cusack and Dan Aykroyd were still at their best, which was nice to see. Video game action movies have become tiresome to me, so I much prefer a film like this one which takes time to develop in offbeat directions and doesn't just unrelentingly go for kill shots, although at the very end the bodies do pile up. I really, really miss movies like this one, and this fully lived up to my recollections. I guess you can go home sometimes. "}{"Title":"One of the Best Dark Comedies","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack was given credit for helping with the screenplay and co-producing as well as starring in this sparkling dark comedy. What makes this film special is its off-beat, witty humor all the while keeping the manner and tone of assassination both serious and light at the same time. Rarely can both death and comedy blend so well as this sometimes seriously edgy performed scenes come across as acrobatic genius.Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the earliest contemporary spy comedies movies along with the tent pole blockbuster True Lies (1994) starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jaime Lee Curtis that later contributed to generate numerous copies and original films of this subgenre. Both of these movies can be set apart of the more mindless, bumbling spy comedy of Spies Like Us (1985) that starred Chevy Chase and Dan Aykroyd. The next decade would see some nicely done dark spy comedies from black to light gray with Gun Shy (2000), The Whole Nine Yards (2000), The Matador (2005), the hugely popular Mr. and Mrs. Smith (2007), You Kill Me (2007).Perhaps Wild Target (2010) comes close to capturing and refining the fine relational entanglements of John Cusack and Minnie Driver from Grosse Point Blank with instead Bill Nighy and Emily Blunt in the lead. More recently, other entertaining spy comedies have come out in the form of Killers (2010), the more cynical From Paris with Love (2010), Knight and Day (2010), Red (2010), the more bumbling but restrained style of Get Smart (2008), and most recently Daisy & Violet (2011) that focuses more on the witty interplay of two young female assassins. "},{"Title":"Quirky but not that funny","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a professional killer, and Marcella (Joan Cusack) is his assistant. Fellow killer Grocer (Dan Aykroyd) wants him to join up. It's his 10 years high school reunion at Grosse Pointe. His psychiatrist Dr. Oatman (Alan Arkin) and Marcella want him to go. He is being forced to do a job in Detroit and he reluctantly goes to the Detroit suburb Grosse Pointe. He finds Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), whom he stood up on prom night, working at the local radio station. His family home is now a convenient store. His mother is out of it. Meanwhile a couple of federal agents (Hank Azaria, K. Todd Freeman), killer Felix LaPoubelle (Benny Urquidez), and Grocer are coming after him.This is a dark comedy. It is sarcastic with the matter of fact killer Blank. It's very quirky but lacks big laughs. There are some witty lines. I like most of the actors in this, but something just isn't clicking for me. I think he needs a funny sidekick with him. The best scenes are John Cusack with Minnie Driver. I love that Alan Arkin keeps telling him 'Don't kill anybody.' It feels like an edgy comedy that is in need of taking bigger chances with inappropriate humor. The violence has to be bloodier or the humor needs to be more outrageous. It's not pushing the envelop far enough. "},{"Title":"Dialog Funnier Than Plot","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This Black Comedy has its moments. There are a number of Funny Lines but the Comedic Situations don't fare as well. For example, the totally banal Radio Station Scene, the Real Estate Piece just lies there without Wit and there are others, especially the whole Romantic Subplot with Near Zero Chemistry.The Action and the Violence are much better. These are done with an intensity and Style befitting the Movie's Conceit, especially the Finale and the short but incredible Hand to Hand confrontation in the Halls of the High School that is High Style.The Movie works most of the time but when it doesn't the thing screams to a halt and exposes itself as ill fitted and overplayed. Like the Convenience Store Set-Piece or the Mother and Child Reunion. Overall this is Overrated but still a better than Average work that is well done if you can accept some pretty Bad Acting from Sister Cusack and Minnie Driver. Both do some unwatchable Overreaching. But the rest of the Cast is Fine and some of the Writing is Clever and Cool, but beware that in spots this shows some pretty glaring Missteps. The Movie initially Flopped but has gained some Cult recognition for its irreverent Subject Matter and attempts at Ultra-Hipness. One final Blow, the Clash was an Important Group, but here the Joe Strummer Music is way overdone and the whole Soundtrack is surprisingly Anemic considering that it is in your Face (Ears) so intrusively. The White-Bread Reggae is embarrassing, thankfully it includes Johnny Nash's Seminal Chart-Topper for some redemption. "},{"Title":"Rather well played off-kilter romance, with splashes of the thriller and comedy genres, which trundles down its chosen route with its own rules and does well considering.","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Charming. Charming is the word I didn't expect to come out of Grosse Pointe Blank using prior to going into it, but I got there anyway. It's made doubly surprising given the fact the film contains some rather intense fight sequences, quite a bit of shooting as well as the violence that comes with that plus some often brutal murders. Don't let that fool you, the film is full of hit men but it is about hit men rather than a piece merely using such an archetype to propel action and violence. The film, ultimately a love story, is about a man righting wrongs; someone attempting to fix the one life he near enough destroyed around which he tries to maintain a life of his own built on ending those of others. It is additionally very funny, in so much any instance whereby an Andorran (or wherever he was from) assassin waltz's into a high school reunion to kill our lead, who's in attendance, as he himself tries to balance the rekindling of a love interest from years ago as well as deal with a bully from said era that's just introduced himself, it's amusing.We begin on John Cusak's eponymous Blank, Martin Blank; a man putting together his sniper rifle beside the window of a multi-storey building for a mission in which he is not to kill any specific individual, but guard a gentleman of great affluency by taking out any assassin whom tries to kill him. The song overlying these actions sings of clarity after previously being blinkered to specific things, but Blank is still, at the moment, the tunnel-visioned; on-the-run-from-his-past; methodical and rather ruthless professional he has always been since loosing it in his youth and ending up where he is now. Over a phone conversation via a headpiece, his secretary Marcella (Joan Cusak, John's sister) mentions a letter detailing Blank's ten year anniversary high-school reunion (although how they managed to find him remains a mystery). Marcella is stunned that you (Blank) even come(s) from somewhere, reiterating this blank-by-name-and-by-nature, faceless persona made more obvious when he verbally discards it.This opening hit goes badly, with long-time colleague Grocer, played by Dan Akryod with ample menace as well as this odd sense of comedy, making the grade and foiling Blank by shooting dead the target. Grocer is a man with whom Blank goes back to The Cold War, thus inferring degrees of professionalism in that regard, and both men maintain an uneasy alliance given the fact they are opposed to one another's lifestyle through some humorous union complications. After an establishment that Blank is just as good when on a job with the intent to murder, a third mission rears up in that town of Grosse Pointe &#x96; the place he just happens to have lived through his youth and the locale in which the reunion is due to unfold. Begrudgingly, he accepts and it isn't long until the wave of nostalgia grabs him when he makes the trip.Grosse Pointe is a small, close-knit community &#x96; the sort of place in which everybody appears to listen to the same radio station and happens to know one another. Remaining within this town ever-since her high-school days is Debbie (Driver), Blank's prom date and general crush whom he stood up on the night of that dance and disappeared henceforth; a girl of whom is a disc jockey. In Grosse Pointe, Blank appears to lose his calm and concentrated demeanour of which he most certainly had earlier on in the picture when in his element &#x96; his body language jerking up several notches to nervous and frenetic. He is forced into confronting the fact the site of which once housed his childhood home is now a convenience store, whereas his mother has long since been hospitalised due to her mental illness. The film is one in which a female character is allowed to drive a radio show as well as have a man from her past just walk on back into her life and yet is not relegated to reacting hysterically for comedic laughs - we sense this is a film about adults and adults dealing with mistakes in an adult manner, with the fact it happens to have been made with this child-like glee just making everything so much more fun.The film is indelibly spliced between two approaches to its subject matter, that of the exchanges predominantly between Debbie and Blank which are understated and driven by dialogue that does not advance plot nor explain things; they are independent spirited sequences wedged in amidst your bigger, buffer and more Hollywoodised scenes of great action and shooting. Pleasingly, this thriller content focusing on power struggles between varying hit men out to kill varying other hit men as well as the 'mark' of Blank's job for whom Grocer is additionally on the hunt, is inserted in a manner that does not provide the film with an unbalanced feel. The beating heart of the film lies with a love story ten years in the making between that of Driver's character and that of the lead. The film bites off an awful lot and yet successfully negates each of these territories; this sense that the whole thing is about to implode into a really scatty, misjudged film looking to pitch its tent in both a camp labelled violent as well as humble simmering throughout and yet never emerging. On top of most of its achievements, there is a strange sense of it even managing to correctly pluck songs out of the 1980s, for reasons adhering to the narrative, that do not conform to popular taste and are off-key enough to compliment what transpires in that way that just fits. It is quite the achievement in action/comedy filmmaking with a good ear for dialogue; well choreographed shoot outs and a poised character study. "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic action-comedy with a pretty darn good cast","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Of course I had to see this movie because it stars John Cusack, one of my favorite actors. I have to say this movie was one of his best packed with tons of laughs, incredible action and even some romantic parts. The story centers around Martin Blank-(Cusack), a professional hit man who on a mission to Detroit stumbles upon his Michigan hometown where he falls back in love with his high school prom date Debi-(Minnie Driver) just in time for his 10 year high school reunion. As he considers quitting his job and gets closer to Debi than ever, his rivals led by Grocer-(Dan Akyroyd, another great actor) set out to attempt at killing him. The rest I won't spoil, you should watch for yourself. The acting is wonderful, the cast is very good and the plot is rather original and pretty high up there as well. I highly recommend this movie, 10/10. "},{"Title":"Channeling the 80's spirit","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Point Blank works much better than any movie with the premise hitman goes to a high-school reunion - a premise right out of the 80's - ever should. Of course, channeling the 80's spirit is completely intentional, and the reunion - though it works as a basis for some good gags - isn't the point of the movie, the point is Martin Blank's personality and growth and an exploration of his strange morality, and John Cusack is good enough to make the character interesting.Unfortunately, the movie is too messy to truly work; the abrupt switches from comedy to action and back work well, but when romantic drama seeps in, it loses its pace. Brief appearances from Joan Cusack and Alan Arkis promise interesting and very funny characters that are nowhere to be found as soon as thirty minutes into the movie. It's a memorable and very entertaining movie, but the amount of wasted potential is tragically large. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is a dark comedy.That is, it is both a comedy and a crime movie, directed by George Armitage.John Cusack plays the role of a professional killer Martin Blank, who is dissatisfied and seemingly losing interest in his job. He is, then, persuaded by his secretary and his psychologist, to take an invitation of his old high school re-union party. The story moves on as Martin visits his birthplace, Grosse Pointe, and meets his old school friends including his high school sweet heart. The movie is a nice combination of humor and actions. Martin's constant rivalry and duel with his arch-rival Grocer (Dan Aykroyd) is brilliantly portrayed. The scenes featuring Aykroyd and Cusack is really humorous and good to watch. Same can be said about the climax.Everyone's performance is according and really good. John Cusack and Aykroyd, both of them gave great performances. Overall, it's a thoroughly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly dark, sharp-edged, Hollywood satire","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The dark satiric elements of this film are terrific &#x96; equating the moral emptiness of a hit man's career with the moral emptiness of modern America is spot on. And the guts to make a comedy full of witty banter and harsh killing is worth admiring. There are also few moments where Cusack's killer's humanity comes through, and the movie becomes really affecting. But there are also moments, and performances that feel arch and pushed, jokes that get told one too many times, motivations that are vague, and Hollywood coincidences. The romance at the center with Minnie Driver, while having charming bits, never feels very grounded, and the ending feels like a bit of an easy cop-out. The film is quite good, bravely odd and dark for a Hollywood film. and fun, but it sets you up expecting much more of a 'Dr. Strangelovian' impact than it ultimately has. "},{"Title":"Being a kill for hire is funny,","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Being a kill for hire is funny....especially with John Cusack. The story follows him trying to retire out of his compromising career choice, while going to his high school reunion and reunited with the love of his life, played by Minnie Driver.I never fully understood her appeal until now. Cusack is at his prime character now, aloof and a wit to boot. If you are in the mood for a darker comedy that has an unique premise, I suggest this Grosse Point Blank.It's worth it. "},{"Title":"Don't kill anybody for a few days. See what it feels like.","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" No angst driven plot here over one's choice of profession; even when Martin (John Cusack) is seeing his shrink (Alan Arkin), I never got the idea that he was all that overwrought about killing people for a living. The absurdity of the film occurs at the Ultramart shoot-out with a clueless clerk oblivious to the gunfire and smashing merchandise around him while absorbed in his own games of violence. Cleverly done.With the backdrop of a ten year high school reunion, this one takes the idea of educational achievement and stands it on it's head. Career pinnacles are exemplified by car salesmen and radio DJ's, while Martin Blank's admission as a professional killer is received as nonchalantly as a traveling salesman.See this one as much for the supporting cast as the principal players (Cusack and Minnie Driver). Dan Ackroyd is priceless as The Grocer, Hank Azaria attempts a principled government agent, and Benny Urquidez is a menacing counter-assassin on the make for Blank. Throw in Jeremy Piven for good measure as Martin's neurotic high school buddy and you've got yourself an hour and a half of psychotic assassination humor. Definitely not to be confused with 1997's You Kill Me', which didn't. "}{"Title":"Well I'll be blanked!","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" One of only five movies directed by George Armitage, Grosse Pointe Blank casts John Cusack as a hit-man who no longer feels fulfilled with his job, so he returns to his home town of Grosse Pointe, Michigan for his tenth high school reunion. So, he meets his former lover (Minnie Driver) while other assassins are after him! This movie isn't anything special, but it has some really funny stuff. How can you not crack up at Debi's question about Martin's benefits? It's a fun movie to watch just when you want to chill out, and you're sure to like it. Also starring Dan Aykroyd, Alan Arkin, Jeremy Piven, Joan Cusack and Hank Azaria.PS John Cusack said that his 2008 satire War, Inc. is an informal sequel to Grosse Pointe Blank. Both are black comedies starring him as a hit-man, with Joan Cusack and Dan Aykroyd in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"An interesting twist on the hit-man genre","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack creates a very believable hit man in Martin Black, albeit a rather strange one. When he returns to his home town of Grosse Pointe, Michigan on a job, he discovers, coincidentally, that his high school reunion is taking place at the same time. It gets stranger from there, and much of the fun in the movie is the twists and turns of plot development. The dialogue is rapid-fire, witty and often hilarious. The supporting cast, featuring Alan Arkin, Dan Aykroyd, Minnie Driver and Hank Azaria, is delightful, and the action sequences are beautifully choreographed.One thing that detracted from my enjoyment of the film shouldn't bother most viewers I grew up in Grosse Pointe Park (there are actually 5 Grosse Pointes) and aside from the opening helicopter shot coming in from Lake St. Claire and over the Grosse Pointe Yacht Club and Lakeshore Drive, the film was shot someplace else. I have no idea where, but it wasn't Grosse Pointe. Other than that, it is a most enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A post-modern action-comedy","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" When I was at College doing my A-Levels some of my friends really loved and raved about but it has taken me a while to funny see and I am pleased with the result of this black action comedy.Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a skilled assassin and can do a variety of missions. But after two missions go wrong, he is forced to go back to his home town, Grosse Pointe using his high school reunion as a cover for an assassination attempt on a Federal Witness. Whilst he is there he explores his old town and has to make conservation with old school friends, but the person he needs to make an amends with is Debi (Minnie Driver), the girl he left on prom night. As he turns to say sorry to his old flame he re-evaluates his life and career but he is followed by a Basque terrorist (Benny Urquidez), two NSA agents (Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman) and his old rival Grocer (Dan Aykroyd (his best role outside Ghostbusters)) who wants to form a hit-man union.What makes Grosse Pointe Blanke work is that it has a very well written screenplay and the strong chemistry between the actors. Grosse Pointe Blanke has strong dialogue and character development, with much of the humour relying most on intelligence, observation and character driven. There is also some physical humour involving the over the top action scenes, parodying action films of the action films of the 80s and 90s, like the gun fight in the convenient store. There are funny ideas like Grocer wanting to unionise assassins, a profession which might be hard to get its workers to unite for obvious reasons.There is excellent chemistry between Cusack and Driver. You can really believe that there was a past between them and we see them reignite their relationship. They were natural together. There is also a strong relationship between Cusack and Aykroyd because they were friends who worked together but now rivals.There is a fun concept in the film about a man having to go back, face their past and meet people they possibly never wanted to see again. It something a lot of people would feel. It also sets out to humanise an assassin, showing that they have a past and that do have human emotions. Martin is a more complex character.There is an excellent soundtrack in this film, using the Specials, the Clash and many classic songs of the 80s. Joe Strummer composes the score for a film then you know you are onto a winner.There are some minor logical problems like when after the store was blown up surely the local media might have shown an interest. But it is nothing that could destroy the film.Overall, a fun film for anyone who enjoys action or comedy. "},{"Title":"Lollapalooza","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Watching John Cusack in THE ICE HARVEST today got me thinking about his character in GROSSE POINTE BLANK. and why I consider BLANK one of Cusack's greatest roles, and probably his best film to date (RUNAWAY JURY, IDENTITY and a half-dozen other Cusack films notwithstanding.) In BLANK, Cusack plays a super-hit man who takes on an assignment in his hometown at the same time his 10th high school reunion is taking place. He is dogged by a pair of federal agents, a hit man who is trying to kill him and a fellow contractor (the incredibly funny Dan Akroyd) who is trying to recruit him into the hit man union. This is a very funny and very dark movie, and Cusack has the wonderfully talented Minnie Driver portraying his old flame plus Jeremy Piven as an old school chum. This is a must-see movie if there ever was one. And if you thought the kitchen fight in THE BOURNE IDENTITY was something, wait until you see the hallway fight in BLANK. Matt Damon's Jason Bourne has nothing on Cusack's Martin Blank. "},{"Title":"unique story,great dialogue,top shelf acting","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" i found this movie to be quite interesting and engaging.the storyline is different.the film movies along very well.it's well written,and economical.it knows where it's going and gets there without getting bogged down in a lot of useless filler.the dialogue is smart,witty and fresh,and flows smoothly.certainly the acting here is top shelf from the twp principles,John Cusack and Minnie Driver,but the supporting players are really good too.i would not consider this a comedy exactly,more like a dark comedy/crime drama/romance.definitely worth a watch in my opinion.but that's just me.for me,Grosse Pointe Blank is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack, works better as a comedy...","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Remember back a few years when John Cusack used to make good films. You know, before he sold his soul and started to make not so good films like '2012'. Well, as part of a season of 'Movies you never got round to watching but always wanted to see' on one of the movie channels, this film came up. Well, I'd seen all the others they were showing and so I thought I'd better give it a viewing. Here's a short summary followed by my thoughts.Martin Blank is a hit man, he works freelance with his assistant Marcella doing the office work for him. One day Marcella tells him he's been invited to his ten year school reunion. Martin is at first reluctant to go, but agrees when a job comes up in the area and his therapist, Dr. Oatman, tells him it would be a good idea. Unfortunately Martin has upset one of his rivals, Grocer, who is now stalking him using two government agents as a screen. Whilst in town for the reunion, Martin looks up his high school sweetheart, Debi Newberry, who works at the local radio station. After a bit of an awkward start the Debi agrees to go with him despite the fact the he didn't turn up on their prom night ten years earlier. Throw in another assassin with a contract on Martin and we've got us a movie!First of all, a really great soundtrack, The Clash, Motorhead, Queen, lots of great songs littered throughout. Pretty well made, but showing its age now just form the fact the mobile phones (or cell phones) have got so much smaller nowadays. Decent performances from all of the leading cast; John Cusack as Martin Q. Blank, Minnie Driver as Debi Newberry, Alan Arkin as Dr. Oatman, Dan Aykroyd as Grocer and Joan Cusack as Marcella.This is a bit of an awkward one to assess; it starts out as a comedy, and then becomes a love story and then back to an action comedy for the grand finale. For me it works best as a comedy, I found the somewhat schmaltzy love story a bit of a distraction. I also kind of wasn't all that convinced that Debi would have trusted Martin after what he did on prom night. But that may just be me. Over all, as I just said, I think it works better as a comedy than a love story, and it's worth seeing for the satire alone. Recommended.My score 6.8/10 "},{"Title":"Bull's Eye","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have always admired John Cusack for staying out of the limelight and focusing on his own thing. With 'Grosse Pointe Blank', Cusack co-writes a sharp, witty and darkly humorous screenplay. George Armitage assumes the director's seat and fuses the offbeat humour and suspense very well by bringing loads of energy to it. There is always something happening, sometimes subtle and sometimes right in your face but entertaining all the way. The dialogues made me laugh out loud and another huge plus is the first rate cast that further includes a host of talents like Joan Cusack, Jeremy Piven, Dan Akroyd and Hank Azaria. Even Minnie Driver does a fine job and there is a hilarious cameo by Jenny Elfman. I have often wondered what it would be like if John Cusack and Joan Cusack worked together and I thoroughly enjoyed their scenes. In addition there are two funny scenes where John Cusack features with his two other sibling. The entire cast seem to have had a blast during the making and their positive energy must have rubbed off on screen because the acting appears very spontaneous and natural. 'Grosse Point Black' is the film to watch when you're having a hard day or if you're looking for something to make you laugh. This isn't just laughing at nothing because it's funny AND smart. "},{"Title":"Gross Pointe Blank... Nothing But Hits","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Gross Pointe Blank 8 out of 10 This movie is full of small miracles. For one thing, Dan Ackroyd is funny. Let that sink in a bit. When was the last time Dan Ackroyd made you laugh? Now I confess I am the perfect target market for this movie. I am in the age range where I think the soundtrack is cool and the eighties were a pretty good time. Nowadays of course many people look back on the eighties with rose-colored glasses. Back when teens could be teens without ending up on MSNBC. Back before cell phones let parents track our movements and school security consisted of a bald vice principle with an attitude problem.The movie is well cast with John Cusack as a professional hit man going to his 10 year high school reunion and Minnie Driver as the girl he left behind. A great supporting cast includes Alan Arkin as a therapist unhappy with a killer for a client (Years before the Sopranos or Analyze This) . The aforementioned Dan Aykroyd as a competing hit man and Joan Cusack as the secretary that both cares and is insane.The story is very silly and over the top, yet Gross Pointe Blank somehow manages to keep the tone just right throughout the proceedings. Existential silliness adds to the fun rather than distracts. Moreover, did I mention a really good soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Jellyroll-Kid","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have just discovered this movie in the last couple of months because it was a John Cusak movie I decided to check out after viewing some other films he has made(i.e. High Fidelity, Martian Child, Being John Malkovich, The Grifters, The Ice Harvest, Grace is Gone, Cradle will rock, Thin Red Line, War, Inc., True Colors, Serendipity, Money for Nothing, Midnight in the Garden of Godd and Evil, Eight Men Out, This is my Father, 1407, Runaway Jury, Road to Wellville, Pushing Tin, Map of the Human Heart etc.) The point of this is I CAN NOT figure out what song by what artist is playing at the end of his conversation with his mother and continues for a bar or two as he pours the Irish whiskey on his father's grave. Someone please advise at satur9@comcast.net. Thank you p.s I love the movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Predictable but fun","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Smarter than your average romantic comedy. Great soundtrack!! Cusack plays true to form, but this time the character is more clever and dark and even believable than the usual John- Cusack-plays-John-Cusack. Minnie Driver is a delight, completely believable and a blessedly strong lead for a traditionally weak woman's role. Dan Ackroyd is at the best of his career apart from Elwood Blues. He plays his unionizing hit-man character with more energy than I would've believed possible. The plot, such as it is, unfolds predictable against a backdrop of unbelievably good music, little of which appears on the soundtrack. Hit-man goes home for high school reunion and finds, gasp, you can't go home again. But the construction of the lines, the characterizations of the bit characters, and the outstanding cast take this otherwise transparent fluff and turn it into a wonderfully twisted comedy. One to view every few years or so, after the bloom fades a bit. "}{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I recognised the title, and the cast list looked quite good, so I thought I would try it. Basically Martin Q. Blank (John Cusack) is a professional freelance assassin/hit-man who starts to develop emotional problems, and a conscience, and the only person he can express to is his irritable shrink Dr. Oatman (Alan Arkin). He advises Martin to attend his 10th year high school reunion in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, where he also contracted to kill someone. On Martin's tail are some over-enthusiastic federal agents, and another assassin who wants to kill him, and pushy fellow assassin Grocer (Dan Aykroyd). Out of all his past friends, Martin gets closest to Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), and the only other people he can talk to properly are obviously Oatman, and his expert assistant or whatever, Marcella (Joan Cusack, John's sister). Also starring The Simpsons' Hank Azaria as Steven Lardner, K. Todd Freeman as Kenneth McCullers, Liar Liar's Mitchell 'Mitch' Ryan as Mr. Bart Newberry, Scary Movie 3's Jeremy Piven as Paul Spericki, Ann Cusack (John's other sister) as Amy,Looney Toons Back in Action's Jenna Elfman (niece of composer Danny) as Tanya and Bill Cusack (John's brother) as Waiter. To be honest, I didn't understand everything going on, but the death in the high school corridor, and a shoot-up in a house towards the end are fun to watch. John Cusack was number 48 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Good! "},{"Title":"A little bit of everything.","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie has basically everything in it; comedy, action, romance, drama and whatever more. It doesn't has too much of everything, though perhaps also not enough of some elements.If this movie was done even a bit more light and with a tad bit more comedy added to it, such as for instance in the style of Midnight Run or a Coen-brothers movie, this movie would had been just perfect and possible one among my favorites.It's really not like this movie is a failure now but I couldn't help wondering while watching this movie how much better it actually all could had been if it had been a bit more edgier at times. It could had been edgier with its comedy and characters. There are many characters being introduced in this movie but you'll have the feeling most of them are more or less the same. Still the movie works out just fine, due to its mix of genres and therefor its originality. It all works out effectively and you'll basically just have a great time watching this movie.It's also a really well written movie, not just because of its original concept but also because of its fine written dialog. It of course helps that the movie features some great actors to deliver the lines. It's not really the type of movie that follows one main plot-line with a start, middle-point and ending to it but more a movie that stays close to the main character as he wanders through the movie. In a way it foremost is a character movie about a hit-man with emotional problems, trying to re-connect to his past again as he gets send on a job in the same town were his high-school reunion is being held. Sounds dramatic but luckily Grosse Pointe Blank is a real light movie to watch, that never forgets that it shouldn't take itself too serious. It's not a movie that will make you laugh out loud but its simply a movie that entertains and therefor it can be regarded as an effective movie.John Cusack is perfectly cast in his role, even though he basically is one of those actors who plays his characters always the same way over and over again. Well, I like him anyway as an actor. Minnie Driver also plays a good female role and Dan Aykroyd, Alan Arkin and Joan Cusack are also all present, among many others.Even though it wasn't all as great and effective as it truly could had been, I still enjoyed watching it.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"You can never go home Oatman ...But I guess you can shop there.","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank is a hit-man with problems. Although he is infinitely skilled in his job a series of unforeseen errors mean he has to return to his home town the week of his 10 year school reunion and take someone out while he's there (and not in a nice way!) After seeking advice from his psychiatrist who fears that he will kill him if he doesn't come with a way to help, he advises he returns to town and see his jilted high school sweetheart, However, upon returning he realises that all is not as it seems as there appear to be a number of other people in town who seem determined to kill him.This was one of my favourite films of the nineties and when I made the purchase recently, I thought I'd be just as entertained, however I was wrong. Much of the comedy seems to be in the same vein as Friends and now seems quite dated, although that said there are still enough genuinely funny moments to make this an enjoyable watch.The action sequences, and there are a number of them, are always excellent, and the film contains one of the best fight scenes I have seen in any films with moves that seem designed to really do some damage with the minimal possible effort. The leads are all played with verve and charm by Cusack, Driver, Ackroyd and Cusack, with the big scene stealer being Alan Arkin as the ever nervous Doctor Oatman.It saddens me to lower the rating of one of my fave films, but while some films grow and become more than they were initially, like Bill and Ted's bogus journey this unfortunately is more of a Car wash turning to vinegar, rather than improving with age.Still a worthy 7 though. "},{"Title":"All the wrong bits, to make the right movie?","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack; Minnie Driver; Dan Ackroyd & Hank 'Nahasapeemapetilon' Azaria...That's a list of names I watch with some interest, even if I don't particularly like them (Ackroyd). They've all got good bodies of work behind them and, with Cusack in particular, if I see the name; I'll watch a poor film just for them.Yet there is something about this movie that never adds up. I mean, I like this film. It keeps me watching the screen at all times (a rare occurrence), but there are so many things that are left as sloppy. I never believe that Cusack is a real hit-man- Ackroyd's that fat & he can't shoot him despite using that many bullets????I don't believe that Driver ever was angry with our hero- Cusack walks in after TEN years and she slaps him once 90 minutes into the flick???And my personal favourite- the Estate Agent friend, who hasn't seen Cusack in a decade, finds him sitting next to dead body and helps him stuff the corpse in the school furnace not uttering one word. I don't believe these people. And as for the last ten minutes- I think the writers just said Nuts we gotta do something and just let there fingers hit the keyboard without letting there brains get in the way.But I still give it a good 7/10; and most of that it the performances. Something about Driver & Cusack is believable, like they were really good friends off camera. I don't know what it was but two very good things do stand out- the Soundtrack was brilliant; and for the first time since I've seen her I didn't want to switch over when Joan Cusack was on screen (something of a minor miracle on my part).In closing; watch the film, you'll enjoy it but when you watch it again- You May Wonder Why... "},{"Title":"Delightfully Effective Comedy/Action Thriller","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film was generally a pleasant experience. Though it seems too many films are fashioned for Cusack's particular type of personality, this film was quite entertaining. I found most of the plot portion of this film considerably interesting. Minnie Driver is charming, and marginally attractive as the lady lead to Cusack's formulaic lead. Despite the commonplace aura that Cusack lends to this film, I found the action scenes quite engaging and the overall storyline refreshing and engrossing. The romance between Cusack and Driver is substantially enthralling and keeps this Hollywood vehicle moving very efficiently. Overall, Grosse Point Blank satisfies and provides for a luminous two hour delight. "},{"Title":"Odd but enjoyable","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin (John Cusack) is a self-employed professional killer with some issues. Life is going along as normal until he receives a job to kill someone in his former hometown, Grosse Pointe. Making this even more weird is the fact his 10 year High School reunion is on the weekend he's due in town. With the urging of his assistant, he accepts the job and decides to face up to some demons and to look for his old girlfriend Deb (Minnie Driver), the girl he stood up at the prom. Things get very complicated for Martin as people come after him, Deb makes him work hard to win her affections and his colleague Grocer (Dan Akroyd) harasses him to join his assassins union.A decent story, with a few great moments, but in stages it felt a little undeveloped. Solid performance by Cusack and Driver, as well as the supporting cast of Akroyd, Jeremy Piven and Hank Azaria. "},{"Title":"A roller-coaster ride I couldn't put down","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Yep. If this was a book it my be the case. But it's a film. It's a good one too. A film that's funny and gripping with many good fight scenes and moments of pure hilarity. Martin Blank is going to his high school reunion. He's a professional hit-man and whilst he's back in Grosse Point he's also on the job, trying to assassinate a rich stiff, who turns out to be his old school squeeze's father. So. Dilemma. Kill or not to kill that is the question. And with a bunch of hit men also trying to kill him he's got quite a bit on his plate. Although the film is focused on death and killing it does it in such a light-hearted tone. With scathing humour underlining every scene, it's funny, it remorseless, it's not for the faint-hearted, it's got John Cusack and Minnie Driver in it. It's Grosse Point Blank "},{"Title":"One cool film","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" OK i was sitting down on a Friday nothing to do so i watched this film as it was on TV i was expecting a gritty hit-mans life but it was so cool when the whole hit-man profession seems like an everyday thing.I laughed when Marty threatens the shop boy at the counter a great performance and a even greater performance by John Cusack i never really liked John but seeing con-air a few weeks earlier i thought OK ill give cusack a turn. you know watch one of his films.The fight scene at the end is so cool between Marty and the other assassin it wasn't matrix cool but it was enough to make me say OK wow.Cusack is excellent when he is walking in the street very mysterious.One hell of a film totally for a rainy Friday. "},{"Title":"What do you do for a living?","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I always seem to come across a hidden gem in my opinion. A movie that I heard about, but for whatever reason I hadn't seen. I had no clue what this movie was about and was lucky enough to catch it on TV yesterday.This movie had a very unique and interesting storyline that involves a professional killer and his ten year high school reunion. Tell me that combination never crossed your mind. There are many great characters, lines, and sometimes you don't know what to think about what you are seeing. There are many funny moments and blood shots throughout the movie. Even the killing sequences had some humor to them.I would totally tell anyone to see this movie and kick myself in the backside for not seeing it earlier.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Actions take the limelight","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The story is not a radiating one yet this black comedy is peopled with theatrically stalwart actors like John Cusack, Hank Azaria (sorry, not Minnie Driver, she just doesn't fit) etc, so still an entertaining one.  I rented it by chance.  The storyline is easy to follow.  What catches my attention is the action.  It's very familiar to me because many its actions scenes remind me those I can so easily have in Hong Kong produced actions films, eg John Woo's previous productions.Hollywood lately takes in many HK action man and stunts like Woo-ping Yuen.  I intended to check out any HK influence on the choreographer or the stunt lists of this movie, though no Chinese name can be found, perhaps some of them have learnt something from the HK movies.In the movie, the most familiar ones are, first the fighting in the reunion ball.  The way Cusack thrusts the fountain pen into his killer's neck. The second is the chasing and shooting inside Driver's house.  The way Cusack shoots and kicks, even the way how the other killers' fall down can be found in HK movies.  Really a little nice surprise. "}{"Title":"Highly Underrated","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have to watch this film at least once every couple of months, it puts a big smile on my face.I never hear anything about this film. I know it got pretty good reviews when it first came out but I figure that at some point it will be revisited and people will give it a second and more deserving look. I think it may be the first and best film that kind of revisits the 80's. Now I think that what it accomplished is quite remarkable, considering all the different genre's that are present and they don't fall over each other during the process, its a perfect balance of comedy, action, romance and nostalgia. I also feel that for my money this is John Cusack's best work, his performance is just great, especially during the reunion scene, just watch his reactions to the over load of cliched reunion What have you been up to? conversations. You can see how hard he is trying to be normal, and interested. Its great to watch.Now there are three things that make this film unique. 1. The meetings between Martin and Groser, this might be Dan Akroyd's funniest role, the dialogue is just hilarious, especially during the breakfast encounter that unleashes such gems as I don't see hallow point head wound care on the menu or I am going to put a bullet in your forehead and f**k the brain hole, just classic stuff. Their body language alone during those encounters are great. 2. As already mentioned I love the whole reunion thing, the music, the characters and the thoughtfullness. It wasn't overdone and it hit the right note, especially the use of David Bowie's Under Pressure which was used in a somewhat similar way by the makers of Adaptation. 3. The fight with Benny The Jet. It was very realistic and I guess that had to do with Cusack's familiarity with kick boxing, everything was close in and I love that, those two kicks Cusack threw really make me wonder at what level this guy competes at because they looked quick and strong.Anway the flick is already 6 years old and I hope that people who haven't seen it go rent it, it is totally worth it. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Love","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie wonderfully complex and startling close to issues in my life.  If you can't follow the psycho-babble and jerky dialogue, then you probably don't get Dennis Miller comedy either.  I love John's work and was delighted to enjoy his work over and over.  I do have one request. Someone, anyone, please, tell me the name of the song playing in the background while John holds the baby in the reunion scene.  I couldn't find it on the soundtrack or in any listing.  Please, email me with the answer.  I'll send you a souvenir from Juwanna Mann or the Patriot if you help me. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Quirky, lively, kind of like Cusack himself","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Cracking little film, great fun.The chemistry between the characters is good, the dialogue is funny, the premise itself is a novel idea and it could have been really poo, but it wasn't. It's dark, but at the same time manages to float very lightlyThey all have husbands and wives and children and houses and dogs, and, you know, they've all made themselves a part of something and they can talk about what they do. What am I gonna say? I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork. How've you been? The fact that movies now have to be events that are glorified Mcfilms takes away the reasoning of why films like this should be more popular, but aren't. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Everything you wanted in a movie - Period!","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a guy/chick, comedy/gore, drama/satire, brainer/nobrainer kinda movie...  This is simply everything you wanted in a movie and more!  The direction is good, the acting is motivated, and the soundtrack?...  (I was so 'absorbed' I don't even know if there was one...)Find some buddies and 'watch' it, find a chick and 'understand' it - find a couple of hours and 'absorb' it...  There is something for everyone here - it's one of my top picks for all occasions - period! "},{"Title":"The movie won me over","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you're familiar with Grosse Pointe, you'll be continually being thrown out of this  movie by the liberties it takes with reality. (I lived nearby for nearly a decade and  recognized several of the landmarks, which often changed from shot to shot in  an impossible fashion.) There's no small radio station in Grosse Pointe, and the  likelihood that a luxury home would be demolished and a convenience storebuilt just across the street from other tony residences is approximately zero.  Also, there's no Pointes High School (there's Grosse Pointe North and GrossePointe South, and the school shown in the movie doesn't seem to be either).The only reason this movie is even set in the Pointes (the term actually covers  five villages, called Grosse Pointe Farms, Woods, Shores, Park, and GrossePointe proper) is that the screenwriter obviously came up wtih the title pun first,  which of course dictated the setting and required the main character to benamed Blank. It could have happened anywhere, really. I hate that kind of self- conscious cleverness.Not that I really expected this flick to be realistic; it's a black comedy. Still, this  little stuff annoyed me.But Cusack and the sharp dialog won me over by the end. There seemed to belegitimate sparks between Cusack and Driver, which is one of the hardest things  to fake in a romantic comedy and also, if it's missing, the deadliest (no pun  intended). Once you realize the movie is dealing with wacky ideas such asunionized hitmen, you can relax and enjoy the movie for what it is. It ain'tShakespeare but it does rise above mediocrity. I rate it 3 of 5. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I rented this out some time ago with a friend along with MIB. We watched both of them back-to-back all through the night until the morning.Grosse Pointe Blank has one of the finest scripts i have ever heard. The attention to detail is so accute that i had to watch it five times until i could appreciate every joke and quip. But this is no detractor from the films intitial excellence, as my repeated viewing testifies.This was one of the first films i saw starring John Cusack, and instantly placed him as one of my favourite and most under-rated actors. Minnie Driver's role was so convincing, it was hard to believe that she was not actually Debbie, experiencing the return of her absentee prom-date.All of the supporting characters- Joan Cusack, Dan Aykroyd and the bitchy, bickering CIA spooks made this film a master piece. It is so nice when you can be rewarded with a film as delicately constructed as this one; that you can watch repeatedly and only gain a greater sense of satisfaction each time.Nothing is too much or too little, it is all done to a perfect balance. Everything is believable, greatly aided by the meticulously positioned characters, right down to the conversation Martin has with his old teacher.10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie.  One of my mom's friends told me about this movie and I rented it.  A month later I bought it.    Minnie Driver is pretty, and John Cusack is great.  See This Movie!!!!I gave it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"Steven Lardner - aka, Steve","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Ah, Grosse Pointe Blank, the one romantic-comedy-action hit-man high-school-reunion movie that was not a total disgrace to that much-maligned genre.  For it goes without saying (though here I am, saying it anyway) that most romantic-comedy-action hit-man high-school-reunion movies are crap.  And yet, somehow, here is one romantic-comedy-action hit-man high-school-reunion movie that is not only not crap, but is actually coming to be seen as one of the key films of the nineties.  In case you have not seen it, you might want to stop reading now, for spoilers await.  In case you have seen it, and you just can't stand my writing style, then you might also wish to stop reading now.  Goodbye.  For the three people still with me, let's go  John Cusack plays Martin Blank (a silly name, sure, but no worse than Martin Amis calling a character John Self), a jaded but - hey - loveable contract killer.  Things are not too great in the wacky world of contract killing.  His rival and ex-buddy, played by the tremendous Dan Aykroyd, wants him to join some kind of hit-man union, and if he refuses, well... but Blank ain't innerested - Will there be meetings?  Sure! No meetings - he just wants to go it alone - Lone gunman - that's the point. Meanwhile his secretary - the reliably entertaining Joan Cusack - wants him to attend his high school reunion, back at good old Grosse Pointe, Michigan. Meanwhile, his long-suffering psychiatrist - the excellent Alan Arkin - advises him to not kill anyone for a while, and see how that feels. Waiting for him at Grosse Pointe are trouble, in the form of bad guys hired by Aykroyd, a ghoul who's annoyed that Blank once killed his dog, and, of course, the wonderful Ms M. Driver - she's been waiting ten years.  Driver is now a DJ, entertaining her demographic with eighties classics, and broadcasting, for some reason, into the street in front of her office.Driver and Cusack have lots of witty interplay that you could be forgiven for thinking had gone out of fashion when Cary Grant retired, but here we are, in the land of great dialogue, wit, style, humour and characterisation. All those good old fashioned values. Cusack tries to be honest with people - so, what do you do? Hired killer You get dental with that? culminating in a short speech to Driver's dad which sums up not only his character, but his entire life, and the reason why this movie is so great.  Pardon me for quoting in full I took the other road.  Six figures.  Doing business with lead-pipe cruelty. Sport-sex.  No real relationships of any kind. The reunion is a horror of awkwardness and bad dancing.  Chief source of both of these is Jeremy Piven as Paul.  The Hey, Jenny Slater scene is excruciating.  Even more excruciating is the bone-jarring fight between Cusack and the ghoul, scored to Mirror in the Bathroom.  This is a fast, fluidly-edited, totally believable fight that ends when Cusack, in tight, painful close-up, rams a pen into his assailant's neck. Driver, finally believing her long-lost-love is as bad he keeps telling her he is, runs - You don't get to have me.  All Blank has to do now is carry out the hit he came here for in the first place.  But - wouldntcha know? - he has to erase Driver's dad.  Cue a great climactic scene in which Blank simultaneously blasts the bad guys to hell and explains his philosophy of life to Driver and her dad.  This is inspired stuff, which makes the action more exciting, and the philosophising more amusing.  The juxtaposition is never heavy-handed.  It works, perfectly. The pay-off - You got my blessing is the icing on the cake.  All that remains is for our heroes to get outta town.  And for any aspiring film-makers out there to - hopefully - learn a few important lessons in how to make a superb movie. "},{"Title":"Comedy and action do mix, this the prove!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd and John Cusack together, I've always wondered what that would be like... and boy does the result feel good. Grosse Pointe Blank is not about only firing bullets, hiding your identity, doing your job and in the meanwhile attend a high school reunion, no, it's a first class comedy with a tons of action. It's incredible, it's okay. The village of Grosse Pointe is a small but nice place, the characters actually don't belong there, but the actions that take place are funny, but not the average Schwarzenegger-style murders. The relationship between Cusacks character, Martin Blank and his long lost girlfriend Debi is a big deal in this movie. But eh, what will become of them? Oh yes, you must see this movie. ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Great movie, great soundtrack","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Fantastic movie with more cusak's than you can handle.  and then the writing.  man, oh, man.  great writing.  add a fantastic soundtrack to that, and youve got another great john cusack movie!  i love 80s music.  who doesnt?  every one does...or at least should.  anyways.  this is like what would happen if say anything... or the sure thing had a class reunion. with all the cusack insight, its a winner! "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much from a romantic comedy about a hit-man.  But John Cusack hits the right notes as the hit-man who believes that what you do doesn't define who you are.  Very funny scenes in particular between Cusack and Alan Arkin as his unwilling psychiatrist.  Well worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Neglected Gem","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I believe this movie is a postmodern masterpiece, both brilliant and entertaining.  It artfully deconstructs a number of genres - 80s comedy, yuppie homecoming, action thriller - while operating effectively at the level of each at the same time.  Both Cusacks are wonderful - Joan typically scene stealing, and John delivering a character who is, himself, usually acting.  Both in this respect and the wonderful therapist scenes (and therapy speak) GPB anticipated the Sopranos - perhaps consciously.  John Cusack convinces as action lead, comedy lead, romatic lead and nebbish lead - quite an accomplishment.  Quite literally one of my favorite films, only gets better on multiple viewings.  Plus, you get to see Dan Akroyd shot, which has merits for many.  The movie's not nearly as pretentious as this review.  I urge all to see.  Also, I'd be interested in someone's view as to whom Blank wanted to kill on prom night - his father?  Debbie's father? Bobbie Beamer or other high school rival?  I appreciate that the script leaves unsaid, but... "},{"Title":"enjoyable movie","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was sitting at home bored,with nothing to do,when I came upon this movie.I didn't expect much but,having nothing better to do,decided to watch it-and I'm glad I did so.It's one of those movies you can pass your time with when you're bored-you don't have to think too much and it won't make you cry your heart out,only laugh and have a good time. The dialogues were witty and funny and John Cusack was great.I just loved his character.He wasn't a typical hit-man -he really is a nice guy,and even when he's fighting and shooting he keeps on talking and talking.Cusack really does that great-saying very long monologues,which makes me admire him. To conclude,if you're feeling a bit down or just bored-see this movie.It's a great comedy and is sure to make you feel better. "},{"Title":"too random","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I really cant work out. at one moment it's a dark hitman movie, next moment it's a fun romantic comedy. I havent seen many John Cusack movies, but I can be sure to say that this is his worst one yet.If you want to see a good John Cusack movie, watch Con Air.One of the many reasons I dislike this movie is the way that it's so random. You never know whats going to happen in the next scene, some romance perhaps? some gun play? I really dont feel that Grosse Pointe Blank really manages to juggle the two moviesa random mess. 2 stars "},{"Title":"One shot is all it took to knock me down!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Martin Q. Blank (or John Cusack) only needed one shot to knock me down and secure this movie as one of my favorites of all time. I couldn't believe how great it was the first time I saw it. Firstly, the acting John Cusack was absolutely wonderful and impeccable. Dashing and ice-cool he slided through acting a complex character as easy as if he was spelling pre-school words. Minnie Driver was great as always, playing the independent, smart woman who's standing on her own feet and enjoying it. Dan Ackroyd... Wonderful, wonderful Dan! He gave some of his best moves, that we haven't really seen since Driving miss Daisy, Ghostbusters and all his other best parts. And, finally Joan! Has there ever been a role she couldn't play! No matter how small the part, she always manages to steal our hearts. So, if you like snappy dialogue, great story, great acting, great everything, see this movie. You won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Cusack is the man!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I've always said that I don't think John Cusack is capable of making a bad movie,  and he does nothing to disprove that theory here.  Taking an idea from Pulp Fiction, the film presents us with Martin Blank, a hitman, but also a normal guy, who when brought back to his hometown for a job, falls hard for the girl he left behind 10 years before. Of course, his efforts at renewing the romance are stymied by several people trying to wack Blank himself, for various reasons(the funniest being a dead dog named Budro). I loved the scene where the 2 federal agents burst into the house and get blasted by a two-gun shooting Dan Ackroyd.  The gleeful smile on his face always makes me laugh.  It's not often that I laugh while someone is getting shot up.  "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, a beautiful and brilliant masterpiece","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When you think of a John Cusack movie you think rain and patheticness and self-doubt and insecurity. This movie, however, was so incredibly amazing with its plot, lead and supporting actors and soundtrack, you don't realize that there's no rain in the entire thing!  But don't worry there's plenty of self-doubt and insecurity.  John Cusack plays Martin Blank, a self-employed hitman who's lost his taste for the trade.  He gets his high school reunion invitation and decides that since he has a contract to delete someone out that way, he might as well stop in and see his old home town. From there he falls into a barrage of crazy and unpredictable occurrences that truly could only happen to him.  This movie is amazing.  It uses a 'hitman' as the trade of choice but as a person who just wants to drop everything and go, it really could have been anything.  Blank defines the typical high school student who doesn't want to go to college or pursue anything.  He was just so ticked off at the world that he wanted to jet.  On the advice of his shrink (who's played by Alan Alda  their relationship, although short in film length, is without a doubt one of the most brilliant and amusing relationships ever seen in film) he goes home for his reunion and Martin meets all and everything he left behind and where they're at now. All the while he is fighting his inner demons to try and find his place in the world. Hilariousness follows.  With incredible performances by John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Minnie Driver, Alan Alda, Dan Ackroyd, Jeremy Piven, Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman and THE BEST soundtrack ever produced, this movie touches you in the most unusual way.  You're rooting for the self-doubting, insecure hitman who would probably kill you, if someone paid him enough!   "},{"Title":"The Perfect Black Comedy","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is one of those movies that catches you off guard, the type of film that you never expect to see and when you do, you really don't know how to take it.  I love this film.  The essential plot would seem to be that Cusack's character from all of his 80s teen-flicks (and face, they were all the same, depressed, alienated, yet fun character) grows up to be hit man and goes to his 10th high school reunion (coming up on my own this year, this film has particular resonance).  However, much of this is peripheral the scene chewing done by both Cusack and, surprisingly, Dan Akroyd (who puts in a stellar performance as an assassin union organizer).  The lovestory is cute and convincing, the sub-plot with Alan Arkin as Blank's psychologist is beautiful, and the violence is surprisingly intense.Now, this intense violence is what has garnered more than a few complaints from the critics, but I think that it was absolutely necessary to the type of film that they were trying to make.  As a black comedy, incongruous elements must be made to ride side by side within the plot (not hard with an assassin as the main character).  However, the love story becomes so smarmy (in a good way) that if the violence was not there to counter it, the film would simply become a rather oddy romantic comedy, because we would forget the nastiness of what Blank does for a living (this was the main problem with the film Homefries, because it could never make up its mind to be cutesy or violent and hence was niether).  I think that the film is utlimately quite absurd an bizarre and deserves to be on every film fan's viewing list. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny black comedy","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There's some very funny dialogue in this comedy, partly written by Cusack. A professional hit man (Cusack) combines business and a meeting with the girl he stood up ten years ago when he attends a reunion at his old school.The cast is excellent with Minnie Driver a stand out as Cusack's old flame.  Pace lags now and again but sharp attention to character and detail holds our interest throughout.Although mainly a dialogue picture there are moments of action and violence, including the blowing up a super market, a well choreographed fight scene, and a Tarantino like climax, which goes on a tad too long but that's a minor complaint.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Light-hearted hitman movie.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a great comedy.  The characters are fun and likable, even the villains.  Dan Akroyd is great as Grocer, an assassin who wants to start a union.  And of course John Cusack is great as Martin Blanke, the hitman who goes to his high-school reunion.  Great humor with some cool action and romance mixed in with a great 80's soundtrack and one of my new favourite songs Blister in the Sun by the Violent Fems.  Check it out. "}{"Title":"If only Gunsmith Cats were this hip, wicked and funny","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie has the best action scenes ever made, as if the creators have taken a few lessons from hong kong action flicks and some anime. Martin Blank is so ubercool, you really want to be him and so human you can actually relate to him. Where else can you find interesting stories, interesting characters and disarmingly wicked wit in a movie like this? It's like watching a Coens-created Hong Kong action flick. Or a Coens-directed Gunsmith Cats side story. "},{"Title":"One of the best hit man movie","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie very much being that 1. It's a movie about hit man but not bloody, 2. It's a movie with action but did not get on my nerve, 3. It's a movie that Ally and I both like to watch. "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzz. bo-ring.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the most boring movie of the 90's. The characters are moronic, the plot is...well, contrived is putting it lightly. About 1/2 way through, 3/4 seconds of a Cure song are played, but even that couldn't reduce my nausea. (The other half made ill again whatever The Cure had cured.) Minnie Driver was by no means Divine; if you want Divine, rent a John Waters flick. (Preferably one with Divine in it.) John Cusack was obnoxious enough to make you wish he'd come kill YOU, just to put you out of your misery watching this idiotic movie. In other words don't bother.  "},{"Title":"A Mirror in the Bathroom","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Take a darkly witty script about a hit man and a class reunion. Add on-the-money performances by John Cusack and his sister Joan, Dan Ackroyd and Jeremy Piven, and you have one funny movie.The only wrong note was Minnie Driver, who doesn't really fit in Grosse Pointe, but turns in a poignant performance anyway.Great lines. Great soundtrack. Great movie. "},{"Title":"A hitman has a midlife crisis, reclaims his love, and faces his problematic past, all while remaining inhumanly witty.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  For all of the many comments on this page, I'm surprised that no one has noted the Say Anything connection.  There were certainly mentions of the said flick, but it was always in the context of It's sorta' like a bunch of 80s movies I watched.  There's a humorous and strong link with that movie which starts with the fact that John Cusack is returning to his 10 year high school reunion.  If we were to look back 10 years, we'd see the release of Say Anything, starring Cusack as a fresh high school graduate from the class of '88.  Coincidence?Probably.  But even if it is, it's amazing to see how many faces grace the screen of both movies.  The repeat cast is either supernatural or whimsically planned.Though not a sequel due to various conflicting plot elements, there is certainly a connection between the two movies which underlies the more intentional storyline and writing.  If you enjoyed this movie, definitely go back and see Say Anything then Grosse Pointe Blank back to back, and watch for the repeated tie-in. "},{"Title":"Not worth $1.38, let alone $138","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Like anyone who would pay the suggested retail value for a  video, this movie is idiotic.  Furthermore, if you happen to be roommates with said idiotic human being, I feel nothing but pity for you.  I've been there, I've watched this horrific movie, and the only thing you'll get out of it is an unquenched desire to make Minnie Driver your love-slave.  Then, go and spend $137.99 on drugs.  Do the world a favour, submit yourself to the Darwin awards. "},{"Title":"The best $137.99 I ever spent!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is an ingenious black comedy that action and comedy buffs have been waiting for.  John Cusack portrays the melancholy character Martin Blank who returns to his 10th high school reunion in order to find solace and bring a sense of meaning to his life.  This trip leads him to an encounter with his long lost crush from high school whom he can't seem to forget.  Packed with a talented cast from Hank Azaria to Alan Arkin this is a movie that's sure to have you dying for more.  Along with an outrageous 80's compilation soundtrack Grosse Pointe Blank is the perfect mix of action and comedy for the true movie lover everywhere! "},{"Title":"If you find murder funny, then you should enjoy this light hearted black comedy.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A good showcase for John Cusack, who portrays a hitman who is ready for a career change. But the unpredictable Dan Aykroyd wants Cusack to join his up-start union for hitmen and won't take no for an answer.  If you find murder funny, then you should enjoy this light hearted black comedy. "},{"Title":"On the mark!","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest (off the wall) films I have ever seen. My wife and I would often look at each during the movie and say, This is weird! Then we would laugh some more! Thoroughly enjoyable! "},{"Title":"An extremely slick movie","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is funny and clever. John Cusack plays a hitman who returns to his home town for his high school reunion, and ends up meeting the love of his life who he left on prom night. This film is very funny, though the humour is always fresh and high grade, and the acting is great. A great plot make this an essential rental or even purchase. "}{"Title":"Blues Brothers Of The Ninties","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The mixture of Black comedy and music makes this film the follow-up to the Blues Brothers that everybody has been waiting for! "},{"Title":"You Can't Go Home Again...But You Can Shop There","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best comedies of the 90's and is one of my favorite John Cusack roles. Martin Blank is cool, funny and completely badass. I liked this movie cause it was pretty original,was filmed well, the acting was good all the way around, and how can you not like a movie where Dan Aykroyd is an evil hit man. Add to that Jeremy Piven, Joan Cusack and Minnie Driver,well, it is just plain great. Add to that the totally rocking soundtrack and fun action set pieces and you got yourself a good time. I have yet to go to a real high-school reunion myself, but if I do I am going to tell people that I am a hit man, and no, that doesn't come with dental. Awesome. 4 Beards Out Of 5 "},{"Title":"Hits the target but misses the bull's eye - 73%","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This has been on my radar since it was released and at last, I can cross it off. I like John Cusack as an actor (though I'll forget about 2012 for the purposes of this argument!) and this had all the feel of a smart-aleck comic thriller that normally appeals to me. And it does but something's missing. It has witty dialogue, genuine laughs, an amazing soundtrack and surprisingly decent action but by being a jack-of-all-trades, it ends up a master of none. However, this is still worth your attention simply by being a little different from the usual Hollywood film about hit men.Cusack plays Martin Blank, an experienced professional killer who finds himself beginning to question his career choice. After turning down an offer to join an assassin's union led by his rival Grocer (Dan Aykroyd), Blank is contacted by his broker (Joan Cusack) with an odd proposition - his ten year high school reunion is taking place in Grosse Pointe, Michigan at the same time as a job is required in Detroit. Reluctantly, Martin agrees while thinking he can make amends with Debi (Minnie Driver), the girl he stood up at the prom ten years ago. But Blank has other concerns - he is pursued to Grosse Pointe by a couple of feds (Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman), another hit-man wanting to collect the price on Blank's head (Benny Urquidez) and Grocer who doesn't take too kindly to rejection...If you're not sure what to make of Grosse Pointe Blank then you're not alone - the film veers wildly from energetic action thriller to romantic comedy which, if I'm honest, slowed the film down something chronic. Cusack and Driver are a good couple though, with real chemistry between them that sparkles on screen. But as Blank's two worlds begin to collide, things seriously begin to unravel in the film. Take the moment when Blank is forced to rely on his school buddy Paul (Jeremy Piven) to dispose of a body - at no point does Paul react with horror the way I suspect I might, nor does he question the scenario at all. It's a shame because there is much to like - Aykroyd is brilliantly psychotic as Grocer while the film's blistering soundtrack (by Joe Strummer of The Clash, of all people) is a real winner as well. There are also lots of references to other movies from You Only Live Twice to The Warriors which help the movie barrel along.Grosse Pointe Blank is a good film but I wanted something more. It isn't as original as it thinks it is and its split personality prevents the film from being a great action film. The romantic subplot works as well as the action scenes which are full of noise, fire and debris flying about the place. I also felt Alan Arkin was underused as Blank's long-suffering therapist and that more could have been made of the premise. A hit-man suffering a crisis of confidence has been covered before in many movies but I doubt that a high school reunion dance featured in any of them. I can just about recommend Grosse Pointe Blank simply by being a little different from other hit-man-related films out there. At least it's not anything as adrenaline-fuelled as Hitman or Assassins - both of which were disappointingly one-dimensional action outings - but it has a depth to it that I can appreciate. I just wished that it was a bit braver in the script and that it was as clever as it thinks it is. "},{"Title":"Rather amusing","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Having just watched Grosse Pointe Blank I have to say I am rather impressed, prior to viewing the film on Sky TV I have to be honest and say I'd never heard of it and literally watched it just because it was on.But I have to say I was very impressed and I think for me the film was a success in many ways. Firstly and probably most importantly for a comedy it made me laugh, now I was not in hysterics at any point in the film but I was chuckling and smiling as the dialogue contained some great witticisms and the acting was good.Another good point is that the film's narrative kept me interested all the way through, as other reviewers have said it is rather unpredictable yet predictable at the same time. What I mean is that certain things happened which when watching were rather surprising, however when you think back it is quite obvious that it was going to happen in that way (I don't want to ruin the film by using an example as the most obvious one comes right at the end P.)The soundtrack was also impressive with loads of 80's songs that I love such as The Clash, The Cure and Guns 'n' Roses, there were also a few songs I liked during the film such as Blister In The Sun by Violent Femmes and since watching I have downloaded.A fourth way this film is a success is that I managed to connect on a personal level with what is going on, now I am just finishing my A- Levels so in September will leave home for good (hopefully) and this film made me wonder what it would be like if my school did a re-union in ten years, it made me think who would be successful, who wouldn't. What will I be doing? The one thing I know for sure is that I'm not going to be an assassin. The bad points of this film are small but I think major ones, the government agents sent to kill Blank are pretty pointless in the scale of the narrative and have no real purpose, they're not funny and they leave their car for about thirty seconds in the entire movie. The second is the way in which Blank's friend just accepts that his old high school buddy has just killed someone and helps dispose of the body no questions asked... that just seemed a little far fetched even in the context of this far fetched movie.So the film Grosse Pointe Blank is an amusing comedy with good acting and a good soundtrack. It is not the best film ever made but for what it is I think it is a success and it did make me think about my life and my future.7/10 "},{"Title":"No Happy Balance","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I believe this flick was meant to be tongue-in-cheek the whole way through, however director Armitage is never able to find that happy balance between under-doing things (most of the time), and going over the top (on the odd occasion).John Cusack plays his hit-man who has returned to his home town very straight, so most of the laughs come from other members of the cast. Joan Cusack is a riot as the secretary who keeps hired killer Martin Blank (John Cusack) organised, while the quirky, inspired casting that landed Dan Aykroyd with the role of Grocer, the crime-boss come adversary to Blank, brings a good share of laughs.There is little else to report apart from the enjoyable presence of highly gifted British thespian Minnie Driver.Sunday, October 18, 1998 - Video "},{"Title":"Cusack stars in a hit movie that blows away most of the competition.","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack stars as Martin Blank, a hit-man at a crossroads in his life. He seems to be losing his passion for the job and rethinking much of his life just at the same time as, coincidentally, his assistant (Joan Cusack) informs him that he has received an invite to his high school reunion. And he may be able to undertake a local job at the same time. It must be destiny. But can a man of Blank's unique talents possibly survive an entire weekend catching up with old friends (including the great Jeremey Piven), avoiding others sent to take him out of action (led by Dan Aykroyd), reuniting with the girl (Minnie Driver) he has been obsessed with ever since the last time he saw her and prising advice from his psychiatrist (Alan Arkin) over the phone? School reunions are enough to fill normal people with homicidal thoughts so just how long can a professional hit-man keep his hands away from his gun? Grosse Point Blank is, quite simply, a superb action comedy that succeeds on every single level. The acting is consistently great. Alongside those mentioned we also get support from the likes of Hank Azaria and even the faces not well known to viewers provide just the right performance for their characters.Then we have, arguably, it's greatest strength the script. Every line, or at least every other line, is a slice of cool or a comedy gem. There's a lot crammed into this movie and no fat on it whatsoever. Nothing is wasted as the script delivers either information or laughs upon laughs.Director George Armitage puts everything together just right. There's nothing too flashy here but we get great acting matched to a great script accompanied by a fantastic soundtrack and interspersed with one or two great action sequences (one being an entertaining shootout and the other being one of the best and most realistic fistfights ever put on screen, in my opinion). It actually seems effortless because it's all put together so well. More people should see and enjoy this movie because the fans it already has will, like me, always enjoy revisiting it and trying to convert others to rating it just as highly.See this if you like The Matador, Leon AKA The Professional, The Mechanic. "},{"Title":"Clever and very funny","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Superb film with with no obvious precedent. John Cusack inhabits the character of Martin Q Blank completely and hilariously. By turns ruthless assassin and a man at odds with his job and the emotional sacrifices he makes to uphold his professionalism. The scenes with Dan Ackroyd are a particular highlight; if you've only ever seen Ackroyd in Ghostbusters, this will be a revelation. Soundtrack is amazing and has had me searching and enjoying the back catalogues of some of the featured artists. Would recommend to any fan of quality acting and sharp writing. Put simply, this film has no flaws and I'm sure one day will be high on a list of classic, not just cult films. "},{"Title":"lighthearted film about a hit man","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack is a hit man who attends his high school reunion and dodges assassins in Gross Pointe Blank, a 1997 film also starring Minnie Driver, Jeremy Piven, and Dan Ackroyd. Cusack is Martin Q. Blank, a professional hit man whose assistant (Joan Cusack) wants him to attend his tenth year high school reunion. And as the gods would have it, he is assigned a hit in nearby Detroit! Blank has some unfinished business there - he has been dreaming about the girl he stood up on prom night, Debi (Driver) for ten years. When he gets back to Grosse Pointe, his house is gone and instead, there's a mini-mart, his mother is in a nursing home, Debi is a radio personality who insists on talking to him about the prom on the air, and he's been followed.Unfortunately, Martin is in competition with Grocer (Ackroyd), a hit man who wants to do something akin to unionizing, and when Martin gets the Detroit hit that Grocer thought he was getting, he puts a contract out on Martin. Another assassin with a grudge comes to Grosse Pointe to get Martin, too, so in between dancing and kissing Debi, Martin is busy trying to shoot and knife his way out of high school and his home town.Grosse Pointe Blank is a wonderful and refreshing change from the normal hit man movies like Panic, which, though very good, is depressing. George Armitage directs this with a light touch, and the screenplay is filled with wit and unpredictability.John Cusack is adorable, and Minnie Driver does an excellent job as Debi. Alan Arkin plays Martin's nervous psychiatrist to great effect, and Jeremy Piven is an old high school buddy.1997 wasn't all that long ago, so it would be odd for the film to be dated. Still, there's something so fresh about it, it could have been made today. I think in 1997 it was a little ahead of its time in its approach. The sound track is an added bonus. Thoroughly entertaining in every way. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Misadventures of a Neurotic Hit-man !","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Deja vu, ever dream of going back to your High School reunion ? except throw in the fact that you are a hit-man , and a past relationship changes your view of life? Well, the misnamed film Grosse Point Blank is just that and a whole lot more.Martin Q. Blank( John Cusack )in a Tour De Force performance,and Oscar worthy, delivers a fine line and clever wit without missing a beat. Written by Tom Jankiewicz and Directed by George Armitage, this film is perfectly paced and deftly tight. Each scene builds to the next, and Cusack is terrific and more than capable of handling comedy and action. He, is one of the finest Actors of our time.Martin Q. Blank travels back to his old home town , to attend a Class Reunion and perform a hit, on as yet unknown victim. Along the way he encounters former teen classmates, who are at various states of minor evolution, compared to the worldly Blank. Debi Newberry(Minnie Driver), the former girlfriend, jilted on Prom night, and left wondering for the last 10 years, what she did to drive Blank away. is now a DJ at KGPM. Another fine performance from the multi-talented Driver,who is just more than eye candy, along with Alan Arkin,(Blanks reluctant psychiatrist), Joan Cusack(Blanks Personal Secretary), who keeps calling her real life brother Sir,Jeremy Piven,classmate, and Dan AyKroyd(Blanks Professional Rival), who has sent 2 Federal Agents to whack Blank, after he whacks his intended hit, hilarious !. Throw in another semi-professional hit-man who is trying to whack Blank, for another job that went wrong. A funny, funny film, with an terrible title.Fantastic Music score, with allot of high powered energy !Check it out ! A MUST See ! I gave it a 9, could go to 10. "},{"Title":"Hit-man's high school reunion","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack plays Martin Q. Blank, a professional assassin.He's going through all kinds of emotional problems and he doesn't get any help from his shrink (Alan Arkin).Then he goes back to the past when he's sent on a mission to a small Detroit suburb, Grosse Pointe.He grew up there and went to high school.There's also his 10th year high school reunion happening there.His biggest interest in his hometown is Debi Newberry, played by Minnie Driver, who was his sweetheart then.Now he has a chance to start living the life he could have lived.Grosse Pointe Blank (1997) is a movie directed by George Armitage.The man who makes the movie is the leading man John Cusack, who was also one of the producers and writers of the movie.He is one of the finest actors of our time and here he gives a really memorable performance as our man Martin.For some reason you start liking this guy even though he kills for his living.This wouldn't be a Cusack movie without John's sister Joan Cusack who plays Marcella.And then there are also the siblings Ann and Bill Cusack.Minnie Driver makes a perfect female lead as Debi Newberry.You can totally understand why Martin liked her.Mitch Ryan gives a great performance as her father Bart Newberry.We remember him from the show Dharma & Greg as we do remember also Jenna Elfman, who's seen in this movie playing Tanya.Alan Arkin, a fine comedian and a fine actor is brilliant as Dr.Oatman.Dan Aykroyd plays Grocer, a rival hit-man and he's great.There are also many other great actors, such as Hank Azaria (Steven Lardner), Jeremy Piven (Paul Spericki)...Some great 80's music is heard throughout this movie.There are A-Ha's Take On Me, 99 Luftballons by Nena, that is placed perfectly in the film.The comedy in this movie is very dark, could I say twisted.This is not a movie everybody likes.But I was one of the many people who did like it.Why don't you give it another chance. "}{"Title":"This movie is a laugh riot","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Many of the most recent comments about this film seem pretty negative, so I'm writing this to counter them. I've seen this movie a few times over the years and it's alway a laugh riot. It's a dark comedy/action flick about a successful hit-man who has come to a crossroads in his life where he is questioning whether he wants to continue on this particular career path. His associates/competitors in his profession aren't too keen on letting people walk away. And, this happens to coincide with his 10th year high school reunion where he sees the directions his classmates have taken.The movie is a bit of a period piece for 20/30-somethings. It fills the gap between the yuppie pretense of The Big Chill and the teenage angst of The Breakfast Club. The main character is an entrepreneurial mix between James Bond and Maxwell Smart. The movie has a very dry sense of humor, and samples heavily from late 1980s music. The actors play off each other really well so much so that you tend to forget that there isn't a decent looking one among them --- which is really a testament to their acting ability. "},{"Title":"Dear Gawd ! nearly 10 years since this came out !!!","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is a must see movie...as simple as that. Driver's character is a little underused give how spunky she comes over in the early segments of the movie but...given the mayhem around her it's understandable.Blank's relationship with his character's secretary and 'fixer' (his sister in real life) is subtle and a joy to watch again and again.Dan Ackroyd nearly steals the show as Blank's Big Blue geek-like nemesis .The final climatic fight scene after the reunion party was staged between Cusack's kick-boxing training partner and Cusack. Speaking as a martial artist I consider it to be a very very fine piece of movie action...those blocks, kicks and punches are very real boys and girls ! Simply one of my favourite films...not to be missed. Oh and did I forget to mention the absolutely kick-ass soundtrack that goes along with ? Only beaten in recent years by Pulp Fiction. 'Nuff said ! "},{"Title":"Sharp comedic executioner...Cusack , 'dead-pan' master","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Although, this had a very well together cast of players, it seemed to not make it as big as I believe it should have. Cusack, is 'on' in this curious hitter comedy action flick, from the Midwest. I worked in a movie, back in 1994 with his brother Bill. In all those in the Cusack family that are working, I haven't heard bad reports about any of them. And you know how bad news amongst the actors travel? Very fast. I have seen a real mild mannered good guy in Bill. He was in fact refreshing. From all the wannabes in that movie who were looking to get attention and all the rest, Bill Cusack was a 'real' friendly type. Seemed unassuming, calm, smart and well mannered. So when I watch the stories that they are involved in, I am always curious what they will play out like. I truly enjoyed the sharp-witted and faster-on-the-trigger, agile hit-man that John proved to be in Grosse Point Blank.I like the way he is, thinking about his life and pondering what it is that he is doing now and will do in the future. He doesn't mis-focus either. Even under heavy handed pressure from the competition. Sincerely, Dr. Oatman, (Arkin) is masterfully the frustrated, out of answers for the patient, Psychiatrist that he has run out of patience with that patient, and never really wanted in the first place. Debi, old flame, new love, one in the same. These two have a sort of building up to it, 'Love magic' if they can make it through the problem of his employment. He shows strength in his character's direction and yet he is sympathetic and brings compassion to a dead drunk loser from his high school education's past. Piven adds a funny edge to the story as his old buddy from school, Paul Spericki, the wild real estate, pot smoking old time stories from the past good time pal! Who is a mis-directed, coward at heart. But alas, he comes around to a point in his life as even I did, when contemplating the little baby boy, (at his reunion) he locks eyes with. That is a curiously lost in the moment stare, that he takes with the infant. He finally starts to figure out what his life means for him as well as to him. Answers to a dark mystery he has been living with for years.The only reason I did not give this 10 out of 10 and I probably should have considering, the well thought out character development and story, etc, was Ackroyd's, Grocer's 'fouler than that'-mouth. Even though I was aptly into all else that this story was telling.I recommend this, see John do it again. Especially on Cleanfilms.com...I don't really mind who agrees or disagrees with my commentary about the film or the cursing.(****) "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with a twist or twist with a romantic comedy?","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The movie is not bad, I've just watched it the second time for marital reasons ) Marketed as a romantic comedy, the film has very little to do with romance, but mostly with the feeling of being out of place in a normal world.Cusack's character (John Cusack, that is ) ) is a lone hit-man, he knows just about every major player in the market and he does what every businessman does try to survive against the competition. While this survival thing is taken literally in this case, it could have been any other job, like computer salesman, therefore the twist.Forced by circumstances, the guy has to attend the 10 year high school reunion and meet again with his high school sweetheart played by Minnie Driver. And , oh boy, is she sweet. I think I have a deep rooted crush for this woman. Another interesting character is Cusack's competitor, played by an improbable Dan Aykroyd. Not that he plays badly, one just doesn't see Aykroyd as a hit-man. Hence, his deadliness, he's a cuddly deadly teddy bear killer type )Enough said, the movie is fun all the way through, with action scenes and killings embedded in romantic and psychological dilemmas about who we are, where we go and all that crap.At the end, Minnie Driver is the real killer, all the men just fall dead at her feet. Kidding. Fun movie, watch it once. "},{"Title":"Hey Class I'm Back!!","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Great frickin movie. A wonderfully original plot line. This is one of my personal favorites. I could watch this movie over and over, and have. This movie could easily have been fluff but was acted wonderfully and has a great cast. The plot itself is worth seeing this film for. I cannot recommend this film enough. No it's not an Oscar quality film, but it is definitely worth the price of admission.John Cusack is one of my favorite actors and does a great job portraying Martin Blank, I really don't think there could have been a better choice. Minnie Driver could stand there and not say a word and I would still see this film just to see her. However she plays an excellent part in this film and is a quality actress. John's sister Joan Cusack is wonderful in this film, she had me laughing every time she was in any portion of this movie. I love that broad she is awesome. And what is there to say about any supporting cast that includes the likes of Alan Arkin, Dan Aykroyd, Hank Azaria and Jermey Piven. Great film with a talented cast.This is a must film, truly. "},{"Title":"Beautiful.","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe straight out pisses into the eyes of sneering cinema movie goers. The Pic might suggest a cheesy predictable crap shoot of a movie, however this movie is almost a gritty yet funny take on the life of hit man Martin Blank. (entirley fictional.) although nothing like Eric Banas Chopper it still has a sense of realism and a very good fight scene utilizing John Cusacks Black Belt skills very nicely. Minnie Driver was fantastic in this movie as a reluctantly forgiving ex. Dan Akroyd is yet again awesome in this movie with a kind of jittery yet very serious rival with Martin. And probably the 2nd best performance was Joan Cusack playing a very mother like figure wonderfully as Martins secretary.SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A contract killer who suddenly developed a conscience, portrayed by versatile John Cusack returns to his hometown for a job and finds himself attending his 10 year High - School reunion. The movie is a blend of action/drama with a teen-comedy feel about it, with an excellent 80's soundtrack and hits just the right chord with the 80's generation especially. Exceptional chemistry between the cast members, Minnie Driver(Martin's High-School girlfriend), Alan Arkin(great as a terrified therapist), Joan Cusack, Dan Aykroyd( a rival contract killer), Jeremy Piven and Hank Azaria. Fun action with brains and talent. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy with Cusack as a hit man","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is an amusing comedy with John Cusack, Minnie Driver, Joan Cusack and Dan Aykroyd in the leading roles. Cusack is perfect for this kind of roles. He gives a very funny performance as the desperate but lethal Martin Blank. There are many funny scenes in this movie, just too much to mention! This movie is definitely a must see.Although I'm not a big fan of her, Minnie Driver is quit good as well. Joan Cusack was hilarious as his secretary and Dan Aykroyd is also perfect as fellow professional killer of Blank.The story is well done, not cliché at all. John Cusack is one of my favourite actors and I like him a lot in this kind of comedies. He was outstanding in High Fidelity and wonderful in Say Anything, he was truly amazing in City Hall and unique in Being John Malkovich. I think he is one of the most underrated actors of his generation. "},{"Title":"This amusing dark comedy is a one of a kind, thanks to Cusack's superb role.","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a hit man decides to attend his 10 year high school reunion. Which for Martin is the last thing, he's in the mood for. But one of things that makes him to go back to his old life that he wants to rekindling the relationship, he once had with his old flame (Minnie Driver). Which Martin dumped her in the senior prom. At the same time, Martin tries to pull off one final hit to convince him to find a better life. Until Martin's arch rival (Dan Aykroyd) shows up aiming to blow away Martin's latest hit list and Martin also if he doesn't agree to team up with his arch rival.Directed by George Armitage (The Big Bounce, Miami Blues) made an clever dark comedy with an terrific performance by Cusack. This film was an modest hit in theaters until it turns into a cult hit on video. This film has great 1980's soundtrack. The cast are strong, includedAlan Arkin, Joan Cusack, Jeremy Piven, Hank Azaria and Mitchell Ryan. This movie has many memorable funny moments but this film takes an sharp turn towards the end with an violent conclusion. Still, it is still enjoyable and entertaining romp. Screenplay by Tom Jankiewicz, D.V. DeVincentis, Steve Pink and John Cusack. From a Story by Jankiewicz. DeVincentis, Pink and Cusack team again to write the screenplay of the cult favorite High Fidelity. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"If this movie was a gun, it didn't shoot any blanks","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" After I finished watching this movie, I stepped outside and smoked a cigarette and reflected on it. I must say that this movie blew me away like one of the many targets John Cusack dispatched throughout the film.Typically I find John Cusack's acting to be a little bland, but his portrayal of a high school drop out turned professional killer going to his ten year reunion was top notch. Between his one-liners and his monologues trying to justify his profession, he really showed me that he is a talented comedic lead. Minnie Driver did an excellent job playing Cusack's old high school romance, showing legitimate emotions of being stood up to prom ten years earlier. And surprisingly, Dan Aykroyd's performance had me laughing, instead of shaking my head in disgust like I have with some of his more recent roles.By and by, this is probably one of the best action/comedies I have ever seen. Please see this. Either you'll leave it wanting to be a wise crackin' hit-man, or you'll feel compelled to go to your next high school reunion.-Richard j. "}{"Title":"A light-hearted romantic action/comedy","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a freelance hit-man who starts to develop a conscience, which causes him to muff a couple of routine assignments. On the advice of his secretary and his psychiatrist, he attends his 10th year High School reunion in Grosse Pointe, Michigan a Detroit suburb where he's also contracted to kill someone. Hot on his tail are a couple of over-enthusiastic federal agents, another assassin who wants to kill him, and Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), whom he new in high school.John Cusack is a fun actor and usually his movies are as well this isn't an exception. I also recommend Con Air and serendipity. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, a very entertaining black comedy","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a pleasant surprise of a black comedy. The premise is, as far as I know, original and unique. It deals with a hitman who is growing tired of his profession, and is starting to have moral quarrels with his work. I liked the character of Martin Blank, the hitman. He was very funny and convincing, and I found his directness and honesty to be likable qualities. The plot is great; it takes a well-known comedy premise, the high school reunion, and adds a new twist. The plot is well-paced and thoroughly interesting. I have seen the film at least half a dozen times, and I'm haven't grown tired of it yet. The acting is great; the Cusacks, Ann, John and Joan, all give very convincing and credible performances. Dan Aykroyd, Minnie Driver and Alan Arkin are also great. The action scenes are intense, well done and exciting. The shootings were stylishly done. The humor is great, very black and often direct, without being offensive. Death, of course, is one of the most popular topics of the humor of the film, but it's still surprisingly fresh and entertaining. Most of the actors have great on-screen chemistry, and many of the supporting characters are hilarious. I really enjoyed Jeremy Piven and Hank Azaria. The villains are great. Dan Aykroyd makes a great lead villain, and his henchmen are great too. I also really liked Benny Urquidez's character as one of the hitmen out to kill Blank. The music is great. The score contains some very well-picked songs, and the music almost always fits perfectly in with the scene. All in all, a great black comedy, with a touch of action. Should be enjoyable to most people who aren't too easily offended. I recommend it to fans of black comedy, fans of high school reunion-themed films, and fans of the various actors involved in this film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Action? Drama? Comedy? Thriller?","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Action? Drama? Comedy? Thriller?Yeah, that is one of the things about this movie, it is all of the above! And that is of course what makes it so good. But to be honest, without the excellent actors starring in this movie it would probably been quite bad. But now we'll find John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Dan Akroyd and Minnie Driver in the movie, and they are all great! One other thing that makes this movie good is the music!The movie really brings back lost times and you will find yourself laughing but at the same time it is exciting so...you will laugh and be tense at the same time. A funny sensation I must say!My IMDb rating 9  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The trip home is never as far as it seems.  The girlfriend left behind, the high school friends and not-so-friends that are still there and still living in high school.  The more things change, the more they stay the same.  One of the greatest fight scenes ever (Cusack is a trained kickboxer).  One of the touchingest (is that a word?) moments ever (Cusack's character realizing there is something to be said for marriage, kids, etal).  Ups and downs, gun fights, fist fights, love, tears, great music and Minnie Driver (wow!). Very fun movie for anyone who left high school in the 80's and wonder about the path they took and how that path might lead them back to what they left. If only it was so simple and exciting at the same time. Worth a watch and another or two. "},{"Title":"Great movie, very underappreciated","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Point Blank is one of my favorite movies.  This movie showcases John Cusack's ever-popular everyman character with a twist.  The supporting cast is excellent as well, with what I felt was a very believable chemistry between Minnie Driver and Cusack, and excellent supporting performances by all involved, including a credible but slightly goofy Dan Akroyd as Grocer, a competitor to Cusack's Martin Blank.  I think this movie also speaks at a deeper level than just the surface of the comedy it is, it has a philosophical message to get across, and I think it may be missed by many who dismiss it as another throw-away Cusack comedy.  It is very unfortunate that the movie has not been given a better treatment on DVD - the existing R1 DVD is barebones, non-anamorphic, and just barely serviceable as a DVD.  In addition, it is clear from watching the film closely that there must be scenes that were cut and DVD would be a great place to showcase this footage (which I hope has not been lost) and maybe have some commentary (writer? Cusack/Driver?)  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am a HUGE Cusack fan. I was especially excited to see this movie since he co-wrote and produced it. Plus I had heard nothing but critical acclaim lavished on this film. I finally got around to seeing it last weekend, and it pains me to have to say it was a disappointment. For one, the writing fell flat. It was jumbled and uneven. The film had at least several writers and they just didn't come together to create a film that well, came together for lack of a better word. There was no explanation as to why Marty became a hit man or what the main business was behind all these hits. Not only that, but all the hit men were very mild-mannered and clean-cut. They came across like a bunch of church pastors playing a game of paint ball. IMHO it would of been much funnier for them to have been portrayed as the stereo-typical movie hit men such as the Mafia, for example. Also, some of the hits came off as serious instead of the black humor they were supposed to be. With the exception of a few good, funny moments, a lot of the humor in this movie fell flat. The movie did get somewhat better as it progressed-the scenes at the reunion were decent. And the acting was top-notch-no complaints there at all. But overall-I can't understand why this film is as critically acclaimed as it is and I would give it a 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Decent movie...Great radio station!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Hey, I like John Cusack as an actor, and his movies are usually pretty good. But save for High Fidelity, The Grifters, Say Anything, and Eight Men Out, they usually fall in the instantly forgettable file. This one is no exception. An OK story leads up to a drag-out final confrontation with D. Aykroyd, but the 107 minutes fly by reasonably fast. It's certainly worth checking out if you like Cusack, or his taste in music. It's a great eclectic mix, including some long lost gems from The Clash, The Specials, and The English Beat.But I've been all around the Great Lakes States, and I've never heard a small-time radio station with the format portrayed here. Not that I wouldn't mind listening to such a station, but they just don't exist. It's as if John C. pulled all his best tunes from his High Fidelity home record collection, and hit the airwaves with it. Unfortunately, it just doesn't happen in the vast wasteland we know as over-the-airwaves suburban commercial radio. Too bad.Special props to Minnie D. on her midwestern accent, even if she is totally unbelievable as a radio DJ. "},{"Title":"Just a quick thought","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Give this movie a chance.  The first time i saw it i was grossed out and disappointed.  The second time i saw it i laughed out loud.  The third time, i realized that this is a truly special and innovative concept.  If you don't like this the first time, try it again.  It grows on you. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is simply brilliant.... The perfect mix of John Cusack as Martin Blank the good guy, Minnie Driver as Debi Newberry, the perfect woman that got left behind and Dan Aykroyd as Mister Grocer, the bad guy that is after Martin Blank's job makes this the Nr.1 movie on my list.... The total disrespect for life rapped up in a nice package of comedy action and believe it or not romance (wich normaly is not my favorite) simply grabed me by the throat and held me there dangling until the movie was at the end....If you haven't seen it, then you HAVE to. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I generally love movies starring John Cusack - and this is no exception. His timing, facial expressions and general charisma make this an eminently re-watchable film. He's one of those actors who seem to be able to make you laugh just by the look in his eyes! The concepts in this movie manage to tread the line between poignancy and humour - and many of the one-liners and visual jokes are laugh-out-loud funny. Cusack is fantastic, as are the ever-enthralling Minnie Driver and sister Joan. The supporting cast are also superb, and the whole movie is almost impossible to fault. I recommend it whole-heartedly.  "}{"Title":"Witty one-liners, excellent performances on this emotional roller-coaster","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There are few movies that I can stomach seeing more than once, let alone several times.  However, Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the exceptions on my list.  It's mix of fantastic dialogue, sublime performances, interesting subject matter and a fantastic 80's soundtrack.  I also appreciate the emotional roller-coaster that the movie takes you through - feelings of happiness, nostalgia, then switching seamlessly to tension, relief, panic and slapstick comedy. And as far as romance goes, John Cusack and Minnie Driver have real chemistry on-screen. Probably the only aspect of the movie that would put some people off would be the violence.  John Cusack's character is - after all - a professional hitman.  I'm no big fan of violence myself, but I felt that  it's use in the movie was justified and integral to the plot.  "},{"Title":"Completely rewatchable","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time favourite films. The dry humour, the great soundtrack, the lovely look of the film... and then there's Cusack... and Minnie... Cusack would have to be my favourite actor around, and Minnie is right up there with my top female leads. They work extremely well together on screen, and I just can't help but be charmed completely by Cusack during his courting scenes...Definitely one for the collection. "},{"Title":"Great performances, script and soundtrack","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is one of the best actors of the 90's, he has never been bad in a film, and he can make a bad film good. In Grosse Pointe Blank, he plays Martin Blank, a hitman who is going back to his hometown of Grosse Pointe for his high school reunion. There are a lot of funny lines in Grosse Pointe Blank, a great soundtrack (featuring The Pixies, Violent Femmes etc.). 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable mélange of coming home pic, hit man plot and rom com.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Do you like hit man stories? Do you sympathize with people returning home after a long, confusing time away? Do you fall for romantic comedies? If yes, then GROSSE POINT BLANK is The Film for you! The almost-always superb and likable John Cusack yet again hits the right chords as Martin Blank, the soon-retired pro killer, who combines his last job with his 10-year highschool reunion. Pondering about where life took him, he tries to win back his former highschool sweetheart (the sometimes irritating but here charming Mini Driver). Hilarious plot developments, great supporting cast (Ackroyd, Azaria, Piven, etc.) and a groovy soundtrack make this just a clever and fun movie. "},{"Title":"Cusack comes out with a winner.","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank (though often misspelled) was one of the most overlooked films of 1997. Directed well by George Armitage ('Miami Blues') from a smart script by Tom Jankiewicz, Steve Pink, D.V. DeVincentis, and John Cusack himself, Grosse Pointe Blank is a great mix of action and comedy. The story is relatively inventive, Martin Blank, a hitman, returns to his former home Grosse Pointe for a job and to attend his 10 year high school reunion. But things are not so simple Martin tries to make things up to his high school sweetheart, Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), for standing her up on prom night and vanishing without a trace. Martin has also been followed to Grosse Pointe by two hitmen (one played hilariously by Dan Aykroyd) and two feds (one of the feds is played by character actor and voice-artist Hank Azaria). And most notably in the supporting cast is Alan Arkin as Martin's shrink. Arkin is extraordinarily funny as the neurotic shrink, Dr.Oatman. Joan Cusack also has a small part as Martin's secretary, but she makes the most out of a small part, almost stealing every scene she's in. What's really great about this movie is how smart it is. There is some really intelligent humor in it, and a lot of insight into the characters. Cusack is often known for his boyish looks, but he really fits the character of Martin Blank. Cusack is one of the greatest actors from his generation, and given his work in 'Say Anything' and 'High Fidelity' (which he also co-wrote) he is the closest thing to today's everyman then any other actor working in Hollywood today. His work is constantly edgy and fresh ('Being John Malkovich', 'Pushing Tin'), which is welcome in today's cookie-cutter film industry.  "},{"Title":"There's just something special about Minnie Driver...","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a Good Good Good movie! I got to see it when at a loose end one day and it was the only film I hadn't yet seen at the cinema. I had not heard anything about it and the girl on the counter knew less. But, I think I enjoyed it all the more for not expecting anything from it. John Cusack is cool, as is his sister, and, there is just something special about Minnie Driver. It is a well paced movie that engages you from the first to the last minute, enhanced by a well chosen soundtrack of eighties hits. Like I said at the start...this is a Good Good Good movie!  "},{"Title":"Grosse Point Cusack","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The easiest film I've ever seen to win at 'Spot the Lead Role's relatives'. More Cusacks than a special millennial Cusack day, in Cusackville and all the better for it. Being a bit of a fan of John Cusack myself, I can think of little better than this film. Enjoy it for what it is, a good film, with good quality acting, and not a little romance, action and comedy thrown in. Yeeaaayy! "},{"Title":"John Cusack's finest and funniest, a magical comedy","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  This was by far John Cusack's finest work.  The writing was hysterical, lightning quick and very intellectual.  The chemistry between Cusack and Akroyd was magical.  Cusack plays a hit man, who is professionally competitive with Akroyd.  At one point in the movie Akroyd proposes that they form a union, and Cusack ignores his request, but at the same time in awe at the fact that their direction as hit men could be solidarity.  There were also a couple of very funny dialogs between them over coffee, discussing drugs, killing and health food.  Also there is a magic that happens between Cusack and Minnie Driver as a former couple.  Cusack left town after high school, leaving Driver without an explanation.  He returns for his high school 10th reunion, and to do a hit.  He manages to make contact with his old friends and family (his mother is now insane).  He also finds that his former home has been replaced by a Stop-n-rob mini mart.  This mini mart of course is blown up during the course of the film.  Cusack and Driver meet up and begin to reestablish the freightengly powerful relationship that they had, after she makes him pay for his lack of communication.  Cusack has some hilarious moments with his therapist (Alan Arkin), who helps him work through feeling conflicted about killing.  He starts to wonder if it is all-okay, but Arkin doesn't want to continue with their relationship, but Cusack won't let him out of it.  Their dialog is funny and insightful.  This was before the Sopranos or Analyze This came out.Finally Joan Cusack steals yet another movie with her beauty, and humor as Cusack's secretary.  She can order ordinance, whip up a mean Chicken Soup, or help John with inside information about the latest terrorist killer competing with him for a hit.  This is an absolute must see, you will laugh and laugh.  "},{"Title":"Your'e a handsome devil, whats your name ?","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A comedy about a hitman may not be the most politically correct of themes, Grosse Pointe Blank is carried out with such style that it works. John Cusack as ubercool assassin Martin Q Blank is brilliant, getting the mix between confused killer and vulnerable human just right.John Cusack had a hand in writing this, and on reflection, he should probably put pen to paper more often, for Grosse Pointe offers dialogue that Tarantino or Smith would be proud of. The performances are wonderful, and while Cusack, Driver and Ackroyd are brilliant, the support holds its own very competently. Blanks relationship with his shrink Alan Arkin is a high point, and Jeremy Pivens hi-energy performance as Blanks old best friend is very funny.The films soundtrack is another star. The 80's soundtrack compliments the action perfectly, and blowing up a ulti-mart to Ace of Spades is inspired. While its difficult to spot a morale in Grosse Pointe (Your'e too busy enjoying yourself to look that deep) there is one there. Blank was worried about returning to his old home town, frightened that his profession would leave him outside, unable to communicate with his old friends. But from the people he encounters and their reaction to what he does (oh, do you get dental with that ?) he realises that being a professional hitman in this town is no stranger than being a car salesman or an estate agent. Its not what you do, its what you are. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Overall I would say that I enjoyed this movie, but I do not think it is nearly worth all of the rave reviews it has been receiving.  Basically, it's a one joke movie -- I mean, how many times can you get a laugh out of a hitman going home for a high school reunion.  So what do you do now?  I'm a hitman.  Ha ha. Funny.Luckily though, it does have a couple of good subplots and witty moments to keep it propelled through its ending.  If you have a free night and a borrowed copy sitting around, watch it.  If not, you're not missing out on too much. "}{"Title":"A Thriller With Something For Everyone","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" With its offbeat combination of comedy, romance and action, Grosse Pointe Blank is a highly entertaining thriller that has something for everyone. Its plot is unpredictable, its characters are wonderfully eccentric and its dialogue is sharp and witty. It's also full of terrific performances and boasts a nostalgic 1980s soundtrack that provides an enjoyable accompaniment to all the craziness that takes place on-screen.Martin Q Blank (John Cusack) is a very successful hit-man who's going through an existential crisis and to make matters worse, his most recent assignment didn't go according to plan. On the advice of his therapist and his secretary, he's persuaded to attend his 10-year high school reunion in the town of Grosse Pointe, Michigan so that he can reconnect with his past, in the hope that doing so, might help to improve his current state of mind. Conveniently, he also has a professional reason for returning to his home town as he has another contract to fulfil for the same client he so recently disappointed.The first person that Martin looks up in Grosse Pointe is his high school sweetheart Debi (Minnie Driver) who's now a DJ on the local radio station. Martin had disappeared out of her life without explanation on the night when they'd arranged to go to the school prom together, but by his own admission, she'd remained in his thoughts and dreams ever since. He openly admits that he's now a professional hit-man but she naturally takes this remark as a joke.Some factors linked to his current line of work make Martin's visit to Grosse Pointe a little more complicated and dangerous than Debi could possibly imagine as, not only is he being followed by two operatives from the National Security Agency, but also a couple of independent hit-men called Grocer (Dan Aykroyd) and Felix LePoubelle (Benny Urquidez) are on his tail and looking for trouble.Martin and Debi go to the high school reunion and meet a number of their old classmates, but when Martin wanders away from the main hall into a quiet corridor, LePoubelle attacks him and Martin, without hesitation, kills his assailant. Debi soon arrives on the scene and then, in a state of shock and panic, runs away. Another of Martin's old classmates Paul Spericki (Jeremy Piven) arrives shortly after and helps Martin to dispose of the body in the school furnace.Further difficulties follow for Martin in his dealings with Debi and Grocer and even his professional assignment proves to be far from straightforward. A great deal of danger and numerous surprises then also have to be confronted as Martin tries again to reconcile with Debi and attempts to get out of Grosse Pointe alive.John Cusack is very likable and funny as a guy whose career started in the Army and then took a number of unexpected twists that eventually brought him to a point in his life where he began to feel lost and unfulfilled. His talent for comedy is really impressive and he's also faultless in the action sequences.Alan Arkin is fantastic as Martin's terrified shrink and Joan Cusack is marvellous as his very intense secretary. Dan Aykroyd excels as Martin's greatest professional rival and Minnie Driver is effective in showing the chemistry that still exists between her and Martin as well as the bitterness she continues to feel about the way he abandoned her a decade before.Grosse Pointe Blank is a real one-off with numerous laugh-out-loud moments and is also highly recommended. "},{"Title":"What was the intent?","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is a mediocre film. Few will be bothered by the gratuitous violence, and there is plenty, because the cast is excellent, charming and amusing. You want to like them. And there are plenty of well timed gags.To what end? Perhaps this is a parody of our desensitization - only one character in the film condemns Cusak for being a hit man. Sadly, for Cusak, she's the girl he loves. Still, why was this film made? Are we all killers as is our protagonist? Are we surrounded by lethal violence? The movie is not cruel enough to nail our real failings, a la American Beauty. And I suspect that's because the film didn't want to hurt anyone's feelings... and yet, it stars a hit man - a profession that cannot be forgiven.The professional execution is fine, especially the soundtrack with help by Joe Strummer of The Clash. The actors are all funny and the casting great (Hank Azaria, Alan Arkin, Joan Cusak, Dan Ackroyd...) Sadly, this is a film that could have had us laughing AND made us see how our society has sold too much of its soul, leaving us hollow. That they chose feelin' good instead is what keeps this a good time instead of art. "},{"Title":"I don't think what a person does for a living is a good reflection on who he is...","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After a gas station explodesAre you all right? No, I'm not all right! Take it easy. I'm hurt...I'm p*ssed...I've gotta find a new job.Grosse Point Blank is a movie for Generation X, a comedy-thriller that accurately depicts a certain mindset of modern-day America, filled to the brim with breezy dialogue, post-Pulp Fiction-esque characters, and a constantly-playing rock/pop soundtrack to fit the mood.Take the scene where a small-town convenience store blows up, a teenaged male barely escaping with his life. He's not scared, or thankful that his life has been saved, but rather angry at the fact that he's going to need to find a new job. Isn't it always like that?That is ultimately where Grosse Point Blank succeeds past other comedies. It is about a professional assassin, a pretty bad guy, but yet through contrast, the corrupt society surrounding him stands out far more than the main character's own flaws. I don't think a man's job is a good reflection on what kind of person he is, says Martin Q. Blank (John Cusack) to his nervous shrink (Alan Arkin). The shrink doesn't like the idea of having a hit man as a customer, but is forced into helping him, after Martin reveals that he knows where his doctor lives.Martin has some mixed feelings about attending a ten-year high school reunion. Other people have jobs. What can he tell them -- that he's an assassin? Quite coincidentally, he is employed to murder a man in Grosse Point, his old home town, during the time period of the reunion. Harassed by his secretary of sorts (played by Cusack's real-life sister, Joan Cusack, in an odd casting decision), Martin reluctantly decides to attend his high school reunion, if only to see how growing up has changed his old friends.After arriving in Grosse Point, Martin meets up with an old girlfriend, Debi (Minnie Driver). He stood Debi up at the prom ten years ago, never giving a reason for doing so, and makes amends for this action by pursuing her around town and eventually apologizing. Martin takes Debi to the ten-year reunion, deciding to put his profession behind him, ultimately causing a fellow hit man (Dan Aykroyd) to follow him and attempt to whack him for turning his back on the past. (It's a complicated issue, you see.)The movie sometimes mistakes violence for laugh, but the film is a very dark comedy, with characters who are not necessarily the usual sort of heroes we're used to seeing. Martin is an expert assassin. He has no problems pulling the trigger on a victim. But he has a tough time explaining why he stood up his prom date. This is a pretty unusual film, but it's also pretty honest.  "},{"Title":"Hitmen with humor.","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A unique script on peculiar situations as professional hitman Martin Blank has a crises attack. To help him out there is meetings with a therapist, (Alan Arkin), and to make matters worse he finds himself back in his home town to attend the 10 year school reunion. But that' s not all! There is the zany Grocer, (best performance from Aykroyd in a long time), the opposition hitman who is out to get Blank while Blank is out to get the heart of local DJ, Debi, an ex-high school sweetheart. Witty dialogue and spot on performances makes this an enjoyable feast of zaniness, thanks to director Armitage's sit-back and let the story tell itself approach! "},{"Title":"Please love me","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A lot of recent hype is supposed to convince us that Cusack is a 'player' and has a career of note or some piffle. He obviously believes it himself and sees himself as a writer. We can't hear much of it as the actors gabble as quickly as possible in a nauseating display of 'post-modern' arrogance. The scene at the radio station was particularly muddled and indulgent. But Americans just want to be loved. They want to be cuddly and want us to cheer as they disappear over the horizon to pursue personal growth. All attempts at satire dissipate as the film jumps through hoops in increasingly desperate and irritating attempts to please it's audience with contrived happenings which it thinks will 'play' well. Cusack's character mercilessly shoots a man in the head who begs for his life and incredibly we are meant to forgive and forget as he goes goo-goo over a baby. His girlfriend has the briefest of moral qualms before dismissing them because Cusack is so cute and endearing. You get my vote says her dad about the hitman after he has triumphed after a bloodbath. Ha, ha. Flinstones, meet the Flinstones. Supposedly cutting edge, it is as much a reactionary picture as any big studio release. Marketing is all. The film makers don't know what they're doing but who cares? It's an exploitation picture. Greenlight it and it will probably appeal to the Tarantinis. Maybe. Yawn. In this cartoon world the police do not figure. Supermarkets are blown up by a bomb without curiosity from FBI and others.Film is too pitiful to get worked up about, though. "},{"Title":"John Cusack shines","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is absolutely brilliant in this comedy. The film itself is also very good. The story is totally outrageous but very, very funny. I especially liked the scenes with Martin Blank (Cusack) and his therapist. A very funny, entertaining, and -- believe it or not -- rather romantic film. And it doesn't hurt to repeat this John Cusack is great! "},{"Title":"Not Exactly En-Grosse-ing!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It seems at least vaguely possible that this movie provided a bit of inspiration for The Sopranos, as its main character, Martin Blank (John Cusack) is a hit man who has so many issues from his past and his profession that he's in therapy trying to deal with it all. Everything finally comes to a head at his 10-year high school reunion. The problem was that by the time Blank got to the reunion I had stopped caring. Frankly, I found this movie a drag from start to finish.It had potential. There was a reasonably good cast, headed by Cusack and Dan Aykroyd, playing Grocer, his arch-rival in the hit-man business, along with Minnie Driver as Debi, Blank's high school sweetheart who he stood up on prom night, and a limited role for Alan Arkin as Dr. Oatman, Blank's psychologist. That fairly talented cast never really seemed to come together, though. The drama lacked intensity and the comedy lacked real humour. What I thought had the most potential to be a comedic storyline was Grocer's proposal for a hit man's union, but aside from becoming a bit of a running joke, the idea never really got developed. As for the romance, one wondered why Debi would even think of letting this guy back into her life.There were a handful of chuckles, but nothing really caught me and held me and I spent most of the movie wondering whether this thing was ever going to start to click. It never did - not for me, at least. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Sharp and Pointy Forks","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen, and I've watched it a couple thousand times.I really love John Cusacks acting, and having his sister in it was nice.On the bad side most of the music was awful and some of the swearing was out of character. But the expression on John Cusack's face when he said it made up for it.The funniest bit had to be near the end where he was shooting and talking at the same time, and the 'fork' line. But there was so many good little touches- This is going to be the first movie I'm going to buy on DVD when I get a player.I think it deserves 10/10 "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A professional hit-man named Martin Blank (John Cusack) returns home on a mission to take out a human target, but because of a snafu involving the accidental death of a dog he has a hit on him! So Martin returns to the home town, finding himself falling back in love with the girl he didn't take to the prom, Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver). Debi has obviously held a grudge for ten years considering she waited for him and he didn't show. But they make an immediate spark even if she gives him a hard time during her radio show, located in the heart of Grosse Pointe, Michigan's little town. Meanwhile, Martin attempts to avoid a fellow hit-man who wants him to join a type of assassin's union (Dan Ackroyd), two government CIA agents (Hank Azaria and K Todd Freeman) waiting for him to commit a crime so they can officially shoot him, and an determined ghost assassin who will stop at nothing to put bullet in him (Benny Urquidez). Oh, and being that it has been ten years, there's a class reunion coming up that Martin would like to take Debi to. You have Alan Arkin as Martin's therapist (more than a little ill-at-ease that his client is a paid murderer), Jeremy Piven as a real estate agent pal of Martin's from high school who just wants Jenny to recognize he's right in front of her, Joan Cusack as Martin's secretary/information gatherer, and Mitchell Ryan as Debi's father who seems to have rubbed a few folks the wrong way (the hit Martin is hired for is on him!) within an impressive ensemble.Those who come away from this movie comment on its screenplay and the absurd nature of how the violence of hit-man employment finds its way into the everyday life in Smalltown USA. I think the chemistry between Cusack and Driver is another major factor in its cult status. They together are like an operatic rhythmic section with the hip dialogue substituting an orchestral choir&#x85;they almost finish each other's sentences and share exchanges that communicate an affection and attraction certainly unavoidable. Not that Martin wants to avoid how he feels about Debi&#x85;it is the whole problem with Martin being a hit-man. Yeah, that could serve as a major bone of contention for any relationship going forward. There's the scene where Debi finds Martin right after he defends himself successfully against the ghost assassin, having just stabbed the guy in the neck with an ink pen! Yeah, not exactly how Martin wanted to progress their romance! Oh and the whole ordeal at the end where Martin must defend her father against hit men led by Ackroyd is one for the books! Much like he does with Driver, Cusack seems to really gel well with Piven who has some good scenes as the awestruck pal who has been curious about where his friend has been for ten years. The reunion is a hoot, with the 80s songs and returning class of adults, reintroduced to each other (opening old wounds, learning that not much has changed, or realizing that even after ten years some are better off than others), many the same as always and just picking up where they left off, having not changed all that much. Cusack trying to find a way to earn Debi's good graces while explaining his profession to her (this after killing the assassin, with Piven helping him burn the body in the high school oven in the basement, returning to his hotel room!) while she responds in horror is easily my favorite scene. His wide eyes, hair standing high off his head, and dazed and confused expression as Driver dismisses him with, You can't have me captures that insane moment of openness that leaves him seemingly confronting the worst kind of loss&#x85;so close to love yet his past and present could derail such potential for true happiness. The bedroom scene where Driver allows Cusack to come in, asking to be lifted in the air by his legs, is an example of the film's spirited spontaneity. Cusack trying to avoid talking about what he did to Driver during her radio broadcast is another example of that in-the-moment confrontation of unresolved issues he was responsible for&#x85;his reactions when she insists on making him uncomfortable is priceless. The guns going off adds a rather jarring edge to comedy. Another Cusack gem. Jenna Elfman in a neck brace is such a hilarious nod to Joan in Sixteen Candles&#x85;us 80s kids totally cherish such nods. "},{"Title":"Shoots Blanks.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank (1997) Dir George Armitage / Cast John Cusack, Minnie Driver, Alan Arkin, Dan Aykroyd, Joan Cusack Empty headed comic thriller starring John Cusack as Blank who is headed to Grosse Pointe to attend his high school reunion. He is also targeted by the F.B.I. and several hit men because he wishes to leave his old lifestyle behind. He aims to reunite with Minnie Driver whom he stood up at the prom. Director George Armitage is inventive despite the disaster it all becomes. For all of its production and ideas the cast linger as if being bounced back and forth within a pinball machine. Cusack is involved in a lame sequence with Dan Aykroyd where they draw guns on each other in a restaurant. Then there is the convenient store shootout with an employee on the arcade game. It makes little sense and Cusack can only hint the potential the role had before its sentimental conclusion. Driver starts out well as the disc jockey until becoming reduced to romantic clichés. Alan Arkin has his moments as Cusack's therapist but it is a one note role that hardly elevates. Aykroyd is a complete miscast as a hit-man out to bring down Cusack in a very violent conclusion. And of course, Joan Cusack in support of her brother and makes an appearance. Theme regards empty lives due to bad choices. The film had good ideas that were hindered by its level of violence. Score 5 / 10 "}{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Professional assassin Cusack acts upon an invitation to attend his 10-year high school reunion in his home town of Grosse Pointe, Michigan where he reconnects with lost love Driver and other old friends, while also being tailed by both an assassin (Urquidez) and two National Security Agency agents (Azaria and Freeman). May have worked in 1997, but (thankfully) cinema has since found ways of creating more likable and plausible anti-heroes than what has been given here. The soundtrack is one of the film's few pluses. One of the few terrible movies that doesn't make you feel outraged by wasting two hours of your life, but it is still a heavily flawed and far-fetched outing nonetheless, despite its appealing but sadly failed concept. This probably looked excellent in script-form, but in life-action, everything seems so paper-thin. The happy ending is just insultingly cheap.*½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Perfect balance between light and dark comedy","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I'd love to know if John Cusack actually had to audition for the role of Martin Blank or if it was tailor-made for him. Because it certainly seems to have been. GROSSE POINTE BLANK fits his comically dark persona so perfectly and he's incredible in the movie, as a result. It's got a great hook a hit-man going back to high school for the ten-year reunion. And I love the movie's sense of humor; a professional killer who's in therapy; that no one takes him seriously when he tells them his trade. And the comedy lends an acuteness to the violent scenes, and things can get kinda nasty. The locker fight, especially, is a terrific scene. It's set to the best song on the soundtrack, it's in your face, and comes out of nowhere. I can't think of another actor who could've pulled it off quite like Cusack.And he fronts a great cast Minnie Driver, Alan Arkin, Jeremy Piven, Joan Cusack and especially Dan Aykroyd, who chews the scenery with manic glee. GROSSE POINT BLANK is one of those great '90s movies that you just don't hear enough about; it's got a rock-solid soundtrack, great dialogue and it's one of the best comedies of the decade. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I refuse to totally dismiss this, because I find it quite engaging, in a guilty pleasure sense. It's meant to be goofy. Martin Blank is a professional assassin. He is sent on a mission to a small Detroit suburb, Grosse Pointe, and, by coincidence, his ten-year high school reunion party is taking place there at the same time. This film is worthy of all the hopes you have. All of the fancy characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. The plot is not as well thought out as the original, but it still does the cast well. It's fun watching it. My final rating for it comes in at a decent 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Perfect Movie","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I think that Grosse Point Blank is a perfect movie. I have to admit I didn't get the title until after I watched the movie and somebody had to remind me that the name of the city in Michigan where he went back to was Grosse Point, then I got the word play of the title, I guess I just wasn't paying attention enough during the movie. But I've seen it several times since and it's always great! John Cusack is amazing in this as a hit man who has professional troubles and goes home for his high school reunion, where things are obviously awkward with Minnie Driver, the high school sweetheart he left behind. The soundtrack of this movie is really amazing with some fantastic songs from the 1980s. Dan Aykroyd is great as a chubby rival hit-man who wants to start a hit-man union and Alan Arkin as the therapist who doesn't really want to be the therapist and Joan Cusack as John's capable assistant/secretary are both also perfect in their supporting roles. Great, great movie! "},{"Title":"Hit me with your best shot!","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" 'Grosse Pointe Blank' is personally one of my favorite movies of all time. Minnie Driver is beautiful and quirky, as she is even to this day in everything that she does. John Cusack is who he is the uber-cool, under-rated, King of the everyday Schmo. 'Say Anything', 'Better off Dead', 'One Crazy Summer' 'High Fidelity' 'Serendipity' and so on and so forth. Dan Akroyd has one of his funniest roles as a rival hit-man. But, this is just my opinion. You may feel different. But I am dumbfounded by reviews that are full of vile animosity and hate for this movie, or any movie, posted on IMDb or any other website. Most of the bad reviews are unoriginal or not directed to the movie itself but are just personal attacks to the individuals that are associated to the movie. Does that really make the reviewer feel better about themselves? If you feel that I am mistaken then try something. Look at all the reviews that have bad scores and count how many times the reviewers use the term crap in their reviews at least somewhere. If a person really thinks the movie is bad, then just don't watch it or write something constructive. Save the terms like crap and hurl-inducing for the 'Twilight' and 'Harry Potter' movies. "},{"Title":"Funny, cool '90s movie with a fantastic fight scene","Date":"23 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A sharp and witty romantic comedy with some really excellent dialogue. I'm not normally a big fan of Cusack but he is perfect in the role of Martin Blank. Minnie Driver looks beautiful and does a great job. Some uneven parts, the ending isn't amazing. My favourite part was the fight at the reunion dance, it's just brilliantly executed, one of the most exciting fights I've seen committed to film. Maybe it's because you actually see John Cusack throwing high kicks and not some stuntman filmed from behind, there is a very authentic feel to it. Martin Blank is wandering through the corridors of his high school, he's just shared a kiss with Driver, he comes across his old locker, jimmies it open and finds a ten year old spliff he stashed there. He smiles and crumbles the flaky joint, dreamy with nostalgia and the possibilities of life, happier than he's been in years. A hit-man steps around the corner, Blank's reaction is instantaneous, instinctive, he gets in the first blow before the enemy has even raised his gun and in the blink of an eye the two killers are fighting to the death. It's just an outstanding scene. "},{"Title":"Relaxing fun","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Rarely does a movie entertain, make you laugh, keep you hooked with lovable characters and on top if it all, it relaxes. I've watched it a long time ago and it stuck with me, somewhere in the back of my head and i decided to give it another view just now. This movie is simple so you're gonna love it after a hard day just to ease your mind and relax. The characters are simple people who have their past and present explored and who find themselves in the process. Its not about issues and unresolved problems, drama and pain. There is no place for that in this kind of filming. Its up there with Mumford, another movie i liked which shares the traits- a movie made to ease your mind and feel good after watching it. "},{"Title":"Good Movie With A Different Storyline,","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is a good movie with a good,albeit different,storyline,a good cast and some good twists to it too.I've never been a huge fan of John Cusack,but I did appreciate his role as Martin Q. Blank in this.I really enjoyed Dan Aykroyds role as Grocer and Hank Azaria as Steven Lardner,because I've always been a big fan of the two of them,Dan Aykroyd for great comedy films he wrote and starred in such as Ghostbusters and The Blues Brothers,and Hank Azaria because of his many voice roles on The Simpsons.They could have gotten a much more attractive female lead for this movie,no offense on her,but Minnie Driver is not good looking,someone like Cameron Diaz would have been much better for the role of Debi Newberry.An assassin is sent on a mission to a place called Grosse Pointe,and by an amazing coincidence,it is where his ten year high school reunion is taking place at the same time. "},{"Title":"Class of fun (dvd)","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" After POTUS and military forces, another movie that's terra incognita for French people because here, we don't have prom night. France breeds individuality and only high-rated schools seems worthy of that. Thus, i am always fascinated by those movies and i share the nostalgia that American people feel for this event.But this movie has more good things in the locker First, Cusack plays a killer that is totally lost in his life and i like those characters. As I happen to make a roots travel too (but more often than his decade comeback), i understand how he feels there. In addition, his hometown is a beautiful little town where i would be happy to live. Around this, the movie offers original characters (his psy, his rival, his old friends) who are all very chiseled making the movie very funny. There are a lot of good lines! Also, the movie successfully blends a very dangerous theme (a killer) with compassion and humanity.And last but not least, his girlfriend is Minnie, one of my favorite actresses, who plays a heart of patience in her golden era.Without a great publicity behind to break the box-office, this movie is touched by the grace and you should take a look at it if you look for a good time. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Violent","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A good rule of thumb is to give a wide berth to movies whose titles are based on feeble puns, especially when the lead character's name has been specifically designed to form the pun.Forget that rule with Grosse Pointe Blank with John Cusack playing the eponymous Martin Blank.As the film develops, we learn that Blank is also an allegorical name. He has no foundational ethics. He really is an inner blank.Blank owns and operates a mom-and-pop contract-killing concern, with the help of his ever-loyal secretary Marcella (John Cusack's real-life sister, Joan). Blank likes his loan-wolf lifestyle. It allows him to give his clients personal service at reasonable prices.But he's not perfect. He botched a recent job and accidentally took out a dog. This has severe ramifications for his near future. To repay for his blunder, he must take a make-up job in Detroit near his original home of Grosse Pointe Michigan, an upscale Detroit suburb.Coincidentally, his ten-year high school reunion is also coming up that weekend. On the advice of his secretary and his shrink, Blank decides to make the weekend a double-header, fulfilling his contract and attending his reunion -- hoping to meet his old flame, Debi, now a local disk jockey.Blank faces professional as well as personal problems. A rival contract killer named Grocer (since we know GPB is not above cheap puns, is this a Marxist pun at the bourgeois?) is trying to form a union of hit-men. By Grocer's description, it sounds more like a power-grab. Blank, who cherishes his independence, declines to sign on.Grocer was the original vendor of the Detroit job. When the job is given to Blank, Grocer thinks Blank stole his gig. Grocer betrays Blank to the National Security Agency as an international assassin, which puts a couple of government spooks on his tail. They intend to wax Blank, but first they must catch him in the commission of his crime. Blank, Grocer, and the G-men converge on Grosse Pointe, along with a joker in the deck, another international assassin sent to find Blank and kill him as payback for the dog.The cast is awash with Cusacks (John is the star, Joan is the secretary, Ann pops up for a cameo, and a Bill Cusack is floating around somewhere). The rest of the cast is uniformly excellent. Dan Ackroyd plays at full throttle as Grocer. Minnie Driver is the old flame burned out on Blank. Alan Arkin is typically brilliant in his cameo as the shrink who only treats Blank because Blank says I know where you live. While some lament the level of sex and violence in the movies, they often fall in two camps. They are troubled more by the sex, or they are troubled more by the violence.Sex is not an issue in Grosse Pointe Blank. I noticed no nudity. While hanky-panky is suggested, intimate moments are not flung in our faces.The violence is high-octane. While some bemoan that movie violence may be imitated, they don't seem to worry about sex. From a personal standpoint, I am DRASTICALLY more likely to be enticed into imitating sexy than violent scenes. I have tried to kiss like they do in the movies (amongst other things -- I once tried to duplicate the strawberry moment in Tess with disastrous results). But I have never shot anyone.Violence is a serious issue for me as I grew up on butchered Warner Brothers cartoons. Back in that day, shootin' irons were severely edited. Yosemite Sam only had to step on screen and there was an irritating jump-cut to the next scene.Of course, the major difference is that when violence is depicted on screen, one knows it's fake. This applies most obviously when Clint Eastwood mows down an entire German army in Where Eagles Dare. Few people will saunter out of a theater thinking it's real. The same with Luke Skywalker blowing up an entire Death Star full of storm troopers. But when a guy comes on screen to fondle a real woman's really bare breasts and they loll around naked in bed, it's far more likely to inspire imitation.The violence in Grosse Pointe Blank leans toward the cartoonish, and it is quite excessive. These hit-men are not Oswalds who take out their targets with three shots. They empty their automatic weapons into 'em. Ammunition must be quite an overhead expense in this business. One would think advertising more accuracy with fewer shots would give a contractor a competitive edge.And it's not just gun-violence. Blank and his peers learn to take out their quarries with whatever comes to hand. Blank tells his shrink, I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork. This adroit use of atypical tools of the trade is demonstrated on screen, once with very funny results. And I've never read where anyone was killed with a . . . but that's too much of a spoiler. When the gun violence starts, it is wonderfully noisy and unremitting. This may be satirical, but the best humor comes from truth.Grosse Pointe Blank builds to an exciting, noisy climax as all the ragged ends of Blank's life finally come together.If you're not too stodgy and puritanical to find humor in excessive violence, this is the flick for you. It is cleverly written material well performed and directed.Gross Pointe Blank also perfectly captures the high school reunion zeitgeist. The excitement of seeing familiar faces one suffered through years of school with, but who dropped out of sight immediately after graduation. The bafflement at the way some classmates turned out (for better or worse). And the tie-loosening grinding down of the party, where you've had a good time and one too many, and you'll be just as happy not to see any of these people again for another decade. "}{"Title":"Popcorn!","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Perfect comedy for and about my generation. Not to say I know any professional killers, but it's about the many exaggerated hints here. The pacing and storyline of this movie are stunningly exceptional, and the acting is top notch. The story is full of great metaphors relating to real life's issues, and they seem so carefully thought out, it's almost as if each word has gotten an approval seal from all 4 writers.John Cusack plays a hit-man stalking his therapist with doubts about his profession and his love for a high school girlfriend. He happens to get hired to do a wax-job in his old hometown, where his high school's ten-year reunion is about to happen and 'hits' from his past come back to him. John Cusack, Jeremy Piven and Minnie Driver are about my age, so that added to making it one of the most likable films I've ever seen.Highly recommended if you're from the mid to late sixties. You just have to like the lines in this movie! Many parts will stick with you for life, and some scenes will make you laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly off beat comedy","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack does dead pan best- his good guy caught in a dead (haha- pun intended) beat job is very convincing.While it is a comedy and does not claim to address socially unacceptable behaviour it does however show the banality of existence of such people. John Cusack shines as the assassin who no longer enjoys job satisfaction. With some clever one liners and understated flair he manages to hold an otherwise mediocre film together and bring it to a gritty and near believable conclusion.Ably supported by Ms Driver as his love interest and the zany Mr Aykroyd who does what he does best this film is entirely watchable if you can suspend belief and don't mind some overkill (second pun!) John Cusack makes this girl's heart beat faster. *grin*And the music? It rocks! Especially the uniquely funny rendition of Live And Let Die! "},{"Title":"THE perfect hit-man film","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A professional assassin by choice and temperament, Martin Q. Blank has built up a respectable client base over the years. Ably assisted by his secretary Marcella, Martin is left free to worry about his next hit rather than the paperwork. However, when two jobs in succession go badly wrong, Martin has cause to consider his present situation. Marcella, much to Martin's displeasure, reckons that these are all signs that he should return home for his school's 10-year reunion. Martin is reluctant to take this path because that would mean confronting some painful memories, mainly related to his dumping of then girlfriend Debi Newberry on prom night. Besides, he hasn't been back to Grosse Pointe in the past decade and he doesn't feel the need to break the habit. Unfortunately, both Marcella and his therapist Dr. Oatman want Martin to reconnect with his roots via this golden opportunity. When his last, displeased clients force him to reluctantly take on a target in Detroit, near to Grosse Pointe, it seems that the fates are against Martin this time. Anyhow, the visit should allow him to avoid fellow hit man Grocer (Dan Aykroyd), who wants to form some sort of union, so this cloud has a silver lining. Arriving back in Grosse Pointe, very little appears to have changed in the intervening years. The first thing that Martin does is seek out Debi, now an anchor DJ for the local radio station.Crashing in on her live show, Martin cracks under the pressure of Debi's questioning and winds up making the situation even worse. The problem is that he doesn't know how to feel because he hasn't felt anything in a long time. What Martin doesn't yet know is that a couple of NSA agents, Lardner and McCullers, are tailing him following a tip-off. Even worse, Felix, a psychotic rival assassin, is out to get him and his family home has been converted into an Ultimart. Can it get any worse?Grosse Pointe Blank is without a doubt a movie that relates to me the most. If I were to make a movie, this is exactly what it would be like, more or less. I wanna be a hit man when I go up. Lol, I'm just joking. But this movie has it all, for me at least. For it is THE perfect movie. Hit-man's High school Reunion. That's more or less the jist of it. I could not ask for a movie that suits me more. I love the whole hit men, crime mafia type movies, TV series etc.John Cusack plays Blank, the hit man. He was borne to play this role. I can't see any body else playing Martin Blank. The same goes for Dan Aykroyd. He was perfect as Martin's arch rival, Mr. Grocer. Mini Driver is as hot as usual playing Blank's love interest, Debi. The whole movie is as fresh and original as a movie like this can get. Solid acting, excellent direction, top notch writing and most importantly, many laughs and a load of action makes Grosse Point Blank a must see.****/***** "},{"Title":"short and sweet","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER > > > > One of the most fun films you'll ever see. Nicely cast, but what is it with all the Cusacks?  Although he has a tendency to be something of a one trick pony, Cusack does the everyman thing so well that I'll forgive him most things.  Great performances, great premise, nice dialogue and John Cusack in a sharp suit - can a girl ask for more?  The only jarring note for me has to be the scene where Martin finds his mother living her own private lithium haze.  Maybe it was supposed to give us a bit of insight into why Martin took the path he did, but it made him seem a little cold to have never checked up on her in 10 years, especially given that it's made clear that his father was not a good person. The encounter with the ghoul at the reunion is probably the most realistic fight scene I've ever seen in a movie, proving once again that you don't need effects and gallons of blood when you've got actors who are good at what they do. "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank (1997)","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank -- John Cusack's now-cult classic 1997 comedy -- is a mixed bag while at times the script rings with humor and humanity, at others it just barely manages to trudge along from scene to scene. Although (for the most part) it was acclaimed by critics and audiences, it still seems to me as if there's something that just doesn't fit in the movie. The story is of a hitman named Martin Blank (Cusack) who's assigned a target in his hometown of Detroit, which happens to be having his 10-year high school reunion at the same time. So in between shoot-outs, Blank decides to catch up on the girl he stood up on prom night (played by Minnie Driver) in hopes of fixing past mistakes. The premise is trite indeed, but even worse is its execution, which lacks all of the surprise it tries to dish out. Example whenever Blank is asked what he does for a living, he replies -- honestly -- that he kills people. But each time he says this, the inquirer always takes it lightly -- supposedly creating irony of some sort. While perhaps clever the first time, it ceases to be funny when it reaches the third or fourth repetition; it got to the point where I simply wanted someone to react in shock upon hearing that he was a hitman. While this moment finally arrives in the end (I won't reveal the circumstances since you can probably work them out for yourself), the timing of the gag always appears to be off. In fact, the timing of most EVERY gag in Grosse Pointe Blank appears to be off. One of the biggest disappointments of the picture is Joan Cusack, who -- while a great actress and comedienne in her own right -- simply doesn't fit at all (although this is mainly due to her role, and not her performance). The supporting cast (which includes Hank Azaria and Dan Aykroyd) is promising, but their overall effect is one of mediocrity Aykroyd may indeed be gleefully deranged, but by doing so he appears to be in a completely different movie than the one he's in. And Driver just doesn't seem appropriate for her role, generating very little on-screen chemistry with Cusack. Jeremy Piven gives a worthy -- if unnecessary -- performance as Blank's old friend, and Alan Arkin has a nice turn as Blank's frustrated psychiatrist. The script is flawed, but decent overall -- although the three principal writers did a much finer job three years later on High Fidelity --, and Cusack is good at playing Cusack. But on the whole, the movie is very hit-and-miss; while I wouldn't doubt that -- after viewing it -- you'd walk away with a smile on your face, the film's quality isn't as impressive as the talents involved might lead you to expect. It's good fun for a Friday night, but check out High Fidelity instead if you want to see everything this movie does wrong done right.SIDE-NOTE Just a few points of interest Grosse Pointe Blank features cameo appearances by Mitch Ryan and Jenna Elfman, both of whom starred in that year's hit sitcom Dharma & Greg. Also, during the shoot-out scene in the convenience store, keep your eyes open for a cardboard cut-out of the main cast of Pulp Fiction.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Actually, this movie couldn't be funnier...","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  With all due respect to Jellyneckr, Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the funniest North American movies that has been made in a long time, although it should be classified as a 'dark comedy' for clarity. While it is true that Martin Q. Blank is a paid assassin and this pretty much mandates the inclusion of a very casual attitude towards killing in the movie, all the 'hits' are required to establish two important sub-plots;1) Martin's growing sense of unease with his chosen profession (this sub-plot is supported by his love/hate relationship with his analyst).2) The competitive pressures on a saturated job market for paid assassins. This sub-plot is highlighted by Mr. Grocer's (Dan Aykroyd's) plan to form a 'brotherhood' to protect worker's rights.John Cusack's highly-intelligent but emotionally distant portrayal of a hitman struggling to come to terms with himself in spite of a certain moral flexibility, I guess you'd call it (a great quote) is hilarious despite the fact that nobody on screen - himself included - laughs at his soliloquies. Minnie Driver delivers a charming portrayal of Debi Newberry,  a witty, intelligent, and totally frustrated ex-girlfriend, abandoned on prom night when Martin panicked at his pending adulthood and joined the army. Dan Aykroyd's interpretation of Mr. Grocer, an aging ex-spook looking to bolster his security by forming a union for Martin and his kind, also echoes the father-figure conflict that Martin struggles with and, the viewer infers, contributed to his commitment issues. There are so many other wonderful performances - Joan Cusak (John's real-life sister) as Martin's quirky but hyper-efficient secretary Marcella, Jeremy Piven as the classic Chevy Chase-esque best friend Paul, Hank Azaria as one-half of the government counter-intelligence operatives team sent to kill Martin, but only after he kills his mark - the list goes on and on! The characters are cleverly-written, the plots are subtle against a backdrop of intense music and overt violence, and the editing is well done in a rapid-fire manner, keeping the viewer engaged in the storyline.Grosse Pointe Blank is a poignant and hilarious encapsulation of the culture and experience of twenty-something Americans (and Canadians) who find they don't really fit into their adult world, and when they return to their high-school reunion, they find they no longer fit in their past lives, either. Cleverly written, intriguingly photographed (despite a relatively low budget of $15M), and set to a dizzyingly eclectic soundtrack of mid-80's punk, early post-punk, and electro-pop classics, this film will make you laugh again and again and again.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely great movie!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie has great character development, it's not easy to let the audience identify and sympathize with a professional killer-John Cusack was the perfect choice to play Martin Blank, he is a very believable character, and likable all at the same time.  You are there as Martin is forced to truly take stock of his life and asses what is important to him.One of my favorite darkish comedies, and a movie I hadn't even realized I quoted as often as I do until I re-watched it recently, I highly recommend it- and it's one of John Cusack's best works. "},{"Title":"Black comedy/cult satire, which misses out on laughs but entertains.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An earlier poster described this as a mixture between `Pulp Fiction' and a John Hughes movie. I couldn't put it better myself. But the problem is that it settles for neither and the overall tone is an uneasy one. There are some amusing moments but I don't think that this deserves a `classic' status. The idea is promising- a neurotic hit-man returns to a class reunion- but the mix of fluffy heart-warmth, 80's songs and violent overtones simply doesn't gel to make a satisfactory hole. That's not saying it isn't a moderately decent movie, but over-rated to say the least. The lead role goes to John Cusack as the neurotic misunderstood assassin. He's always very good in these types of roles, and uses the movie as a means of getting further in his career. Nothing remarkable about Minnie Driver's performance though. She is adequate support, but could have easily been replaced any other actress. The great Alan Arkin isn't used enough in his small part as the freaked-out psychiatrist to make much of an impact. Other roles to the likes of Hank Azaria, Jeremy Piven and Dan Akroyd aren't used enough to even deserve a mention. Big sister Joan is quite good as the secretary/ assistant though. The film never digs deep enough and just as charm settles in, it is undercut by violence. It hops along the surface for the most part and ends all to suddenly. Mind you there is a small amount of fluff that has a contributing effect. The sporadic use of violence is sometimes odd, but other times it's actually quite funny. Overall, `Grosse Point Blank' is an entertaining but over-rated satire that gets an un-remarkable, but decent score on most levels. The end result is a unique, if sometimes pretentious, black comedy.  My IMDb rating 5.8/10.  "},{"Title":"Very clever, very 80s, very cheesy","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Martin Blank is a hitman who attends his High School reunion, reluctantly. While trying to dodge the question So what do you do for a living? he also has to dodge the various heavies and gunmen who would like to put him out of a job.  All this while having to explain to an ex-girlfriend why he stood her up on the night of the Ball a decade earlier.It's a funny story well-acted by the underrated John Cusack and Minnie Driver, and it has a soundtrack of pure 80s camembert which is deeply uncool but (if we're honest) really good too.  Anyone who grew up in the 80s will find something to enjoy here.On another level, though, the film is a very impressive commentary on the career of its lead actor.  Cusack made his name playing romantic leads in some of the 80s' tackiest American high-school flicks, and at the time of Grosse Point Blank's release he was a faded star who didn't fit in with the harder-edged films of the Tarantino era.  In this film he reinvents himself while paying his respects to Cusack Mk I, launching the mature stage of a career which moved on to classics like Being John Malkovitch.  Not bad for a spotty nerd from the 1980s. "},{"Title":"John Cusack at his finest","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I'd forgotten how much I enjoyed this movie. Tonight, on a lark, I picked it up on DVD on my way home from work. Cusack's performance is so amazingly natural, and his interaction with Jeremy Piven is, as always, a thing of beauty. You can just see how close they are off-screen by the effortlessness of their interaction on-screen. The film itself is chock-full of little sly bits about the assassination trade, and very humorously and effectively skewers the conventions of the genre. Plus, Cusack gets to use his kickboxing skills against Benny The Jet, which is a treat. The supporting cast is top notch. All in all, a nearly perfect movie with very high re-watchability.  "}{"Title":"One of the most intelligent and twisted movies - have to love it...","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theatre when it was first released and loved it.  There are few special affects - though you have to love the burrito bomb taking out the quickie mart - and though it is a comedy it is not about the jokes - there are none per say.  The laughs are more about the absurdity of the situation and though the Martin is a hit-man, his troubles are so relevant and easy to relate to that you can't help but feel like this is someone you either know or would like to know - though as he puts it - he would blow your brains out if there was enough money in it.  John Cusack is the ultimate everyman - someone that we can relate to, while Dan Akroyd plays his self professed father-figure and mentor, and though they are both guns for hire - they are as different as night and day - or is that just what Martin wants to believe.  A guy who kills indescriminently but won't blow up a Green Peace boat because he has morals.  This is truly one of my all time favorite movies - from the scene where Martin cocks his gun before the reunion (this is me breathing) to the running through the school with a corpse to 99 Red Balloons to the most touching scene of Martin holding a baby to Under Pressure and realizing that he may be wrong with everything he ever held true - it is an amazing movie.  It helps that this movie came out the year of my own 10 year class reunion but I promise if you are a child of the '80's this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The timing between John Cusack and his assistant (played by his sister, Joan) is impeccable. Alan Arkin also scores as the freaked-out psychiatrist. The plot is all over the place, but it keeps moving and the zany atmosphere lasts for most of the movie. "},{"Title":"Entertainment","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I had a little trouble making up my mind about the genre. Was I watching a comedy, may be a romantic one? Or was it an action- or a crime-movie? It didn't really matter I realized later. It is all of them. The story is nice and in a way very clever. Sometimes it is a little cliche but the movie gets away with it. We have some action sequences, thrilling and almost stupid (in a good way) at the same time. John Cusack is great as the hitman in therapy going to look for his long lost love on a high school reunion. The romantic element are really likeable. Minnie Driver, the long lost love, is very charming.Other funny characters are Dan Aykroyd (another hitman who wants Cusack in his hitman-union), Alan Arkin (the therapist who is very afraid because he knows what Cusack does for a living), and Joan Cusack (the secretary of John Cusack.)Like I said I really enjoyed this film, but I think you must not take it to seriously. In my opinion most of all it is a comedy using some other genre-elements to create some other funny moments. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Mix guns, chases, humor stir & serve to the simple-minded.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  There is a formula that Hollywood has been using now since around the mid-1980's, where it has learned how to re-package empty scripts and turn them into films that people will pay money to see, despite the film being about absolutely nothing.Such as this film. Plot guy wanders around the story with no real motivation other than periodically shooting people, running away from big explosions, taking part in a few car-chases, and looking up an old girlfriend at a high school reunion. The main character basically just wanders around for around 90 minutes, until the obligatory Big ShootOut occurs at the end of the film.Naturally this won't sell, so simply add a bunch of witty dialog and well-placed one-liners to the script. Now, instead of watching people get violently murdered and perhaps getting disturbed by it, the audience can chuckle at the silly conversations going on while people are shooting and explosions are exploding and car chases are chasing.This plot-technique seems to have been born with Pulp Fiction. The content of a screenplay has become secondary you can film whatever you want, no matter how boring or violent or disturbing or inane. As long as the character are exchanging funny dialog then the film is described as great and hilarious and innovative and a must-see!.I actually felt cheated out of 2 hours of my life after having watched this film. I chose to ignore the ironic dialog between the hitmen, and between Cusack and the old girlfriend, and tried to get in to the story itself, only to gradually realize that there was no story. Just some otherwise good actors trying to lift up an empty script.If you actually enjoy this kind of cliched dialog then, by all means, rent this film. Otherwise look for something with some more meat to it, like one of the Muppet Movies.I give this film half-a-star out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank Definately Hit its Target!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is by far one of the best movies of the 90's and certainly in John Cusack's 'Top 5'. The movie is about 28 year old Martin Blank (John Cusack)a hitman, who goes back for his ten year high school reunion. Not only was John Cusack great but spectacular performances come from Minnie Driver, Dan Aykroyd, and Joan Cusack. The screenplay is amazingly funny with wonderful one liners, and the soundtrack consists of some of the best of the 80's including Live and Let Die by Guns n' Roses, Rudie Can't Fail by The Clash, and Blister in the Sun by the Violent Femmes. All in all this is an amazing black comedy, filled with laughs, and a great experience. Definately worth the rental cost.Final Score 10 out of 10 or **** "},{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the best, most underrated movies I've ever seen. Witty, zippy, action-packed, funny. At the same time, meaningful, but without being sappy. The dialogue is expertly written, intelligent and often hilarious. There is never a dull moment in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Great Action and brilliant comedy","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Wow, this movie is one of the best I've ever seen. The story is great, the action is fast and everything else is good to. Brilliant main-actor (John Cussack reminds me a little bit of Edward Norton in Fightclub) in a fast story of love and murder. Unfortunately I just watched the cut version. "},{"Title":"One of my Top 20 (Spoilers May Be Present)","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I like John Cusack. In fact, he's one of the few guys that I gave my wife permission to leave me and marry. (FYI My list includes Olivia Newton-John).The thing I like about John (besides his hair) is how cool he is. I mean, tell me that you didn't want to play Peter Gabriel songs in a boom box held above your head after you saw Lloyd Dobler do it in Say Anything. (FYI It doesn't win girls back the way it did with Lloyd.)In Better Off Dead, he skied the K-12, not to mention played with hamburger to Van Halen's Eveybody Wants Some.In Grosse Pointe Blank, Martin Blank does the ultimate. He goes to his 10 year High School reunion with a job that no one else has...a professional killer.The first thing you'll notice about Grosse Pointe is the music. From the beginning chords of I Can See Clearly Now to the now unforgettable 99 Red Balloons, Grosse Pointe is a musical gem. (***MINOR SPOILER*** If you like the song 99 Red Balloons, don't see this movie, otherwise your image of the song will forever be scared with a wonderful scene of Jeremy Piven & John Cusack carrying a body down the stairs. ***END OF SPOILER***)Anyway, Grosse Pointe is more than music. A whole lot more! The supporting cast was great, especially Alan Arkin and Jeremy Piven. The script was wonderful, including little inside jokes about John's other movies. (see trivia for explanations of those) And underneath the whole story, there's a love story that kind of sticks with you.See it! Buy it! Love it! "},{"Title":"reasons to see this movie!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Cusack and Driver's banter is witty and so enjoyable!  They are a great on-screen couple! I think that the soundtracks for this film are truly spectacular!  The 1st soundtrack is my favorite soundtrack of all time!  If you'd like a good laugh, you have to check this movie out.  Co-stars John Aykroyd, Joan Cusack, and Hank Azaria are great in this flick too! "},{"Title":"John Cusack's Best?!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Alright, I admit, I am a big John Cusack fan and the only thing the guy has ever made that I have found to be below sub-par was Pushing Tin, but I don't think he'll ever be able to top this film. Since I grew up with Cusack in the 80's (Say Anything, Better Off Dead), this movie seemed to be a normal progression in his life. The humor is more adult, the characters a little more flawed. Other than the fact that he's a hired gun, this guy could be just about any normal American male who grew up in Anytown, USA. We're not sure what we want or what we're doing with our lives. And what better way to enhance our neurosis than to go back to our 10th year high school reunion and see how our peers are suffering as well?This movie is, by far, my favorite film of the 90's. Dark humor, great writing, and characters that anyone who graduated in the late 80's can identify with. The soundtrack is awesome (I own them both) and actors are top notch (including Joan Cusack who almost steals the movie with her brief appearances). I can't recommend this movie enough! It's fantastic! "}{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusak makes this movie!  I haven't seen a movie he's done yet, that I don't like.  I didn't know anything about this movie other than what others have told me.  And because it came so highly recommended, I rented it.  Now I own it!  This is one to watch, and often.  A fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Terrific Black Comedy","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love this film.  Dark humor that you have to think about mixed in with some great physical action (Workers of the world Unite!).  Dan Ackroyd is fantastic in his role as an assassin trying to start a union, but John Cusak makes the film over the top with his straight potrail of a hired killer attending his 10 year reunion.  Minnie Driver is servicable as Cusak's love interest, but her performance does not dazzle me.  Fun to see Joan Cusak with John for the first time I can remember since 16 candles.  Don't miss this film, but if you are looking for a mindless background film look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  All of the actors/actresses in this movie were great, Cusack and Aykroyd have the best lines I have ever witnessed in a movie. Their humor is sarcastic and quick-witted. Every time you watch this movie you catch something you might have missed before.  "},{"Title":"A great film, very funny.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I looked forward to seeing Grosse Pointe Blank, and my high expectations were exceeded. The film uses black humor, and John Cusack plays his part very well. Even though Minnie Driver I find annoying, in this she is not that BAD. Dan Aykroyd is funny, as is Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman. Now, Joan Cusack has been in 9 movies with John, and their comedy seem to work well together. Watch it if you are looking for a laugh. It's very funny!  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is fantastic! John Cusack is one of the most versatile actors around, and this shows it perfectly. The soundtrack is great, and the shoot-out at the end is brilliant. A great film, well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Sharp and witty","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  IMO this is Cusack's best role to date.  He is right on target as the killer for hire having an identity crisis.  This movie is first and foremost a comedy.  It's funny, witty, sometimes even silly, but also has a few thoughtful insights into relationships, going home and first love.  Joan Cusack once again proves that she is one of the best character actors working today.  The movie is a true delight. "},{"Title":"Uneasy mix of satire and romance","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a rather uneasy blend of sharp satire and romantic comedy. Cool young Martin Blank (John Cusack), pressured by his office manager, attends his 10th year high school reunion in quintessentially suburban Grosse Pointe, Michigan, with ambitions of rekindling the old flame he deserted on Prom Night. However, while the rest of Martin's class have become sale persons, security guards and the like, Matin has become a professional free-lance hit-man, and he has a job on in town that weekend. He is facing pressure from  fellow assassin Grocer (Dan Acroyd in a very good performance) who wants him to join his union &#150; or else. What's more, there are a couple of Government spooks hovering around and someone else is out to get Martin as well.As Martin, John Cusack gives us a quite likeable character. Naturally as an assassin he has the obligatory dysfunctional family background.  He may be `morally ambiguous' as he puts it but he does have a sense of decency and of course a passion for the woman he left behind, Debi (Minnie Driver). He assumes most of his victims have done something to deserve getting killed but at the same time, possibly as a result of  a couple of recent foul-ups, is starting to have doubts about his job. He is not getting a lot of help from his analyst, Dr (Alan Arkin) who is profoundly uncomfortable about having a professional killer amongst his patients. Curiously Debi has stayed single and stayed behind as the Ms Havisham of Grosse Pointe and puts up surprisingly little resistance when Martin seeks to renew the relationship. Their scenes together seem very flat somehow &#150; Minnie Driver doesn't have much of a range and playing an up-front American radio presenter seems to be beyond her. By far the most interesting female character is Martin's office manager Marcella (Joan Cusack) who steals every scene she is in, helped very much by the fact that she appears with someone else only once.This movie for me anyway worked much better as a satire than as a romantic comedy. Grosse Pointe happens to be the affluent suburb of  Detroit much favoured by car industry executives and very much represents the American Dream, as long as you are conservative, white, middle class, vote Republican and are very materialistic. The most exciting thing that's happened in 10 years, as Debi tells Martin, is that the town has been twinned with Lower Hutt, New Zealand (the centre of that country's tiny car industry, when it had one, that is.)A high school reunion can be be a pretty dire experience, especially for those who have moved away and moved along. The classmates of  '86 are a singularly uninspiring lot; the class bully has become a BMW salesman (in fact everyone except Martin and Grocer seems to be driving foreign cars &#150; funny that). Martin's old mate Paul sells real estate to mindless yuppies and most of the women seemed to have stepped out of  `Stepford Wives,' although one was inspired enough to put the old yearbook photos on the lapel badges so `everybody can see who everybody was'. Martin tells them all he is a professional killer; naturally no-one believes him.Martin's doubts about his job multiply when he learns the identity of his next victim, an otherwise blameless motor company executive who is about to reveal a defect (leaky sunroofs) in one of his cars. Others in the corporation have decided to kill him and suppress the defect just to save a few million in recall costs. There is a pretty bloody but strangely humorous shootout at the end.Anyway, entertaining, if a bit slow at times, a good collection of &#145;80s hits on the soundtrack (though very few linger in the mind afterwards), and a great scene for all those who have ever wanted to blow up one of those (in)convenience stores staffed by 16 year old morons. "},{"Title":"Superb black comedy about a hitman","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the finest black comedies of the nineties. The film features John Cusack as a hitman suffering from doubts about his chosen profession and Minnie Driver as the girlfriend he abandoned ten years ago on prom night.Cusack plays the stressed hitman excellently and his casual outlook on killing people for a living makes him utterly likeable. He finds that no-one in his home town will believe that he is a killer, not even his erstwhile girlfriend.The film is darkly comic throughout and Dan Akroyd has a superb turn as Cusack's nemesis - a rival hitman out to form a union.Bits to watch out for - the frying pan, the pen, the girlfriend's father's reaction to his job, Wallmart.Continuity errors - he visits his girlfriend and puts his hat on her bedpost, later it's back on his head apparently without him picking it up. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is sheer class, a sublime blend of witty dialogue, great characters and relationships, action, physical comedy, fabulous music, brilliant acting and just general goodness. Cusack and co have created a wonderful, memorable movie that stands alongside the best movies of all time. Cusack himself is perfect in the lead, trading on his experience with the John Hughes teen crowd of the eighties to create a blend of grown-up teen movie (the relationships and interactions at the reunion) and sharp-talking crime flick (the action, his dealings with Dan Ayckroyd and the various other shady characters involved). Minnie Driver is equally good as his former sweetheart and dream girl, creating a believable, interesting strong woman - a rare feat in Hollywood, and the support is top notch, particularly Joan Cusack and Alan Arkin in minor roles, and of course Ayckroyd as Cusack's business rival. The eighties soundtrack, with help from Clash frontman Joe Strummer, works perfectly in every scene and adds the icing on a delightful movie cake that leaves you warm and satisfied. Should be in everyone's collection.  "},{"Title":"John Cusack At His Finest!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite contemporary comedy to date!!  There are several key factors that contribute to the comic success.First is the soul searching Cusack's character, Martin Blank, begins to wrestle with after ten years in his profession,  than having to vocalize  what he does for a living when he's forced to return to his home town to complete a mission.  There he inevitably runs into old acquaintances who, wondering why he'd dropped out of sight at graduation, want to know what he's been up to.  His casual reply, I'm a professional killer (his deadpan delivery is hilarious) receives no to low-key reactions from his questioners. Their assorted ha, ha's; oh,'s and a that's nice plus other I'm not taking you seriously reactions are a scream.    Juxtaposed throughout the the first half of the film, we are treated to several wonderful interplays between Cusack and his psychiatrist(well played by Alan Arkin) who, unlike the hometown folk, is scared to death of of bloodthirsty client.  Cusack just wants to get to the heart of the matter. Dr. Oatman just wants him out of his life.Of course, there has to be a villain and Dan Aykroyd who plays Mr. Grocer, a rival hit man with a grudge against Martin, does it to perfection.Kudo's must also go to Joan Cusack as Martin's assistant Marcella.  She's brassy, sassy and really cares about her boss's well being.I won't touch on the love interest, but that has it's tender and amusing points; the bathtub scene in the shootout is very funny.I gave this movie a 10, but I'm biased being a die-hard Cusack fan.  "}{"Title":"Will There Be Meetings?","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**	A one time Government agent turned independent contract killer, in need of some time off and a career change, goes home for his ten-year High School reunion in `Grosse Pointe Blank,' a black comedy from director George Armitage.  Martin Blank (John Cusack) is on edge; two dissatisfied customers and a competitor want him off the board, and his life is somehow unsatisfying.  He's become `dispassionate, bored and uneasy.'  When he receives an invitation to his reunion, he is encouraged to go, first by his secretary, Marcella (Joan Cusack), and then by his analyst, Dr. Oatman (Alan Arkin), who tells him to go and have a good time  `Don't kill anybody for awhile, see how it feels.'  When one of his unhappy customers demands that he take a contract to make amends for what they consider a botched job, and it coincidentally turns out to be in his home town, that cinches it; he's off to Grosse Pointe, Michigan, to take care of business and reevaluate his life.  When he hits town, he runs into an old flame, Debi (Minnie Driver), the girl he stood up on prom night, after which he subsequently vanished into thin air for the next ten years.  It was the very night he ran off to join the army, which lead him to his current `vocation' when his psych profile indicated that he had a certain `moral flexibility.'  Quickly, the old flame reignites between Martin and Debi, but there's a complication; Debi's father, Bert (Mitchell Ryan) is Martin's intended victim, the fact of which Martin is thus far ignorant, because he hasn't yet opened the dossier he's been given, which contains the details of the job. 	John Cusack gives a magnetic performance as the somewhat apprehensive Martin, whose cool stoicism is beginning to erode in the face of some personal misgivings concerning his chosen occupation.  He plays him for what he is, just a working guy, no different than the postman or a grocery clerk; and it's that realistic approach that makes this character believable.  Minnie Driver is delightful here, thoroughly engaging as Debi, giving her just the spark that's needed to make the connection between her and Martin real.  Alan Arkin, too, brings his own style of dry humor to the part of the anxious Dr. Oatman, who refuses to treat Martin (he's admittedly afraid of him, as well as intimidated), but who has to, because Martin keeps showing up at his office at the same time every week.  And Joan Cusack adds that something extra with an energetic, funny performance that raises the level of the movie just that much more.  Rounding out the supporting cast are Dan Aykroyd, who does a good turn as Grocer, the rival killer whose efforts at forming a `union' for the independents of their profession are all for naught; Hank Azaria (Steven), K. Todd Freeman (McCullers), Jeremy Piven (Paul), Ann Cusack (Amy) and Jenna Elfman (Tanya).  With a driving soundtrack integrated into the action, clever dialogue, some good action sequences, and especially the performances of Cusack and Driver, `Grosse Pointe Blank' is a funny, entertaining film; and with some imaginative touches by Armitage, who does a great job of keeping the story on track and moving along, this is one you're going to be glad you didn't let pass you by.  I rate this one 9/10.           "},{"Title":"Right on target","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The summer of 1997 was a poor time for good movies.              Big budget offerings such as The Lost World and Batman and Robin underlined the fact that very few              sequels can make the grade. Hollywood was beginning to realise that the public were tiring of formulaic              pictures. We wanted a fresh spin on things or would vote with our feet and stay at home.             Thankfully, there was a little film that came from nowhere and not only became one of the best movies of              the year but also the decade.             Grosse Pointe Blank is a jet black comedy co-written by and starring arguably the coollest actor/director              and producer in Hollywood right now - John Cusack.             He plays assassin Martin Q Blank, a successful yuppie killer who seems to have it all - except security, a              wife and kids and the trust of the girl he left behind.             However, when his secretary (Joan Cusack, sister of John) persuades him to go to his high school reunion,              things get complicated. Especially as he has a fellow assassin on his tail and the girlfriend who he dumped              a decade earlier.              It cost a mere $15million to make and grossed over $28million in the States alone making star and              director, George Armitage, rather popular with the studios. But financial success aside, it's also one of the              most intelligent and witty comedy thrillers to come out of Hollywood in some time.              While recent hit High Fidelity was an engaging comic drama and the sublime Being John Malkovich              shone as one of the best of this year, this is still the best film of Cusack's Nineties offerings, boasting a              natural performance from Minnie Driver (complete with word-perfect American accent) and an hilarious              turn from Alan Arkin as Blank's shrink. If you had to break it down to basics, imagine a grown-up Ferris              Bueller's Day Off directed by John Woo of Mission Impossible 2 fame. Thrown into the mix is a great              Eighties soundtrack and a fine score by The Clash's Joe Strummer.             I know what you're thinking What's bad about it?             Well, very little. Even the often tiresome Dan Aykroyd is on top form, giving one of his best turns since              Sneakers in 1992. The second act is a little too talky and Blank's estate agent friend, Jeremy Piven, is a bit              of a pain as he renews his friendship with Martin, but why carp?             Personally, this is one of those movies I can watch every six months without getting bored. The dialogue is              quick-fire and there's enough action to keep the Die Hard crowd happy, with several scenes you can't              afford to miss              Blank's shootout in a convenience store, set to The Ace of Spades; a stunning kickboxing scene with              Mirror in the Bathroom punctuating the drama, while the finale ties things up without resorting to the usual              Hollywood formula of a finale with three endings.             The best lines? So many it's hard to choose, but among the finest are from Cusack Thousands of              innocent people die every day. Detonate one rich guy's dog, and you're a marked man for life.             Another great piece of small talk comes as our protagonist is preparing for the high school reunion.             I killed the President of Paraguay with a fork. How have you been? "},{"Title":"Why this film rocks!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is my favourite film of all time, not only does it include the most underated actress in the world, Minnie Driver (who happens to have come from not too far away from me), it is unbelieveably funny in a very dark way. John Cusack is fantastic in the lead and everyone who hasn't seen this film should. "},{"Title":"Great fun, Go see it, it's a killer!!!!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Not one of the best films ever made, but I loved every minute. John, and Joan, Cusack were brilliant as an assassin and his 'secretary' who tries to get him to go to his 10 year High School re-union. Alan Arkin is outstanding as a weary shrink who is trying not to get involved with a guy who he knows kills people for a living. One exchange between the two has Cusack asking if he should go to the re-union, to which Arkin replies, 'Yes Go, and try not to kill any one' to which Cusack comes back with, 'sure I'll give it a shot', which has Arkin desperately saying, 'No, don't shoot anything'. It's also got Dan Ackroyd in a fairly straight role for him, which he still manages to make very humorous as a rival assassin trying to unionise the profession. Lots of black humour, everytime someone asks him what he does for a living, Cusack usually replies with 'a professional killer', which of course no-one take seriously. The cast is great, the story good, it's full of action, a little romance, some brilliant fight scenes and a sound track, that Quentin Tarantino would be proud of.  "},{"Title":"The best black comedy ever seen...","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen such a perfect blend of violence, comedy, action,romance in a film before. But when I had the pleasure of seeing this I was amazed. The best thing about the movie was the brilliant exchanges between Grocer (Akroyd) and Blank (Cusack) they were so intelligent and paced perfectly. Minnie Driver is perfect as Blanks obsessive love interest. Overall if you want a film that is worth an hour and a half of your time this is the one. "},{"Title":"Great black comedy","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I give this film top marks for tight plot construction, excellent acting, and most of all, a brilliantly clever script chock-full of memorable dialogue.  If you enjoyed the older adventures that placed as much weight on wit and humor as on furious action--films like Charade--you will like this one. "},{"Title":"You can't go home again... But... you can shop there.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie for many reasons, most of which other users have discussed. However, Grosse Point Blank isn't just a great black comedy it's also a very interesting statement about American romance and culture. Watch this movie for the details, and you'll see what I mean How about Martin Blank wiping up the blood of his victim with the Believe and Achieve banners hanging in the halls of his high school? Or Debbie Newberry's great maxims? Some people say forgive and forget. I say forget about forgiving, and just get outta town. Leave your life stock alone. "},{"Title":"The 80s never seemed so good at the time","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must confess my review will be a little biased. I have long been a huge John Cusack fan, since around 1985 which was the first time I saw the marvellously under-rated high school black comedy Better Off Dead. CUsack has had the knack over the years of choosing good scripts usually (but not always) in smaller budget films. He is a fine fine actor in an understated sort of way and his gravity and comic timing lend him well to this role. Cusack plays the world weary hitman who gets a second chance at life courtesy of his High School Reunion and his childhood sweetheart (whom he jilted at the prom). While this is predominantly a comedy, it's not a laugh a minute it is also hardly a typical movie. How many hitmen are the good guys? More to the point how many hitmen are the good guys, get the girl and ride off happily into the sunset? There's a very welcome indie feel about the whole production but it still manages to look slick. The cast is of the highest order. Just about the entire CUsack family makes an appearance somewhere, Minnie Driver is well quite frankly gorgeous in a way I can't quite put my finger on. She's also a damn fine actress and the American accent is not a problem for her. This also probably represents Dan Aykroyd's finest performance since Ghostbusters. He's well cast as the overly fussy rival hitman. The real star of the show is a cameo by Alan Arkin as Martin Blank's long suffering psychiatrist. Much humour is made of the fact that no-one seems to believe Martin is a hitman although he is very liberal with this information. The attention to detail as mentioned in a previous review is what sets this movie apart and provides it with some of the best laughs. The way the hitmen stand and talk to each other, Martin not being able to sit with his back to a door, the authentically believable high school reunion. All of these things combine to make what is pretty unbelievable subject matter, well, believable! The dialogue comes over as natural, the action scenes while not quite in Jackie Chan territory are extremely well choreographed.I can watch this movie time and again and still enjoy it. This still begs the question, why is a man as obviously talented as John Cusack, a huge star? As long as he keeps turning his hand to quality indie's like this one, I don't care! "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film with an outstanding Cusack performance","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious.  John puts on one of the greatest comedic performances I've ever seen and the rest of the cast only enhance it.  Driver, Joan C., Piven, Azaria, Arkin, and Akroyd totally make this movie for me.  John Cusack shows his quirky sense of humor in this entertaining and well thought-out script about a hitman returning to a dumped girlfriend and a ten-year class reunion.  Watch this for dark humor or if you like (either, any) Cusack.  A good show. P.S.  John and Jeremy Piven (plus the security guard guy whose name I can't think of) actually went to high school together in the real world. "},{"Title":"What black comedy should be.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  So much of what passes for black comedy these days is pure unadulterated sadism. Grosse Point Blank is a glittering exception. It takes the simple incongruous idea of a hit man attending his high school reunion, then gives the hit man an awakening conscience. Martin Blank's obvious disgust with himself as he confesses that he kept working as an assassin because after a while... you come to enjoy it is priceless. The language is nastier than it has to be, but other than that, nothing is wasted. ***** out of *****. "}{"Title":"Killer Comedy","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack has always been one of my favorite actors, and this film cements that idea in my mind.From start to finish, this film is superior in every way.  The scenes between Cusack and Jeremy Piven (his friend Paul) and those with Alan Arkin (his psychiatrist) are some of the funniest I've ever seen.And the story is truly inspired.  I mean we all know that such people (hitmen) exist, but we never really think about them coming from anywhere, let alone worrying about their 10-year high school reunion (What do I do? I sell couch insurance).All this, coupled with a great 80's soundtrack, make for a fantastic movie.When I rented this movie, I also got Romy & Michelle's High School Reunion.  Needless to say, it was a great double feature!  "},{"Title":"An Off-Center Gem","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Hilarious black comedy that's smart, fast and witty.  Well directed by George Armitage, who's Miami Blues is another offbeat dark comedy and would make a perfect double-bill with this movie.  John Cusack is perfect in this sort of effortlessly droll character.Killer '80s alternative music soundtrack, too! "},{"Title":"Well written film","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have seen in a long time.  The dialogue is superbly written and Cusack appears completly at ease with his character. The slick humour and the drama sequences are expertly handled.  All in all, a great film.  Hope they write a sequel! "},{"Title":"Darkly funny, if you're looking for something different","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was very cool. Cusack was perfect, just the right combination of smart-alec and stone killer. Minnie Driver was believable as the girl he couldn't stop thinking about 10 years later. I loved Dan Aykroyd as the man with a vision. "},{"Title":"It's not me...","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  That line pretty much sums up the sub-meaning of this film.  The movie represents John Cusak's graduation into the world of mature, adult filmmaking.  Cusak, of course, became famous for being the center of films such as Say Anything, Better Off Dead, and The Sure Thing.  I'm not saying that these films are bad - the first two are great.  But they're not the type of film that Cusak wants to make anymore.  Grosse Point Blank is his _last_ high-school flick.I saw this movie for the first time when I had graduated from college and moved into my parents' house while I started my first post-college job. Tons of the things that Cusak was trying to do in this film rang true for me at that time.  Martin Blank is forced to return to his high-school environment (obviously one he didn't miss) and re-visit his life there. Things have changed and he realizes why he hasn't come back before and why it's not his life anymore.  The line It's not me, is not just referring to his current job, but also the conceptions that everyone in Grosse Point has about him.  The whole thing is a metaphor for Cusak's career.  This is also why the movie references Better Off Dead (_killing_ the bike messenger) and You Only Live Twice (Cusak's second life as an actor/writer/producer). This is why the black comedy works so well here.  Professional killer is obviously an adult occupation, so how could he possibly be back at High School?  So, Cusak makes one last return to the concept of high school, complete with a graphic, morbid death scene.  An excellent subplot, pulled off to perfection by Cusak.By the way, don't ever live with your parents for an extended period of time once you've been out.  It'll mess with you. "},{"Title":"Black comedy at its best.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd slightly disappointing (for him) performance aside, this film has no negatives. It is simply one of the best black comedies I have ever seen and probably of all time. Intelligent observations, stylish comedy action scenes and one of the best lines of all-time.either he has a new found respect for life... "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe hits the bullseye","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is one entertaining movie if I have ever seen one. It seems to me that it would be near impossible to make a comedy out of a movie about a hitman, yet George Armitage, John Cusack, and all of the supporting cast pull it off with flying colors. Cusack is one of the few high school movie heart throbs that has held on over the years and developed into a talented artist. He is dynamite in this picture. Minnie Driver, Dan Aykroyd give great performances. John's sister Joan adds a quirkiness to her scenes making them very enjoyable. But Alan Arkin and Jeremy Piven steal every scene they are in as the hitman's therapist and best friend. Bottom line, see this one right away, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"It's not technically an omelet.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie has something in it for everyonde.  Child of the 80's or not, you will walk away from this movie calling it one of your favorites.John Cusack plays the unforgettable Martin Blank - an assassin with a few issues.  The entire cast is incredible.  Alan Arkin has a small, but very funny role, as Martin's shrink, and Minnie Driver is the love interest.  Dan Aykroyd a Hit Man?  Yes, and he's still very, very funny.The soundtrack is a compilation of some of the coolest songs of any soundtrack you've ever seen.  Over 30 tracks on 2 albums it includes The Clash, The Specials, The English Beat and you'll be humming Blister in the Sun by Violent Femmes for days after seeing this flick.The action/black comedy/romance of this movie makes it my all time favorite. Great lines, great actors, great plot, great soundtrack and a really great movie.  Don't rent it - buy it because you'll want to watch it over and over again.  You will never get tired of seeing this movie too many times. "},{"Title":"Eighties Great; Nineties Classic","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  In a rush of eighties nostalgia movies (Romy and Michelle's High School reunion, and the superb Wedding Singer), Grosse Pointe Blank spins a shadowy web around the visage of remembering the good old days by chucking in the hitman theme into the melting pot.  John Cusack plays Martin Blank, the aforementioned hitman who on the recommendation of his therapist (Alan Arkin on top form) goes home to Grosse Pointe to reminisce, talk to old friends, meet his high-school girlfriend (Minnie Driver) and, oh, the small matter of performing a hit.  The film boasts a whole host of characters, funny and amusing (Dan Ackroyd tops the list as Blank's rival who's setting up an assassin's union), and Driver and Cusack sizzle.  In all, this is set to becoming, in my opinion, a modern classic in the late nineties.  Enjoy the eighties again, enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Assassination with a TV set","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent movie, with plenty of off-beat laughs along the way. You can tell that Cusack's character is a professional assassin as, when all looks lost, he's out of ammo, without a weapon in reach, he manages to kill his rival with a TV set. A handy tip for everyday use I'm sure.  "}{"Title":"Makes me laugh every single time I see it","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I love Grosse Pointe Blank.  Its mix of humor and seriousness is perfect. The fight scene with the pen is a classic.  The ending is so oddly romantic you can't help but remember it forever.  The cast was brilliant.  This movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"I bought it for $5","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Great soundtrack, solid cast, and so many offbeat moments make this a great watch. I love the scene where Cusack and Driver meet for the first time in 10 years. Weave back and forth warily, kiss frantically for five seconds, and then withdraw and stare again. It's very hard to pick a best scene but I would choose Cusack talking to Driver's father before they head out to the reunion. Love the dialogue. And I'm not a child of the 80s.  "},{"Title":"It made me howl with laughter.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The timing on this movie was perfect.  I graduated from high school in '87 and even went to my 10-year reunion.  If only my reunion had been so entertaining!  The satire in this movie works on so many levels that I know I couldn't possibly have caught it all in just one viewing.  And I can't even begin to express how pleased I was with all of the zany performances!This movie is a must-see for any child of the '80s.  A warning, however don't try to make anyone of a different age group watch this movie; they just won't get it.  "},{"Title":"what did you do after high school?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Though lite and a little unbelieveable, Minnie Driver and John Cusack are compatible on screen.  Lots of the people at the reunion seemed typical of a high school class.  Most of all Cusack makes being an assassin almost redeemable.. A film for laughs "},{"Title":"john and jeremy together again!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  how can you NOT love the chemistry between john cusack and jeremy piven?!? the two work great together...possibly because they've known each other so long..or possibly because they are two of the best actors out there right now.  i think it's a combo of both! i love seeing them on the screen together and can't wait 'till they do it again. they always come up with fresh, funny material....way to go guys. two thumbs WAY up from me!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, witty, clever.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A great film. It combines action, a plot(a real turn up for the books) and humour. Starts off funny, closely followed by James Bond type assassination (which goes wrong). A slight lull at the actual reunion before the exciting, violent and funny conclusion. The soundtrack also proves that not all 80s music was rubbish. A great film, see it!. "},{"Title":"Cooler than ice-cream, warmer than the sun!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Is this film a romance, a comedy, or a thriller?Whatever his original intent, the director has created a delicious melange of all three. John Cusack is perfect as the hitman with a heart, if no soul, and Minnie Driver wonderful as his once-abandonned sweetheart. Even the supporting characters have fully rounded personalities, including those that spend only a few moments on screen.This is, despite its subject matter, a feel-good movie  a movie about coming to terms with your past and realising that what you do with your life is up to you, and no-one else. It's also about recognising that whatever mistakes you have made, it's better to face up to them, take your punishment, and then carry on. The only character in the movie who is really running away is the coke-head car dealer  even Paul gets to dance with Jenny Slater in the end.As Martin meets people from his past, confused about what he's going to do next with his life, we get an Everyman-like parade of examples for him to follow.Watch the movie...make your choice.PS  Great soundtrack, and a fight scene to die for (or certainly one that proves once and for all that the pen is mightier than the sword). "},{"Title":"The 80's Grow a Conscience . . .","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank will hit a nerve with anyone who lived for and loved the teenage movies of the 80's. Part The Breakfast Club, part Say Anything, part Better Off Dead, John Cusack returns to the roles that made him a teen icon over ten years ago. Only now, as Martin Blank, he's grown up to find that the problems he ran away from are still around. As a hit man who develops a conscience, Cusack returns to the characters that the older members of Generation X grew up watching, only now like ourselves, he's older (but not necessarily wiser). With a wonderful soundtrack from bands like The Clash, The Specials, and Guns and Roses, the film drives home the fact that we're now adults, whether we like it or not. If you understand what I'm saying (or can quote lines from any of his earlier movies verbatim), then I recommend seeing this film. "},{"Title":"It's a Satire, Stupid","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It's not a suspense flick.  It's not a melodrama.  It's not even serious. Gross Pointe Blank is a very smart satire.  This movie shouldn't be taken literally - it IS meant to skewer the conventions and sensibilities of '80s-'90s hitman-high school-youth-psychobabbley-angst driven flicks.  The writing is clever and quick, and the performances can't be faulted. Considering that John Cusack had a hand in almost every production aspect of this film, it is quite an impressive accomplishment.  This movie is related to, but not a sister of, flicks like Ferris Bueller's Day Off.  See the sinister Martin Q. Blank in The Grifters, with Annette Benning and Angelica Huston. Take this light movie in context, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"High School Neil Simon","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The setting of a high school is rather appropriate, since the dialogue reminds me of a high school drama club doing Neil Simon.  All main characters' performances couldn't be more forced if they tried.  Granted the writing was terrible, but Cusack didn't do much trying to pull of the  too-cool hitman come home for reunion character.  I guess if timing is everything, the acting in this movie had nothing... the soundtrack had a good selection of 80's hits, but they were all butchered down to 30 second versions in the movie. "}{"Title":"It just gets better with each viewing","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" When I first saw GPB in the '90s I was impressed enough to buy the soundtrack.Now, after having watched it about a ten times in as many years on cable, I realized how stupid it was not to have bought the DVD already. The upside to that is that now there's blu-ray and hopefully, a few extras included..? Well it will be a real sin if that turns out not to be the case! Sorry, I can't help myself. This film is fantastic, in my Top 5 list of '90s films for certain. John Cusack reportedly co-wrote the script, and that makes sense because it's clever and built on witty dialog -- playing perfectly to his strengths. His electrifying chemistry with Minnie Driver, Dan Ackroyd and what the heck, the entire supporting cast, demonstrates pure casting genius and ensures GPB will remain fresh and memorable upon many repeat viewings.The plot reads like an understated Quentin Tarrantino joint. Martin Blank is a professional assassin who is invited to his 10 year High School reunion in Grosse Pointe, MI. Urged by his therapist on the premise that it might be good for him, he decides to attend. Martin contacts old buddies, attempts to reconnect with his long-lost love, reminisces a bit about his childhood, visits his ailing mom in her nursing home, and what the heck--decides to complete an assignment while he's there. He runs into a few glitches on his journey of the soul, but exploding convenience stores and murderous rival assassins can't deflect Martin' growing moral conscience and his determination to win back the girl he stood up on Prom night.Grosse Pointe Blank is hard to pin down. This is a black comedy, but strangely uplifting at the same time. It has plenty of shooting action, martial arts and a dash of James Bond coolness, but it's not about that, really; it asks deeper philosophical questions of the sanctity of life and the power of love and forgiveness. And of course at the heart of it all, there's the relatable conundrum of those torturous High School Reunions.GPB is John Cusack, Minnie Driver, Dan Ackroyd and Joan Cusack at the top of their forms. It also features some of the best tracks from the musical talent of the '80s. If you are a fan of any of theirs, it is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Mirror in the bathroom.....","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank is a freelance hit-man who starts to develop a conscience, which causes him to fluff a couple of routine assignments.On the advice of his secretary and his psychiatrist, he attends his 10th year High School reunion in Grosse Pointe, Michigan (a Detroit suburb where he's also contracted to kill someone).Hot on his tail are a couple of over-enthusiastic federal agents, another assassin who wants to kill him, and Grocer, an assassin who wants him to join an Assassin's Union.......If you thought that the wedding singer was a little too sweet for your liking, then this is the perfect antidote to that other Eighties movie of 1997.And while that movie is very good in it's own respect, this is dark, deluded, funny, and most of all, a very touching tale about finding yourself and facing your demons.It's not laugh out loud funny, it can be very deep in scenes, but it takes the rough with the smooth, and for every dark moment, there soon is a piece of music,or line that makes the film a perfect example of cinema today.Cusack is at his finest here, taking every single character he played in the eighties, and making them Martin Blank, a man who appears to be stuck in purgatory, and only the voice on the radio can save him.The script is cracking, the action enough to satisfy any action fan, and the romance for the ladies.All in all, it's the perfect date movie, with endless references to eighties movie (Better Off Dead, and Ghostbusters for example) and one of the best soundtracks for a film ever.Do not miss this movie, especially if you have fond memories of the decade that fashion forgot. "},{"Title":"Deep, Rough and Charmingly Hilarious","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Much funnier than I'd remembered, this twisting tale of competing hit men and their uncharacteristically jovial attempts to rid the world of one other also finds the time to address the loss of innocence, the reflections of a milestone high school reunion and the baggage of leading a necessarily isolated lifestyle. John Cusack is fantastic as the acidic, sarcastic prodigal son, returning to his home town on business while also giving serious thought to abandoning his violent ways for good. Great supporting work helps that role to flower even further, especially in the forms of his grinning, kill-happy competition, (a joyously nasty dark turn by Dan Aykroyd) the jilted love interest he left high and dry ten years back (Minnie Driver at her most smokin') and his flippant, hard-nosed assistant (Joan Cusack). One of the greatest soundtracks ever, plus work on the original score by former Clash frontman Joe Strummer, takes this whole package over the top. Strongly recommended. "},{"Title":"A very character driven movie","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Now this movie is really good. It is similar to the Big Hit in that it deals with an assassin, but in Grosse Pointe Blank, we have a completely different character and a completely different style of comedy. Where the Big Hit was satirical, Grosse Pointe Blank is black comedy.The movie is revolves around Martin Blank (John Cusak), who left his home town of Grosse Pointe on the night of the high school prom standing up his poor girlfriend, Debbie. He disappears for ten years and then is convinced by his secretary to return for the high school reunion. Blank joined the army and in a psyche examination they decided that he would be perfect as an assassin, so he became one. The movie opens with him on a job shooting a would-be assassin only to watch the guy that he was protecting shot by a second assassin. Things seem to be going badly for Blank and after refusing to listen to his secretary, he is convinced to return to Grosse Pointe to do a job and while he is there, go to the high school reunion.The main part of the movie starts up when he arrives at Grosse Pointe as he catches up with old school friends and finds out what has been going on while he as gone. Blank is considered to be the biggest disappearing act of the town. While he is in town, it seems that he is being set up. The National Security Agency is watching him to catch him in the act of assassinating his target. There is also another terrorist lurking around who wants to deal with Blank. The added twist is that Blank is under pressure from another assassin (Dan Akroyd) who is trying to start up an assassin's union that could force the government to respect them more.What is interesting about this movie are the characters. Blank is a cold hearted killer who is trying to get back to his past. There is a struggle inside of him to return to his past or to remain apart from it. This struggle is identified with his refusal to return to his home town because he knows that his past will return. When he does return, the first person that he sees is Debbie (Minnie Driver), the woman who he left standing alone at the high school prom.This leads to the relationship between Debbie and Blank. It is this relationship that is the major theme of the movie. The movie is much more of a romance where Blank is trying to escape his past as he begins to fall in love with his old girlfriend. The further he falls in love with her, the less he wants to go back to his job. Most people take his comment, I'm a professional killer with a grain of salt. They just think he just doesn't want people to know how much of a hopeless job he has, but the amusing thing is that we know he is a killer. Then something happens to make people realize this. We see him having problems with the old school bully, and know that he can deal with him without worrying, but he does not kill the bully, but rather convinces the bully that there is nothing between them. It is only when the terrorist turns up that everybody, including Debbie, learn that he is really an assassin. After this scene we notice a shift in people's reactions. No longer do they treat him in a jovial manner, but rather they avoid him, try not to say much to him and stay out of his way. We see in the scene when he stands next to the bar at the reunion that nobody talks to him, and when he talks to them they move away. Thus we know that the truth is out and people have not reacted well to it.The movie is also about a second chance. The one line that Debbie says My life is not over yet, encapsulates it all. As long as we are still alive we have a chance to change. Blank is wanting to have a second shot at life, and the reunion represents this. At first he resists it, and strongly, but fate has other ideas. As his secretary says the gods want you to go to this reunion. Not only is his target in Detroit, where he grew up, but it is also the father of the woman he loves. He does not realise this until he opens the dossier, but when he does his reaction is one of fate, one that makes him think that he was supposed to be with her.The final interesting thing about Grosse Point Blank is the name. Martins last name describes him clearly. When he returns he is blank. Nobody knows anything about him. All they know is that he left 10 years ago and never saw anybody again. But it encapsulates also his new life. When he turns from one life and goes on, putting the past behind him, he is a blank person. He is new ready to start again.Favourite Line Hi I'm Martin Blank, I'm unmarried, have no kids, and if somebody pays me enough money I'll blow your head off. "},{"Title":"He's got a second shot, in more ways than one!","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Martin Blank John Cusack didn't follow the same path that his High School pals did. Whilst they went on to become average Joe professionals, Martin became a different sort of professional, a hit man! But now he is weary and back in his home town of Grosse Point for a job that also coincides with his ten year High School reunion. The latter of which means meeting up with Debi Minnie Driver, the girl he stood up on prom night. But affairs of the heart are not Martin's only concern. Rival assassin Grocer Dan Ackroyd is obsessed with getting him to join his Union or else, while there's some shifty characters hanging about who quite frankly want to vanish Martin from the planet. It's sure to be a most explosive home coming, in more ways than one.Quirky, dark, witty and containing a stunning 80s soundtrack, Grosse Point Blank is a multi genre fusion piece that is impossible to pigeon hole. Co-written by Tom Jankiewicz, D.V. DeVincentis, Steve Pink & John Cusack, it provides that rare thing of having a complex story yet, one that doesn't baffle the audience by trying to be too clever. The script is sharp, its humour is not born out of wise cracks and chipper one liners think Shane Black for instance, it's more concerned with sidling up next to its cartoon violence with witty irony. The end result being a perfect pair of bed fellows nicely tucked in by director George Armitage.The cast are on fire. Cussack is always good value, but more so in comedy based pictures. This finds him in his element on a project he dearly cared for, possibly turning in his best career performance. So too, arguably, is Akroyd, who as the unfeeling Grocer is absolutely hilarious. Minnie Driver hasn't had the career that many thought she would have, perhaps she should have done more comedy because as a comedy actress she's very undervalued. Her timing is impeccable and her play off with Cussack is the films strength. There's also so much fun to be had with the number of secondary characters that file into Martin's life as the story unfolds. Joan Cusack as the highly strung secretary, Alan Arkin as Blank's exasperated shrink, Jeremy Piven as the friend that too was left behind, and Hank Azaria as one part of a shifty pair of suits after Martin's blood. Lest we forget the third parties as well. The ream of dullards that once passed as High School associates of Blank's, now only serving to compound his belief that you should never go back! It's a real cracker is this, a different sort of film, one that we honestly could do with seeing more of these days. But then again, that would stop this from being unique I guess. So no, lets cherish and keep this little gem all to ourselves eh? 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as you were told...","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is&#133;okay. Most people who've expressed an opinion to me on this movie have pretty much raved about it, but I found it adequate across the board. The premise was interesting, the characters entertaining, the set pieces amusing and the script and direction tight &#150; but it lacked a certain sparkle, and I found the (admittedly excellent) soundtrack intrusive rather than complementary. I suspect that it is a case of an indie movie getting over exposed and thus raising audience expectations. Don't get me wrong, I am happy I've seen it (and at £3 on DVD from HMV I got a bargain), but it is not that funny or that great or that anything, really. However, there are worse films in the world (Beaches is one of them!) and this is inoffensive entertainment for a Sunday evening. "},{"Title":"Great Film with all kinds of Entertainment","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Before I viewed this film, I knew that in Michigan, there was a town called Grosse Pointe, and a very nice quite town. John Cusack (Martin Q.Blank) High Fidelity, 2000, raised all kinds of hell at a Class Reunion of 1986 in Grosse Pointe and met up with an ex-girl friend, Mini Driver (Debi Newberry),Return to Me,'2000. Debi worked at a local Radio Station in town and still had the hots for Martin Blank, except she needed lots of explanation for his behavior of standing her up at the prom, ten(10) years ago and also gave him a nice slap in the face, which she waited a long ten years to accomplish. Martin Q. Blank had a very professional job and simply came right to the point and told people that he Killed People For a Living, which was a big joke among his former classmates. Joan Cusack,(Marcella),The School of Rock,'03, gave a great supporting role as Martin Blank's secretary. There are lots of laughs and some great scenes of Shoot the Entire House Up! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Sarcasm fans","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is excellent. John Cusack delivers one of his funniest performances ever. His sarcastic humor and his great way of telling jokes are great. Dan Akroyd character as a tubby assassin who wants Martin to join an assassin's union is great. He really acts as an obsessive recruiter for an enticing job. This movie also has a great soundtrack with songs chosen by legendary guitarist Joe Strummer of the Clash that include Mirror in the Bathroom by the English Beat and Armagaiden Time by The Clash. Best Movie Quote You're a handsome devil. What's your name...Dumb Frigging Luck! Best Scene is when Martin is fighting The Ghoul and while they are fighting the English Beat comes on and Martin kills the Ghoul with a pen the lawyer guy gave him. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is about a hit-man who travels back to his hometown to celebrate his 10 year highschool reunion while linked to his old prom date, Debbie and getting followed by the national security and another hit-man. Good movie actually, I quite enjoyed it. The action was pretty cool and very intense. I didn't know that there was going to be many action scenes but there was quite a few. John Cusack brought a very good role to the movie and brought a lot of fire to the screen. He had the best performance in the movie. Grosse Pointe Blank was just a good film and if it was bad, I really wouldn't of cared and complained. There was a couple flaws and it wasn't great that I thought it was going to be, but it was just a good movie, nothing more.Hedeen's Outlook 7/10 **+ C+ "},{"Title":"Truly fantastic dark comedy","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Deliciously black comedy fuses romance and violence to come up with an utter treat.John Cusak is Martin Black, a morally bankrupt professional assassin regularly murdering victims for money. He doesn't care who they are, or why the hit is going to happen, he's not paid to ask questions about ethics If I show up at your door, chances are you did something to bring me there. However, when his assistant badgers him repeatedly to attend the high school reunion planned at Grosse Point, he finds himself showing up at the little town as part of a hit assignment.Add to this his 'nemesis' Grocer, played by the fantastic Dan Akroyd who steals every scene, whose intentions regarding Black seem to veer between the desire to kill him or team up with him and you have the basic cocktail.Oh, there's also the small matter of the love interest Debbie (The simply devine Minnie Driver) who Black stood up at their high school prom and who now finds him re-entering her life 10 years since she last saw him to add to the equation too.Yes indeed, there are a fair few sub-plots going on here, but the magnificence of this movie brings them together seamlessly.First off, the acting is basically terrific - every character is incredibly strong, particularly the main 3, and the witty dialogue is in places beyond laugh out loud funny - particularly many of Akroyd's lines; 'That punk is either in love with that guy's daughter or he has a new found respect for life.' Cusak more than holds his own too, firing off sharp dialogue with comic timing on a par with Akroyd, the like of which Ryan Reynolds would kill for.Minnie Driver's Debbie is as luscious as many of her characters. Somehow Driver manages to elicit astonishing chemistry with male leads on a consistent level, and Gross Point Blank is much the same. Her scenes with Cusak sizzle without too much actual sexuality. If you didn't know any better you'd assume the 2 were actually an item.The movie doesn't just rely on dialogue for laughs, it uses many visual slapstick moments too, none of which are ever dumb or Naked Gun-esquire. All the humour is intelligent here.The action element cannot be forgotten either, because Cusak is an assassin after all - there are a few shoot outs, one fight scene which would make Jackie Chan proud, and a jolly rollicking good explosion.Then there's terrific direction which makes the movie tick - the editing and shot/scene selection are just devine, and zip up the package tremendously.I have not a single bad word to say about this film, it is truly terrific and one of the best I've had the pleasure of seeing. "}{"Title":"Fun story, poor acting","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Imagine one day you are sick of your boring little home town and you just take off without letting anyone know where you are going. Imagine you that you are now a great success at your chosen career and your work brings you back to your home town just as they are having a school reunion.Hmmm....wait....there are 100 movies just like this from America...so what is the plot twist, imagine you are one of the best contract killers in the world.Martin Q. Blank returns to Grosse Pointe (the unlikely name of the home town) to find a few things have changed and a few have stayed the same. What about Martin, is he better or worse as a person. As a deadly killer things such as high school bullies are hardly a threat any more.I found the characters, the acting and the action scenes of this movie too fake to take my interest, but the jokes and the story is the real star.What makes this movie stand out is summed up by a quote, a trip becomes a journey when you return home. So here we finally see a story where returning home is not about facing your past and accepting what you ran away from, but it is about completing the journey you started when you ran away in the first place. It is understanding how you changed when put up against the test of what has remained the same.Oops, I made it sound too deep, it isn't, just a well plotted little comedy. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favourite films","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Lots of praise for this movie already. I can only re-iterate some points The soundtrack is outstanding. (Some unusual) 80s tracks that fit *perfectly*. If I had to pick my all time favourite musical moments in cinema, this film would have at least two of them (99 Red Balloons and Under Pressure).There's a fantastic fight scene before one of these special musical moments. It's fantastic because it's almost silent - no background noises, no fake punching sounds, just two people trying to kill each other. This is unbelievably refreshing given that most Hollywood nonsense sounds like a parody of fighting.The characters aren't all that well-developed, but you get a lot out of them with the little information that is on show.After having seen this little gem many times, I'd say there's not much I could pick holes in, apart from the humour in the climactic fight scenes is a bit forced, maybe. And that's stretching to find flaws. Oh, and I don't think DOOM was ever released as an arcade game )It's brilliant. Funny, touching without being soppy, good for anyone to watch. I disagree with the comments before saying that it's not for everyone. If you find this film offensive, you've got a problem. It's glorious.  "},{"Title":"Grossly Overrated","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Howdy folks, this is your olde buddy Shorty Medlocke.  I'd like to tell you about an old bunch of fox hounds I got, but instead I am going to comment on this film.  I read many of the comments posted here and most are positive regarding Grosse Pointe Blank.  I normally like John Cusack.  He was great in 'The Grifters' and 'High Fidelity' and 'Runaway Jury' and in other films.  However, I just didn't think Grosse Pointe Blank was as funny as a lot of you did.  If you don't think a comedy is funny, then the movie usually sucks for you.  I didn't think this film was 'all that' funny, though it was entertaining at times.  I don't think a hitman going to his high school reunion is a 'funny concept'.  Are you posters all Republicans?  WTF is going on around here?  John, I love you though bro.  You da man! "},{"Title":"Yeah, it's point blank gross in parts","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The main feature of this movie--depending on your point of view--is John Cusack, who looks like he's having a lot of fun in a quirky story quirkily done. Fans will probably find his portrayal of a whimsical professional hit man a nice departure for the accomplished and sensitive actor.I would too except I just couldn't get over the disconnect between the sweet personality and the amoral nature of his character. Of course this is a comedy, indeed a satire and burlesque of hit man films with shootouts (two guns ablazing) and car chases aplenty.There is also a romance between ex-highschool sweethearts Martin Q. Blank (Cusack) and Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), and they seem nicely paired. The story is framed around Blank's disappearance on prom night ten years previous and his sudden and unexpected return on the eve of his ten-year class reunion at Grosse Pointe (Michigan) High School. His profession is so unlikely that he can be candid about it and nobody will believe him. I'm a professional killer. Nice. I'm glad that's working out for you. (Okay, I made up that dialogue, but it's close to what's really said.)Dan Aykroyd gives comedic support in an over-the-top portrayal of a rival hit man always making with the jokes even as the bullets fly. Funny too with a lot of original shtick is John Cusack's sister, Joan Cusack, as the hit man's strange but conscientious secretary, Marcella. Alan Arkin has a modest part as Dr. Oatman, Blank's frightened shrink--frightened because he knows what Blank does for a living.Bottom line a bonafide cult classic with repeat viewing appeal that may not work for all audiences. "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack co-wrote and stars in the story of a hitman who heads back to his hometown for the dreaded 10 year HS reunion. He wants to go back, most notably to see Debi (Minnie Driver). Debi is a high school flame that Cusack's Martin Blank ditched on prom night for reasons the film never really explains. Everyone in this cast is perfect in the role. Cusack plays his hitman as a straight laced yuppie instead of the psycho you would think. Driver is so wonderful you have no problem believing that Cusack would still carry a torch all these years. Dan Akyrord pops up as a hitman following Blank to attempt to get Blank to join a hitman's union- hilarious stuff. Jeremy Piven plays Cusack's best HS friend. Joan Cusack plays his secreatry. Hank Azaria co-stars as a cop tailing Martin and many other shine in this great comedy. "},{"Title":"I changed my mind","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is what I wrote ten years before Some attractive stars, some interesting plot lines, even some good dialogue can't save this one from the watch-only-when-desperate list. Problem is that when it matters this tale's either totally incredible or ridiculously absurd. Cusack appears to rise above his material so often I start wondering what's really going on. This is what I say now I started checking this out again more recently. I really don't like some of Ackroyd's lines, they are far too offensive for this sort of light comedy. But I really like Cusack's tired hit man character and the way he tells everyone his occupation, along with Joan as his loyal secretary. I also like Minnie a lot as the deserted girlfriend and the way she dances around with John. So enjoy, just skip the last 10 minutes or so unless you're into absurd situation comedy-type wrap ups. "},{"Title":"Grosse Pointe Blank 7/10","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  With a title like a puzzle on Wheel of Fortune, and a soundtrack that's too much like music of six years later, who couldn't like Grosse Pointe Blank? Not only is one of the most entertaining movies that I've seen this year, but also mixes action, comedy, and romance very well.John Cusack (in an extremely good role) is Martin Blank, a profession hit man. During an opening scene reminiscent to Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, with a song that's completely different than the scene that's showing, his secretary Marcella (Joan Cusack) tells him of his ten year reunion in Grosse Pointe, Michigan. In addition, his psychiatrist (Alan Arkin) doesn't really like him; he says to go a few days without killing anyone, and what perfect time to do that than at his reunion? Well, Martin has a hit up there, but he's trying to stop being a hit man also.Once Martin arrives, he tries to get back together with the girl who he stood up on prom night, Debi (Minnie Driver), who now works as a disc jockey. She, of course, is a little nervous. Also, rival hit man Grocer (Aykroyd, in an almost Oscar-worthy acting job) is in town to whack Martin, along with FBI agents McCullers and Lardner (K. Todd Freeman and Hank Azaria). And all this is before the actual reunion.Grosse Pointe Blank has enough writers for the curse of the multiple writers (it usually seems like movies with four or more writers are laughless and horrible, an example is The Adventures of Pluto Nash). And yes, this movie isn't very funny. I only laughed a few times. However, the main reason that Grosse Pointe Blank is such a great movie is that it's constantly entertaining and fun to watch. I haven't seen a movie for a long time that is this entertaining. Never once was I bored or tired of this movie, I was just having a good time.Something else that adds to this movie is how real it is. Although it has something that other movies and shows have, with murderers seeing psychiatrists and feeling conflicted, I bought the romance between Cusack and Driver. I actually believed that Martin was going back to his hometown for a reunion. Not once did I think of him as John Cusack, he was always Martin Blank. Cusack did an amazing job. One thing that I really liked about his character was how he tried to explain everything (especially at the end) in the most inappropriate of times. For example, he's shooting at someone as he's telling Debi that he loves her. Driver was ok, but I didn't think she was anything to write home about. Aykroyd, as I said before, could have been nominated for an Oscar. He was great. Joan Cusack was also very good as the high-strung secretary (fun fact two other Cusack siblings, Amy and Bill, are in this movie). The chemistry between Freeman and Azaria was very good too, although, I wish that he has more of a role.To close it up, Grosse Pointe Blank is an extremely entertaining, if unfunny, comedy that is always worth a watch.My rating 7/10Rated R for strong violence, language and some drug content. "},{"Title":"A neurotic Hitman goes home for his 10 yr high school reunion to do one last job and have one last chance at love and self redemption","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I just love this movie.  I know that it's polished pretentious dialogue is irritating to some, but I had a blast.  You usually can't trust my opinion because I just love John Cusack and all of his movies---well, you won't be finding Hot Pursuit on my shelf in this life, but to a degree I tend to be more biased than others when reviewing his movies.  The proof is in the pudding though, I have loaned this DVD out to numerous non Cusack fan friends, and all of them try to keep it an extra week, so I think it is safe to say that I am right on point with this rating. "},{"Title":"One of the Greats!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't already been said? It is a great film. The plot IS there, it's funny, gripping and thrilling. It's well written and well acted. This one is definitely in my top 100 (in no particular order!!). It also has a suprising cameo from Benny The Jet Urquidez, he's an ugly geezer! (Sorry Jet, just in case he knows where I live!). "},{"Title":"The most fun you can have without taking any clothes off !!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank defines cool. John Cusack was born to play Martin Blank. His neurotic hitman is perfectly captured by Cusack's 'stream of conciousness' style. The quirky combination of violence, black comedy and music is amazing. The characterisations are amazing and fit together perfectly. Joan Cusack's sunny but tough secretary, Minnie Driver's good hearted but spurned ex, Dan Aykroyd's hilarious rival hitman with a union, Alan Arkin's petrified psychologist, and Jeremy Piven's frenetic 'old best friend'. We're spoilt with so many classic lines. My favs include 'I killed the President of Paraguay with a fork. How've you been', and 'Hello Jenny Slater, Hello Jenny Slater, Hello Jenny Slater'. I could go on and on, but I wanna go watch Grosse Pointe Blank again!!! "}{"Title":"The best hitman/high school reunion movie ever","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Who would have ever thought to cast John Cusack as a hitman? Well, no one, which I guess is why John felt compelled to co-write and co-produce this gem. Funny, funny, DARK, and funny script. John is great, Minnie Driver is great, every speaking role is great. Jeremy Piven and John need to work together more often. I loved them together. Just... ah! Great!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Finest!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Point Blank is flat out a great film. It has action, comedy, and romance balled into one, but this is one of the few movies that actually succeeds at it. George Armitage does a great job directing, and the cast is excellent. ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Easy-going comedy","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Back when this film first came out back in 1997 I had to choose between this and Event Horizon. I chose the latter. I think I made the wrong choice. Grosse Pointe Blank had the perfect mix of violence and comedy. Neither overwhelmed the other and John Cusack seemed to handle it well too.The thing I like best about this film is the photography. There are some really cool shots that are not the norm for action or comedy movies. I could have been a little longer. A long film does not always guarantee a good film but this film was so good the running time just seemed to fly by.There should have been more of Jeremy Piven though. I like him and his role in this movie was quite funny. But unfortunately he was just a supporting player.Rent this film whenever you feel on catch it on TV. I really do think that you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Just good enough to recommend","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Even though I'd say that I liked this movie, I must confess that I was a little disappointed.  The humour seemed very hit-and-miss, and sometimes there were scenes that just didn't fit at all with the rest of the movie. Nevertheless, the constantly underrated John Cusack and a great supporting cast to manage to make the film work, even with all the flaws.  Perhaps my favourite thing about this film was the music, for even when the story seemed to be meandering, at least there was usually a fun 80's song to keep me entertained.  So, because of the music, the cast, and more laughs than most American comedies, I can overlook the problems to give a marginal recommendation.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, tongue-in-cheek and superbly acted.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Although this wasn't strictly a comedy, John Cusack's performance gave me the impression that he could really make us split our sides if he chose to. He's a first class dramatic actor but this film gives us a glimpse of his humourous side and his undestated style would be perfect for the type of sophisticated humour that we on the other side of the pond really appreciate.I could wax lyrical about Dan Ackroyd and Minnie Driver as they also put in two fine performances but there is too much to say to be dwelling on the support cast. The music was brilliant from beginning to end and I especially liked the little bit of business between Cusack and Driver when she answered her front door just as The Specials began to sing You're Wondering Now. In case anyone was wondering why she said You can't come in in a faux West Indian accent I shall let you in on the reason. This track (the final one on The Specials' brilliant first album) begins with someone knocking on a door and a voice saying You can't come in. So there you go, a useless little piece of trivia for you.Special mention must go to the scene in which Cusack stares at the baby and the baby stares right back. Just listen closely to the lyrics that David Bowie is singing at that point. It's a sincerely beautiful moment in a rather dark, violent film.If anyone reading this can get a message to John Cusack please tell him this. On the London stage in recent years we've had Dustin Hoffman, Steve Guttenberg, Stockard Channing, John Malkovich, Kevin Spacey and Nicole Kidman. I would love to see Cusack follow their lead as he's one of the finest actors (British, American or otherwise) that I've ever seen. And if he could possibly bring James Spader with him then my theatre going life would be complete.Cheers! "},{"Title":"SO WHERE DO YOU SEE YOURSELF IN TEN YEARS?","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  GROSSE POINTE BLANK (1997) **** John Cusack, Minnie Driver, Alan Arkin, Dan Aykroyd, Joan Cusack, Jeremy Piven, Mitchell Ryan, Barbara Harris, Hank Azaria, Jenna Elfman.  Excellent original black comedy about a depressed assassin, Martin Q. Blank (Cusack in one of his best roles yet) who decides to attend his 10th year high school reunion and hook up with his ex (Driver) who he stood up on prom night and fighting off a rival hitman (a glossy-eyed Aykroyd) who wants to unionize (!).  Hilarious screenplay (co-written by Cusack and Tom Jankewicz, D.V. De Vincentis and Cusack's real-life best friend Steve Pink) and deft comic performances combine perfectly with smart direction by George Armitage.  Best, and surprisingly poignant, scene is Cusack at mid-reunion deciding to chuck his career when facing a former classmate's adorable baby with Queen's Under Pressure underscoring the moment and David Bowie's haunting vocals; had me verklempt. "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank was a big disappointment to me. Great HBO commercial, big grades awarded by Imdb viewers, I expected a movie that I like and that would make me spend a great sunday evening. It wasn't ment to be. From the beginning til the end, everything is against my expectations. Very poorly built characters (especially the bad guys - not at all convincing, sometimes even pathetic), simple and much too predictible action, as well as the ending. The movie is neither spectacular, nore funny (they said it's a comedy, but only a few scenes are good), and not at all exciting. The psichological conflict that should have appeared is also wrongly made and totally out of credibility; Joan Cusack's character is absolutely ridiculous and John Cusack's performance is very poor, as the whole movie. I marked the movie with 5(out of 10) just for Minnie Driver, cute and pretty convincing, and for 2-3 scenes that worth being reminded the live radio dialogue between Minnie and John, or the dialogues between John and his shrink (especially when John fires him). Therefore, an almost total failure, that made me regret that I didn't watch Blood and wine, a Jack Nicholson thriller scheduled at the same time, on ProTV. "},{"Title":"All hail the 0.9%","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" .....who voted this sacred cow a score of one. Ugggggh. Words almost fail me. I'm sick too of all the word play and puns around the film title. How it is so funny and quirky. A perfect light blend of action, comedy and romance. Wrong. This is exactly the type of movie that upper storey hotel rooms were made for so that you can throw the TV out the window.Normally i like Cusack. He is a fine, versatile actor who has done his fair share of comedy and romance. Alas he lapses into the aura of smugness and self congratulation that oozes throughout the length of the film. Stupid can be good like Dumb and Dumber. Even Burn After Reading which was a second rate Coen brothers effort. But when stupid is just stupid, it's stupid. "},{"Title":"Pseudo-intellectual comedy","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A pseudo-intellectual comedy with a terribly unethical underlying premise that caters only to our lowest senses of what humor can be.  Performances are well done with attractive visuals, but an otherwise deceptive presentation of intelligence through humor.  Don't be fooled. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!  (10 out of 10)","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This could be one of the funniest movies of all time! John Cusak is at the top of his game as hip hit-man Martin Blank who just wants to be left alone to kill people his own way. Dan Akroyd plays the older hit-man trying to force him to join the union. It is hysterical from start to finish. Joan Cusak is outrageous as Martin's secretary (the phone conversation about the 9mm subsonic brings me to tears every time I even think about it!). Minnie Driver is good as the sexy old flame that may change Martin's destiny all together. One of the best parts of the movie was the awesome 80s soundtrack, including some rare tunes I had forgotten about. Having graduated high school in '88, this movie was right on target for me (that could have been my 10 year reunion!). Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"One of the most underrated movie","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blanke is one of the few movies I've stored in my ipod. I have seen it like a thousand times. Martin Blank the character played by Cusack is one of the coolest heroes in cinema. He is a professional assassin and the story is about he going to his high school reunion and the things happening there. What i love about this movie is that there are so many memorable quotes in it. Like Cusack talking to himself in front of mirror going You are a handsome devil, what's your name? and many more. the screenplay is excellent with sharp perfect dialogues and wits. THIS MOVIE SHOULD DEFINITELY MAKE INTO IMDb TOP 250. a must watch movie for all the film buffs "},{"Title":"Not a Good Movie at all","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This was about the least enjoyable film I've seen in a long while. It's like Pulp Fiction - the cult masses loved it, I couldn't get it.It's one thing to see death be made in an over-the-top in comedy, but another when you see actual killing and then pass it off as funny.This is what Pulp Fiction did and this is what Grosse Point Blank did.Every time one of these movies comes out that has a blatant disregard for human life, you wonder if it doesn't take society down another notch. The Colombine killers were influenced heavily by a tag-team serial killer movie. So were the North Hollywood Bank robbers. If you go onto the freeway, you see young idiots racing against each other at 90 mph.What's the purpose of a movie that demoralizes society with the celebration of a hit man? Can the high school inmates who run Hollywood not think of anything better? "},{"Title":"Hard to explain, but go with me for a moment...","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Films about hit men, killing people, I'm generally struggling to see the lighter side. But somehow this one doesn't get entangled in that equation. A glancing blow, generationally speaking, with enough empathy on both the impossibility and surprising opportunities of going back home. The hard-side to the plot somehow stays in the fiction section, while a life-redeeming relationship looms real. I must be in the target zone, as the strongly period soundtrack pushed all the buttons on my recollection of T minus 10 years (probably 20 by the time you read this). Strange that my own children found it equally entertaining - they're a tough crowd. Some great humor, quirky characters, happily ever after, and close enough to my favorite movie ever. Which is surprising, given that I just grabbed it, unaware, off the Ex-Rental On-Sale shelf. Oh, and listen up for those bits of rapid-fire dialog. "},{"Title":"Martin!!","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I recently bought Empire Magazine's 201 greatest movies of all time issue, as voted by its readers. I was surprised at first to see Grosse Pointe Blank in the top 100, but then i stopped to think about it...and in all honesty, this might be one of the great comedies of all time, easily my favorite. From the music (The scene with Under Pressure has me near tears every time), to acting (Akroyd's manic Grocer is I think his best of his career) to the sharp as a tack writing ('what am I supposed to say? I killed the president of Paraguay with a fork. How've you been?'). My favorite movie of all time used to be High Fidelity, but with every time I see this movie, I discover some new charm to it, some new nuance. For being one of the most consistently funny movies I've seen, for being so immensely re-watchable, and for simply being Martin Blanke, this is my favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Yeah yeah","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Grosse Pointe Blank is quite a unique little trip. It documents what happens when a hit-man (played by John Cusack) finally gives in to his haranguing assistant and agrees to go to his 10 year high school reunion, but only because he can get a job done in the process. So off he goes to Grosse Pointe, where he finds the love that he ditched on his prom night still there, and the passions start to rekindle to the surface, even though both of them don't really want that to happen, for Cusack, it's because of his job, and for Driver it's because Cusack is a real dork. Nevertheless, they hit it off again to the point that they make a date to go to the reunion, problem is, some other hit men want to see Cusack dead, and they have followed him to the reunion.. The script here, which Cusack contributed to, certainly cracks with energy, the acting here is good, and the storyline is quite amusing. It's not really going to change the world, it's not REALLY my favorite movie, but it's fine for what it it, an extremely light piece of comedy. "},{"Title":"Someone has to do the job ...","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is a professional killer. He is in love with Minnie Driver. He is sent home to the small town where he did college ten years ago. He hasn't been there for ten years. Everybody asks him &#132;What are you doing now?`. And he answers honestly &#132;I'm a killer.` And nobody believes him. Well, but why shouldn't he be one? Someone has to do the job, isn't it so?&#132;Grosse Pointe Blank` is a light but not easygoing comedy. I'm really enthusiastic about it because I found that it had the mood of &#132;Pulp Fiction` but was not that violent and much happier and more cheerful, so it was really a pleasure to watch it. Rarely have I seen such sophisticated and in an ironic way semi-intellectual dialogue. The story is creative but not too far-fetched (well, a little far-fetched) and no scene seems useless. I really have to say that, although it's not as elaborate as &#132;Pulp Fiction`, I liked it much better. Besides, &#132;Pulp Fiction` has the best pieces of music from the seventies, &#132;Grosse Pointe Blank` has those of the eighties!All the acting performances are just a scream but Dan Aykroyd deserves a special reference. Fat, old and not in the prime of his career, he plays an excentric killer who competes with John Cusack's character. Casting him was one of the best ideas of the producers because he seems completely miscast on the one hand, but appears in the funniest scenes the funniest way on the other.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film, the cast is great with Akroyd delivering a great performance as the hitman who wants to start a Union. John Cusack is excellent as I think he always is. The music is great and completely suitable for the jaunty nature of the film. A film about a hitman going to his high school re-union is hardly the stuff of the usual comedy but GPB manages to pull it off with style. The action takes place in a comic world where we don't take Martin's actions too seriously but manages to introduce enough doubt in places as to whether we should really be finding this funny to keep the film interesting throughout. A truly original film, not necessarily just for the plot but for the whole ambience and character. Oh and Cusack is the coolest hitman of all time (even eclipsing Lee Marvin in Boormans 'Point Blank'). "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely wicked and deserves much more credit than it receives, it should at least be in the top ten. Me and my mates couldn't decide whether it's a comedy, romance or thriller and eventually decided to agree it's a perfect mix of the lot. With it's excellent acting, we applaud the cast directors for their genius! John C is a great actor and without him the film wouldn't be so cool. Minnie Driver fits the part exactly although her American accent is a bit flaky. Someone said that Joan C is a bit too crazy for the part, PANTS is she, not only is she a great part but she looks fine. If I had my way this film would be at no.3 right under Leon and Stand By Me in 1st. "},{"Title":"One of the wittiest movies I've ever seen","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a dark film, yet I laughed out loud dozens of times. It is one of my favorite comedies of all time. John Cusack is brilliant as a veteran professional hitman. The supporting cast steals the show however, with their amazing performances as the quirky acquaintances of Martin Blank (Cusack). "},{"Title":"A classic!!!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One worth watching over & over. Like Maltese Falcon & Bank Dick.  Beyond just hip & cool. A perfectly made little flick. Likewise George Armitage's other minor masterpiece Miami Blues.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see the movie in the theater when it came out. Boy was I impressed. Aside for my love of John Cusack's acting, the movie took a different spin on the whole assassin role, portraying it like a normal life 9-5 profession. Humor elements were placed well, and were not overdone. I gave this movie 10 stars, and it deserves it. If you haven't seen it, you should. "},{"Title":"Not a movie for everyone...","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie doesn't have appeal for everyone, considering the lead character is a hit man (John Cusack) with a heart of gold. However, if you can find humor in that, then you will love this story. Cusack's character goes to his hometown for a high school reunion and is reunited with his high school sweetheart. As luck would have it, she finds out that he's a hit man and then Cusack must prove to her and explain himself in such a was as to win her back. Minnie Driver does an excellent job of acting the jilted prom date and conscientious would-be girlfriend of Cusack. With plenty of high action scenes, this is a love story for men and women.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films in history","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is with out a doubt one of the greatest films in recent history. The way that many genres of film are melted together and blended is carried out so smoothly that you don't realise it, a technique that few other films have matched. That fact that it is funny, whilst being voilent, sauve and sofisticated makes it increadably enjoyable to watch. John Cusack in the lead role as Martin Blank is fantastic, the way that he goes through the motions of being a cold blooded killer to a carring boyfriend, without losing and of his personality is cleaverly done. Dan Ackroyd as the opposing hitman is darkly funny, whilst praise must also be given to Hank Azaria and K. Todd Freeman for their roles as the two disgruntled govenment agents. The only downside so far as the acting is concerned is with Minnie Driver. Though acceptable in her role, she does not give enough of a performance, so that she lags slightly behind the others in the film. The soundtrack is one the best compilations of eighties music you will ever hear, and is slotted neatly into place throughout the films, as to levetate certain scenes. Overall this film is well worth seeing, and I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I believe this is the best intelligent comedy in years! Every single event is so real, so logical and so imaginable, and still it provides tons of laughs. John Cusack has cemented himself as my favorite actor with this role. "},{"Title":"Reunions are Murder","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack's wry performance blows away all other hitman personas of recent  years.  He portrays a strong sense of  professionalism and exudes  sensitivity throughout the movie. The odd combination really works.  While  Cusack is hilarious in a self-deprecating fashion, Joan Cusack provides the  extra kick as the zany secretary to the hitman.  This movie is action-packed  adventure, a great romance, and a top notch comedy.  Minnie Driver  is Divine. One of the best of the 90's. "},{"Title":"One of the best of 1997","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this at a second run theater in June of 97, and I've loved it ever since.  It might not draw you in right away, but after seeing it a few times you can really enjoy it.John Cusack can usually carry a movie, but this time he didn't have to.  Minnie Driver, Dan Aykroyd, Jeremy Piven, and John's sister Joan give great supporting roles. This was one of the better hitman films I've ever seen.  Nothing too over the top, just straight forward.  I'd like to see Aykroyd pop up in more roles like this.***/**** "},{"Title":"Let's get this into the top 250 films !!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If I was stuck on a desert island with A DVD player and one film - this would be it. (Yeh, I know, Shawshank, Matrix blah blah - but this one's for me) I have seen one or two negative comments on the message boards but they're are in the minority. Besides they need a check-up from the neck-up!John Cusack has been one of my favourite(yes, you Americans - that is how it is spelt!) actors since I first saw 'The Sure Thing'. Hi-Fidelity, Pushing Tin, Being John Malcovich to name some of his noteable successes. Low point for me was Con Air - Casting Director must have had a brain fade!J.C. is a natural. He is one of those actors that loves the camera and the camera loves him.If you haven't seen Gross Pointe Blank - see it! Tomorrow! If not, the day after! You will not be sorry. "},{"Title":"Best movie of the 90's","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen that was made in the 90's. It has superb performances from John Cusack and Dan Aykroyd while Alan Arkin, Hank Akaria, Jeremy Piven,Joan Cusack and Minne Driver deliver good supporting performances.It also boasts the coolest gun fights in any movie apart from Heat that I have seen. Many people have demoaned it for being violent. I say there have been a lot more violent movies than this.Overall I give Grosse Point Blank 10 stars out of 10. If you like gun fights in movies get this and if you like oddball comedies get this. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"It's Grrrreat!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  i thought this was such a fantastic movie.  John Cusack is such an under rated actor, a lot of people do not realize how great he is.  i highly recommend this movie.  Its funny and clever.  Go see it!  I also think that minnie driver is just adorable in the movie.(sigh) "},{"Title":"A hit man returns home.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is Martin Blank, who returns home at the time of his ten-year high school reunion. He is advised to get away from his work for awhile and relax. That seems to be a big task for a professional assassin.Minnie Driver is the prom date he stood up. Dan Aykroyd is a rival hit man. Alan Arkin is Martin's confused shrink. Rounding out the cast is Hank Azaria and Cusack's talented sister, Joan.Fast paced romantic comedy filled with sounds of the 80's.  "}{"Title":"Take a deep breath...","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is virtually flawless.  It combines comedy, romance, and action seamlessly.  The performances all seem natural.  The writing is far more clever than most and the action almost appears realistic.  The characters are intelligent and never act in opposition to the personalities the movie sets up for each of them.   "},{"Title":"It's worth a watch, especially when you don't know Léon yet.","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A comedy about a professional assassin isn't exactly what I would call an average movie. That's why I immediately decided to watch this one. I wasn't really disappointed by it, but I expected more (perhaps because the other users recommend Léon - one of my favorite movies - when you like this one).It's about a professional assassin, Martin Blank, who will have to go back to the little town where he grew up and went to school for a job. Exactly at that time there is also a reunion at his old school. But he doesn't want to go because he doesn't want to be confronted with his prom date who he left 10 years ago at the night of the prom, without telling anything.From time to time this movie is really great, but too often I didn't like it as much as I would like to. I know, after seeing Léon every other assassin looks like a little school girl and John Cusack did a good job, but it wasn't as great as I hoped. I gave this movie a 7/10. It's worth a watch, especially when you don't know Léon yet. "},{"Title":"A Good Hitman Movie One Of The Best Infact.","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is perfect in the role of a Hitman who goes back to his old town to take out a target while at the same time has to attend a high school reunion.i`m not a Minnie Driver fan but i think she looked really pretty in this movie which is another plus point for this film.this movie is good and if you want a movie that has humour placed at the right parts and not all over the place then you`ve come to the right place then i recommend this if you like decent comedy/action movies.this should suit everyone or at least 99.9% of the population it`s a really decent film.rating for this movie 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the most refreshing films of the '90s. The writing is of the highest calibre, and even on the umpteenth viewing still makes me laugh out loud. John Cusack and Minnie Driver share a very believable onscreen chemistry and just to polish it all off, the soundtrack(s) are absolutely fantastic (apart from the absence of Nena's 99 red balloons?!?) This easily makes my top ten of the nineties, and dare I say is even pushing Goodfellas and Shawshank for the top spot. "},{"Title":"A comedy about a hit man who wants to go straight!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I know the premise of Grosse Pointe Blank sounds absurd, but John Cusak is such an engaging actor, as he was in The Grifters, this is a totally enjoyable movie.  Sure, lots of people get shot up, but you know it's a comedy the way everything is presented.  Dan Aykroyd is also quite good as one of the other hit men. And also Minnie Driver as the old high school girlfriend.  For something a bit different, see it!  I gave it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Right on the mark!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Grosse Pointe Blank is one of the wittiest, most original movies of the 90's.  John Cusack is great as the role of Martin Blank, a hitman in a rut going back to his home town Grosse Pointe for his high school reunion, and following him are a bunch of government operatives and assassins, among them, Dan Akroyd and Hank Azaria.  Minnie Driver is witty, smart, and overall excellent as Martin's girlfriend who he stood up at the prom.  The film is a little uneven, like when Martin hangs out with his old buddy Paul ( Jeremy Piven ). It's a little boring, but besides that, the film is outstanding with great action and a lot of laughs.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant all the way through","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Hardly any films are consistently brilliant all the way through, but in Grosse Pointe Blank, there is not one aspect that could have been improved.  It is so refreshing to watch a movie where action set pieces, the comedy and the romance are all as watchable as each other.  You may never use the fast forward button on your remote while watching this, and few other films can boast THAT.  Class. "},{"Title":"This is some really great stuff.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack is extremely cool in this film.  Minnie Driver always thrills me because she looks like a woman that actually exists in real life, yet is as hot any Hollywood star.Other than that, it is a funny, witty script over an interesting plot. Liked it all over.  "},{"Title":"John Cusack","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Watching this movie after 10 year since it was made, I find it incredibly predictable. Probably because I have seen similar story lines over and over again recent years. Probably because one's preference is changing as one grows up and starts to look for different things. By the way, John Cusack is awesome. But there is no reason for me to watch it again. OK, in order for a successful submission, i need more lines. WHy did i watch this film? Eh...I randomly chose one from John's old films. I used to watch one of his films and it was called _yard, which was pretty boring. But i started to like him since then. But It does not appear in the collection of his films. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I've come to really like John Cusack and have been making a big effort to see as many of his films as I can. Looking at all the rave reviews of GPB here on IMDb, I couldn't wait for this one.I needn't have bothered. This is about the shallowest Cusack film I've seen. While John carried his part OK, as did sister Joan, and Minnie wasn't too bad, the rest was a big yawn. Especially Dan Ayckroyd (Why can't anybody spell his name ?) who was just awful, as he's been in nearly everything since Ghostbusters. He can't act, all he can do is be Dan Ayckroyd. Fortunately, his screen time wasn't quite enough to wreck the whole film.To be sure, mixing comedy with action is not easy to pull off and usually doesn't work. Here it almost didn't. John and Joan both have talent for wry, subtle humour and they both used it wisely here. That's all that kept this from becoming yet another slice of American Pie. (blecch!) So, how did the reviewers get this one so wrong? It's not IMDb's fault, it's the moviegoers who are telegraphing to Hollywood that they actually WANT shallow content that doesn't need them to think. I'm kind of disappointed in Cusack & Co. as I know John to be usually above this sort of thing. Maybe he needed the money that week. "}{"Title":"It's Not Me","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" John Cusack stars in this excellent comedy about a hit-man returning to his high school for his ten year reunion. Written by Cusack and his partners, it makes excellent use of John's 'unconventional hero' typecasting, turning him into a lovably vicious contract killer.Cusack is Martin Blank, and his portrayal is uniformly excellent, everything he does evokes some layer of cool. His scenes with Minnie Driver bog the film slightly, she just doesn't seem to carry the same dynamics as his character does, and you end up waiting for the next scene. Luckily, if the next scene involves a confrontation between Cusack's Blank and Dan Aykroyd's Grocer, you are in luck Aykroyd chews scenery as the antagonist hitter who wants Blank in his hit-man union. It's Cusack's scenes with Aykroyd, and his conversations with his secretary Marcella, played by his sister Joan Cusack, that really ignite the movie. Also look for Cusack's friend Jeremy Piven, playing Blank's friend Paul.The ultimate best scene, maybe my second favorite scene of John's career (after the obvious boombox scene), is him fighting for his life in his high school hallway, while English Beat's Mirror In The Bathroom echoes from downstairs. When he plants that cross-kick in the other hitter's chest, I just think EFF YEAH! 10/10 - Cusack leads like a pro, and Aykroyd pulls in his funniest role since Ray Stantz. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining, terribly miscast, predictable feel-good film.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The one and only reason I wanted to watch this film is my recent discovery of some wonderful Cusack films such as Runaway Jury, High Fidelity, Being John Malkovich & Midnight In The Garden Of Good And Evil. It's probably because I had these great films in mind that Grosse Point Blank was such a huge disappointment. The story is predictable, everyone is a miscast( except Cusack and maybe Piven), the pacing is terrible ( the story only gets going after 70 minutes), the music is moderate ( '80s music is not my style), the direction isn't spectacular...Everything about Grosse Point Blank screams mediocrity. There were 3 scenes in the whole film I managed to enjoy the ending scene, the high school reunion kill and the high school reunion arrival. The other scenes were filling to me. Cusack is believable as an assassin to me ( his performance when killing is great) but Akroyd can't even point a gun straight (not to mention his non-existing acting abilities). There weren't a lot of action scenes and if you're thinking well, there's no action but at least I'll get a good laugh once in a while...that's not going to happen. I managed to appreciate some of the humor used but most of it was only mildly entertaining. The storyline wasn't original and very thin.However, even considering all the flaws I mention...Grosse Point Blank isn't a terrible movie. It's okay if you're in the mood for a feel-good movie that doesn't make you think too much. My rating is only 5/10. Cusack, you can do better man.C. "},{"Title":"You whack one millionaire's pet...","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Thoroughly fun black comedy from Hollywood's most underrated talents. John Cusack is perfect as the conscience-stricken hitman, back in his hometown to make one last hit as a pay-off before going straight. Back home he finds FBI agents after him, fellow hitman Dan Ackroyd trying to get him signed up for the Assassin's Union, old school friends who think he's joking about his job and his ex-girlfriend that he stood up at the prom 10 years before. From this rich comic stew there emerges some standout set-pieces - returning to his old house to find a convenience store that's later destroyed in an explosive shoot-out, the embarrassment and new hope of the prom night reunion with Debbie (Minnie Driver), a kick-boxing brawl that ends with the unusual use of a pen. All of these delights are woven together with some great running themes - no-one believes him when Martin confesses his job 'Do you get dental with that?', 'I hear it's a growth industry', Martin's edgy relationship with his shrink (Alan Arkin).Truly original, darkly comic with a standout physical and comic performance for John Cusack, this can be watched many times and never lose it's appeal. A definite buy on any format "}]