[{"Title":"I will never read film reviews again!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that I would have ordinarily RUSHED to the movie theaters to see. It's got all the right elements it's dark comedy, a great female lead, a bizarre storyline...Yet I read reviews that the movie disappoints so I was in no rush to see it. But I finally saw it last night and wow was it great! What terrific performances, esp. from Genevieve Bujold. Posey was as delightful as ever, and even Spelling was able to do a complete 180 in contrast to her usual Bev. Hills type. The dialogue was so witty yet dark. It's a two night rental so for the first time I think I'll see a movie twice in two days! I give this movie a 9 - I would give it a 10 if it weren't for the very predictable ending.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding Small Film","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't listen to reviews that tag this movie with a predictable or poor ending - they don't get it.  The House of Yes is a brilliant adaptation of stage-to-film.  Although the entire movie takes place in a single location, there is no claustrophobic effect - the result of magical cinematography. Each room of the house reveals a new secret, a new mystery.  The acting is superb, due to the amazing range of affect offered by Parker Posey, sharply contrasted by the humorously flattened delivery of the other cast members. The script is flawless, the directing well-hidden.  Nothing about this movie screams This is a cool indie film I just made (hopefully a doomed approach to filmmaking)  This is not Ben Affleck posing as a post-punk Dalai Lama in a waste of celluloid, but a true work of art.  The incest issue is handled with grace, wit, and true affection, not to mention the laugh-out-loud black humor. It's one of my top ten, right up there with True Romance, Naked Lunch and Miller's Crossing.  Again, don't fret over warnings about a predictable ending - the ending is not what it seems.  Think about it. "},{"Title":"House of Fun for the sick-minded and perverse","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The House of Yes is one of my personal favorites.  Is it creepy?  Yes.  Is it funny?  No - it's hysterical, at least to those of us accustomed to laughing at things you're not supposed to laugh about - like bizarre social taboo.  Younger indie fans may not care for this flick, but The House of Yes is not to be compared with the likes of Chasing Amy.  For Parker Posey fans, the film is apples to the oranges of Party Girl, Henry Fool, Clockwatchers, etc.The House of Yes was adapted from Wendy McLeod's play, so it is a dialogue film with its own language - similar to the Coens' Miller's Crossing.  As with Miller's Crossing, the snappy dialogue never misses.  While watching The House of Yes, I've caught myself rewinding to catch a phrase I missed because I was still laughing a the preceding gag.Facial closeups dominate this film, and for reason - the actors' expressions are more telling than the dialogue, delivered flawlessly by every member of the crew - looks you could spread onto a cracker, like when Mama (Bujold) warns her son Marty about Jackie-O's mental state I'm going to baste the turkey, and hide the kitchen knives.The film's biggest surprise Tori Spelling, as a prudish and naiive Pennsylvanian - perhaps her most believable role to date.If there were a Cooperstown for comedic acting, this film alone puts Parker Posey into the Hall of Fame.Highly recommended for the sick-minded and perverse.Miles Keaton Andrew  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Altmanesque Nashville meets 5 & Dime Jimmy Dean","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful Altmanesque cross between Nashville and Come back to the Five and Dime Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean.  This is one obsessive, compulsive, spread-eagled, dysfunctional play, extremely well written and very tight. Parker Posey's best performance yet and extremely well cast all around.I can't recommend it highly enough.  This is the kind of movie worth waiting years for!Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Quirky & Loving it","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When you have a house with 5 insane family members in it, you know it has got to be interesting. The strange mother. The foolish dumb son. The other son who has some kind of past. The girlfriend who reminds me alot or Chrissy &/or Cindy Snow from Three's Company. The daughter, who by far is the craziest insane & jealous person you will meet...played by no other than the incredible Parker Posey! The second this film started, I was hooked. For sure this movie is NOT for everyone. But if you enjoy independant quirky flims, then this is MUST-SEE! Its twisted, perverted, and in some parts mad. In my opinion, Parker has yet to do a bad movie. But if you are not familer with her work, this is a good one to start with. If you like this, you'll enjoy Clockwatchers; Party Girl; Misadventures of Margret. 1-10(10)Z. "},{"Title":"Parker Posey rules the screen!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Doing a film adaptation of a play rarely works, but when it does, as it most assuredly does in this movie, the performances are overwhelming and intoxicating. Parker Posey's characterization will be forever burned into my memory. The House Of Yes is completely enjoyable, even startling, and is a 'must see' excellent piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"One Screwed Up LOT","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about the games between twins and their incestuous relationship.  The whole family is screwed up beyond repair.  Everyone seems to have a really bad hang-up on someone.  The banter among the siblings is hilarious and they set each other up as much as possible to keep their screwed up family ticking.  And the family keeps on ticking.  The acting is very good and the movie flows very quickly.  The ending stays true to the insane qualities of the family.  The reality of this is how would someone get away with murder without somebody asking?  Either someone got away or they got murdered and that just makes me believe the family would be found out and all sent to the looney bin.  Even if you don't like the subject matter, the movie works keeping the characters nutty as all get out.  You should watch this. "},{"Title":"Parker Posey At Her Best!","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very few movies based on plays can be successful, but House of Yes is not one of those that fail. It succeeds where others have failed because of the energy put into a film that is mostly dialog. Parker Posey shines as Jackie-O, the mentally troubled sister of Josh Hamilton and Freddy Prinze Jr. Tori Spelling, whose only other film I have enjoyed was Trick, did a great job of playing Jackie-O's doormat.The movie is at its strongest when Parker bares her sadness, always hidden beneath sarcasm. A classic movie of family dysfunction without playing out the same old tired roles. This family is anything but a typical dysfunctional family and though they all appear to be nuts, part of you wants to run out and find a family just like them, because looking past all of the sarcasm and insults, you sense and feel the love.I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see strong acting. Parker Posey is on top of her game here. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seldom does a movie manage to be at the same time this dark and this funny. Nearly every line of dialogue is wickedly sarcastic--as a playwright, I spent of the time during my first viewing wishing that I could write such biting dialogue.Parker Posey is wonderful, as is Josh Hamilton as her brother-with-benefits. The mother (the actress' name escapes me right now) is also wonderful, despite her deficient screen time. Even Tori Spelling--pariah of good actors everywhere--does a great job as Hamilton's stupid/naive fiancee (a bit of helpful typecasting). In fact, only Freddy Prinze jr. really didn't do that well in this movie, but his performance was by no means bad enough to ruin it. He seemed handily the most awkward of the bunch.At any rate, I wound up watching it again, two days after the first time, and would recommend that anyone who hasn't done so follow my lead.  Not only doesn't it lose anything on second screening, but the whole thing gets better (check out the Posey/Spellling Marty's first girlfriend scene)... "},{"Title":"Los Angeles, California","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One would think that Tori Spelling being in the cast of this movie would immediately signal its poor quality, but The House of Yes is a rare exception to that rule. Dark, twisted, and wickedly funny, one can't help but be drawn into the delusional world of Jackie O. Her family can't seem to either, as they revolve around her, half in reality and half out. This strange, surreal dynamic drives the film, and brings most of the comedy. A definite must see for fans of Parker Posey, and for anyone who considers themselves knowledgeable in the world of indie film. "}{"Title":"Trite, predictable and poorly acted","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very poor!I am very tired of these kinds of movies. They seem to be a reaction against Hollywood. And in the end these independent movies are just as trite and empty.The first 5 minutes are intriguing and comedic. Afterwards, you get the sense that it becomes more and more of a play. Which I am not sure that there is any purpose in filming a play. I would imagine that the play would be a lot better. With the psychological dimension, a play can bring the viewer to imagine more than a film. But to film basically a play, you get the least of both world, in my opinion. Unless it is done in a very original way, like dogville. This movie just seemed trite and transparent to me. "},{"Title":"theater of the absurd is so over","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this 1997 film of an earlier play is the proof. there's just too much real absurdity going on. Genevieve Bujold as the disconnected mother is the best thing in it, but these days, that isn't saying much, because so many people are disconnected. What there is of a plot about sibling incest and insanity is today totally predictable. A few (too few)funny lines. no one seems to know quite what to do with Parker Posey, except Christopher Guest, in his wonderful mockumentaries, in which she's very funny. Here, she just seems strained. Tori Spelling is quite appealing as the only normal character, a donut shop waitress who lands in a pretentious upscale family. "},{"Title":"As a showcase for Parker Posey, interesting; on its own, fairly dire...","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From Wendy MacLeod's play about a 1963 Thanksgiving reunion between a young man and his peculiar family, including a twin sister who is obsessed with Jacqueline Kennedy. Oppressively set in a shadowy house during a raging storm, this head-scratching talk-fest quickly tires both the eye and the ear. The scenario is full of dreary eccentrics, although Parker Posey's 'Jackie-O' is a dark, original creation unto herself. The actress, known for going out on a limb with basically unplayable roles, manages to walk a fine line between comically scabrous and downright scary (which, in an otherwise boring movie, is a triumph). Other performances by Josh Hamilton, Tori Spelling, Freddie Prinze, Jr., and a sadly under-valued Genevieve Bujold are not quite as on-target, mainly due to the sophomoric writing. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The writing kills this.....","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adapted from Wendy MacLeod's play with almost no apparent changes for better or worse, director Mark Waters penned this screenplay about the incest between a Jackie Onassis-obsessed girl and her obliging brother.From start to finish, the air is filled with intellectual dialogue like What? and I don't know, including the padded repeating of several lines like What do you do all day? - five times in a row, that one. The acting is small-time all around except for the appealing performances of Genevieve Bujold and Tori Spelling as a spooky mother and waifish fiancé, respectively. Sometimes interesting dark comedy has occasional eerie moments if one can get past the JFK assassination 'parody'.Pretty good title, anyway. "},{"Title":"Wanted to like it, but didn't!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh my, how I really tried to like this movie. Very funny and sardonic lines here and there, good actors (well almost, but Tori Spelling actually does a good job here) and an interesting plot. But sadly, everything was in vain for me, because I just couldn't stand the pretentious tone of everything. I snickered a couple of times but more often I looked at the clock, expecting something to happen. Well it did, but not until the last quarter of the movie. I saw it, but was not amused! "},{"Title":"The House of No","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this movie may seem to have an interesting premise, it is as the reviewer said, intensely claustrophobic. The movie's tension builds but doesn't really go anywhere and makes you feel like you are trapped for eternity in this house with these people.One must wonder why this movie was made...what is the point of it? What is it trying to teach us? No one in the history of the earth would stay in that house for more than 5 minutes, and the fact that this movie is trying to tell us the these people began and ended their lives in this house is terrible. ACH! "},{"Title":"The house of maybe","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In The House of Yes Posey plays a nut case who calls herself Jackie-O, dresses like Jacqueline Onassis, and likes to have incestuous liaisons with her brother while doing impromptu reenactments of the Kennedy assassination. A claustrophobic dark ensemble theatrical knock-off, this stagey flick relies on the nonstop repartee of its quirky characters for entertainment as it is devoid of just about everything we go to movies to see. People and talk is all you'll get with The House of Yes which squeaks by with a script just clever enough to shore up a marginal concept. Okay fodder for those into dark, sardonic, and misanthropic comedy. (B-) "},{"Title":"Parker Posey, Bless You","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A mentally unbalanced young woman (Parker Posey) who thinks she is Jackie Kennedy flips into a murderous rage when her brother returns home to reveal he is engaged.Why does it always seem that Parker Posey never rises above a B-list actress? She is exquisite here, was great in Waiting for Guffman, and is just a joy to watch. he should be in so many more high profile movies. Heck, I don't know what she does these days (perhaps she is on a show I don't watch).But anyway, what a dark, twisted and irreverent twist on the Kennedy assassination. While it should not be something to joke about, neither should mental illness or incest. And yet, this is what the film does, all together, and presents a very nice movie. Not laugh out loud, but just offbeat enough to be enjoyable for those who love subversion. "},{"Title":"Stupid Stupid and Stupid!","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What kind of filth is this? Who would be bothered watching it? It's the worst film out there. We are talking about a girl who thinks she's 'the' Jackie Kennedy and at the same time, she's a psychopath who wants to kill her brothers fiancé. For what reason? Absolutely nothing because she's just a whiny silly woman who needs to get a life! Honestly, it's the most stupidest film on the planet and lemme tell ya, I can say a thousand words to describe how awful this movie truly is!I would imagine the real Jackie Kennedy looking at this and think it's the worst movie to even talk about her. I say, she would be disappointed that Parker Posey's character is copying her and believe me, she probably would file a lawsuit! It's such a poorly made film, it's even a bad reputation for the real Jackie Kennedy! Please don't waste your time looking at this, it's disgusting! "},{"Title":"Not as tasteless as it might sound","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Writing recently about Happy Tears gave me pause to think about my trajectory as a Parker Posey fan which began in the mid 90's with Party Girl. Unfortunately the indie cult status of Party Girl means it has a very very very long wait on Blockbuster.com. They might as well admit that it will never ship. However today The House of Yes arrived in the mail. This is a brilliant, wicked film that might suffer from the accusation of being pretentious with it's over indulged, privileged characters and lightning fast witty dialogue. The story is that Marty Pascel (Josh Hamilton) has made the unbelievable blunder of bringing his mousey girlfriend (Tori Spelling) home to meet his wealthy, dysfunctional family on the very night they will all be virtually trapped together by a hurricane. The driving force of the family and the movie as a whole is Parker Posey as Marty's sister, Jackie-O. She in step with the weather outside is pretty much an evil, brilliant, psychotic (with the pills to prove it) bitch in a little black dress. An unhealthy obsession with Jackie Onassis and Marty are icing on the cake. Worse yet for the poor girlfriend, once back in the fold, Marty does very little to discourage Jackie-O and ultimately joins in her twisted games. Nothing ends well here unless you see the world through Jackie-O's eyes that is.House of Yes also contains perhaps my favorite line of dialogue ever - If people are going to start telling the truth around here, I'm going to bed.If your experience with Parker Posey is one of You've Got Mail and Scream 3 or worse yet Superman Returns, I suggest taking a trip back to the 90's to see how she earned the title queen of the indies. "}{"Title":"A scary possibility","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yar, thar be spoilers ahead, matey.I love showing this movie to people who have no idea what to expect of it. The same thing happens every time when Mrs. Pascal explains to Leslie that when Marty and Jackie were born, Jackie had her hand on Marty's penis, my friend's jaw drops, they stare at the screen for half a second, and then they turn to me and say either did she just say what I think she just said? or could you please rewind that? I don't think I heard it correctly.Later on, when the three siblings have their little conversation and Anthony finds out about Marty and Jackie's relationship, I like to turn to my friends and ask, hey, does this movie have enough evil coming in from all directions for you or what? This is, quite frankly, an excellent freak-out movie. It's good the first time, great the second time, but loses its kick after that.One thing that I've been wondering about Marty and Jackie claim that their thing has been going on for about Anthony's entire life. I can't help but notice that Anthony is a bit slow. Also, Jackie went into a hospital when she was about fourteen. If you can't see where I'm going with this, I'll spell it out is it possible that Anthony is Marty and Jackie's kid?  "},{"Title":"New addition to the Parker Posey fan club","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had no idea what this movie was about when I picked it up at my local video rental store.  There was the usual late Fri/Sat night assortment of movies available -- next to nothing.  I don't think I'd ever even heard of it.  To tell you the truth, I'm not sure what prompted me to select it.  And if I'd realized Tori Spelling was in it, I might not have.  But the young lady at the check-out said, Good choice.  You'll really like this movie. Was she ever right!  In a day and age when hype surrounds almost everything having to do with Hollywood and entertainment, this was one of those pristine moments when you are allowed to go into something without the slightest prejudice or preconception.  I was the perfect laboratory subject, so to speak.The plot essentially revolves around a well-off family living in upper-class suburban DC (McLean, Va., to be exact).  The oldest son, Marty (Josh Hamilton), who resides in New York City, brings his new fiancee (Tori Spelling) home for the first time to meet his rather eccentric family.This is the first film I've seen with Parker Posey.  She was absolutely brilliant -- and stunningly beautiful -- as Marty's twin sister, Jackie O.  From the first scene, she simply dominated this movie -- but in a positive way.  When she wasn't on camera, you still couldn't help but think about her.  That's not a slight to the other actors, all of whom were excellent (even Tori!).  Nor is it a slight to the plot or the script, which were exquisite as well.  Rather, it is simply an homage to the strength of the character in the story and the compelling performance put in by Posey.  To sum it up, she is Exhibit A for the prosecition of why brunettes will in the end always be sexier than blondes.  They just have that aura of mystery and intricacy that makes them totally bewitching.I would also have to single out Freddie Prinze, Jr. for his performance as the younger brother.  This is also the first movie I've seen him in.  And although he is better known now (1999) than when this movie originally came out (1997), I actually didn't realize it was him until the credits ran at the end.  He undoubtedly benefits from playing the second-most compelling character in the story (behind Jackie O), but he pulls it off with surprising aplomb.I'm reluctact to divulge more about the movie, as I would prefer that others experience it in the same pristine state that I did.  All the more likely, I feel, that you will be as equally delighted with it as I was.  I will just make a few comments that will address some of what has been written here by others about the flick.  First, several people criticized the movie as being too much like a play (the movie was in fact adapted from a play).  Frankly, I found that to be a blessing.  The movie was compact, quick-paced, and riveting.  Rather than heap in a bunch of unnecessary fluff, the producers chose to put out a movie that runs (astonishingly) 87 minutes.  It is arguably more like a short story.  But again, to my mind, that kept it crisp and absorbing.  You wanted to savor every minute (and perhaps watch it twice, as I did!).Second, some have criticized the ending as being too predictable.  While ideally a more surprising conclusion might have been crafted, could there really have been any other ending to this story?  Let's face it, few movies have completely unexpected endings.  Perhaps the best solution would have been, as someone else has suggested occurs in the play, for the story to end a bit more ambiguously.   Nevertheless, to criticize the ending, which comes quick and fairly painless (unlike some films that drone on and on and on before finally giving you an utterly predictable conclusion) is to place too much emphasis on what it ultimately a minor facet of the story.  The real joy of this film is watching the characters interact with one another.  From that standpoint, any ending was destined to be unsatisfactory.What this films does -- in contrast to most films these days -- is to leave the audience wanting more at the end.  That virtue should not be lost on anyone.  "},{"Title":"A street car named Nasty","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" House of Yes starts weird, gets unpleasant, then malicious, then off the charts icky, then it becomes nasty, etc.. Presumably it does this in a very conscious attempt to become a cult movie with the blackest humor in about twenty years. And if you can make it all the way through, you're the hippest viewer left standing! some reward. It's such a harangue that sensitive viewers will be turned off, anti-social viewers will be happy to see middle-class values punctured, and thoughtful viewers will just see it as a machine for provocation. The story is an escalating series of irritants A girl waits for her brother to visit from college. We learn she has pretty bad taste, but that's excused because she's insane. But she's insane because she has an incestuous relationship with her twin brother. But her twin brother shows up with a fiancée. Then, amateurish verbal tics start to accumulate, upstaging the material (She's not a fiancé, she's a fee-OHN-SAY). Then the girl humiliates the fiancé, with about thirty cruel remarks. Then the girl and the twin brother let their sexual boundaries lapse in front of the others, and start touching inappropriately. etc. That's about the first half an hour. All of this heads nowhere... except to a reenactment of the moment she almost killed him reenacting the Kennedy assassination.It's very difficult to put your head into the mind of its makers and imagine who the target demographic is for this; which means it's extremely hard to imagine how it got made... how someone sat through the play and thought, Incest... humor... psychosis... this will make a terrific movie! The stagey script makes annoying use of a cutesy device where characters repeat lines twice, or even three times before they can move on. A character will say Marty's coming home. the 2nd character will say, Marty's coming home? and then back to character one who says I said, Marty's coming home. This becomes irritating extremely fast. Three minutes don't pass without a repeated line. It's like listening to people act out a flowchart.I used to think the humor in this outweighed the Ick factor (it's why I own a copy) but then I grew up. This was my first Parker Posey movie. And as always, she's sly and memorable. But now after seeing her other movies, this is really a piece of nastiness. It's made competently for a low budget, but it's almost mannerist in how off-putting it is. I'm not a believer in the idea that I need to like the characters in a piece, but I haven't seen a decent movie yet where I actively dislike everyone on screen. "},{"Title":"Psychosis and incest on the east coast.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first noticed The House of Yes, I saw it billed as a comedy. Dark humor, or black comedy as it's sometimes called, is not for everybody, and while I usually appreciate the attempt, here it just falls slightly short. Dealing with serious, deep, dark issues such as mental illness and incest, this film dove head first into the dark comedy lair, but unfortunately for my tastes, had a difficult time making its point. The film proves a couple of things for sure, family messes with your mind, and no matter what your standing or station in life, your family is the one place you are always greeted back with open arms. Parker Posey is amazing as the mentally disturbed sister the film centers around. The family itself bows to her every wish and the question finally becomes who in this twisted family is really the most crazy, and can anyone really leave the big empty house once they enter. One's sanity is in jeopardy as you begin to know each character, or family member, and while Posey plays the crazy one, at times she seems the most sane. This film was taken from a play, and that is evident here. With very few characters and the house in Washington being the only setting, the movie has a live theater feel. Overall the film just treads a bit too much on the dark side for even my tastes, despite its valiant effort to redeem itself in the end. If nothing else however, Parker Posey may be worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Sick, not funny","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was sick, not to mention completely unrealistic.  Jackie-O would definitely be locked up at this point in time.  There is no way the doctors who diagnosed her illness would let her roam free after she shot her brother!  Despite the fact that Jackie O's lines were very well written and well delivered, I did not find any of this movie to be funny.  I found the character of Jackie O to be very annoying.  She is spoiled, and criticizes people she thinks are hicks, yet she's sleeping with her own brother.  The whole time I was rooting for Lesly (Tori Spelling) to run away from there as fast as she could!  It bothered me that she would sleep with Marty's brother, because I thought possibly they were writing one character who wasn't screwed up.  Not to mention the fact that if a normal person found out their fiance was sleeping with his sister, they would dump the guy right there and leave.  The mother was also not amusing because she allows this psycho (Jackie O) to continue with her behavior and doesn't even care. Although I know the writers were going for being shocking and portraying a very abnormal family, this movie was sick and not at all humorous.  It's too bad I wasted 90 minutes of my day subjecting myself to these awful characters and ridiculous storyline.  If the story had any chance of being amusing, the writers would have had Jackie O be the only abnormal character and have her imagining this whole love affair with her brother.  Writing everyone crazy and weird was just too much. "},{"Title":"Even Posey can't save annoying film","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've been a big fan of Parker Posey ever since DAZED AND CONFUSED, and while I haven't been able to see all her films, I consistently enjoy her work. She reminds me of the actresses of the 30's and 40's like Bette Davis, Barbara Stanwyck, and Ginger Rogers, who had glamour but also a strong personality and presence.  And the role of Jackie O in this movie certainly gives her a chance to go for it.  And, to be fair, Posey is good at showing the pain under the bravura front.  But she can't save this movie.  The fact that it's a filmed play isn't a problem, nor is it being an incest comedy (after all, David O. Russell made a pretty good one with SPANKING THE MONKEY).  No, the problem is it's all too obvious and overly symbolic, and the dialogue is annoying because it's not half as clever as it thinks. Also, while Genevieve Bujold is good as always as the mother, the rest of the cast stunk.  I've heard Freddie Prinze Jr. is a nice guy, but he's got a long way to go as an actor.  For a good Posey film, skip this and rent PARTY GIRL. "},{"Title":"House of Yes is a resounding YES !","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As anyone who has read my reviews knows, I like to promote movies that, by no fault of their own, no one seems to have heard of. House of Yes is one of them.This is a dark comedy about a strange family, but it hits with every scene where they attempt humor. The lines are irreverent, witty, cutting, and hilarious. Parker Posey IS THE MOVIE. As great as Genevieve Bujold is, and she is, Parker still is the movie. Even Tori Spelling is great, and how many Tori Spelling movies do you know of? If you like a comedy that has so many quotable lines coming at you fast and furious, see this movie. You will most likely re watch it again , as you have to to process all the great , hilarious lines coming at you and the Daffiness of Parker Posey. If you like to laugh, SEE THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"Cozy","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The eccentric nature of this film initially caught me off guard because the writer seems to be going for surprising rather than expected. I choose to say that because the viewer never knows what might happen next. For example, Posey tapes masking tape in the shape of an X on the windows of their luxury home and when asked why she's doing this, she says she saw it on the news and after this they move on to another random activity that fits into the setting. Never boring, the random events come together well. While the incestuous relationship between the twins is predominantly one-sided with Jackie-O being obsessed with Marty, Marty continues to feed his sister's desires by playing the role of John F. Kennedy even though he knows his sister is on medication. Their mother suggests to Lesly, Marty's fiancé that she is a symbol of purity for Marty and that she should go away or inevitably leave without Marty because he isn't. Anthony, played by Freddie Prinze Jr., was unnecessary to the film because you could literally delete his character and not much would change. When he annoys Lesly in her room, I as a viewer was also annoyed because I was anxious to get back to the more interesting developments in the film. The mother could remain because she adds an interesting layer to because of the mysterious death of the father and the mother's view of her incestuous twins. Tori Spelling and Parker Posey had good chemistry together. *spoiler alert* When Marty decides to be with the symbol of purity character Lesly over his maniacal twin sister, the narrative lost some of its power. He had just spent the night making love to his sister. His fiancé, Lesly, spent the night having sex with his brother Anthony, yet they still decide to be together even though they had gone through this experience of sexual promiscuity. I don't mean to say they should have cared more. I think the writer should have explained in a more thorough way why the characters would make the decisions they made. Overall, it was a good film and worth a watch. "},{"Title":"The House That Jack Built","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On Thanksgiving 1983, twenty years after US President John F. Kennedy's assassination, the wealthy Pascal family of Virginia prepare for a stormy reunion. Recently released from a psychiatric institution, attractive Parker Posey (as Jacqueline Jackie O Pascal) takes center stage. She remains there, for the most part. Arriving home is Ms. Posey's twin brother Josh Hamilton (as Marty). His surprise for the family is fiancée Tori Spelling (as Lesly), a donut shop clerk. She arouses attention from the twins' younger brother Freddie Prinze Jr. (as Anthony). We know there are going to be some serious sexual problems when family matriarch Genevieve Bujold tells Ms. Spelling her twins are so close, Jackie's hand was holding Marty's penis when they came out of the womb....As you'll see, she has a hard time letting go...Mark Waters took this story from Wendy MacLeod's play, without giving us many reasons why it shouldn't have remained there. The inserted footage of the real Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, whom Posey emulates, reveals the actress' hair and make-up are off the mark. The pink outfit with pill box hat is recognizable, though. Other than that, Posey offers an interesting but insensitive characterization. It is not impersonation and the association of President and Mrs. Kennedy with this family's insanity lacks depth. It's happenstance. The film is promoted as a comedy, with the quotes Dark, Clever Comedy! (GQ Magazine) and Bitingly Funny! (Elle) prominently featured. However, the film is not very funny. The comic aspects likely worked better in the stage production.**** The House of Yes (9/12/97) Mark Waters ~ Parker Posey, Josh Hamilton, Tori Spelling, Freddie Prinze Jr. "},{"Title":"Sometimes people just don't know how to say no.","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A small-scale personal drama with plenty of barbed one-liners, pitch-black comedy and disturbing subject matter starring Parker Posey in one of her best ever roles, if you're not already sold on this movie then shame on you.The story revolves around Jackie-O Pascal (played by Posey), a young woman who is slightly . . . . . . unwell in the head. She stays with her brother (Freddie Prinze Jr.) and mother (Genevieve Bujold) in the family home. Everything is about to get quite tense when the other brother (Josh Hamilton) comes to visit, bringing a fiancé (Tori Spelling) with him. Jackie-O struggles to maintain a civil facade as her jealousy bubbles up to the surface and her mental state worsens.Adapted from a play by Wendy MacLeod, The House Of Yes doesn't need any major dressing or stylistic flourishes to impress. It gets by on the strength of the source material, the fine dialogue voiced by some great actors. Even Freddie Prinze Jr. and Tori Spelling come across well, that's how good the material is.Posey is simply unforgettable in the main role, as appealing as she is clearly disturbed. It's the kind of role that people need to remember she's capable of, it's a tour de force. Josh Hamilton works well opposite her and gets a lot of the more amusing and disturbing dialogue exchanges. Freddie Prinze Jr. is effectively naive and apparently innocent while Tori Spelling is bemused and increasingly exasperated with the strange household she finds herself in. Genevieve Bujold isn't on screen for long but makes a great impression with every moment she has.Director Mark Waters, who also adapted the play, handles everything perfectly. It may not be the most cinematic film that you'll ever see but it's something that plays out like a cross between Neil LaBute and David Mamet. And that's a solid endorsement, in my view. "}{"Title":"It's interesting, but in no way a comedy","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" --- MAJOR SPOILERS ---I have to disagree with all the comments calling this a black comedy. I think it's only funny to the extent that it causes shocked, nervous laughter at incest, insanity and the damage done by a badly dysfunctional family. Maybe it's because I'm no longer a young person. I've seen all of these things in real life so the shock value's worn away.From my perspective, this was a creepy, uncomfortable look into this disaster of a family, just as it all finally, inevitably, comes apart. There's no protecting Jackie-O this time, and mom's in for a little court-enforced vacation of her own (a long one if daddy's really buried in the backyard). I expect Anthony to hang himself the first night he's left alone in the house.But other than it being mislabeled as a comedy/drama, it was fascinating. Wonderful, fast-paced dialog. Beautifully acted. Everyone here talks about Parker Posey's work, and I agree it's an excellent performance. But I particularly enjoyed watching Josh Hamilton as Marty. Watch his face during that last scene. Marty knows what's about to happen, but realizes he simply doesn't have it inside him to thwart Jackie-O.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Excellent screen adaption up to the ending which fails.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The entire movie itself is a very good screenplay adaptation. I have the play itself and it's, for the most part, word for word.  The ending, however, is not as ambiguous as it needs to be (like it is in the actual play).  I don't like the fact that Jackie-O is narrating.  It answers the question Was the father really killed too clearly for my taste. "},{"Title":"Just say yes to The House of Yes.","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film's thick and pervasive irony requires a sophisticated sense of humor. Starring Freddie Prinze, Jr., and the inimitable Tori Spelling, The House of Yes didn't give me great expectations, but for Parker Posey I was willing to take the risk. It turned out to be perhaps the most original comedy I've ever seen and one of my new favorite films. Naive reviewers and low ratings here on IMDb have confirmed my suspicion that most people completely miss the point of this film. There is nothing earnest or straightforward in the least about the story or the dialog. Writer Wendy McLeod and director Mark Waters are trying to do for film and theater (certain genres of them, at least) what A Mighty Wind did for folk music, or Best in Show did for dog shows. Although, I contend that The House of Yes accomplishes this parody in a vastly more ruthless and consistently incisive way than Christopher Guest could ever dream.The entire film is poking fun at all things trite, melodramatic, and self-serious about modern film and theater. From the narrative, the characters, and the setting, to the direction, cinematography, and dialog (especially the dialog), The House of Yes is not a film but a caricature of a film, adapted from a play that is the caricature of a play. Anyone who has read or seen a few modern plays will recognize the stilted, stylized dialog and the actors' artificial, super-sincere interpretations. Wendy McLeod is no idiot; she has a post-graduate degree in theater from Yale. She's not writing this doggerel in earnest; she's making fun of other people's doggerel. I mean, c'mon.In less skillful hands, this film could easily have slipped into the realm of burlesque. If, for the sake of humor, you want to point out lots of annoying, hackneyed film and theater conventions, you run the risk of making an especially annoying film. But I think, for the most part, McLeod and Waters dodged this bullet. Not every line in the film hits the perfect chord, but a surprising majority of them do.The House of Yes is not typical as a dark comedy, as a cult film, or as any other film genre. I've never seen anything else like it. If you're smart and have a wicked sense of irony, you'll love The House of Yes. If you can't recognize a joke without a laugh track, I recommend There's Something About Mary. "},{"Title":"Movie about family values","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" No wait, hear me out.This movie is, like another reviewer posted, a lot like a car accident. Your voyeuristic tendencies kick in, and you can't help but watching it.First off, this movie was based around a play. So get prepared for a lot of dialogue and a lot of one-room scenes.Second, I firstly got interested in this movie because Parker Posey was in it. Wrong. I mean, yes, she puts in one heck of a performance. But so does everybody else in this movie.Third, her obsession with Jackie O, and the Kennedy assassination is pretty psycho. But then again, anybody who lived through the Kennedy assassination knows that the entire country was struck by it. As Kevin Costner said in JFK, I don't feel like an American anymore. This movie is one of my definite favorites. I'm giving it a 10 just for the writing of the screenplay. Not to mention the wonderful, if horrendous, scenes in which all the actors play. If I could, I'd give it an 11.In conclusion, this is not the way that families should operate. Only by looking at the bad, can we discern what's good. That explains my title. Although, however messed up those family values are. "},{"Title":"Parker Posey is brilliant!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Except for the subject matter, this movie has the feel of a 1930's screwball comedy. The dialog is so quick and well-timed, it's almost as if the actors had taken the show on the road to work out the pacing before filming. Parker Posey leads an extremely well- balanced cast, with the exceptional support of Genevieve Bujold.  "},{"Title":"Top Five","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is in my top five, a very eclectic list. I happened upon it years ago in Blockbuster of all places. This was before they had their indie film section. Typically I would walk through looking for movies that they only had one of. Parker Posey is riveting, she plays the part of a mentally unstable individual all too well. Unlike other people on this site I will not give away any plot lines but it is a MUST see. Do not be swayed by Tori Spelling and Freddie Prinze Jr. They do a surprisingly amazing job also. Rent it, own it, love it.  "},{"Title":"Disturbingly worth watching","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, watch the movie with an open mind and listen to the dialogue. It was like watching a car wreck You don't want to watch, but you are drawn to the carnage and cannot step away. Parker Posey is fantastic in her is she crazy or just disturbed portrayal of Jackie O.Second, this is one of those movies where you mention it to another movie buff and he/she immediately shudders. Give the movie a chance. You may hate it, but you won't forget it. "},{"Title":"Cool Flick - But why cast Tori Spelling?!?!?!?!?!?!?","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film!  It was very entertaining.  Lots of fun.  The characters were insanely fun.  The script was truly comical and the acting was also good.  I liked the story line and although it was on the sick side....that's what this film had going in its favor!  It was unpredictable and edgy.  A nice change!  I've been wanting to pick this film up for years since I first saw it on the video store shelf...Boy am I glad I did.  We all were very entertained!But Why?!?!?!?  Oh Why!??!?!?!  Would ANYONE cast Tori Spelling - in anything?!?!?!?!?  This film lost one whole point on my 1 to 10 scale because of her!  She's just sooooooo awful that she actually brought the whole film down.  She's the reason I hadn't picked the film up for years.... A number of interesting actresses could have been cast in this pivotal part.  I think this film would have done much better at the box office if that awful excuse for an actress hadn't been in this otherwise entertaining film.  Parker Posey was just priceless in her role as Jackie-O!  And Josh Hamilton and Freddie Prinze Jr were totally fun in their parts too!If you just want to have a good laugh and not think about a lot .... this might just be your film!  Thumbs up for this production..... "},{"Title":"Parker Posey is a genius","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are so many quirky little details to this film, I couldn't even begin to explain.  If you enjoy dark comedy, this movie comes highly recommended. Posey thinks she is Jackie O and she has her whole family convinced to call her that.  Tori Spelling is wonderful as the innocent Lesley.  The twists and turns of this movie are like a rollercoaster!!  Watch it!!  "},{"Title":"one of my all time favorites!","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Incestial witty good fun. A new kind of interesting. The humor is fast and in your face. I just don't see movies like this ever. Most are too scared to make fun of touchy matters to this extent or they try so hard to be artistic that it becomes horribly boring. If u don't suck you'd enjoy it. Hey if Parker Posey was my sis and she looked like Rachael Leigh Cook when she was young, i would support incest even more so then the way half you retards support those idiot ants marching(aka troops). Every character plays the perfect role for the kind of actor or actress they are. Such as Parker playing another Insane bitch, and Freddie Prince playing a moron. Great movie if your open minded. Not the kinda movie to watch if u hide behind worthless moral values given by people who worship things that don't exist. "}{"Title":"Funny, But A Bit too Stagey","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very dark, funny little movie. Parker Posey is tremendous, and most of the film exists as little more than a set-up for her character. My only real complaint is the stilted, stagey way the dialog is delivered. It feels like they are going for a 1930's Broadway play vibe, a twisted Rogers and Hart show, and the acting shows that direction. On a live stage, I'm sure it wouldn't have been noticeable; but the delivery is conspicuous when captured on camera. Still enjoyable, but the effect is distracting. See it for Parker Posey, and for a surprising Tori Spelling, and try not to worry too much about what happens at the end. "},{"Title":"Family dysfunction at it's funniest","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw a preview for this film about three years ago and had thought it looked like a very interesting movie, but I soon forgot about it.  On February 4, 2000, I saw scream 3 and noticed what a great actress Parker Posey was.  I had seen her previously in Dazed and Confused and she was absolutely hysterical, so I wanted to see other movie with her in it.  That is when I remembered the preview of the house of yes.  So I rented it, expecting a few good laughs.  What I got was one of the funniest dark comedies ever made.It starts off simple enough A sister waiting for her twin brother to come home for thanksgiving (did I mention that she is obsessed with the Kennedy assasination and wears a copy of the outfit Jackie Kennedy was wearing when her husband murdered.  And, oh yeah, she had sex with her twin brother when they were in their early teens). Anyways, she his disturbed to find out her brother is brining a friend home with him.  He also happens to be engaged to this friend.  Jackie O.(Posey) does not take this news too well. She is actually p****d off royaly (I almost forgot to say that she spent a quite a while in a mental hospital when her brother left).You'll have to find out the rest yourself.  It is worth the rent.  And surprisingly, Tori Spelling is tollerable as the brothers girlfriend.  This also features a great supporting cast including Freddie Prinz Jr., Josh Hamilton, Genevieve Bojould, and Rachel Leigh Cook as Posey's younger counterpart.  "},{"Title":"SORRY, I'M ALL OUT OF PAPER","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's not waste time or mince words.  THOY is a filthy, degenerate, work stage or film without any redeeming value save the fact that it smokes out the Lofty Lefties.  It's not even amusing which comes as a great surprise because family insanity and incest usually just cracks me up.  The L. L. be easy to spot as they jerk and quiver with delight stumbling over each other frantically trying to explain what it all really means and moreover what it teaches us about ourselves.  Move on Bozo, I'm not in the mood.  THOY is the cinematic equivalent of a slick and well-polished bowel movement.  Don't soil yourself by buying into the psycho babble that predicates and vainly tries to justify this stuff. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why is it that some users feel that people who don't like this movie are inane babbling fools or right-wingers?  I am neither and I despised this film.  I agree with the comment that the dialogue is not half as clever as it thinks it is--nothing the characters say is particularly noteworthy.  Parker Posey is a talented actress but Jackie comes off like a young woman whose mental disturbance has been heightened by her family's indulgence.  Put simply, she's a brat.  I found myself sympathizing with Tori Spelling's character often.  I was pleasant surprised by Ms. Spelling's capability in her role.  All of the actors (except, perhaps, for Prinze) did well with what they were given, but what they were given isn't much. "},{"Title":"Tori Spelling shines...who would've thunk it","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now here's a movie about some sick people.  Still, it does pull you in and, for the most part, holds your attention.  The highlight is a surprising performance from Tori Spelling.  While Parker Posey's performance isn't bad, there's just nothing original about it.  You have to try hard to forgive the filmmakers for the ending which is so predictable it's pitiful.  "},{"Title":"Fans of Parker Posey will love this movie","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The subject matter (incest) may turn some viewers off, but actually it is handled quite well and is not offensive.  The acting and dialogue are outstanding.  The family is crazy, but then don't we all have some nutty relatives. "},{"Title":"Motherhood and Pennsylvania defined","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two lines from this film I cannot get out of my head; when Lesly (Spelling) is confronted by Mrs. Pascal (Bujold) after her tryst with her fiancé's brother, she blurts, You were spying on us! Mrs. Pascal replies, Mothers don't spy. Mothers pay attention. Never have I heard the household omniscience that seems to come with maternity explained so well.And when poor innocent Lesly reveals where she comes from originally, Jackie-O replies mockingly, She comes from Pennsylvania. Well, Pennsylvania's just this state that's in your way when you want to get someplace else. I just about broke up when I heard that, and wish it could be posed on all road entrances to the rather stick-in-the-mud state I lived in at the time. "},{"Title":"Good filmed play.","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I still don't know what to think about  films like this, which are not more  than a play that happens to be filmed. Very good screenplay, good acting,  specially Posey and amazingly, Spelling.Predictive ending. Good analysis  about feeling comfortable with your own, even though it's a very weird own.  "},{"Title":"Must see for Parker Posey and Tori Spelling Fans!","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To the folks that think Ms Spelling did not turn in a good performance-I disagree. I was pleased with the drama she showed. She was still a young actress and has of course improved with age, but she was lithe and active and in this film I noticed she has the most perfectly formed hands and forearms of any actress on film. Not sure why I noticed this but if you watch again, look for this. She should use this feature to full effect. She also has a bit of a striking profile and eyes, similar to some other famous actors on stage. She could use her eyes to show more emotion. She showed her range to more effect when she was showing concern for the other characters. Parker Posey, of course, was in her full glory in this performance. She showed great skill with the acting process. If you listen to the film without watching the action, you see that she uses her voice to great effect. She truly stole this show. Ms Bujold of course exhibits great range of craft, so great to see her always. To top off the show, there is a cameo by a young Rachael Lee Cook. Fine performances by the men. Overall unique experience! "},{"Title":"I say YES to  The  House of Yes","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most perverse and disturbing black comedies I've seen. And also one of the most well written, well acted and hilarious. I enjoy watching a film that is like watching a stage play (which of course this was based upon). Parker Posey is great as always, as well as everyone else. I thought Tori Spelling was surprisingly good as the innocent yet not so innocent fiancée. This is the best dysfunctional family film I've seen. An extremely offbeat and very funny...satire? Not for everyone, but much more intelligent and clever than most movies today. A great and very underrated film. And I might add, one of the best films of the 1990's. "}{"Title":"Twisted and terrific","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This seems to one of those films that you're either going to love or hate. I happen to fall unapologetically into the former category, though I can easily see why others disagree. It's Whit Stillman meets Hal Hartley meets David Mamet meets Fight Club in its warped comedic sensibility, and if you're down with that...well, pleased to meet you.The film is based on Wendy MacLeod's stage play, and Mark Waters allows it to wear that on its sleeve. It's all about the dialogue, which isn't like anything what the characters would actually say, but it's hard to doubt that it's what they feel.If you like deadpan humor, you need to see this one. Oh yeah, and Parker Posey has never been more fun to watch. "},{"Title":"very very good,funny and dramatic but not scary.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie roughly looks like classic comedies that make their jokes by exaggerating the scenes of classical horror movieshurricane,a big house,insane women in it,electricity goes off-the candles come... And/or the movie is joking about the classical psychological dramasabondened mother,incest,murders?...But it is in not either or maybe it is both plus.The House of Yes is a good funny psychological drama.The characters are well outlined and nicely played.Marthy is the man wanted by everybody,because he is handsome, gentle, clever, talented, good in bed,everything that a woman is looking for.JackieO is the twin sister of Marthy,she is as intelligent as him,as talented as him,as strong as him.They are having very good and very special time together,but Jackie is selfish and want everything to be as she wants it to be,she is crazy,she is difficult to be with.Lesly is beautiful,clean girl,blond.She is clever enough and very good person.Marthy is about to marry with Lesly and before that very event,they come to Marthy home for Lesly to meet his family... "},{"Title":"brilliant as the fashion","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  brilliant movie--saw it freshman year of college and have adored it  ever since. in synopsis the plot seems a bit too incestuous but it is by far the best dark comedy i have ever seen. watch for the social commentary and the sarcastic look at young love. "},{"Title":"*** (art)","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *** (art) The movie was contrived towards the end; however, the general feel of the movie was just right.  The music saved most of the movie from losing the right tone.  Jackie-O, played by Parker Posey, is perfectly cast. The irony is that the Lesly (Tori Spelling) criticizes Jackie-O and Marty for incestuous behavior; however, Lesly sleeps with Anthony (Freddy Prinze, Jr), the brother of her fiance Marty.  Lesly's affair makes her a hypocrite and her parallel affair makes an interesting parallel to this movie. "},{"Title":"The Best Film Ever Made","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe I'm nuts, but this is my all time favorite movie.  The dialogue alone sells it for me.  OK Tori Spelling is irritatingly vapid on all accounts, but is pretty well cast for this part.  Parker Posey is perfect--I think she really is sort of like this character since she's always cast as some high maintenece B**** (see Best of Show).  Anyhow, thats just me. "},{"Title":"You gotta love a crazy movie like this!!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The House of Yes is one of those movies we watch movies for. It's not the summer blockbuster or the heart felt sentimental journey. It's a fun, funny farce. Parker Posey and basically everyone (including Tori Spelling) did great. There was just enough of Tori to get the character across and not to much to ruin things. This is one of my check out this crazy movie films I suggest to friends who say have you seen anything unusual lately. Others include Heavenly Creatures, Boxing Helena, The Rapture, Cold Blooded, and a few others. I love to tell people absolutely nothing about these movies and have them watch them. I get the most interesting reactions. What I love the most about this movie is the way the family functions. Clearly this is a possible poster family for dysfunction but you wouldn't here that from them. They know they have problems but don't seem to mind and couldn't very well understand why anyone wouldn't like there family. Parker Posey makes this movie and Josh Hamilton does a great job as the wannabe normal person in the family. I suggest everyone watch this and take it in the good hearted fun it was meant. Sure the ending is outrageous but that's the fun.  "},{"Title":"Just act like he's not my brother, I do","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is jsut something about this movie that really gets to me everytime I see it.  There's something within the Jackie O character and the way in which everyone deals with her that, while very dysfunctional, is very enchanting.  You take the night with Jackie O and multiply it by 365 nights a year and you've got one irresistible personality.  Thre relationship between Jackie and Marty is intense in that I am never bothered by the fact they are brother and sister.  They treat each other like old lovers, and they are.  The dialogue is the true gem of this movie.  85 minutes of oneliner after oneliner, it's beautiful.A movie that shows you are what your family is, there is no escape.  "},{"Title":"What's the deal with the painting?","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It's one of my all time favorites, but there's always been one question that has plagued me.  What is the significance of the missing painting on the wall behind the piano?  The faded wallpaper shows that something was once hanging there, and they made a big deal of tori spelling going up to it and touching the empty space.  What was hanging there?  And why is it gone?  "},{"Title":"Great play put on screen","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know this was previously a play before watching it.  I was told afterward, but it was pretty apparent through the entire thing.  It's got the play dialogue.  It witty, surreal spit back and forth dialogue that keeps people watching since there's no special effects in the playhouse to work with.  Truly a masterpiece.  Dark and hilarious, Parker Posey is righteous, and the story will leave you thinking for long.  Tori Spelling even fit the role playing the ditz she really is.  Very smart and dark. Rent this one!!   "},{"Title":"An amazing film and one of my favorites","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What else can I say, the movie was great. Even Tori Spelling was good in it. The story, the acting, everything about the movie was just amazing. I can't imagine the play could ever be better than the movie, but I have yet to see it. I recommend this film to everyone.  "}{"Title":"PARKER POSEY SHINES ONCE AGAIN","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well the film was short and most of the characters were annoying..but parker posey was dead on as jackie-o. She has taken my interest in all her films and was excellent in Clockwatchers..but here she is just perfect. Rent it and u'll smile at her. U'll wanna rent all her pics..shes just so good. ***out of **** "},{"Title":"The House of Yes is best!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The House of Yes is one of the most unique and interesting films I've seen - the dialogue is witty, smart and clever, the plot simple enough to pick up, even after a couple of drinks, and an all-star cast help to make this film what is it - Great!Parker Posey (Scream 3, Dazed and Confused, Clockwatchers) plays Jackie-O; an ex-mental patient, who anxiously awaits her brothers arrival for Thanksgiving Dinner. You see, Brother and Sister have had a sexual relationship in the past, and his leaving is what sent her to the Insane Assylum. However, brother Marty (Josh Hamilton from Alive, With Honors) brings home his new fiancee, Lesly (Tori Spelling from Scream 2, The Alibi, Beverly Hills 90210, Co-ed Call Girl) - much to Jackie's disgust.That night Lesly finds out about Marty and Jackie's incest from Younger Brother (Freddie Prinze Jnr from To Gillian On Her 37th Birthday, She's All That, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Wing Commander), who tries to put the moves on Lesly.The rest of the characters are Mom (played flawlessly by Genevieve Bujold) and the young Jackie-O (Rachel Leigh Cook, Freddie's She's All That co-star and star of The Hairy Bird, Babysitters Club and the up-coming Josie and the Pussycats). All hell breaks loose when Lesly decides she's outta there, and taking Marty with her. But if you want to know what happens next, then you'll just have to get the video out, aren't ya?An outrageously funny comedy-drama like none you've seen before - and one of the best play-to-film movies out! 7/10 "},{"Title":"If you like dark comedies, rent this!!!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect from this, but it totally cracked me up! The dialogue between the characters is hilarious! My friends and I quote lines from this movie all the time! Tori Spelling is wonderfully funny in a big departure from 90210! Next time you are at the video store, don't pass this one by! "},{"Title":"interesting movie but not a comedy","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie,because of the title and the story.  It seems more like a psychological thriller rather than a comedy.  The level of tension in the movie was high but kept the audience alert.  Parker Posey was hysterical as always.  The bitter realism was tasteful and the climax was unexpected. I believe it is  one of the new generation American movies where realism and sarcasm go together. I would recommend it to people who like tension and sarcasm. "},{"Title":"One of the most hilarious and interesting movies I have ever seen.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a creative masterpiece.  It was hilarious from beginning to end, without a slow moment in between.  The entire case gave knock out performances.  Every character was so well written that it was amazing that this film was not up for and Academy Award.  Parker Poser was hilarious and a somewhat more difficult task, likable, as the insane Jackie-O.  Tori Spelling, perfectly cast as the shy and slightly inept fiance was charming and added to the humor of the film.  I have never watched a movie dealing with incest before in such a light hearted and care-free manner.  "},{"Title":"still scratching my head","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not only did I find next years halloween costume, I found a fantastic movie. I found this movie to be the ultimate dark comedy.  I will give it a very solid 9! PLEASE RENT "},{"Title":"rum & coke","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i can't even begin. if you have a brain and appreciate certified lunatics, you will pay any price for this movie. josh hamilton & parker posey as twins who are a little too close, freddie prinze jr. before he was a teen idol, and tori spelling in a good-girl role that makes it all the more fun to hate her. short, nauseating in the best way, and my second favorite movie of all time.  "},{"Title":"unexpected content but entertaining","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie because Parker Posey was in it.  She is a great actress. The subject of incest is very controversial and shocking.  However, the house of yes displayed the topic in a lighter manner.  I wasn't too shocked...i guess because i was laughing.  Definitely entertaining. "},{"Title":"A more positive review.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes - this IS a filmed play and it shows but how beautifully filmed and exquisitely acted. (Yes, even Tori Spelling!) And what a haunting premise - a family so caught up and confused between their own domestic tragedies and the Kennedy Assassination. And at the same time - FUNNY!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful...Makes it seem OK to be insane.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've always enjoyed Parker Posey, and to be honest she was the reason I picked this movie up.  But the greatness of this film goes beyond her.  A lot of people think it is TOO playlike - and I agree that it is very much so. But I enjoy that, much like Mamet's Glengary Glenn Ross.  Waters, and MacLeod before him, delve wonderfully into insanity and incest, and rather than dismiss them as perverse, revel in their mysteries.  Some of the best dialogue I've seen in a long time.  And great delivery, especially on Posey's part.  The clever, sensual flirtation around taboo issues is compelling.  A must see for anyone who enjoys high-minded, dark humor. "}{"Title":"Uncultured morons hide behind Elitist Conspiracy Theories","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every time I read a review of a wonderful, brilliant, and perfectly executed movie in which the person not only shuns the film, but raises the point that they are tired of being called stupid for not liking this film...it makes me wanna puke. Don't watch Indie films, for the love of God. You obviously don't have a mind that can wrap around dialog more intense than, You had me at hello. House of Yes, Life Aquatic, almost any Kevin Smith (almost)....these are films for people who love cinema....who love writing...who love theater...who understand nuance, storytelling as an art, and brilliantly delivered lines. If you didn't (or don't) enjoy House of Yes...run screaming to Blockbuster and beg them for every copy of Titanic, Armageddon, and Maid in Manhattan they can muster...for you are the typical movie consumer...a mindless entertainment junkie. By the way, Tori Spelling certainly doesn't make this film any better...but she didn't make it worse, and that is a very large step for her!! "},{"Title":"brilliant as the fashion","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  brilliant movie--saw it freshman year of college and have adored it  ever since. in synopsis the plot seems a bit too incestuous but it is by far the best dark comedy i have ever seen. watch for the social commentary and the sarcastic look at young love. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A marvelous movie, and another example of bad marketing... Why did they try to market this as a comedy?  To fool more people into renting it?  I think this was a big mistake.  This way many people had wrong expectations and didn't like what they got.  But those people can go out and rent one of the early Jim Carrey's movies where he puts spaghetti in his nose, burps and farts, so they can die from laughing&#133;  Anyway, The House of Yes is a masterpiece, which I myself rented by mistake.  I loved it!  Parker Posey gives an amazing performance. It didn't know her before, but now I'll go out and check out all her other movies.  "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's great.  It's definitely in my list of the top 5 funniest movies of all time.  I was surprised to see that Entertainment Weekly and Roger Ebert both gave it bad reviews (well, actually, not bad reviews, just not reviews that could be interpreted as good.)  I guess it's an acquired sense of humor, and the plot leaves some to be desired.  There isn't really much plot, and the movie is pretty slow paced (it's obvious that this was once a play), so if you don't like dark humor, don't rent this.  It's basically filled with lots of one-liners and such, most delivered by Parker Posey, in what is probably her greatest performance to date.  While Parker usually plays the same character you love to hate (or just plain hate), she always plays it well.  Has she ever played a good-natured character?  Anyway, if you like dark comedy, and you can enjoy a movie no matter how sick the plot is, I would think that you would love this.  It's up there with Pulp Fiction on my favorites list.  10/10 "},{"Title":"dysfunctional families, mental illness, and incest to be funny","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This dark comedy is a dual parody of 1) a wealthy, eccentric family and 2) the uncomfortable situation of bringing home a prospect. In this case, the prospect is the character played by Tori Spelling, who discovers that her fiance (Josh Hamilton) is involved in an incestuous relationship with his mentally ill sister, played by Parker Posey. Although both Posey and Spelling play their parts exceptionally well, I did not find the movie to be particularly funny or even clever. The scenes that I found most humorous were those in which Hamilton's younger brother, played by Freddie Prinze, Jr., attempts to start a romantic relationship with Spelling. It may be possible for a movie about dysfunctional families, mental illness, and incest to be funny, but these are heavy issues that require the right treatment. A strong cast and superb acting were not enough to make that happen in this movie "},{"Title":"beautifully crafted.  cinematic genius","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest films of all time.  Yes is strikingly similar to 'A Streetcar Named Desire,' starring my man M. Brando.  Parker Posey's performance is almost as stirring and fits perfectly into a beautifully filmed retelling of the stage play written by Wendy MacLeod.  Genevieve Bujold does an amazing job as well (probably the most true-to-life performance I have ever seen).  The only down side to this otherwise immaculate film is Tori Spelling.  She was poorly casted and her performance is weak at best.  Fortunately her character is in the shadows for most of the film.  All things considered this was a fantastic film and has found a home on my book shelf. "},{"Title":"A shockingly entertaining film","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Parker Posey and saw this film knowing nothing about it. Oh, my God, I was shocked beyond belief.  But I loved this film so much because it's the opposite of a typical Hollywood film. "},{"Title":"One of My All Time Favorites!!!","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although quite incestual, The House of Yes is a surprisingly addictive film.   The dark humor is absolutely hilarious! "},{"Title":"Symbology (some lines and plot points reveled, but not many)","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To enjoy this movie you have to completely loose yourself in it. Forget that you are watching a movie and let it completely envelop you. The House of Yes, a very surreal film, was criticized in the comments for being predictable. I think that maybe, to a jaded movie goer, the plot is predictable, in that it does what it is supposed to, you know what's going to happen, you don't want it to happen, but you know it has to. There is no ingenious twist to the plot, per-say, but in the meaning of the film. If you look at this film as a surreal metaphor, and not a contrived narrative of events, there are many many deeper levels to it. The one clue to this, or at least where I saw the break through, was when jakie-o's mother explains that leslie is just a symbol. This movie is a metaphor with reality (our consciousness, ego)symbolized by Marty and Leslie's life out side the house (their Sunday) and insanity (our unconscious, the absence of ego) being the house of yes. As we watch the film, we could say that the family is the sain group and leslie is insane. It questions notions of sanity, belonging, reality. Watch this with an open mind. The twists in this movie come when the surreality, the symbology breaks down. During Marty and Leslie's Sunday, when we find out that Anthony isn't a virgin. In fact, Jakie-o's wit and ability to manipulate all/most of the nights events put into question her insanity. But if we question if Jakie isn't insane, then we could ask if maybe the mother, anthony and jakie, aren't all in fact quite sane, and that it is Marty and Leslie who are crazy for grasping at a life they could never have, grasping for normality. Considering the obesity of the plot, and the twist of who's really looney, i think that the true emphasis in this movie is in fact the interplay of ego, and egolessness. Indulging ego, searching for something; or allowing what is to be. In the normal world, we will of course say incest is not acceptable. In the world of this movie, we don't have to see the twins as brother and sister, but as different aspects of the same person. Marty is the vehicle of expression for experience of any person, his fight for the world of ego and duality expressed in his need of leslie, a mans inate ability to go with the flow and accept things as they are without lables in Anthony's love of Jackie. (The fact that they are twins was obviously done on purpose, we know this from the line If I masturbate am i cheating on you?)  "},{"Title":"Just kinda dull","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just sort of thought this movie was dull. It wasn't really all that funny. It was an ok play put on film. I thought Parker Posey was mildly funny. Everyone else was fairly annoying. I'm not interested in how screwed up these people are.  "}{"Title":"Book Depository","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The first obligation of a film is to register us in whatever world they create. The more interesting confabulations are harder for us to place ourselves in, so much of clever filmwriting is concerned with the tunnels from here to there.This is nearly a perfect solution, not only in getting us into a very unusual situation, but also in sustaining the reality of that situation. In the end, the entire journey is breathtakingly worthwhile.Possibly you have to be of a certain age for this to work as well as it did for me to have burned in your subconscious the iconography that is exploited here.But what clever risk! We as viewers create fictitious images based on what the characters present; and in reflexive acknowledgement those characters are doing the same thing. Any viewing of a film is at root an obsessive act. Any relationship to screen characters is a matter of intercourse with a demented sibling. Any casting off of that obsession ends up with the corpse of a virtual spouse buried somewhere.All the collaborators are in the same groove, with the same style of acting, and the same delicate balance of comic distance.This is superb film theater.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"What Jackie wants, Jackie gets...","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jacqueline Lee Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, one of history's most enigmatic figures, just got a lot more enigmatic. No, The House of Yes isn't about her, but rather a mentally ill young woman (Parker Posey) who calls herself Jackie-O and even dresses like the woman. Throughout her life, Jackie-O has gotten what she wants, but things are about to change her brother has announced that he's getting married. Thus, Jackie-O can do only one thing flip. And flip she does...with a vengeance.The House of Yes is one of those quirky indie flicks (well obviously, if it stars Parker Posey) that you might want to check out whenever possible. Maybe watching it won't change your life or anything, but it's still quite interesting. You almost feel like you're spying on them. "},{"Title":"Play on Film","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Perhaps what others have failed to realize about this movie is that it was adapted from a play. And unlike other films that have been adapted from plays, this film actually sticks to many of the techniques used in theater that are not usually used in film. The fast and witty dialogue. The sense of space. The lighting.When I watch this film, I feel privileged. I feel like I'm in a theater watching Parker Posey and this amazing cast perform in front of me. If you don't like plays, then you won't like this movie.It was very well done and features Parker Posey doing what she does best being neurotic. "},{"Title":"*** (art)","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *** (art) The movie was contrived towards the end; however, the general feel of the movie was just right.  The music saved most of the movie from losing the right tone.  Jackie-O, played by Parker Posey, is perfectly cast. The irony is that the Lesly (Tori Spelling) criticizes Jackie-O and Marty for incestuous behavior; however, Lesly sleeps with Anthony (Freddy Prinze, Jr), the brother of her fiance Marty.  Lesly's affair makes her a hypocrite and her parallel affair makes an interesting parallel to this movie. "},{"Title":"Strange and wonderful.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always expect a lot from Parker Posey, and I always get a lot. This is a clever dark comedy that is really worth watching. I found myself sucked into this odd and ALMOST endearing family's life. You never really know what is going to happen next, but the movie makes you constantly feel as if it will be something dangerous or hilarious. I am glad I watched it; yet I felt uneasy after it was over. Can anyone else relate?  "},{"Title":"Heathers 90s style","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A decade ago, getting HEATHERS was used  as a 'coolness' gauge. Today, it's THE  HOUSE OF YES. My friends and I quote this movie like we used to quote HEATHERS. We also quote ALL ABOUT EVE and THE WOMEN, so I guess any movie with an over-the-top female star is a winner. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good I'd Say","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Y'know, I first saw this movie in 1998. At that time I was 14 years old, and I was pretty curious to see what the movie was about. Imagine me at 14, seeing this film for the first time, first hearing of incest and having never experienced dark humor. One would think that I wouldn't get it or that I would be bored by this film. In actuality, I watched it a 2nd time the next day, because I just had to see if I missed anything the first time. Now, 4 years have passed and I went back and watched the movie for the 3rd time, just to see if there is anything I didn't understand when I was a young kid. Of course, there are jokes that I missed before, but the central concept remains the same. Despite being a conservative Republican, I enjoy this movie. In fact I think that Jackie O's love for her brother, while not my idea of a sane relationship, is kind of endearing. She loves him completely and totally, and wants him to remain true to his feelings. It's obvious as the film unfolds, that her brother is only marrying Tori Spelling's character because it seems logical. He still loves his sister, and it is shown throughout the movie.-THE TACO HAS SPOKEN!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies. It is so smart and funny, I just love it. I have made every single one of my friends watch it and although most of them think that it's weird, the ones that like it love it as much as I do. You really have to just watch it to appreciate it. Parker Posie is so good in the movie. She's the perfect person for the role of Jackie-O. This movie made her my favorite actress of all time. I would say that my least favorite actress in the movie is Tori Spelling. She's perfect for the part though because it's almost as though she's not acting. You could really believe that she's naturally that stupid at times. Overall it's a really good movie that everyone should see at least once.  "},{"Title":"For kids","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very disappointing film. I was expecting something funny and maybe some satire, but it's very conventional, very predictable.The ending falls flat, that's exactly what we think is going to happen from the start. But usually there would be an unexpected turn of events... Crazy girl thinks she's Jackie O, kills her brother. OK, so she's crazy, didn't anybody know that?I didn't buy the characters either, but being French I may have missed some references (got the Kennedy fascination alright). To me it seemed like a bunch of rich idle folks who were bound to kill each other lest they die of boredom.I think I could have loved this movie as a teenager, but today it seems like it's outrageous for the elderly, in the sense that all that is supposed to be dark in this story (the incest, the cheating, murder) is showed in too neutral a way to be interesting. There is no comment good or bad on any of the moral issues. Incest is not openly condoned, so the moralists can feel good but it's not clearly condemned either so the thrill remains. Same for murder (accepted by the brother and performed by an irresponsible) and for cheating (she thought of someone else her fiancé). Well that leaves us in a gray, tasteless area.It's a nice movie, but I don't like nice.  "},{"Title":"One of the most overrated predictable and trying too hard movies ever","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILER FOLLOWS!**** After the first 15 minutes, we ran through the entire rest of the film at fast-forward reading all of the dialogue in subtitles because the acting was so poor, the dialogue so overdone, and the so-called plot so utterly predictable. You cannot even write a spoiler for this film because you already know exactly what will happen about 20 minutes into the film. The incest angle is written in purely for contrived shock value and the stupidity of the ending, when Marty could have easily saved himself, was just unforgivable. Don't waste 80+ minutes of your life watching this film. You'll truly regret it. "}]