[{"Title":"I love this movie and think some of the comments are spiteful.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"83 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies. To those who are calling it boring, full of drivel, etc., you are entitled to your opinion, but please quit stating it as fact. Anyone who has been through an ugly, painful divorce, been dumped by someone they adored and trusted, or even just grew up in a smalltown can surely appreciate the feelings invoked by this movie. The characters, I felt, were much deeper than some of the other users noticed. Sandra Bullock's character had subjugated her life to her husband and daughter and then has to rebuild her identity and self-esteem when her husband leaves. As for the daughter being too smart-alecky, yes, in places she was. As for her speaking like a 40-year old, yes she did. However, I taught school for over thirty years and can guarantee that there are many eight-year-olds out there who talk this way. Also, the child was hurting and I can tell you from experience that when a child suffers as a result of divorce they will many times turn on the one person whom they know will never pull their love out from under them.It's a movie that I felt had much more depth than many of these reviewers noted. I cannot understand the negativity in some of your reviews. It was a movie that made me feel good. I watched it so much that I wrote out the tape and am now working on the DVD.There should be more movies like this one, in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"I totally disagree.  I think this is a great movie!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"64 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's because I had a cheating husband and went through an ugly divorce, or maybe it's because I've lived in small towns for most of my life. Whichever, I totally disagree with the comments that this movie is boring. I've watched it so many times that I wore out a tape and now have it on DVD. I could have written the speech that Sandra Bullock gives to Michael Pare when they are in the house after the funeral. I thought that all of the actors developed their characters beautifully and Sandra Bullock did a great job of portraying a woman who has had her identity and self-esteem shattered and must go about the huge task of rebuilding them both.  "},{"Title":"A Better Film Than Most People Think!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"57 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the things that truly irks me are some people's rapid willingness to typecast actors and actresses, and dump on them when they try something new. While it has to be said that Sandra Bullock does not avoid exploding buses, or have to hunt down any cryogenically frozen bad guys in this picture, Hope Floats is a better movie than most give it credit, and Ms. Bullock and the supporting cast put in fine performances of their own to make a very touching and poignant film.Forest Whitaker (acting in such films as Blown Away and Phenomenon sits in the Director's chair on this one and crafts a tale that deals with many different emotional themes, carried earnestly by sensitive and character revealing performances from his leading lady and the supporting cast.While it must be said that Ms. Bullock provides some very memorable scenes in this film (especially when drunk) the casting of Gena Rowlands, Harry Connick Jr, and Michael Pare provide more ballast with fine performances delivered from all.But the highlight for me in this film - young Mae Whitman and her performance as Ms. Bullock's on-screen daughter. At the conclusion of one very moving scene near the end of the film I could only watch her and wonder at just how bright this young actress' future will be.So, if blood, bombs and action is your scene, then Hope Floats may not be your scene, but if you are into drama with solidly acted and well crafted characters by very fine actors, then Hope Floats is for you. It will leave you very satisfied that you took the time to see this very finely made and acted film. "},{"Title":"A keeper","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm surprised at the harsh reviews and low rating of this movie!Unlike other so-called chick flicks, this movie has an authentic appeal to it and a real heart. Sandra Bullock is a shamed and distraught mother returning to her hometown after being dejected by her husband on national television. She is the beauty queen turned humiliated housewife and her old neighbors don't hesitate to rub it in. Sandra's strong-willed and adorable daughter is played wonderfully by Mae West. Their dysfunctional relationship is a central plot element throughout the film. Sandra finds strength in her own mother and finds new romance with a strong, sensitive cowboy type played surprisingly well by Harry Conick Jr.Sandra must come to terms with her changing identity and role as mother while her daughter fights for a false allusion of Sandra's husband. An impending divorce between Sandra and her husband and the struggles of Sandra's daughter and nephew, create many heartbreakingly touching moments and at last - an intriguing story with a sense of humor.Living in Texas and having visited a few small towns, I can state that the movie's portrayal of small town life is a very realistic one which only adds to the films' effectiveness.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie touched me more personally than any other movie ever. The down home country feeling just screams America and what woman hasn't been in Birdie's shoes. Heck... what woman isn't looking for their Justin? This movie has it all... love and pain... laughter and tears. It's perfect. The beauty of the country along with the small town family atmosphere makes this pure. I know I also love the humor. Bernice is the best! She has heart and knows what she wants. The fact that she can tell Justin how it is impresses me and empowers me. The music is some of the most beautiful music I've heard and it just makes this experience all the more perfect for me! I love it and recommend it to any woman who has ever been hurt and survived. Thank you for giving me this opportunity to express my opinion. "},{"Title":"Exquisite smarm","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lensed by the great Caleb Deschanel, this buttery tale of love lost and hope found actually manages to rise above the excesses of its emotionally bombastic script. This is a weeper and the dirty tricks of the trade are apparent in all its manipulative confrontation, revelation and redemption scenes. Sweet like ice cream and sickening like a chocolate overdose, HOPE FLOATS is a delicious exercise in viewer survival.The sun-dappled cinematography, though reliant on soft-focus, is beautiful like Romantic American oils. Shot in gorgeous earth tones, HOPE FLOATS is a stunning series of postcards, the better onto which graft the sickness of relationship disfunctions. The painterly still shot of the main character taking a photograph through a window still haunts me, as does the magnificent late sequence drenched in rain.Thankfully for the viewer, the manichean script is brought to life with a breezy confidence by Forest Whitaker. This assured artist has worked with the likes of Jim Jarmush and Clint Eastwood, and it shows in his cool camera work and straightforward approach to material that is little better than the reality talk shows it twice decries. Himself an actor, the director pulled bravura performances out of his main cast.For the real star of this show is the acting from Harry Connick Jr's solid performance to the great Gena Rowlands spot-on delivery, it's all good. Mae Whitman devastates in her money shot and even the bit parts are interesting to watch. But with a glance, a crooked smile and a much improved body language, it is star Sandra Bullock who proves the real gem in a movie that sparkles with all the pretension of a jewellery store. The underplayed, devastating opening scene is worth a dozen scenery-chewing showpieces - and then some.There is quite a bit of emotional baggage borrowed in PRACTICAL MAGIC here, but the underpinnings are far better. Fearless, engaged and precise, Bullock's performance is a virtuoso piece that makes watching HOPE FLOATS a real treat; I have never seen her more bold or more beautiful (even as a vamp in MISS CONGENIALITY) - she is absolutely gorgeous here.Manipulation and honesty mixed in an effective, emotional pressure-cooker, HOPE FLOATS may just make you sick like a roller-coaster. But for anyone interested in Sandra Bullock, it is required viewing . .. "},{"Title":"Slow paced love story with excellent child performance","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually liked this movie. Neither because of the slow development nor of the fair acting of Bullock/Connick Jr. The brilliant performance of Mae Whitman as Bernice made this whole movie worthwhile. I've never seen a child outperform her co-stars like that. She sure would deserve the Academy Award for best supporting actress. So if you want to see a slow love story with a very good child performance (German magazine cinema wrote ...she has the potential of Oscar winning Kathy Bates (Misery)...) this is yours. If you are a fan of high paced action movies, don't bother to see this, you wouldn't like it anyway. "},{"Title":"Too dramatic to be a romantic comedy, and that saves the film","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Floats is too dramatic to be a romantic comedy. It's more of a character drama about Birdee (Sandra Bullock) moving back home and the main story line being a romance with Harry Connick Jr.Birdee, and the film, are very down-to-earth. Although she lived in Chicago, she's much more suited to the small-town life that she grew up in in Texas. They don't go for much of the obvious comedy of big-city girl versus small-town country girl. And that's a good thing.The young daughter can get annoying, and the romantic comedy angle is transparent from the beginning. But the natural drama that Birdee goes through in trying to rebuild her life after a public divorce is done well enough that it makes Hope Floats worth watching. "},{"Title":"American dream only for dreamless people","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It shows another choice,another way of living in which people are more important than money and in this movie you can see that slowly, when you are knowing the characters. You can see the American dream has no importance when you have more important things. "},{"Title":"Just what you'd expect","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie last night expecting nothing but mush, and maybe a few laughs. Which I got. I did not expect the pure corny-ness of it. It was like it was following a set guideline for the cliche of this type of movie. Everything happened in the places you'd expect it to. People dying, people breaking up, bad things happening, lahdy dah, no surprises. It started off really well but when downhill from there and dragged. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it for what it was. Just don't be expecting anything more than mush. Powerful? Huh? Were we watching the same flick? Worth crying over? Hardly.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is incredibly good! Deep, thoughtful and sophisticated. Sandra Bullock would have deserved an Oscar for it (this is one of her best films) and Geena Rowlands is classy as always. I really don't understand who doesn't understand it... it was said to be too European - maybe, but the whole story is so American, it couldn't be more that. Forest Whitaker (of course with the great actors) was able to show us how the emotions work in a woman... the wide range of emotions. Here was nothing simplified as in the life is nothing simplified that's why this film is great. Sandra Bullock is a smart, very sensitive, very good actress who can show her talent and deepness as much in dramatic roles (Hope Floats, Love and War, Divine Secret etc.) as in the comedies. She gives life- and real life with real emotions for her characters. "},{"Title":"Bollocks (1/10)","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There ought to be a limit to the number of cliches you can have in a film. Drearily shot, bad acting and silly plot. Avoid unless you're a sandra bollocks fan(sorry , couldn't resist). "},{"Title":"Hope Drags Too Much To Fully Engage","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Forest Whitaker takes over the director's seat as he directs 'Hope Floats'. The director does a decent job. However, 'Hope Floats' fails to engage mostly because of the very slow dragging pace. There are some nice moments like the dancing by Bullock, Rowlands and the child actors to 'Next To Me', all of Gena Rowland's scenes etc. The soundtrack's good too. Sandra Bullock is very good in a complex role. Gena Rowlands is gold. Harry Connick Jr. fails to impress. Michael Paré is awful. Mae Whitman is extremely irritating but the other child actor Cameron Finley is quite likable. Some of the scenes are beautifully shot, like the ones where Sandra Bullock is taking photographs. I know the director and writer had good intentions with the film. There isn't much happening but even as a mood piece, it doesn't quite work like 'The Station Agent' does. Perhaps tighter editing could have help. It's one of those films I won't mind watching again while doing something else like ironing my clothes but it's not one I'd just sit down to watch. "},{"Title":"You'll be hoping this movie will end soon","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats with Sandra Bullock is a real disappointment. The story starts off ok. Her husband cheats on her and she finds out on national television. So she has to rebuild her life. Here it could have gotten interesting or built up in a story line, but you become so bored with it. She moves back with her parents and Harry Connick Jr. who plays Justin begins hitting on her. The two have no real chemistry at all, yet your supposed to get the impression that Justin is in love with her. The movie ends the way you figure it will but you wish it hadn't ended like every other kind like it. They had a good start with this movie and could have turned it into something watchable but instead its a movie that you definitely want to miss. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Sandra Bullock wastes her talent in this boring flick about uninteresting problems of stupid characters. If you are into soap opera relationship movies, you may find this movie entertaining perhaps. However that movie couldn't really get me interested in watching these dull movie characters fussing around with their little problems and neurotic behaviour. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie at all costs","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was another saturday night alone. The wine bottle was nearly empty and I had reached the giddy heights of being bored out of my tiny mind. So, I'll admit it! I watched this film. Worse, much worse, I stayed till the end. Oh, I was a little drunk and a little lonely but its not really an excuse. OK, so I once fancied Sandra Bullock! Even so, I shouldn't be admitting to having watched the biggest load of self-indulgent garbage that has ever graced my TV. Can someone please tell me what this film was supposed to be. A romance that was not in any way romantic (the two leads do not have the slightest chemisty). A drama that wasn't dramatic. It certainly wasn't funny! Watching any film with Gena Rowlands is bad enough but here, she is simply terrible. And she is the best actor in the film!! Please do not watch this film. It is a really slow moving, badly directed, badly acted, badly scripted load of tosh! After seeing this excuse for a movie, I have decided to Get a Life. So should you "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, Hope Floats all right.  And so does human excrement, which is precisely what this movie is.  The opening of the film (I'm practically at a loss for words here) is so bad, I'm shocked the scene even made it past the first draft of the script.  Bullock's sweetness is her strong suit, but it would be nice to see her in a more dimensional role for a change. "},{"Title":"Hope May Float, But This Movie S(t)inks","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a painfully s-l-o-w moving film, particularly given the chemistry possible with Bullock and Connick Jr.  It never gets any momentum, the characters don't develop, and it's boring.  Do yourself a big favor, watch something else. "},{"Title":"An unentertaining made for TV movie. ** out of ****","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Floats is a romantic drama in which neither of the two characters contain any apartment chemistry. None of the characters are ever developed and zero of them share anything in common. It's like there were five different writers were locked in five different rooms and forced to compose five different people. First of all, there is absolutely zero emotional feeling in this movie. Not even a passionate soundtrack is present.  This movie has nothing remotely sad about it. But it definitely makes you depressed.That is a fact mostly because of the many undeveloped characters in this picture. The performances are first rate. Bullock delivers a possible Oscar worthy performance, but the first time we meet her, her life is already fallen apart, giving us no time to develop any feelings about her. The only actor who really looks great in this movie is the  Michael Pare character, who we are supposed to hate, but at least we know he is a slime ball.Another problem I  had with the movie is the plot, which starts out strong, in which a woman movies back to her home town. Everything is detailed and inspiring, but from then on everything becomes  jibberish beyond this point, which makes the movie become consistently worse. I mean, after this everything that will happen is instantly obvious and happens quickly, none of what we call a story.In the end, Hope Floats turns out to be a slow-moving, uninspiring, dual, made for TV movie that is bad, bad and BAD. It defeats everything about the purpose of entertainment. A very generous two star rating, thumbs way down for me. ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"Maybe so, but this movie sinks","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone I know loves this movie, but I am afraid that I don't. I hated this film so much that I had to turn it off mid-film because of the repulsion. Way too much time is spent on weepiness and emotional bedlam, the point of the Bullock character being devastated by her divorce is jackhammered into the viewer's head excessively. Enough already!! And why didn't we hear more about her ex-husband? He is portrayed as nothing but a suit who comes by once in a while. Something must of made her want to marry him, what was it? What is it about him that makes her so devastated upon their divorce? More time could of been spent on that rather than yet one more shot of Bullock lying crumpled on the bedroom floor. The dialogue is stilted, cliched and terrible, much like one of those corny ABC Afterschool Specials or something. There is no imagination or creativity about anything in this film, it is all very predictable and therefore boring. This movie also goes into overdrive on the cutsiness factor, very stupid and not funny like it was supposed to be! This is just another one of those horribly done I am woman, hear me roar films, much like Waiting To Exhale. If you want to see I am woman, hear me roar films that are truly entertaining, original and well-done, then see Gas Food Lodging or Ruby in Paradise. Skip this crap!! I give Hope Floats 3/10. "}{"Title":"seriously under-achieving drama","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although normally my preference is not for romantic dramas, seeing this film left me a little short.It had promise, the characters and relationships could have been explored much deeper than they did, yet the story seemed not to understand the direction it wanted to take.The comparisions and parallels within the story, especially the three generations of women in the family, had a lot of potential, but somehow didn't fully extend itself. It could have made the film much easier to relate to and attach to which is the aim of any film about lost-love and life regained.IMHO, I think the film suffered from a lack of direction in the writing, although Harry Connick Jnr and Sandra Bullock did try desperatly to breath a little life into otherwise flat character outlines.It's not that this is a bad film, some parts leave you understanding the reasons for various plot developments, its just that this film is underdone, and a little flat overall. "},{"Title":"Poor execution of a good idea","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somewhere between the moment someone said let's make a movie about the prom queen who suffers a great loss and goes home to recover and the final Cut!, something was lost.  Many good pieces, but the direction and editing were poorly done, and didn't leave enough glue to put it all together.Good portrayal done by the daughter - I don't recall seeing her before, but I suspect I shall see her again.  Sandra Bullock was decent in scenes with her family, but there was no chemistry between her & Harry Connick Jr.It would have been helpful to have a few brief scenes showing life between Birdie (Sandra Bullock) and her husband, and best friend even if only still lifes showing the progression from High School to now.....it would have made the bond between them more apparent, and helped us to sympathise with her loss.  As it was, both husband and best friend were simply paper doll characters labeled The Bad Guys, and the audience is left wondering why they were there to begin with.The constant interruption of boom mikes - in the bathroom, over the stairs, in the bedroom with the daughter - was extremely annoying, and distracted from an already weak film.This film is not a winner.  Thank you - please try again.   "},{"Title":"Hope Floats sinks.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a chance of being a good movie, but a little less than half-way through it became clear that it would be a boring little nothing of a movie with characters we cared nothing about. It's no wonder you see stacks and stacks of these videos left unsold, even at $9.99 at Costco. Too bad. It started out very nicely.If you want a Sandra Bullock fix, then see While You Were Sleeping again. Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"average drama","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a basic, down-to-earth drama. Sandra Bullock learns that her husband has been having an affair on an afternoon talk show, and she moves back home to Texas to start anew, and she finds new love while she's there. Not too bad, but it gets too slow and prodding at times, which is its only weakness. All in all, not too bad a movie. Just don't expect a classic, and you might like it.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"I cannot believe I wasted my time and money!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over two hours of complete drivel! Where was the tension? The romance? No where! The characters were not developed nearly enough. The father, oh bad wicked man. Not only does he cheat on his wife but also abandons his little daughter. Just in case you weren't sure that this man was the bad guy. And there was no punishment for the man. He got to leave the responsibilities of a family and shack up with the 'other' woman.The relationship between Bullock and Connick jr. So unbelievable. All through the movie she didn't want to know and then suddenly it was, oh, better get a happy ending in there, okay I will go out with you. Huh?I just could not feel anything for these people. Everything has been done before and so, so much better. The direction was so poor that I saw the boom mike in two shots plus another camera in shot.It was just not entertainment. There was a lot that could have worked for this film if only they had developed more of the story lines that looked like coming up and then were just pushed under the carpet.I was very disappointed. And the acting was straight out of stage school. There was no real emotion to any of it.  "},{"Title":"Hard To Get Through      But    Give It A Chance","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This category of movie Romantic Drama is at times difficult to get excited about. Certainly you don't expect Die Hard, if you are going to see a Romantic Drama. Additionally this movie includes some Cliché Characters. This movie relates a story of how hope can impact a person's life. It relates a devastating event in the lives of Birdee (Sandra Bulloch) and her daughter.They both show problems accepting the reality of the event, and furthermore they both essentially becomes depressed. Eventually, Birdee begins to accept the event, but her daughter still can not. Eventually after suffering another devastating event, they both accept their reality, and discover that doing so gets them both out of depression and able to move on with their lives.It shows that accepting reality instead of wishing for the way things used to be, can bring hope and hope can bring some good changes. "},{"Title":"I guess it was worth a quarter","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What is up with that summary title? you might be thinking. There is a thrift store that sells VHS tapes for $0.25 apiece and this movie was in their collection and now it's in my cheap entertainment collection.The reviews on IMDb for this movie are very polarized people either seem to really hate it or really love it. For me there were equal parts of things to like and not like about it. Sandra Bullock, who was producing for the first time in her new movie, comes across as aimless and wispy in this. Harry Connick as her former schoolmate and potential love interest comes across as stiff and insincere. At the time there was a push toward getting him more highly visible roles, but he was much better as a supporting player (Will Smith's jet fighter buddy in Independence Day a couple of years before).The musical score really helps the movie. There are very nice musical compositions from Garth Brooks, Trisha Yearwood, Cheryl Crow, Bryan Adams, and others. It turns out that Patrick Swayze choreographed the dancing in this, which shows up in a very nice scene at a Texas dance hall where couples are doing the Texas two-step.Acting-wise, the best thing was Mae Whitman, who was about 10 at the time and is the centerpiece for the movie's most stirring scene, which happens near the end. She has gone on to build an impressive list of credits and at first glance seems to have transitioned from child actress to viable adult performer very well.The set design is also nice and there are pretty images of the Texas countryside in a few scenes. Overall though, the movie is kind of dreary and a good example of one of Sandra Bullock's career growing pains. Forrest Whitaker directed, and he has also gone on to bigger and better things. "},{"Title":"Not Great, But Not As Bad As Some Of The Reviews On Here","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll admit from the off, I love Sandra Bullock. With her gorgeous girl next door looks, I adore her, and will usually give anything she is in a chance. she remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her ladylike sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast.Plot In A Paragraph Birdee Pruitt (Bullock) is an housewife whose life is turned upside when her husband Bill (Michael Pare) reveals his infidelity (with her best friend Connie) to her on a talk show. She goes to live with her mother (Rowlands) in the small town in which she grew up, where everyone knows of her television appearance. It's not long before an old friend, Justin (Connick, Jr.), has entered her life, sparking a potential romance.The film was choreographed by Patsy Swayze. Harry Connick, Jr. Is OK (if a little bland) as Justin Whilst Kathy Najimy has a small role as Talk Show host Toni Post as does Rosanna Arquette as Connie and Bill Cobbs also pops up as a Nurse. As for Sandra Bullock she is as watchable as always, but these are not ninety of her better minutes. "},{"Title":"Likable, but too predictable and run-of-the-mill","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1998, Hope Floats is a likable drama about Birdee Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) who flees with her daughter (Mae Whitman) back to her small home town in Texas to live in her mother's mansion while her father is in a nursing home (Gene Rowlands plays the mother). Birdee is disillusioned because her husband (Michael Paré) left her for her best friend in Chicago. Both she and her daughter have to come to grips with what's happened while a cowboy carpenter takes interest in Birdee (Harry Connick Jr.). A peripheral issue is that Birdee was the beloved prom queen in high school and her husband the popular quarterback.I was expecting a great drama with Hope Floats but it wasn't to be. The film was directed by amiable Forest Whitaker (Cuffey in North & South) and written by Steven Rogers. There's nothing wrong with the cast, soundtrack, direction or locations; the problem lies with the screenplay. It's just too by-the-numbers. I'd give obvious examples but I don't want to give away the story for those who haven't seen it, although I wouldn't actually be giving anything away because the script's so predictable.Nevertheless, it's worth checking out for those who like dramas, the cast and country music. It was a mild hit at the box office in 1998.The film runs 114 minutes and was shot in Smithville, La Grange and Austin, Texas, with opening scenes in Chicago.GRADE C "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those guilty pleasure type movies I find myself watching just about every time I catch it on TV. Its not perfect, a total chick flick but also completely addictive and pretty great. Sandra Bullock plays Birdee Calvert, a Chicago wife who returns home to her small Texas hometown after her husband reveals on a talk show that he's (been) having an affair with her best friend.Bullock is as always likable and I enjoyed watching her (get drunk) trying to put her life back together again with the help of her eccentric taxidermy loving mother (Gena Rowlands) and a yummy (in an awkward sort of way) Harry Connick Jr. All the performances seem authentic and this doesn't really fall into romantic comedy genre(which may be why I like it). It's more of a family drama complete with all the tears laughter and love that incorporates. The small town atmosphere also really adds to this as her old classmates revel in seeing a former beauty queen taken down a notch.The one standout performance here would have to go to the little girl playing her daughter Bernice, she is just fantastic. That scene towards the end when she runs after her dad crying you want me take me with you just kills me. Well that and Connick leaning up against his pick-up with a handful of flowers and 'those' Levis'. 12/7/14 "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. This movie will touch your heart in so many ways. No matter how many times I see it, it always makes me smile, and cry and finally feel hopeful. It's a story so many people go through today; Divorce, growing up, family, love, change. Finding out, after your whole life is ripped from you, that life does goes on; sometimes even for the better. All you need is a bit of hope and the kindness of others to get by those rough periods. It reminds me that there are many people out there that you can love and who will love you back. That change, no matter how hard it might be at first, is possible and even good for you. Best line in the movie that say's it all Just give hope a chance to float up and it will. So true! Such great acting by all involved Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick Jr., Gena Rowlands, and the kids (Mae Whitman and Cameron Finley). If you haven't seen it yet, rent it. If you have, watch it again for it will surely make you feel good about life, family, friends, and yourself. "},{"Title":"It sure is floaty","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Birdee Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) is blindsided by her best friend Connie as she tells her that she's been sleeping with her husband Bill Pruitt (Michael Paré) on a national TV talk show. Birdee and her daughter Bernice (Mae Whitman) runs back home to her mother Ramona (Gena Rowlands) in Smithville, Texas. She's a former beauty queen and everybody in town knows about her embarrassing downfall. Old schoolmate Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr.) is still in love with her.Forest Whitaker is the director. He is surprisingly in love with these cheesy romantic movies. There is no real life in this movie. Sandra Bullock is a compelling actress and she has a couple of good scenes. Mae Whitman has a heart wrenching scene at the end. There are good actors here although Harry Connick Jr. still needs some seasoning. He looks too young, too unimpressive, and lacks depth. His relationship with Birdee has a lighter than air quality. There just isn't any substance in their chemistry. It doesn't power through the waters as much as it just floats there. "},{"Title":"Sinks!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would like to see a movie about the damaging effects on a person who is brought onto a T.V. talk show under false pretenses only to have their spouse reveal that they are having an extramarital affair thereby humiliating them on national television. What does that person go through afterwards? How do they cope? Watching the opening scene of 'Hope Floats' I thought the movie would answer these questions but alas, this is a movie that has a far less original idea in mind.The jilted is Birdie Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) and she is so humiliated that she leaves Chicago to go and live with her mother in Smithville, Texas. After this promising opening, the movie piles on one eccentric character after another and one impossible situation after another until Birdie's public humiliation doesn't seem quite so bad.Birdie's mother is played by the ever dependable Gena Rowlands who lives in a mansion, despite having no apparent source of income. Her annoying daughter Bernice functions in the story only to whine about wanting to move back in with daddy apparently forgetting what he did to mommy. Then comes the character that only exists in the movies, a marlboro man-type of an old boyfriend who is there to be sympathetic and carry Birdie through the inevitable clichés that will carry them to the final soppy romantic moment.Will they have sex? Will they have a fight afterward? Will they seem on the verge of breaking up only to get back together so we can get our money's worth? If you don't know the answer to any of these questions then you obviously haven't been to a movie in the last 80 years. By the end I wasn't surprised that the movie didn't answer my questions about jilted spouses on talk shows. In a movie so eager to fit the requirements of it's formula plot, there isn't much to be surprised about. "},{"Title":"Was he mad?","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Was Bill Pruitt totally mad to want to leave Birdee (Sandra Bullock)? I mean, if you're going to make a movie about a cuckolded wife, you can't do it effectively using Sandra as your actress. She is the most desirable woman on the planet - not just in looks but as a genuinely sincere person - not to mention a damn good actress. Heck! I can't look at a woman without comparing her with Sandra (which, I guess, is why I'm single - no one meets the standard!)Even in this movie, I can't help feeling that Birdee has a lot of the real Sandra in her. Even though she is beautiful, she is not conceited or vindictive. Harry Connick Jr. as Justin is equally sensitive and doesn't stalk her, even though he clearly counts his blessings that he has a second chance to have what he was too slow to get the first time. He genuinely woos her in the real old-fashioned way which is quite a pleasant change from most so-called romance movies these days.And Mae Whitman as Birdee's 9-year-old daughter, Bernice shows her to be the star that she has, since Hope Floats was made, become. It always amazes me how young children are able to act so convincingly in traumatic domestic situations such as Bernice had to. Full marks to Mae!Of course, a true queen of the silver screen, Gena Rowlands as Birdee's mum, is everything we have come to expect of her - a tender, all-knowing matriarch who holds everything together.All in all, a fine movie that, in my opinion, is worth more than the 5.8 that viewers have given it. Definitely a movie I will happily watch again, and again over the years. "},{"Title":"I usually eat up anything with Sandra Bullock, but this slow-moving Rom-Com offers nothing but doldrums","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Birdee Calvert must choose between her morals and her heart after her husband divorces her and a charming young man, who her daughter disapproves of, comes back into her life.Even when Bullock makes the laziest romantic comedies, I usually find plenty to enjoy about them. Hope Floats is one of the very few movies that I don't care for of Bullock's. It lacks laughter, moving moments, and overall enjoyment. The first 40 minutes or so involves nothing but Sandra Bullock moping and feeling sorry for herself. It moved as slow as molasses and I got bored easily. Her character predictably turns around, but the journey isn't worth the reward. I didn't really care about any of the characters, aside from Beatrice. Mae Whitman gives an adorable performance as Bullock's kid, showing plenty of poise and maturity for her age. There is a really weird opening that feels like a Jerry Springer show with how Bullock gets dumped in this movie. Connick Jr. is rather bland as the love interest. I thought he was rather smug myself. Bullock tries, but she isn't enough. This movie is predictable and thoroughly average. If you want a good romantic film from Bullock, check out While You Were Sleeping, Lake House, among others5.1/10 "},{"Title":"Stalking disguised as romance","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Most people will probably watch this movie expecting romance, but they will be getting a whole lot more of things they didn't expect. This is basically the opposite of a feel-good movie, since it contains an ugly divorce, sadness, death and a whole lot of awkwardness.It doesn't help that the acting is really bad. Sandra Bullock is a very limited actor and has a very narrow range of emotions, and Harry Connick Jr is a total disaster as her romantic suitor. It is too bad that the director Forest Whitaker, who himself is an Oscar winner, didn't cast proper actors.The plot made me felt awkward many times, as Connick's romantic courtship of Bullock borders on stalking on numerous occasions, and he has no problem making moves on her when she is clearly not ready and even says so to him. The movie generally lacks tender moments but it is full of awkward moments, and that was not what I had in mind when I sat down to watch this. "},{"Title":"Sink or Float","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Birdie learns on a TV talk show that her husband has been sleeping with her best friend. She packs up her car and drives to her mother's home in Texas. Her mother still lives in the same house as Birdie grew up. She talks to many people from her past as she tries to figure out her future.This is a story of how some people will do anything to make other happy, when all it does is make everyone miserable. While it does show the dangers of being a people pleaser and trying to be someone you're not; some will find it hard to see this message past the character of Justin attempting to date a married woman. "},{"Title":"a low score - how come?","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick, Jr., and Gena Rowlands star in Hope Floats, a 1998 film directed by Forest Whitaker.Bullock, who 13 years ago looks exactly as she does now, plays Birdee Pruitt, a small town beauty queen and cheerleader who married the star of the football team, Bill (Michael Pare) and left for the big city. They have a daughter, Bernice (Mae Whitman). When Birdee is invited on a talk show, she is led to believe it's for a makeover. However, it's a Jerry Springer type show, and when she gets there, her best friend tells her that she's been having an affair with Birdee's husband - and they're in love. Bill verifies it.Angry and hurt, Birdee packs up her daughter and moves back to Texas with her outspoken taxidermist mother (Gena Rowlands). An old flame (Harry Connick Jr.) reappears, but Birdee is unable to move forward. She's in love with her husband and wants him back.This film seems to have low scores on IMDb, giving validation to my theory that a) reviewers on IMDb are mostly men; and b) young men; who c) like action, special effects, futuristic, and science fiction films.Hope Floats is actually a very sweet movie with lovely performances from everyone involved. Bullock is warm and likable as a depressed woman who comes back to town in disgrace and has to face up to people she wasn't particularly nice to in high school. Connick is handsome and charming. Rowlands does a terrific job as Birdee's confident and sometimes overbearing mother who deeply loves her daughter and granddaughter. Mae Whitman as the child Bernice is fantastic as a hurt little girl waiting for her daddy to take her home.Some of the best scenes occur when Birdee visits her demented father in a nursing home.I thought this was an effective film. No bombs, no violence, just some poignant real life - a single mom, a father with dementia, and what it's like to go home and start over.I love films like Speed, Inception, Salt and films of the classic era. There's room for all kinds of films, and there is room for an actress with the warmth and charm of Sandra Bullock. If you're not a fan, skip it. If you are, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Hope Floats","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I would probably never have found out about this film if I hadn't gone to Hollywood to see Forest Whitaker accepting the Riviera award from Sandra Bullock on stage at the Santa Barbara Film Festival, he directed her in this film, I had to see if it was any good. Basically beautiful Birdee Pruitt (Bullock) is humiliated on the Ricki Lake style talk show presented by Toni Post (Kathy Najimy) who gets her husband Bill (Michael Paré) to confess he has been having an affair with her best friend Connie Phillips (Rosanna Arquette). After this she decides to return to her hometown in Smithville, Texas to live with her mother Ramona Calvert (Gena Rowlands), but of course the whole town knows about the televised confession by Connie. Birdee reacquaints herself with old friends from high school and living in town who can't help but rub her face in her TV appearance, but she has her little daughter Bernice (Independence Day's Mae Whitman) to cheer her up. Feeling depressed and trying to get on in her new job processing photos and stop the taunts she meets another old friend Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr.) who helps her get on in any way he can. He still has feelings for her, and of course as they spend more time together their relationship turns into love, and he comforts her all the way in whatever she has to go through. In the end she suffers the death of her mother Ramona, says a final goodbye to ex-husband Bill, and Birdee considers marrying Justin. Also starring Cameron Finley as Travis and Bill Cobbs as Nurse. Bullock is likable as the normal woman made known for the wrong reasons, Connick Jr. is a little cheesy but alright as her love, and Rowlands does well as the Alzeimer's Disease suffering mother, I didn't think there was much of a plot, the romance thing was adequate, overall it wasn't such a bad romantic comedy drama. Okay! "},{"Title":"A painful hodge-podge of every chick-flick cliché","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a rule, I really enjoy Sandra Bullock and have often felt that she is a truly underrated actress. Fans would be well-advised to steer far away from Hope Floats, a vapid insufferable morass of chick-flick clichés that storm the camera and bludgeon the viewer into idiocy.Bullock is cast as Birdie Pruitt, a former Texas high school cheerleader and beauty queen whose charmed life as a stay-at-home mom crashes to the ground when her philandering husband Michael Pare and her best friend Rosanna Arquette punk her on national TV by announcing their affair and his intention to abandon Birdie and their daughter Mae Whitman. The film is already off to a rocky start with this introduction. It is obvious that the film is stacking the deck with sympathy for Birdie because only complete low-lifes would decide to emotionally annihilate another person unawares in public while trying to pretend it is all for the better, much less to unleash this with the daughter sitting in the studio audience. Untrained and broke, Birdie and her daughter go to live with her mother Gena Rowlands to ostensibly lick her wounds and try to re-assemble her life. Then the chick-flick clichés fly fast and furious. Because Bullock was a former cheerleader in high school, we know that the conclusion is that she also had to be a stuck-up snot who has now received her deserved comeuppance (although the film provides us with no real proof of this). Will there be a legion of jealous former high school rivals who revel in Birdie's misfortune? Check! Will the only people willing to give Birdie a break be those she overlooked in the past? Check. Will Birdie's daughter prove to be a real handful through the whole experience? Check. Will Birdie's mom be wise in that way only on screen mothers are? Check. Will there be one of those painful moments where the women don garish outfits and feather boas to dance around the room lip-synching to a song to cheer someone up? Double-check! Will there be a romantic interest who has been pining for Birdie for years? Of course! Blech! The film is such by-the-numbers schmaltz that you can guess where everything is going just by the synopsis. What you cannot guess is how utterly disagreeable and repellent it is while getting there. Director Forest Whitaker (yes, the actor who eventually won an Oscar) provides schizophrenic direction so that the tone of the film is all over the map. The opening set-up seems lifted from a bad TV sitcom, while the remainder of the film lurches between mawkish, maudlin, depressing and incomprehensibly boring. The relationship between Birdie and her mom is half-baked and that between Birdie and her daughter is excruciating. Whitman has apparently been instructed to play every other scene in full-screech mode giving us an obnoxious, selfish and fairly odious caricature of a spoiled brat. If the film were to omit all of the scenes of Whitman having a tantrum, it would be at least 30 minutes shorter.I would venture to say that three-quarters of the film is devoted to watching Birdie mope. Bullock is an actress of sunny disposition and ebullience - and she shines in roles that allow her to exploit these attributes. This role robs her of those gifts and we are left with a rather deadening characterization. There is only so much that one can take of watching this sad-sack wander aimlessly across the landscape. It is not just that Birdie is a drain, but that she actually seems to actively enjoy her chronic wallows in self-pity. The film should further be charged with criminal neglect for squandering the tremendous talents of Rowlands in a badly written part. When she is forced to don a funky costume and lip-synch, I truly felt for the actress.Perhaps the funniest aspect of the film is that the best performance comes from Harry Connick Jr., who makes a lot out of the normally thankless stock role of the love interest. The entire part is absurd. Birdie is largely a charisma-free character, yet we are supposed to believe that there is an ideal man that has remained single and unattached for years - despite her marriage - in the off chance that Birdie should once again come on the market. The buff and smiling Connick is a veritable wish list of things rebound women are searching for in a tough yet sensitive guy - and he always seems to be photographed in a golden hue. The only thing the film misses at providing with this obvious wish fulfillment character is a gratuitous nude scene, which would only enliven this otherwise dead film. Because Connick is in on the ridiculousness of the role and his character is free to be an antidote to the heroine's unending self-absorption, he pours on the charm and becomes the only spot of life in an otherwise dead film. The fact that it takes our droopy heroine the entire running time to take him up on his romantic advances indicates less a cautious woman than one who is having too much fun wallowing in her misery.In the end, and despite Connick's work, the film is an absolute mess. Bullock has had better days and there are better entries in this genre that fill the bill. Hope may well float as the title suggests, but so does pond scum and this film has more in common with that. "}{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't help but wonder if we were all watching the same film. The opinions are so different. I guess people either like it a lot, or hate it. Me - I loved it! It's worth watching just to see the scene between Berdie and Romana in the bathroom when Berdie comes home drunk and tells just how her husband leaving her makes her feel. Perhaps those who didn't like and couldn't relate to this movie never had an experience like that. Good for them. But, trust me, those of us who have had this experience understand exactly how Berdie felt - she expressed our feelings for us - perhaps better than we could have. To watch her character's development gives hope to many of us. And Harry Connick as Justin - well - one review said we'd all probably like to have our own Justin. I totally agree! I particularly like Berdie's speech to her husband after the funeral when she told him that she had already gotten the best part of him, their daughter, and that what's left over didn't look so good. This film helps us to understand the deeper feelings of people in various situations. And does a good job of it. Great movie! "},{"Title":"Hope Sinks","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Written by Steven Rogers, Hope Floats is a standard romance that tries so very hard to be a drama, but it just isn't. As I watched, I became rather annoyed with the self-indulgent character Birdee Pruitt played by Sandra Bullock, who is usually so likable.Director Forest Whitaker would have been better served presenting this movie more like a Julia Roberts (Pretty Woman or The Runaway Bride) or a Meg Ryan (Sleepless in Seattle or You've Got Mail) flick. Also starred Harry Connick Junior, Gena Rowlands, Mae Whitman and Michael Pare. Look for Sandra in While You Were Sleeping for a much more enjoyable film.Saturday, June 10, 2000 - DVD "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"29 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is not quite my type of movie but I am a Sandra Bullock fan so I watch everything of hers. Some RomComs are delightful, some are plain boring, and some like this one are thoughtprovoking and often distressing along the way.8 out of 10 because it's a good story, even if some aspects of it made me angry! I was simply disgusted by the TV show scenes. What filth the TV programme was - bringing someone on under completely false pretences. Birdie believes she's on the show for a nice time - a makeover. Now when she discovered it was instead a setup to insult, hurt and degrade her by her nauseatingly immature and spiteful exhibitionist husband and his current equally immature and spiteful lay, why didn't Birdiee slap her repulsive husband and tell the whole TV audience what she thinks of him for playing this dirty trick? And then demand that makeover she was told she was getting or threaten to sue the TV co. for false pretenses? I think they'd then have either had to agree to her demand - or hurriedly hustle all three protagonists off the stage if Birdie kicked up enough of a fuss.But I suppose she'd find that when she agreed to appear on the programme she signed some legal doc and didn't read some fine print that told her she couldn't complain no matter what the outcome. Now if I saw a clause like that in any contract for appearing on TV, no way would I sign and hadn't she ever seen this TV programme before and realised what it was really like?However, for this story to work, she has to have her confidence smashed and be unable to think what to do when faced with her smirking husband and his vicious bit on the side. It's a feature of some Sandra Bullock movies that I have to say I don't often like though sometimes it works well. In this it's debatable. Do we want the movie to show how Birdee recovers her confidence eventually? Or do we want to see her putting up a spirited defence and shaming the gutless berk she married?Wouldn't the TV people receive mail from people backing Birdee against her ex? Why wasn't this passed on to her? Yes, of course she'd be distraught and after an initial outburst become very depressed. And yes, she may well be so shocked at the time she wouldn't know what to say, as is the case in this story, and it's not easy to be so feisty as I suggest she could have been. But I do seriously wonder at the legal situation raised here.Anyway, the story is as it is, one has to forget one's outrage at such disgusting and spiteful TV filth and get on with the story which is the usual kind of sad stuff for those left behind when a husband commits adultery and makes off blithely with his current fancy. It's clear Daddy didn't really care much at all for his kiddie - all he does is phone a few times. What about visits? Tough if it's a long journey. But perhaps one should be grateful he didn't try to visit in case he also tried to snatch the child. Did he pay alimony? Well, Birdie gets a mediocre job and that's quite amusing even if disappointing she can't get anything better in this back of beyond type town - however, she shows that anything can become better if you make something of it yourself.In the end Birdee wins out and things improve for the daughter who after continually standing up for her vile father and thereby hurting her loving and caring mother deeply, finally discovers in the most hurful way what a file b...... her father is. A sad discovery that would surely damage her a little for life, but her mother gets together with an old flame and all turns out happily. Not a film I'd watch again too enthusiastically because one gets so annoyed with the despicable husband and squeeze getting away with everything. But I'd recommend it to anyone who likes Sandra Bullock to see it at least once. As always she acts superbly. spite of that, I am amazed at some of the carping against this movie. I really wonder if such people have seen the same movie as I have. "},{"Title":"Hope Floats.Love Hurts.Yes indeed it does.","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a scene near the end of Hope Floats where the 8 year old daughter of estranged parents packs her things and runs screaming after her father to take him with her.With so many marriages failing to go the distance you can only imagine the number of heartbroken screwed up children who were watching it from between their fingers or had their faces buried in the cushions.It is truly a harrowing moment. Miss Sandra Bullock as the still slightly stunned wronged wife gives a thoughtful and sensitive performance as a former Prom Queen returning to her small town where she finds herself not universally welcome. She tries to pick up the pieces but is not helped by the puppy - like presence of a former admirer (Mr Harry Connick jr) recently returned bruised from big bad California. In reality the last thing she needs is further emotional entanglement,but,encouraged by her strong - willed mother (Miss Gena Rowlands)her former beau wears down her resistance in the end and she gives in with good grace but,as far as I could see without much hope of the relationship being any steadier than the one she has just escaped from. Mr Connick jr looks bemused throughout - as well he might,indeed,any other expression might well be beyond his thespic talents,although he seems a well - mannered enough young man. Miss Rowlands manages to dominate every scene she appears in,thus proving that age and experience - once again - have it every time. Nonetheless it's Miss Bullock's daughter I shall remember,bullied at her new school,trying to puzzle out why her daddy's deserted her,no wonder she just wants things back the way they were.I wish I could tell her everything will be all right,but,sadly,I don't believe it will be. I have no idea what the title means,Hope Floats is not an expression I'm familiar with,but little Miss Pruitt had better keep her fingers crossed for a little while yet. "},{"Title":"I can identify with this movie on many levels","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really like this movie and always have. I can relate to many aspects of the movie. To me, this movie is real I could identify very well to the relationship between Birdie and her mother. There are some scenes between her and her mother that bring me to tears. And yes, Bernice is quite an independent and strong spirit in the movie and I read someone's post on here that in that one scene that breaks your heart where Bernice is screaming for her daddy and that she wants him to want her and he just drives away, it would make anyone think twice about divorce at that moment.To me it's a movie that will only appeal to women and only to those that have experienced some of the issues/dynamics in the movie divorce, strained relationship with a mother and/or child, death of a parent, etc.One underlying theme throughout the movie is a reflection on what Birdie once was...Justin mentions how she used to be audacious and she says a line at the very beginning to her daughter about how your momma once knew what meant to shine. And at the end she finally appreciates who she is now and finds happiness. Tidy ending, maybe, but everyone likes a happy ending. "},{"Title":"could be better, but not at all bad","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is schmaltzy. The dramatic potential is never fully realized. The film should actually be more complicated in order to sound potential depths here.Still, that said, I enjoyed the film, and the low rating here doesn't make sense; neither do most of the negative reviews here, most of which miss the real theme of the film.Of course there's a problem of intent here on the one hand we have a star vehicle for Sandra Bullock, so the film has to be kept relatively light; on the other hand we have Whitaker's keen insight that the real core of the film is the daughter, whose responses to the break-up of her parents is completely believable. These cross purposes finally jar at the end which should have been more fully develop to accommodate them both.Still, for what it is, it's nicely put together, with some marvelous cinematography, interesting characters and wonderful performances. It's slow only if you're expecting a straight ahead romantic comedy, which this isn't. It's just the story of a mother and daughter trying to survive an impending divorce while dealing with new surroundings and love and loss - thoroughly domestic, but easily identified with, at least for some of us. "},{"Title":"wonderful movie!","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" LAUREEN PAVLIK .. i just have to say that you mixed up the actresses for Bernice from hope floats (Mae Whitman) and the actress who played Olive in little Miss Sunshine (you said it was the same actress!) however the actress who played in little miss sunshine was not Mae Whitman but Abigail Breslin(who also played in Nims island as Nim!) yes it can be easy to become confused when both actresses are seemingly identical.. but i felt i had to point this out to you. after all if i was an actress i wouldn't want to be confused with someone who had a similar role to mine..as for the movie of Hope floats .. i liked it but i felt that Sandra's acting had drastically improved in the movie The Lake House.. which I feel to be the most romantic movie of all time! hope floats is still a classic however, one that will remain forever on my bookshelves next to practical magic and my girl Friday. "},{"Title":"Hope Floats, Then Sinks","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Had it not been for Gena Rowlands I doubt that I would have finished this film. Even she can't save a script so lacking in cinematic merit. Birdee Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) is a former prom queen whose idealistic marriage has crumbled. She takes her poor-old-me routine and a very young daughter back to her roots in small town Texas, where she nurses her wounds and tries to regroup.It's a thin premise, made even thinner by trivialities in Birdee's life, that function as banal plot points, like her daughter's problems with a school bully, and the humiliation that Birdee must endure as she confronts former friends. And I've never cared for movies that foist precocious kids in our faces. This film has two an irritating, whiny daughter who wears owlish glasses, and a little boy whose presence in the story is never explained.You get the feeling that the film's target audience is older women, viewers who can sing the praises of those two darling little children; who can drool over Birdee's hunky new suitor (played rather poorly by Harry Connick Jr.), and who can cry along with Birdee over her self-centered misery.Hope Floats is mostly a Sandra Bullock acting vehicle; and she does give a nice performance. But the script sinks the film. Characters are irritatingly sappy, and the story is syrupy, sentimental drivel that I found totally not interesting. "},{"Title":"Give HOPE a chance, give this movie a chance","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies, I don't care if others bash it, they just don't have the appreciation for a film like this. It feels like it could be a true story, its REAL. It shows the beauty, the hope about life as well as the tragedies and handles them both wonderfully. Bullock and Connick, Jr. are fabulous in this and handle the roles expertly. They BECOME their characters, they become so REAL; characters that make mistakes, laugh, cry, get mad, get happy and LIVE. Nowadays most other actors only show up and rattle off their lines without any life or interest given to the character. This movie is a treat, don't pass it up and plug your ears when other try to tell you it was crap-they don't know a GOOD movie when they see it! "},{"Title":"Raw & Real","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As many others, though I have heard not so good reviews since this movie came out, I continue to be surprised when I hear the bad.I adore this movie. I saw it in the theater when it came out and it continues to be an ultimate favorite of mine. I bought the VHS when it came out and just recently (finally!) bought it on DVD as well. I have many favorites... but this is definitely in the top 3.The emotion in this film, the story lines, the honesty... I can't even begin to praise it enough. It is raw and it can easily be believed as real. The cast is AMAZING! So many of the lines are unforgettable. This movie made me a huge fan of Sandra Bullock and she has been my favorite since. She continues to do great work. How can you not love her as an actress... and how can you not love her character in this movie?! The soundtrack is fantastic. I was not a country music fan when I saw the movie but fell in love with the music. (I am a die hardcountry fan now though, if I may say so!) No... it is not an action film... so it does not have constant visual effects to keep your attention so if you are looking for that kind of entertainment, I suppose you would be bored. It is a film for the heart and soul. Personally, I don't find a single moment of this film boring in any way. For those that are looking for honesty, heart & humor... this one is for you most definitely.This film, for me, is easily a ten... if not more. "}{"Title":"Just Basically Entertaining, But That's All We Want","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not expecting to see the best movie ever, I was very surprised. I loved this movie. But I didn't pick it apart like most. I just watched it. I guess you have to experience having your heart ripped out by your husband, and then starting your life over again with children. And if you have, you will relate to this movie without having all of the details that were apparently left out according to other posters. I didn't need all of the details. I lived them. But my story ended just as wonderfully and I found my Justin. So, all in all, this movie was QUITE complete. It just won't appeal to anyone who doesn't know the story like some of us do. Thank You Mr. Whitaker. I did enjoy Hope Floats very much and watch it every so often to remind me that my life is truly on the right track, once again. "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As I recall, Hope Floats got terrible reviews and had poor box office. I watched the movie on TV to see Gena Rowlands--who, as always, was excellent. But so was everyone else in the cast!This is one of those movies where nothing much happens and everything happens. Everything about the movie is spot on--the cast, the writing, the direction. I like Sandra Bullock, but I've never seen her as good as she is here--she's totally believable and willing to look like her character should look. Mae Whitman, the little girl who plays Bullock's daughter, is outstanding. As stated, Rowlands is superb. Harry Connick, Jr., is very good. In fact, that isn't a performance that doesn't ring totally true.In the so-called Golden Age of Television, viewers could see dramas like these several times a week with remarkable actors--Grace Kelly, Geraldine Page, Kim Stanley, Paul Newman, Cliff Robertson--who had yet to become famous but were already showing the talent that would make them iconic. And they had scripts by writers like Paddy Chayevsky, Reginald Rose, and Rod Serling, as well as directors like John Frankenheimer, George Roy Hill, Franklin Shaffner, and Sidney Lumet And now, what do we have--car chases, violence, gore, needless and overdone profanity, and total pandering to audiences totally lacking in discernment and intelligence. No wonder Hope Floats didn't. "},{"Title":"One of Bullock's Best Performances....","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock commands the screen in HOPE FLOATS, a surprisingly effective comedy-drama about a former prom queen turned single mom, who, upon learning of her husband's infidelity, returns to her hometown with her daughter in tow and moves in with her mother and learns life is not so easy for an aging prom queen. This film boasts a deft screenplay that is beautifully realized by the director and cast. Bullock gives one of her richest performances as a woman who must start over and is clueless as to where to begin and must also face the wrath of those she wronged as prom queen and haven't forgotten the way she treated them. Gena Rowlands does an Oscar-worthy turn as Bullock's mom, a robust and vibrant woman who loves having her daughter home but won't take her nonsense either. As a big Rowlands fans, I have to say there are few films where I have enjoyed her more. Mae Whitman is a revelation as Bullock's daughter and Harry Connick Jr. shines as the hometown hunk with a hankering for the prom queen. An emotionally charged comedy-drama that sucked me in from the beginning and evolved into a loving character study of a woman re-examining her past and fearing her future. "},{"Title":"Dead in the water - 45%","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every now and again, a film comes along that really challenges the viewer's ideas and preconceptions. For years, this was one of the most chick-friendly, overly sentimental pieces of mush that I could think of and I was determined to put off watching it for long as possible. But love makes you do silly things and due to a recent change in my circumstances (like getting engaged), I felt maybe it was time for something mushy. However, those of you expecting a regular light-hearted rom-com might be disappointed as this is actually a bit of a downer movie and hankies might be needed by the end.Sandra Bullock plays southern belle Birdee Pruitt, former Texan beauty queen and married to former college quarterback star and high-school sweetheart Bill (Michael Paré). But when it's revealed on national TV that Bill is having an affair, Birdee returns to her hometown of Smithville with her daughter Bernice (Mae Whitman) to stay with her mother Ramona (Gena Rowlands). As Birdee becomes ever more despondent, her life is held together by her eccentric mother and the affection of her old school buddy Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr).While considerably better than the last Bullock movie I saw (the woeful Fire On The Amazon), I wasn't expecting much and I wasn't disappointed. Bullock is totally upstaged by the impressive Whitman as her troubled daughter struggles to cope with this most public of break-ups. Perhaps Bullock should have paid more attention to the youngster and learnt how to have played her role a bit better. The plot, such as it is, isn't too bad but is certainly less rosy than I had expected. As Birdee's problems multiply and her despair grows ever more, you struggle to see where the happy ending will come from - until the gangly cowboy Lothario of Connick Jr appears. The romance is strictly predictable, even if it is a little hard to swallow given Birdee's initial reluctance. But the whole thing is not exactly my cup of tea, although even I will watch a film like this that is any good, like Notting Hill. But Hope Floats is neither a romantic comedy or a traditional weepie like Dying Young and spends most of its time treading water and going nowhere.For a film that goes nowhere for ages, I can still see why some (female) viewers will enjoy this like my fiancé. But for me, I prefer a romantic film that makes me feel warm and fuzzy on the inside. Sadly, Hope Floats makes me feel sleepy instead. With the exception of Speed, I have still to see a decent movie with Sandra Bullock in. While there is nothing technically wrong with Hope Floats, there is just nothing that I can see that makes it special or worthwhile of your attention. It also fails to make any decent points about the impact of sensationalist TV on those who appear to air their dirty laundry in public. Any questions that are asked come mainly from the performance of Ms Whitman. What really sticks in the craw is I'm someone who has been betrayed and fought hard to recover my confidence and self-esteem and yet, I still couldn't feel anything for this movie. Hope may float but so does something else rather unpleasant... "},{"Title":"Lovely Guilty Pleasure Chick Flick","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I went to see Hope Floats because I'd heard cuts from the Don Was-produced soundtrack with all Texas performers, but, unfortunately the use of the music was disappointing - the sudden Temptations song was intrusive and should have been a country song. The lyrics of the songs didn't exactly fit the action on the screen, but I did like the two covers of Dylan (Garth's is played twice) and managed with all self-control to not sing along.So I was surprised that I cried and cried and laughed and laughed. Even though high school beaus with lasting crushes are ridiculous to the point of Princes on White Horses fantasy. This is for women who liked How to Make An American Quilt or that Keanu Reeves flick A Walk in the Clouds and yeah I liked both as guilty pleasures.Sandra Bullock is America's sweetheart here and interesting that she was a producer - but why would a guy go to see this, even dragged along on a date. (All right, only if there's a reward afterwards.)Forest Whittaker's directing was straight out of the old '40's women's pictures, with wavy lines on the screen for time passing.(originally written 6/14/1998) "},{"Title":"go to any other  Sandra Bullock movie","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a complete dud. It loses it's credibility the moment they appear on the Jerry Spinger type show. We see Birdee, Bill,Bernice and the home wrecker. They are well dressed family people and appear to be respectful of each other. Not the Jerry Springer type 400 pound bums and whores who would say anything for 20 bucks. Birdee, Bill And the home wrecker would not do this kind of thing to each other. (The jerry Springer type show) Not saying it would not happen to them. If it did happen to them I'm sure it would be done in private. Not in front of the whole world. Should have walked out right there. But there is Sandy so I hung in there. She seemed to not want to be there either. This movie is simply bad. The only good thing about this movie is I saw it two weeks ago and I now hardly remember it. I can't believe I gave it three stars. Must have been the booze. "},{"Title":"What a lovely movie!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie. I have seen it a lot of times, because I really love it! Sandra is really heart-touching in this movie. Now I'm really proud of my mother and... I have to say I cried with this movie. "},{"Title":"A really good movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a really good movie.I loved it.It makes you laugh and then it makes you cry.It is beautiful and heart-warming.I would highly recommend it.Sandra Bullock is superb.She really makes the role believable,and the chemistry between her and Harry Connick, Jr. is amazing. "},{"Title":"Charming and Touching","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Sandra Bullock fan, I especially like this movie.  Harry Connick, Jr. is well-suited as the humble and honest Justin, and Sandra is great as usual.  The elements of family turbulence, Birdee's hesitation to begin again with Justin, and the relationship between mother and daughter (both sets) are realistic, and they help the movie to avoid clichés and sappiness. A definite must-see. "},{"Title":"AN AMAZING MOVIE!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i loved this movie.. its sweet, romantic, sad, and shows that true love really does exist.. my boyfriend sits down with me to watch it and i cry everytime, i love sandra bullock and they did an awesome job with this movie, so if you havent seen it, go rent it.. you'll love it!!! trust me!! and there didnt need to be any action because its a drama and romance.. and it was perfect..  "}{"Title":"Wonderful little film that tugs at your heart strings","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So the reviews weren't the best, but i listened to what everyone else thought i would have never seen a lot of the films i love today.Which brings me to Hope Floats starring Ms. Sandra Bullock and Harry Connick Jr. How does one prepare for a movie that was universally bashed and generally disliked? By setting your expectations low, thats how. But i under estimated not only the entire basis of the film, but Sandra Bullock as well, who once again manages to shine and rise above and beyond what many would have called a weak story line and plot. Simply put, she was awesome. With emotions flowing and a genuwine likableness she saved this film for me. And turned it into a very watchable and cute film. If anything, watch Hope Floats for Sandra Bullock's performance, which i felt was terribly underrated but incredibly inspired. Give Hope a chance. You may be pleasently surprised in the end.  "},{"Title":"What kind of parents would name their daughter Bernice?","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Comeuppance comes to a small town prom queen when she grows up and finds that the world is not, after all, her own private oyster. When she returns home, depressed and despondent, after an unfaithful hubby dumps her, she meets up with a town full of gossip mongers intent on giving her no peace and quiet and also discovers there is a small job market for a former beauty princess. On top of all her other problems is a rebellious daughter and a lovesick man who remembers the queen from the good old days. Not Sandra's best flic, but a decent enough film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Standard sob story","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  HOPE FLOATS ( rating, * * ½ out of 5 )From writer Steven Rogers and director Forest Whitaker comes this formula weepy that doesn't even remotely attempt to be anything out of the ordinary as it rests peacefully in a well defined comfort zone. It's far from being a truly awful film even though it induces the odd groan or two, and it only just manages to stay afloat as it desperately treads water in a sea of sappy sentimentality.Birdee Pruitt (Sandra Bullock), apparently has it all, but when her husband, Bill (Michael Paré), announces on a national television talk-show that he is having an affair with her best friend, Birdee's world comes crumbling down around her.Birdee and her daughter, Bernice (Mae Whitman), head back home to Smithville, a small town in Texas where they move in with Ramona (Gena Rowlands), Birdee's mother. As they struggle to come to terms with their new lives, Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr.), who's been sweet on Birdee since high-school, makes his amorous intentions very clear.As Birdee tries to find her way, she has to confront people and memories from the past while building a new life for herself and Bernice.Sound familiar? Not exactly original in premise and not exactly original in execution. I remember reading some early reviews of this movie where people were allegedly trampled to death as they ran screaming from the cinema, but thankfully, 'Hope Floats' is not that bad. It's not that great either, it's just a doo-dad kind of film - neither here nor there.I don't think the stupid generic title helps this movie's cause either - it's the most ridiculous pairing of two words since Calista and Flockhart. Potential viewers find themselves scratching their collective heads wondering what the significance could possibly be. Don't over exert your medulla oblongata, it's got something to do with buoyant optimism. However, if you're able to find anyone who really cares, politely suggest that they should get a life.This movie really is nothing more than soggy biscuit and oatmeal trying to be poignant. Ultimately it'll have as much impact on the video-rental market as Marky Mark had on the recording industry. Girls will most likely enjoy it and guys will fall asleep due to the severe lack of sword-wielding ninjas.In basic terms, 'Hope Floats' is fodder for the masses and another nail in Sandra Bullock's coffin even though she tries very hard. I get the feeling that Ms Bullock went for a career saver here but was let down by complaisant writing and mild-mannered direction - and as the movie's executive producer, we know a certain writer and a certain director who won't be on her Christmas list.I sat through this movie and walked away feeling a little empty-headed, like the contents of my skull had steadily dribbled out over the course of 110 minutes. If you want to put your feet up, slip your brain into neutral and not have to think about things, then 'Hope Floats' will do the trick.If you're looking for something edgy with a ton of attitude, then have a retrospective evening with Quentin Tarantino instead. For couples who take turns in picking the movie, well I'm sorry guys, just pop some no-doze and try to look interested - remember, it's your choice next week, and boy, will you make her pay for this one.  "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, but the star was Mae Whitman","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie overall is worth seeing, slow and dull but ok.  However I must say that the child actor who plays Bernice, the daughter (played be Mae Whitman) is one of the best actors I have seen!  Doubt me, then watch the scene where she tries to leave with her father.  No Oscar worthy actor could beat that.  Bravo, Mae. "},{"Title":"Not that bad at all","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats is not as bad as most of the comments suggest. In fact I found it quite good. Well, yeah, it is  not action-packed, but then again IT WASN'T MEANT TO BE. Real life (well, most of the times, that is) is not anadventure or a thriller, it's more like this movie.Someone in his comment accused Connick's character of being slow. Well, yes! He *is* slow. Do you prefer your stressful city life better? Fine if you do, but respect the fact that there are others that don't believe in the time is money thing. Time is life, not money.Some others talk about Date Rape and that Bullock's character is not a role model and all that stuff. Well, Date Rape? Give me a break! Sex is not a sin you know (or do you?). It's as natural as eating. Why is it taking someone to dinner at a date ok, but having sex with him bad? Too much Bible readings can spoil you. And about the role model part people are not role models, are personalities. Nobody's perfect in real life, so why should a character in a movie be? Those, role model and Date Rape types may as well watch only Disney's movies.Back to the movie. The acting was decent (nice performances from the kids), and the director and photographer did their job, no more, no less.  "},{"Title":"Better than many of the comments here indicate, but not stellar","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I had to use one word for this one, it would probably be Pleasant. I've always liked Sandra Bullock because she seems like the average, real person.  That makes her about perfect for this one, as the character is supposed to be a real person with real problems.Unfortunately, the script is a little on the weak side - there are noticeable lulls in the action.  Bullock plays the former heartland high school prom queen who married her high school sweetheart, had the kid, moved to the city, and did the housewife thing.  She is on a national talk show (ala Jerry Springer) when she finds out that her husband is having an affair with her best friend.  So she takes their daughter back home to the heartland to start over.Perhaps the highlight of the film has nothing to do, however, with either Bullock or the script, but, rather, Mae Whitman who plays Bullock's daughter.  This kid is simply stellar in this film.In short, this isn't a movie I would go out of my way to see, but it's not a bad one for a rainy evening when you don't have much better to do. "},{"Title":"Contrived, and predictable","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With respect for a yeoman's effort on Sandra Bullock's part,I have absolutely no regard for this film. I taught school from ages 8-18 for some 20 years. Five of those years were spent teaching highly advanced students. Nowhere will you find a child of this age (or even older) as sophisticated and flippant. She's a completely unattractive, poorly written, and blatantly contrived personality. I'm focusing on this aspect of the film, because a primary character (Bernice) is presented, who, by her very position in the story line, as well as her personal plight, should automatically evoke audience empathy. She absolutely doesn't, and creates exactly the opposite.Also, the opening scene was such an obvious contrivance, designed to cut to the chase. In all honesty, I only watched half of the film. Would you like me to tell you what the second half was about? I guarantee that I could. "},{"Title":"Saccharine Bit of Fluff","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie reduced me to tears...of boredom. I didn't even make it to the end. After I was averaging about 15 ypm (yawns per minute), in between half-hearted laughs at the expense of the horribly sappy script, I just took out the movie. If you're into romance novels and all that, you'll think it's a masterpiece, no doubt. But when I watch a mindless movie I'd just as soon it would be a mindless comedy as a mindless drama. If you've never seen this movie before, don't even waste your time. If you want a better movie than this one, go watch Gigli or Baby Geniuses 2 or some Japanese karate flick with sub-titles(yes, the movie IS that awful)!!! "},{"Title":"A lesson in counting blessings","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  And perfectly uplifting after a hard week. Excellent performances by all the crew, with special kudos for Miss Whitman. Despite the average score here at IMDB, I would recommend this movie highly to anyone who has lived long enough to understand lose and life. And hope.Returning to her roots with her daughter Bernice (Mae Whitman) in tow after a nasty marital split, Birdee Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) is able, in spite of a few reality checks from her past, to put her life and needs into perspective and to find for herself and her daughter acceptance and contentment. Gena Rowlands is wonderful as Birdee's mother. Her advice is homespun and her eccentricities are hilarious. Harry Connick, Jr reminds us once again that he is an excellent actor and very sexy. This is altogether a wonderful film, one to own and watch when you need to be reminded of the importance of family and the need to touch base with them.  "},{"Title":"Dry and Boring...","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Sandra Bullock, I usually even like romantic comedies, but this one didn't do it for me.Bullock plays a woman who finds out her husband is cheating on her on public television. She then takes her small daughter with her to her hometown where she falls in love with another man.Booooooring. I'm sorry, it is, and it's as predictable as heck. This is OK when the film is like Two Weeks Notice and has humor, but this film doesn't. It's a clear message to Bullock that great films like While You Were Sleeping only work with humor and interesting characters. Even that film was more unpredictable than this.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Holy waste of time, Batman!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **Contains Spoilers**Yep, this has my vote for my least favorite movie I have ever seen. Thoroughly unbelievable and dull.  We're supposed to believe that Daddy has been so great to this idiot of a little girl in the past, that she would scream for him instead of her obviously more loving mother?  Come on... And I'm desperately trying to recall something that actually happened in this movie.  The drama for me was intense anticipation of a storyline, which went sadly unfulfilled.  Maybe there will be an extended special edition when the director and producers realize they made a horrible mistake and cut out the entire plot in the course of editing.  After the opening, not a single thing happens except a wooden romance with a predictable happy, happy ending. Nothing really even threatens this except for internal stupidity on the part of Bullock's character. Oh yeah, when her mother dies the more sensitive among us may almost wake up.... "},{"Title":"The right mix of drama and romance without higher pretensions","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very much a film by, with and for the ladies perhaps and superficially is a romantic story; under the surface `Hope Floats' examines some of the difficulties of human relationships, above all between Birdie Pruitt and her husband and new-found love back in her home town, on the one side, and between Bernice and her parents and her new school-mates, on the other.After recklessly driving a bus with the insufferable Keanu Reeves doing the superman thing, and the very misfired `Gun Shy' (2000) (qv), among others, one might be forgiven for saying that I was about to give up the ghost as far as Sandra Bullock was concerned. However, as luck turned out, in `Hope Floats', as well as being one of the producers together with a whole fleet of ladies, Sandra Bullock turns in quite an acceptable performance. Totally apart from the fact that Sandra Bullock is most certainly very acceptable to look at, whatever she may be trying to do. In this case, with a very understanding Forest Whitaker (bravo! a man among the crowd!) at the helm, Ms. Bullock did not simply try to make an interesting little film, but actually succeeded.The film starts off the worse possible way in one of those ridiculous reality TV chat shows, where poor Birdee finds out her husband is having an affair with her best friend. She takes off with her cute little daughter and turns up back home in li'l ol' Texas. Mae Whitman as Bernice offers an incredible performance here, in great part due to good chemistry between her and Ms. Bullock; only a couple of times did her rôle seem a little forced and only very briefly, as for the most part her natural interpretation is surprisingly successful. The selected songs mostly chime in well with the proceedings, and of course Dave Grusin has long known how to manage this kind of thing.`Hope Floats' achieves what it set out to be a simple story with the right mix of drama and a little romance, without purporting to being anything greater. On those terms the average viewer will find this film entertaining and even instructive &#150; especially the ladies. Just do not expect anything more marvellous than that.  "},{"Title":"Hope floats &#150; but so does other stuff, like deadwood, turds or lifeless bodies","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Birdee finds out on a TV chat show that her husband has been cheating on her with her best friend, she takes her daughter and goes back to her home town in Texas.  However she finds that many of her old friends feel differently about her years later.  Meanwhile she struggles to feel happy and help her daughter past the split while loneliness and difficulties pile up on top of one another.I approached this with the same caution that one would approach a dangerous dog that has just dozed off.  I don't like romantic dramas as a rule, I like romantic comedies &#150; I don't mind slush and whatnot if it has a bit of spark to it.  When this started with a Ricki Lake type show I assumed it was going to have a certain amount of energy to it.  However it quickly gets dragged down into mush and sentimental as it gradually begins to drag it's heals.The comedy is non-existent, but in fairness this is a drama rather than a comedy.  However the drama really doesn't grip you or even make you care.  Instead of content the film throws in sappy music and shot focus/slow-mo shots to try and create emotion with tacky tools.  The central romance between Birdee and Justin fails for the most part because he just pops in and out for the first half of the film and I never felt their relationship was real or worth me caring about.Bullock is miscast as Birdee.  She excels in goofy girl next door role where she gets to be sparky and sassy.  Here she has to mope a lot and `soul search' &#150; that isn't a good look for her and she doesn't carry it off.  Connick Jnr is actually an OK support actor but he isn't given a chance to work with too low a screen time for an important role.  Also his character just doesn't feel real &#150; he's a single guy who's really nice and he's an architect! Oh and he is really deep and sensitive.  I'm not saying there's no one like this but the script should have given him at least some grounding in reality.  Rowlands is feisty as Birdee's mother and ironically the only character who brings a bit of life to the film.Overall this film is overlong and far too slow.  It has no spark or energy and relies heavily on music and directing tricks to try and squeeze every bit of emotion out of it.  It feels like a daytime TVM film that has only made it to a cinema on the strength of the cast.  For hardcore rom-drama fans only, far too sappy and inconsequential. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! I really didn't expect to like this film as much i did. Actually, i didn't like it-I LOVED it. It was a such great film with a wonderful performance from Sandra Bullock who really shines in this movie. Great performances from Harry Connick Jr, Gena Rowlands and Mae Whitman too. Whatever you are looking for in a movie, Hope Floats has. It's romantic, sad, funny and much more. A must see. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock could do a lot better","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very boring. Not that I stopped watching it, I wanted to see how it could have ended. Sandra Bullock is totally unbelievable playing a mother - no matter how old she gets, she'll always have that high school look that makes her so pretty. She's a good actress, too, but she never dares to add some depth to her character. The story lacks of plot twists, and honestly it could have lasted longer or shorter. Harry Connick should really stick to singing songs, a job he's great in. And people should rent this movie only if there's nothing, really NOTHING left on the shelves. "},{"Title":"Horrible horrible horrible....","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...I watched Hope Floats last night and was so appalled at myself for having rented it.  The one thing that ruined it all apart from lack of decent plot, the thin characters and mixed up message (just what exactly was it?)- was the kid who played Birdees daughter. I thought her acting was awful. It wasn't realistic - it was just a precocious brat trying to act like a knowitall 40 year old - not like an 8 year old child - it didn't work. Her scene with the father was grossly over the top... Someone please pull this kid aside and explain to her about *subtlety* don't be fooled just cos this child can scream, shout and cry on demand does not mean its worthy of any kind of award.... a slap maybe but not an award. I like Sandra Bullock - she wasnt too bad in this but she was just overshadowed by the daughters horrible OTT performance which was a shame. I am a Harry Connick Jnr fan which I have to confess why I rennted this - but I have now learned my lesson. He was ok but a bit too subdued - he could have sung or something to brighten it up. I think it could have sparked between them but the film was just too rushed - one minute hes saying 'oh hi havent seen you for 20 years' next minute hes nibbling her ear in the back of the car! There wasnt time for the romance to grow..too much time trying to pack in the kid getting bullied the senile dad and all the other numerous tragedies.. not enough time was spent on any of them. My message to anyone who (disturbingly) thought this film was 'powerful', 'gripping' 'well acted' and to anyone who wants an uplifting film about hope then for gods sake go out and rent something like the Shawshank Redemption - don't waste your time with this drivel you'll just be left with the feeling of being robbed of the rental fee and also wondering why exactly you took 2 hours out of your life to watch this... "},{"Title":"Bullock turns in a great performance","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats begins with a Ricki Lake-like talk show where Birdee Pruitt(Sandra Bullock) finds out her husband and best friend are having an affair.  Birdee packs up and takes her daughter, Bernice, to her hometown, Smallville, Texas.  Hoping she can rebuild her life in the town where she was three time Queen of Corn, Birdee soon finds out the whole town saw her life destroyed on national television.This sets the scene for the rest of the film.  No longer `Prom Queen,' Birdee finds it hard to get a job in the small town where everyone knows her.  Snubbed by former classmates who are reveling in her misfortune, Birdee finds solace in the only local who is nice to her, Justin Matisse.  Harry Connick, Jr. turns in an admirable performance as Justin.  His big cowboy hat and work-worn jeans seem natural.  He effectively portrays a man who has had a crush on Birdee since high school.The film follows the classic romance formula almost too closely.  Although the events are predictable, the cast does an respectable job of working through the stale formula.  Bullock turns in her best performance to date.  The scene in the bathroom with her mother is the most moving scene in the film.  Birdee's resistence has finally broken down.  She goes to the bar and gets drunk - for the first time, despite what others may have thought.  Later that night, she gets close and comfy with the toilet bowl and realizes that she needs to move on with her life.  This is the turning point in the film.The next morning she faces her adversaries and looks to put the past behind her.  Every time life gets unbearable Justin shows up.  While she tries to deny it, she can't resist his `head-over-heals' love for her, and most importantly he makes her feel wanted and loved.The two children in this movie, Bernice (Mae Whitman) and her cousin Travis (Cameron Finley), provide the comic relief needed to counterbalance the heavy main plot.  Both are excellent actors.  Whitman is very good at bawling.  The scene where her daddy makes it obvious he doesn't want her is heart-wrenching.  Finley successfully takes on many personalities including a dog, a frog and a tree.One of the more touching scenes occurs when Justin comes over to find Travis sitting alone on the porch.  Travis, whose mother dumped him and left for California, is feeling unwanted and unsure of himself.  Justin, who has up to this point ignored the children, suddenly takes up the `fatherly' role.  From this point onward the two become increasingly fond of each other.Bernice hated Justin from the very beginning, always telling him to leave because her daddy was coming back.  However, by the end of the movie when she asks Birdee if she is going to marry Justin, it isn't because she hates him, it's because she doesn't want to be known as Bernice Matisse.Although the script could have been fine-tuned into a truly great film, Hope Floats nonetheless has reinstated Sandra Bullock as one of the top actresses of her time. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZ","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only redeeming footage in this film was the gut-wrenching scene between young, talented Mae Whitman and Michael Pare (playing her father). This is a scene to make people with young children think twice before they divorce. Connick was about as wooden as a two X four, although I must say Gena Rowlands managed to give a half-way decent performance. Not her best, but passable. "},{"Title":"a real sleep inducer","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like so many movies today, this one was really more of an excuse for a soundtrack than anything else. But then I suppose the snooty, self-important Hollywood execs honestly don't think anyone would know how to react to a scene without a relevant hit song to indicate the proper emotional response.Then there's the plot...like we haven't seen this kind of slop before. And of course there's the whole cutesy/eccentric small-town thing, like that's a new device as well. But if it's a cure for insomnia you're after, this one should do the trick after a few short minutes. Just make sure to keep the sound at a low level, lest you be awakened by one of the louder moments in the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"So does crap","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie couldn't have been worse.  Maybe if I had never seen any other movie, this would appear to have something to say. As it is, its ALL been done before, and sometimes with talent and taste too.  It was especially painful to see a little girl act as if she were 35 years old, which she does throughout the movie. "}{"Title":"...and so does a lot of unsavory stuff","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so bad... How bad was it? It made Waiting to Exhale look like a cinematic masterpiece. If you can't say anything nice...a black mark upon everybody who's career was involved. For the record, I am a guy and I do like love stories.   p.s. Now I can see that Pauly was a positive career move for Gena Rowlands. "},{"Title":"an extremely good film in all aspects","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very well made, well acted movie.  Sure it was slow, but it wasn't supposed to be full of violence and suspense - you people should know that going into it.  It is so easy to identify with Sandra Bullock's character, everything she goes through is very believable.  All of the acting was brilliant, I think this is Sandra's best job yet. And the movie deals with topics other than just the cheating husband. Birdie has to go through returning to where she grew up, but she is now viewed in a totally different light.  She went from being the prom queen to being humiliated on national TV in the worst way.  This movie deals with returning home, but realizing that you're not what you once were; cheating husbands, having to raise a child alone, death, realizing your full potential, going through hard times, and finally finding your way again.It was beautifully acted and directed, I definitely recommend this movie to anyone "},{"Title":"Mae Whitman bright spot of weak movie","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mae Whitman is the only reason to see this movie, because hers is a real and believable character, and she has such a presence that you miss her when she's not there.  The rest of this movie isn't terrible, just weak.  Forrest Whitaker is a great actor, but both this and WAITING TO EXHALE, his previous effort at directing, have shown no talent in this area.  And both movies are Hollywood's idea of women's films, i.e., they can only show sappy and soft-headed women, rather than real women.  "},{"Title":"except for her movie daughter a waste of time","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What kind of brother is forest whitaker? the soundtrack is terrible, and he co-produced it. And ms.Bullock is the best example that a pretty face does not make one a good actress. The only good thing worth watching this movie are the two kids who perform their parts better than the entire cast together.  "},{"Title":"Hope Unfulfilled","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Floats had many promising moments. It acknowledges that life's crunching changes can be handled gracefully (eg. Birdee with Polka Dot) and with beauty in altered circumstances (Birdee's dad).The ending, however, was clichéd beyond belief and and so were some of Mrs Calvert's advice to Birdee. As for Justin Matisse, I wanted on more than one occasion to yell Date rape! during the movie! What was he or the screenwriter thinking? That sex is the ultimate cure for a wounded female soul?Especially insightful was Birdee's confession about seeing less of herself as she tried to change for Bill. Why doesn't the conclusion do more with this wonderful truth? What about her gift for photography? Bullock's character becomes no more of a person in our eyes at the end of the movie.Emily Dickinson wrote, Hope is a thing with feathers... Well, the movie makers never gave Birdee a real chance to take flight. "},{"Title":"BORING!!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats had a couple of touching scenes, but they were few and FAR between and really not worth waiting for.  Hints at tension between the mother and her daughter were thrown in, but never developed or explained. The popular girl from high school coming back and needing something from people she used to treat badly could have been a very good theme, but it is dealt with very briefly and unsatisfactorily.  I didn't have any sympathy for Sandra Bullock's character and found myself hoping that the guy would give up on her and find someone more worth his while. "},{"Title":"Hum...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I can honestly say that this movie was better than I expected. I have rather mixed feelings about this film, some aspects of it were quite well crafted, but some were rather disappointing. It is always interesting to watch a movie where the children's acting outshines the adults. The kids were great, Bullock and Connick, pretty ordinary. It was a movie I would not pay to see, but I was not disappointed that I'd scored a freebie. In all, a movie which is pleasant, if a trifle long, and touching, without being skilled enough to really effect. "},{"Title":"Very dry.  Weak story line.  No real emotion.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again the actors did all they could to a very weak story line.This idea should have had more emotion and less just sitting around. I have watched Sandra Bullock several times before and feel she almost didn't even want to be in this movie.  This was not up to her usual fine acting. "},{"Title":"Watch other Sandra Bullock movies; this isn't her best.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a Bullock/Connuck/Rowlands fan, I felt let down.  There were some scenes that were legitimate with the daughter -- especially if you'd been in the same situation.  Bernice obviously idolized her father; in a divorce situation, the last scene with her father could have happened. But the tantrum is for kids younger than her.  Mae Whitman was a bit irritating, but at her age, is this her fault?  Seems to me the directing must be blamed.  They needed Jonathan Kellerman as a technical consultant for the film.Part of the problem was the delightful Travis; I'm not sure what he was supposed to be doing -- didn't matter, he simply stole every scene he was in, and only Connuck didn't seem to mind.Hope Floats' primary fault, however, was the editing choppy and very difficult to follow.  It was as if they'd taken the clips left on the cutting room floor from the really good Bullock movies and made a new film of them.  We were left shaking our heads; we'll avoid this one in the future, and re-watch other Bullock movies.  Strange to say, I preferred Connuck in Copycat.  He was just a bit TOO pleasant and corny, even for a small town.  It was a relief to know that the three major actors in this film are very talented, and have proven it in the past.   "},{"Title":"Hope Floats, but bratty kid tries to sink Bullock.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't already been said.  Most everything is fine with this movie with the exception it is too long and belongs on television.  Bullock has proven herself a diversified actress mastering comedy, action, and drama without much effort to change her screen persona.  That is true star power.  Bullock has also proven herself a worthy producer having out done the similar plotted Robert Redford/Disney sure fire hit The Horse Whisperer with a much better film (without all the hype), and a smaller budget.  Dramas I suppose are suppose to be without car chases, crude jokes, and other crowd pleasers so if you are into romances this should make for a nice video rental (plenty of opportunities to take a break with a video).  The big debit in this film is the character of Sandra Bullock's daughter.  Her constant behavior over her jerk of a dad gets to you so much you just want to slap the little brat.  Can any child be that stupid?  Why the writers and producers shaped the character that way I don't understand, it's so over the top and the points made could have been done in a very subtle way without her being so oblivious to the pain her mother is going through.  It really ruined the movie for me.  The little brat.    "}{"Title":"A sleepy nothing movie.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The beginning of the film (before the credits) primed the viewer for some promise. How does one deal with betrayal on national television? A good subject, really, to explore the cancer of the age - talk show humiliation.But the movie doesn't address this. It concentrates instead on the woman, her feelings etc. I nearly fell asleep a number of times but had to see if it would improve. I should have allowed myself the sleep.Woman and man split has been done before and a lot better. Save your time and money. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not good","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A love comedy with a lot of potenial to be interesting but instead stagnates in its own sappiness. The chemistry between Harry Connick Jr. and Sandra Bullock sparkled. but it wasn't enough to save the movie. "},{"Title":"Hope May Float, But The Movie Is SUNK","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock, Gene Rowlands, and Mae Whitman were totally wasted talents in this badly scripted and edited movie.. I keep wondering what might have been, what could have been, what SHOULD have been given the premise Former small Southern town beauty queen returns home after national dumping by her philandering husband and her best friend on cheesy TV talk show..No wonder Rosanna Arquette didn't want her name in the credits as the homewrecker Connie!Being from a small Southern town, I found the gossip and lasciviousness to be pretty true to form (if Birdie(Sandra) developed any nudies in the photo shop, she was to make an extra copy for the old geezer that owned the place). Other than a few acid-dripping remarks that were on target, the rest of the movie was a horrible disappointment.Sandra's character is accused of drinking several times in the film, and although no alcohol consumption is seen or hinted at except for one bar scene, it certainly would have explained the zombie-like shadows of characters.We are left hanging with a bare bones plot, husband and his lover humiliate wife on T.V., she packs up small daughter and heads for the comforts of home with mother. Comforts?? I didn't see any. Gene Rowlands was funny, in an  eccentric way, but the eccentricities seemed to be pulled from a bag of bad writer's tricks. We are supposed to believe that Birdie fell in love again with the High School sweetheart that she dumped for the no-good Bill, but all I could think was, If this man's house was on fire, would he move fast enough to get out, and would he even have the emotional fortitude to care? The love interest had no sparks, no believability, and very little on the beam. I can see why he didn't make it in California as an architect. Heck, he can't even find steady employment in Smithville (too slow, they rightfully say).The only bright spot was little Mae Whitman, the small daughter, whom many will recognize as Casey from When A Man Loves A Woman (GREAT MOVIE!), Sara from Chicago Hope, and Patricia from Independence Day. I hope to see Mae again soon in a good movie..it's a sad day when the only actress in a star-filled cast doing much acting is knee high to a grasshopper.I am a woman, and usually like touchy, feely, humanistic stories about everyday life, but there was very little life here. I am extremely disappointed when I mentally compare what could have been and what was. IF I had paid full theater ticket prices to see this, I would have felt ripped off in the extreme. Places In The Heart is an example of a similar movie that WORKS!  "},{"Title":"Wrong Choice!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rented out this stinker when I had Lethal Weapon 4 in my hand. Wife wanted to see it, so I chose to watch about 2 hours of almost pure boredom. The hope in this movie was wishing when it would end. I found no character to which I could identify with, except her father. Her mother lamented about wiping out a hill of ants when she had stupid stuffed cats on the stairway. And what kind of a role model can she be if she lets that annoying kid Travis dress and act like a dog,lizard,Charlie Chaplin,etc. He is not a character that any normal child should strive to be like. Think the wrong kid got beat up at school. And his mother never came to her mother's funeral when the mother cared for him all these years? Come on Sandra!!!! I could probably find a person at a bar during closing time to write a more believable story.   "},{"Title":"A snoozing Chick Flick - oozing with a boring plot, characters & chemistry.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard Sandra Bullock in an interview say she was tired of picking stinkers like Speed 2 but felt vindicated with her latest movie titled, Hope Floats. On her own recommendation, I purchased the movie and shared it with my relatives at Christmas.  Well, that had to be one of the seven deadly sins.The story plots were horribly tied together. Many questions were left untied and most of the characters were hopelessly undeveloped. Why would a husband, who seemingly was happily married be so willing to embarrass his wife on national television?  Why would a best friend be so willing an accomplice to such a hateful event? And, why would she sit there and take it? Mom's sudden death was not developed nor explained. It was as if it were placed there to give life to a hopelessly boring movie.The daughter was the only redeeming character of the film. She deserves an Oscar for her performance.  The mother could have been a redeeming character, if they had taken the time to develop her.  Bullock played a dead-panned character - devoid of any endearing qualities.  Connick's role wasn't much better.  She really didn't care to have a relationship with him. She knew him from before and didn't show an interest in him.  Suddenly, she changes her mind? I don't think so.I prayed for a swift conclusion to the movie.  I wasn't rooting for any of the characters from the beginning of the movie to the end of the movie. I only hoped that all of my relatives had passed out from a worthy Christmas cheer, but that to was to no avail. I will probably be ribbed over this movie for years to come.I think that if I wanted to get even with my wife, rather than embarrassing her on national TV, I would force her to watch this movie.As for Sandra Bullock, I preferred Speed 2 to this stinker. "},{"Title":"Who Paid for This Drivel?","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not trying to impress anyone, but I used to be a script doctor. Something awful must have happened between story conception and final cut of Hope Floats.I have rarely seen this many loose ends in a high profile screen romance. Too many issues are addressed, only to go essentially unresolved.The opening, in which Sandra Bullock's character has her marriage wrecked in a national talk show sets the tone for this trite film.I can only imagine that it was conceived by people who have explored their emotions only on a surface level.What I hated the most was the way trite music video symbolism was used every time the story floundered dramatically, which was about every ten minutes.Every performer was wasted on this project, except for Sandra Bullock, whose talent seems to be on about this film's level.   "},{"Title":"The main problem was the character development (or lack thereof)!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An observation I had while watching this sub-par movie is that Hope Floats is VERY similar to the romantic comedy Something To Talk About (starring Julia Roberts & Dennis Quaid).  Both films leading actress have a cheating husband.  Both of those actresses leave their husband to go live with their mother.  Both actresses resist involvement with another man (i.e. Connick Jr.) while being on a date with him, and finally, both films are set in Texas.  I may be going out on a limb here, but I'm guessing the writer of Hope Floats watched Something To Talk About, shortly before he started to write this masterpiece.  It's too bad that he couldn't have at least equaled the quality of that film, because it was MUCH better! "},{"Title":"Lots of camera-tricks and quirky characters, but the details just aren't right...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This wheeze of a story, about a humiliated young wife and mother finding herself, is enhanced by lots of camera tricks and a fine leading lady, but the script and characters needed a good overhaul and the details are screwy. For instance, just WHY is that photo-developing machine continually mangling the pictures--and why does Sandra Bullock get docked for it when it's clearly the machine's fault? A scene in a bar, with Bullock drunk and babbling, makes no sense--and later in the bathroom, hanging over the toilet, her mother comes in with no words of wisdom and drops the ball. Gena Rowlands as Sandra's mom really infuriated me (is she a down-home, earthy soul or just an eccentric pain in the neck? Just after Sandra arrives, Rowlands offers nothing but awful put-downs). I don't know how women might feel, but Harry Connick, Jr. seems a staid and sorry excuse for a prince charming (he has no scenes where he shows us any charisma or self-worth). Sandra's kid, played by Mae Whitman, probably gives the best performance, but she has a small range and is around too much (I did love her little glasses though). As for Bullock, she's just right in some scenes (like the one where she asks an old acquaintance for a job) and over-the-top in others. A good director would be able to scale her stridency down, but Forest Whitaker seems a novice who's not really into this story. I wasn't either. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Godawful...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The five of us -- four girls and one guy -- rented hope floats and everyone agreed it was awful. No plot. Bad acting. Some random plot holes. Whiny bratty annoying daughter. This movie had it all... in a bad way. We came very close to not watching it all the way through, thinking it would improve. It didn't. Don't waste your time. Harry Connick Jr. should stick to singing... "},{"Title":"Another Disappointment From Sandra Bullock","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats is another Sandra Bullock film where she is the only real asset.  Once again she tries hard with a sorry screenplay and poor direction, but cannot save this one.  The film deals with a young woman who goes back to her home-town in Texas after she learns that her husband is having an affair with her best friend.  She falls in love, of course, and all the stuff that you would think would happen does.  A very ho-hum film.  2 stars out of 5.   "}{"Title":"that sinking feeling","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"          Where to begin? A friend and I were laughing about the talk show scene, and she suggested I watch HOPE FLOATS. Certainly, the first four minutes where Bullock's character discovers her husbands infidelity on a national talk show are interesting, but then the wheels come off the cart and the viewer is left stranded for 110 long minutes.          The story is very thin, the acting (Bullock can't act, Connick's a good singer...) is atrocious. Without any chemistry between Connick and Bullock, this is a romance without romance.  There is the opportunity here to examine the adult life of a past prom queen, how her adolescent values have failed her, but the opportunity is lost. Character development has gone out the window in this film.         Clearly, there are some problems in the editing/directing department. When the bully beats up Sandra's little girl, she says she's going to speak to the bully's parents - this never happens. There is considerable build up to this fight scene, but no apparent resolution. I'm left to believe that, at 114 minutes, some serious trimming had do be done to this film, and that scenes these scenes were left on the cutting room floor. And what was with all the boom shots?          I could only recommend this film to those that like their movies inept, overly long and shallow. "},{"Title":"AAAARRRRRGGGGGHHHHHH!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is terrible.  I know, that sounds really very intelligent, but hey, it's rotten!  Harry Connick Jr., an otherwise talented person, comes off as creepy in this movie-almost like a stalker.  Sandra Bullock unexplainedly falls for him.  There are several elements to the plot that equally defy logic. I didn't care about the characters one iota.  Totally vapid.  Where's the Zero on the pull down rating menu? "},{"Title":"What Else Floats?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a real stinker.  Whitaker and Bullock aim for a Harlequin romance but end up with gruel.  High-gloss, well-made gruel, but thin, boring, and shapeless gruel of a movie nonetheless.  These kinds of movies tend to the predictable, and Hope Floats is no exception.  My beef is that it contains no drama, no sizzle, and no comedy.  All of these are necessary in keeping me awake during cinematic romances...even those with Ms. Bullock.  Only for die-hard Bullock and Connick fans...zzzzzzzzzz...  "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't see it in the theater","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Put simply, this wasn't what I thought it would be.  It takes an hour and forty minutes until Bullock's character finally confront's her sleazy husband.  I almost fell asleep watching this.The only high points are the scenes taken at the photo shop. "},{"Title":"Huge Disappointment","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I asked for was a little escapism from this movie. It was not to be. I spent the entire time yelling at the characters (I was home alone) for making such stupid decisions and having such stupid lines.  The characters were AWFUL (someone please tell Harry Connick Jr he has no right to be in front of a movie camera unless he's singing), and there was NO spark between Bullock and Connick.  What's the point of a romantic comedy if you can't pretend for an instant that the two leads could possibly have a reason for getting together?DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and childish","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the silliest, most contrived films of all time. First, Sandra Bullock's accent is ridiculous. You're from Washington, Sandy, not Waco. Get over it. Second, the movie itself is as transparent as Bullock's accent. Cheating husband is bad, loyal little wife is good. Fox could have made this a thought-provoking movie--gasp!--by actually giving the other characters some life. Play against stereotype. Make us feel sympathy for the cheating husband. Make Bullock a cold, unfeeling ice queen. Challenge the moviegoer, don't just go for sap. With an effort like this, it's obvious Fox should stick to producing stories about cartoon families, and Bullock should stick to driving buses.  "},{"Title":"Hope floats, but unfortunately so does s%@t","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Unbearably sentimental and predictable. "},{"Title":"Fair to Middlin'","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked it...but I didn't love it. There are too many issues and storylines that muddle it up causing the film to feel like one big soap opera. The performances were very well done, especially Gena Rowlands as Birdie's mom, and the little girl who played the daughter was quite good. I'd recommend it for light comedy/drama lovers and Sandra Bullock fans, but not for people expecting a fast paced, tightly woven drama. It moves slowly. Hope Floats could've been much better if it concentrated on one or two of the many angles it presented.  "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you find out you only have 2 hours to live, go see this movie.  It will seem like 2 weeks. "},{"Title":"Hope Should Float in a Flood of Crap.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Floats (1998) Dir Forest Whitaker / Cast Sandra Bullock, Harry Connick Jr., Gena Rowland, Mae Whitman, Rosanna Arquette One of the dumbest romances ever concocted. Sandra Bullock is invited onto a talk show believing that she will receive a makeover only to be met with the news that her best friend and husband have been having an affair. She and her daughter move in with her mother and reminded of the incident by those who saw it twice. She begins work at a photo lab and falls in love with that high school chum she never liked. Director Forest Whitaker never capitalizes on a single scene so we have Mae Whitman get beat up at school and then just up and walk away. The bedroom scene to cheer her up is equally stupid. The death of Bullock's mother was unnecessary. The setup had all the potential at the talk show but instead it sends Bullock through tired formula clichés. Gena Rowland is reduced to a prop who will eventually keel over. Harry Connick Jr. is flat as that old love who never seems to be anything other than a bad reminder of the past. Mae Whitman deserves better than to be playing the bunt of a bad joke. Rosanna Arquette is featured in the talk show sequence and we're reminded how superior she is to this pitiful garbage. The result is a worthless romantic puke that should be tied to a large rock and tossed at sea so that it may not float again. Score 0 / 10 "}{"Title":"Hope Floats Eternally-***1/2","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock gives a compelling and understated performance as a woman who goes on a television reality show only to discover that her husband is having an affair with her best friend.After leaving him, the film concerns itself with the affects of this event, not only on Bullock, but her young daughter.Naturally, an old flame enters her life, when she returns home. Gena Rowlands was wonderful in a supporting role playing her understanding yet realistic mother.This is definitely a film worth watching because it goes into all of the after affects when a divorce is about to occur. "},{"Title":"Great Tearjerker","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really like the soundtrack for this movie and was surprised to find it was put together by Forest Whitaker...(who also directed) I REALLY like this movie, the acting by Bernice (Little Miss Sunshine) is exceptional, and I relate SO much to Birdie, someone who was Audacious when younger, and through others putting her down, felt like a less worthy or even lovable person. I cry when I see her with her Dad. WHO could NOT love Justin (YUM! the gorgeous guy he is...Jill Goodacre, you are lucky!) His kindness towards Travis is mind blowing and worth two boxes of tissues. Anyway,I like this movie a LOT and never understood why it didn't get better reviews. I would recommend that people watch this movie a second time if they don't get it...It is a great movie with a great message about going on a second time around AND.. My Cup Runneth Over... "},{"Title":"An honest movie, perfectly pitched","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've never really understood the appeal of Sandra Bullock, and frequently find her goofiness a bit irritating. However, I actually found myself warming to her in this - for the most part. She still has a tendency to screech, whine and grin inanely at inappropriate times, which makes me cringe. But when she plays it straight, she does actually show some real talent & depth.There is great support here from Gena Rowlands & Harry Connick Jr. and a very fine performance from little Mae Whitman. It's a chick-flick - slushy and sentimental, and there are no car chases or gun-fights. But as a keenly observed drama about small-town America (about which I know nothing, but assume it's much the same all over the world) it would seem to be spot-on. It's nicely paced & gently humorous. There are some real gems in the script, lines that make you feel warm inside. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"A snail moves faster but at the core is a very nice story","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Birdie (Sandra Bullock) has just returned to her hometown in Texas. Once the belle of the city, homecoming queen, etc., Birdie is now licking the wounds of a painful marital separation. She has brought her young daughter Bernice with her and both of them are quite puzzled by life and what it may hold for their future. Fortunately, Birdie's mother welcomes them with open arms and lots of love. Then, too, Justin (Harry Connick, Jr.) is delighted that Birdie is back in town. Will the two distraught females, Birdie and Bernice, learn to look forward instead of dwelling on the past?This slow, understated movie may be a difficult watch for the action film crowd. It is definitely a character study and, in that, it excels. Bullock gives an excellent portrayal as the prom queen who learns that life is not an endless picnic. She also looks utterly beautiful throughout the film. The young actress playing her daughter is also quite good as the troubled and confused child of a broken home. Rowlands and Connick, Jr. lend ample support. No, please don't look for car crashes or chase scenes. Instead bask in the film's simple pleasures, such as fishing on a quiet lake or dancing at a county fair. Those who like romance will be satisfied but the growth of the female characters is worth much more. Ladies, send the men off to the bowling alley and invite your friends over for a girlie get-together. This film is definitely one that women will enjoy while holding hands and celebrating the joys of ya-ya sisterhood. "},{"Title":"Such a sweet, slow, gratifying movie","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. It's my stay home in bed on a rainy day movie, it always leaves me feeling at ease. It's more than a romantic comedy, it encompasses so many things we experience in life- death, divorce, parenthood, love, rising up and building strength to start again, dealing with change, hometown nostalgia, depression, childhood difficulties, and simply getting older. I think this movie is a more realistic romantic comedy in the way that it's not about falling in love in the grand old idealized Hollywood fashion, but more so in a way that is true to a woman who is older and not so hesitant to give her heart away. It's just very realistic is what it comes down too, nothing far-fetched or too romanticized, just plain old life staring you in the face. While it contains so much heartache and sadness (a parent with dementia, death, betrayal) it still manages to be uplifting in a non-overpowering or unbelievable way. Oh, and I won't forget to add that the scenery is beautiful and the soundtrack is pretty good. "},{"Title":"Very heartwarming, touching, and romantic film","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" HOPE FLOATS, in my opinion, is a very heartwarming, touching, and romantic film. Personally, I thought what Bill (Michael Paré) did to Birdee (Sandra Bullock) was very cold, unfaithful, and inconsiderate. Plus, I don't think Connie (Rosanna Arquette) should have done what she did with Birdee's husband! My absolute favorite parts were when Bernice (Mae Whitman) got scolded by Birdee and when Bill and Birdee were having an argument at Ramona's (Gena Rowlands) house. Justin (Harry Connick Jr.) was a really cute guy in my opinion. I think he was meant for Birdee. Also, I thought it was really sweet when he and Birdee were dancing together. In conclusion, to all you Sandra Bullock fans who haven't seen this heartwarming, touching, and romantic film, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Birdy Calvert's husband is a dog and he's been catting around with her best friend. To add insult to injury, she finds this out on a national talk show. Then she goes home to her mother...It thought this was a good movie. Harry Connick, who knew he could fill jeans and a crisp white shirt in such a yummy way. More butt shots, please! Sandra Bullock is always a keeper and it's touching to watch how she copes with the demise of her marriage and providing realism to her young daughter. She's not raising this girl with rosy tinted glasses. I like the it is what it is way she lays life out to Bernice. Gena Rowlands is great as the mother who loves her daughter but she doesn't sponsor any Pity Parties. My favorite line is in the scene where Justin (Connick) take Birdy fishing and he's resting on a log by the lake and says, Come sit by me (It's not what you say, it's how you say it). I think Forrest Whittaker's direction is tender and touching and very well done. I like it. "},{"Title":"Whitaker's directing groove...","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Forest Whitaker has something going on for fireworks. When I watched First Daughter, I clearly recognized the voice of a narrator at the beginning of the film. It was the story of the president's daughter, a living person who experienced real situations; but the narration made it look like a fairy tale. The last shot of the movie contained a closing monologue about princesses and princes, and then lots of fireworks in the sky.This is a part of how Whitaker senses film-making as a director. He's an excellent actor but as a director he's got to take another point of view; and he chooses happiness, optimism if you prefer. He draws the different shades of the film, so you can suffer alongside the characters, because not everything is color pink, you know? But somehow you anticipate smiles and laughs; Whitaker makes sure we realize that.His camera has an intense light all the time; darkness only comes with melancholy and shyness; forbidden love. Not with sadness he lets us see the tears clearly; tears of sorrow in the toughest moments, tears of joy in the cheerful ones. He follows Birdie Pruitt (Sandra Bullock) in her development of a new life. Former prom queen, popular hateful cheerleader&#133;She married the school's sweetheart who then abandoned her and their daughter Bernice (Mae Whitman).Birdie is now staying at her mother Ramona's (Gena Rowlands) place, in Smithville Texas. The film was shot there in the exact location, and Bullock walks her precious legs trough the town trying to get a job, maybe establish a relationship, or do things for her daughter and nephew Travis; just to discover she has never been able to do any of this, and that she's got to learn.When she goes to an employment agency, the secretary starts jumping as if she was a celebrity (in her town she was, probably), and asks her Did you come to see Dot?. Yes, Birdie answers without much understanding. The secretary tells her to wait and after some hours she meets Dot, who says The same old Birdie. After this, Birdie responds Same old Dot, without knowing who the person is. Dot learns this and makes Birdie see how bad she was treated by her during high school.Then she encounters Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr.), a hard-working man who her mother likes for her; enough to arrange meetings, dinner and unexpected dates. Some walks they take reveal how stuck Birdie is with life. When they are talking, Justin makes a move You know you gave me my first real kiss, don't you?. Discussing love issues, Birdie concludes Well, I know you have a crush on me&#133; Justin stays still A crush? We're not in high school any more.All of that is treated in Steven Rogers' first screenplay, including one specific scene that shows a committed combination that leads to ultimate happiness. Bernice is angry, so Birdie, Ramona, Travis and a friend, sing a song to her, and in a minute they are all dancing in the bed. During the dance and the song Whitaker shows each of the characters' faces&#133;They're all smiling; and it is so charming it is contagious. Birdie works out the problems singing at that point, afterwards, she tries hard to be a mother and a daughter in her chats with Bernice and Ramona, composed by Rogers' moving words technique.The chats with Ramona are more intense, as is the acting confrontation between Rowlands and Bullock. Rowlands delivers, believe it or not, an Oscar-caliber performance with her overjoyed and life lover grandmother. The way she says things make the viewer believe she's got the wisdom. Bullock is one of the actresses I admire the most and this movie shows an emerging phase of her career, totally natural. The kids are also perfect choices, as is Harry Connick Jr.; definitely not the usual leading man.However, he seems the perfect guy in the last scene of the movie, where that perfect song starts to play and&#133;Remember what I told you about the narration? And the fireworks? "},{"Title":"Hope Floats is one of the best films anyone could watch","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Floats is one of the most romantic films I have ever seen.To those who say it was horrible, maybe you just can't understand the feeling. And to those who said Sandra had a terrible accent, you are from Canada like me. So how about you try to act and talk with an accent. It is hard and she did her best. It turned out to be a great film. If you don't like it, maybe you should reconsider watching romantic movies that you are quite not ready for. Hope Floats captured what its like to love again. I think every girl is waiting for their Justin to help them realize that even if one guy didn't love you it doesn't mean that everyone hates you. Birdee's first husband was stupid to leave her,and Justin reassures her that he never will. "},{"Title":"Country romance","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock plays a mom from a small Texas town who returns after heartbreak in the big city of Chicago.  It was NOT boring, but it's not an action adventure movie.  This movie is all about the love that a family can offer to others in the family and about old-fashioned values of faithfulness and love and support.  Woven in this thread is a romance between two simple yet complex people.  Anyone who works with their hands will appreciate the house that Justin has built.  Mae Whitman gives a funny yet touching performance that will tweak the strings of anyone who has ever been picked on in school.  Sandra Bullock is sexy, as always, and portrays her character well.  Ramona is a hoot.  And, finally, Bill Pruitt as played by Michael Paré makes you hate him, which means he did a good job acting the part.  I enjoyed this movie, can you tell?  "}{"Title":"Not for chick flick haters.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I neither love nor hate chick flicks, some are good some aren't. I really enjoyed Hope Floats. I'm not sure just why this movie stood out to me but something about it was just lovely. I think one thing I liked was that(most) of it took place In Texas. If you haven't been there you don't know but Texas is such a romantic place-the beauty of the south is sometimes almost amazing and the movie really captured that. I'm also a big fan of Bullock's and though the movie was cheesy in parts I really thought it was a lovely film and very well acted. Harry Connick Jr. was also very good but the film as a whole unfortunately may fall into that chick flick category. I guess as a whole what sets it apart is the small town romantic feel to the whole picture. They say a really good movie just reaches ahold of you and draws you in and this movie does that,there's an appealing innocence about the film, it's the kind of movie that, at the end, you'll feel like going canoing with your best friend from high school or looking up your first love-it'll leave you with a rosy feeling.(That's NOT to say you won't need tissues because there are some really sad moments.)Definitely one of Bullock's best. 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Perfect For Recent Breakups","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are going through a split up with your significant other, this film is perfect for you!  Its sweet and wonderful with incredible performances by Sandra Bullock, Mae Whitman, and the always perfect Gena Rowlands.  Its sentimental and sweet. When you are at the height of a break up this film will show you that moving on is possible.  The movie does a great job of showing the highs and lows of moving on and Sandra is perfect when she shows the after effect of having her first post-break up fling.  You feel you're there with her when she is walking the streets on a rainy night all by herself.  Haven't we all been there?  And don't we all wonder when and CAN we really move on?  The movie proves there is life after the love of your life ends. "},{"Title":"It Does Float!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gives you a story of hope. A young woman finds out on TV the truth about her husband and moves back to her home town, where she was once the Queen of nice and popularity. Her Mother (Gena Rowlands) is a sassy woman that tries to teach Birdee what life is really about. Bernice, Birdee's daughter gives her things to think about herself and is wise beyond her years in this film...Harry Connick Jr is of course nice to look at in this movie and fortunately he is not just eye-candy, he holds his own in this movie with this sensitivity and emotional confessions to Birdee. He helps Birdee to find what love and life are all about...I watched this movie so many times that my tape became garbage - thank god for DVD!!!  "},{"Title":"And Birdee is a normal name?  -)","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An open heart floats hope!  Life is full of twist and turns that are not in our control.  If you've lived past the age of 30 and never had unforeseen circumstances thrust upon you by the actions of someone else, you are in for a rude awakening one day... and it is coming. But if you allow your heart to be open to the good that can come your way.. you can survive in style.By the way....Bernice is a wonderful name... it means Brings Victory! What does your name mean! .. and no my name is not Bernice... but I know a few! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellet for those of us who are alone...not necessarily by choice.  No matter the reason of why we may be alone, it shows us that love is out there somewhere, whether we're looking for it or not.  It definitely gives me hope! "},{"Title":"Nice movie! Good for Sandra!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie so much I bought the video..Sandra Bullock is a great actress (I also recommend seeing Miss Congeniality, it's a hoot!)It reminds me of high school days and what could have been different..and no I wasn't one of those cheerleading/ miss popularity types... She gets the guy who she should've been with all along right? The only thing I didn't like was all those stuffed animals her taxidermist mother had all over the house! Yuck! "},{"Title":"Good movie, well acted","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie -- maybe because I am actually from the South and I have seen how small towns work and what divorce does to people.  I thought it was a pretty good story line and the actors did a great job depicting the small town.  Sandra Bullock did a wonderful job in this role -- her performance had the right balance of drama and comedy to make you fall in love with her character, laughing with her then wanting to console her from moment to moment.  Of course Gena Rowlands was awesome per her usual.  My only criticism of the movie was that they didn't develop her character enough.  She definitely got the eccentric, southern mother down perfectly. Harry Connick Jr. was a good choice also.  He is not the typical idea of the hot guy, but you could totally see him as a once-geeky kid who came into his own quite nicely.  He played the guy still in love with the popular girl in high school and made it believable without being pitiful or sappy. But, I think that my favorite character was Travis.  He brought light to the dark moments, and made me cry at the same time.  All in all I thought that this was a good movie and even had a pretty good message at the end.  Yeah it was the picture perfect happy ending, but who wants to watch a depressing movie -- life is depressing enough. "},{"Title":"HOPE FLOATS FOR THIS FILM","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock dazzles in one of the best performances of her career as Birdee Pruit. Bullock plays a woman who has just found out her husband is cheating on her with her best friend. She decides to go back to her hometown and live with her mother, taking everything she owns and her daughter with her. She struggles rejection and hate from ex-school mates that laugh at her for being a ex-prom queen-turned-single mom. Although Bullock gives a very good performance her daughter (in the film) steals the show. Mae Whitman stars as Bernice, her acting is extrordinary. Don't be surprised if she wins an Oscar on of these days. "},{"Title":"Most beautiful film...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just the most beautiful film I've seen in my entire life! It's that simple. Sandra Bullock is remarkable in this one! And you probably will never see a movie with a better soundtrack. Fantastic songs perfectly fitting to the storyline... "},{"Title":"A movie of hope","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Such a romantic movie.  It gives us women hope that there really are nice, romantic men out there.  It showed the realities of marriage for many people.  The acting of Sandra Bullock and Harry Connick Jr. was a 9. "}{"Title":"OK not one of her best but not because of her! I LOVED THE MOVIE!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra was great as usual, I know the movie had problems but they weren't because of her or Gena Rowlands either. Yes it was a bit slow, not put together as well as it could have been but on the whole given the fact that she was playing opposite others whose movie experience was questionable I thought it was a good movie and would watch it again. That is why I bought it. The music was wonderful and the best part of the film was the dance with the trip to Justin's home he was building and the talk they had. The movie conveyed, roughly, the message of what happens when a girl/woman comes home from a broken marriage with a child. Having personally endured some of what she was subjected to I found it moving and realistic. "},{"Title":"Cute but nothing Special","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats is a story about a woman that got dumped by her husband at a talk show and now she has to deal how to live with herself and her daughter. She goes to live with her mother, hoping to get a fresh new start. Obviously she finds some guy and falls in love with him. Cute movie, but nothing special. The little girl was so cute, she looked like a little geek. The best scene was when all the kids were following the little girl bernice, trying to beat her up.It was just so cute. I would give Hope Floats 7/10 "},{"Title":"I LOVED this film!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot, for the life of me, understand the mediocre ratings this movie has received from the other reviewers!  I thought that it was wonderfully written, beautifully and sensitively acted, and, overall, a pleasure to watch -- which I have done, SEVERAL times!I am a huge fan of Sandra Bullock and Gena Rowlands, so I expected great things from them, and was NOT disappointed in the least.  The surprise for me was in the casting of Harry Connick, Jr., as the man still carrying the torch for Birdie, after all those years.  I had never seen him act in anything before -- but he was PERFECT in this role!  Also, the young actors, who played the parts of Bernice and Travis, were commendable in their ability to exhibit the maturity required to portray children who were suffering great emotional turmoil as a result of their parents' behavior.OK! -- I admit to being a pushover for feel-good movies and happy endings -- when I sit down to watch a movie, I want it to leave me feeling relaxed and happy.  This movie succeeded in doing just that, by the QUALITY and originality that went into the acting, the directing, the writing, the sets, the lighting, the soundtrack, and so many other details of the production.  I never tire of watching it, and it still provokes tears, smiles and laughter, just as it did the first time I saw it.The only flaw that I can find in the movie was in the decision to base the beginning on one of those sleazy daytime TV expose shows, in which people air their dirty laundry and scandals for all the world to see -- although it did contribute to some of the funny lines later in the film. It was a bit embarrassing, though, in front of my adolescent children, to hear them speaking, in graphic detail, of the affair between Birdie's husband and her best friend.  Mature viewers would have understood the extent of his unfaithfulness, if they had spoken with a little more tact and subtlety, but where would those shows be without their shock value? -- off the air, which I can only hope for in my lifetime!  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who is in the mood for a sentimental, funny, romantic, and uplifting story. Enjoy!                "},{"Title":"Say what you will about this movie, but I loved it.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That of course, is the short answer.  Personally, I loved the movie, but that may well be due to my weakness for Texan accents.  I will say that the good points include phenomenal performances by the three generations of women in this movie.  I have never seen such an honest and intelligent representation of an imperfect mother and a painfully observant young daughter.  The perfomance by Mae Whitman was amazingly complex for such a young actress.  Therefore my compliments to her and to the director, Forest Whitaker (who apparently knows a LOT about the violently fragile dynamic between mothers and daughters!)  Fantastic direction!  Again, I'm partial to the soothing accents and the Texas backdrop, but the emotional progression of the film was legitmate and the relationships were as flawed and frustrating as all of ours are in the non-hollywood world. Finally, a nod to Ms. Rowlands for another outstanding performance, showing precisely the right amount of mother and grandmother,wisdom, brutality and heart.  "},{"Title":"Like butterfat in fresh milk, hope will float to the top if you give it time.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - Sandra Bullock will never be one of the fine actors of her time. She basically plays herself in most of her films. You could swap around scenes from several of her films and none of them would look out of place. She's no Meryl Streep. However, I like Sandra Bullock playing Sandra Bullock. And I like Hope Floats, especially her pairing with Harry Connick Jr. The film starts with a parody of talk shows, where Birdie's (Bullock)  best friend and her husband surprise her with the news that they are having an affair, love each other. Devastated she and her cute daughter move back home to Smithville, Texas (actually filmed in Smithville, one of the towns along my weekend motorcycle route). Works at the local drug store processing film. Justin (Connick Jr.)who always had a crush on her gets serious about dating her. He is a house painter, who also designed and is building his own home, slowly! Mom has a heart attack at night and dies. Husband shows up at the funeral, insists on a divorce, daughter tries to go with him but is rejected.This is Birdie's story. It is about dealing with rejection, with the tumbling down of your dreams, with getting on with life after the glory days of high school are past. Not a great script, a little slow at times, but a very good one, and handled well by director Forest Whitaker. The musical score and songs are very well chosen. I rate it 7 of 10, and a very nice message floats to the top, if you let it.  "},{"Title":"Touching and alarmingly real","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forest Whitaker did a wonderful job in illustrating how each of us handles the good and not-so-good things that come our way; and no matter how much we strive to be different from our parents, we somehow end up picking up parts of them anyway.  The good part about the film is the performance by Gena Rowlands.  What a diverse actress she is, and her portrayal of a woman who loves but shows it in detached ways is credible.As for the real portion, having been through some of the life situations, I was pleased that they weren't undermined nor catastrophized.  What a pleasant surprise.  It's definitely a feel-good movie, and one that can break your heart for so many reasons. "},{"Title":"VERY heart-warming, touching, and romantic","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  HOPE FLOATS, in my opinion, is a VERY heart-warming, touching, and romantic film. Personally, I thought what Bill (Michael Paré) did to Birdee (Sandra Bullock) was VERY cold, unfaithful, and inconsiderate. Plus, I don't think Connie (Rosanna Arquette) should have done what she did with Birdee's husband! My absolute favorite parts were when Bernice (Mae Whitman) got scolded by Birdee and when Bill and Birdee were having an argument at Ramona's (Gena Rowlands) house. Justin (Harry Connick Jr.) was a REALLY cute guy in my opinion. I think he was meant for Birdee. Also, I thought it was REALLY sweet when he and Birdee were dancing together. In conclusion, to all you Sandra Bullock fans who haven't seen this heart-warming, touching, and romantic film, I HIGHLY recommend it!  "},{"Title":"As good as a box of chocolates--spoilers","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watch this film when I'm depressed, lonely, or sick of feeling like I live for my job.  The cinematography captures the hazy beauty of a small southern town.  The minor characters are one-sided, but Bullock plays out a convincing survival (albeit within a two-hour film) of a nationally televised cuckolding, the resulting resentment toward her of her elementary school-aged daughter, the death of her mother, and her father's Alzheimers. Judging by the other critics' negative comments about Hope Floats, maybe only a woman who has forgotten who she is can really appreciate a film like this.  I find it therapeutic and inspirational.  And, once you get over Harry Connick's face, it's a nice romance, too.Mag "},{"Title":"Tear Jerker","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really upset to read all of the negative reviews about this potentially wonderful movie!  Granted, it's not Gone with the Wind, but if you've ever been put in the positions of the characters, it will really hit home with some emotion.  It loses sight sometimes, but it never sways from the message that no matter what kind of hand life deals you, you are in control of how you play your cards.  I think Sandra Bullock plays one of her best roles yet, and unfortunately I related to a lot of her reactions in the movie.  Harry Connick Jr.'s part is underwritten, but he does his best with what the script gave him.  Gena Rowlands is a fine example of a woman that has learned and loved through true life experiences.  It maybe labeled a chick flick, but I think it is a great movie that doesn't deserve all of the bashing!  See it and decide for yourself!  "},{"Title":"Excellent acting and directing of a subtlety beautiful story.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hope that Forest Whitaker continues directing more films. He has brought out the best of all the characters plus included subtle detail of the things which affect the emotions of each character. I wish that The Academy Awards had an award for the best performance by an actor under the age of 12. If there were, then Mae Whitman would have won one in 1998 for her performance as Bernice.Bullock does her best performance and Gena Rowlands is at her best. Those who dislike the sentimentality of the film should stick to car chase and two gun movies. What the characters experience is extremely emotional and to not have portrayed it this way would have been to add more superficiality to the c--p that Hollywood produces. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope Floats is my alltime favorite movie.  Sandra Bullock does a wonderful job playing her character and making this movie so great.  Be prepared that it is a tear jerker so have some tissues close by.  I never cry during movies but this one brought tears from my eyes by the end.  Hope Floats has a good story-line, great actors, romance, and situations that might happen to you in real life.  If you haven't seen this movie yet, go rent it right away.  I think it's the best movie I've ever seen, and you can just watch it over and over again and it never gets old.  "},{"Title":"Good...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was cute. Not the best movie I've seen, but I did enjoy is. The acting is pretty good. Mae Whitman was adorable, but her acting was also wonderful. You should really see it. "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times.  At first I only saw the flaws and was not really impressed other than it was O. K.  The next viewing brought on altogether different emotions.  There was more to it each time I saw it.  I was able to see what made the characters click.  The music mirrored the emotions of the characters.  The reality of the set added immensely to the movie.  The relatively low rating that the professional reviewers give it will change with time. "},{"Title":"Better than I'd hoped","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the second this movie started I was glued to my seat. It opened with a very realistic scene in a talk show. It is the very first movie in a long, long time that had me gripped from the first scene - apart from Saving Private Ryan. The emotions on Sandra Bullock's face! This is the first movie I have seen her in in which I am now convinced that she is a great actress. Perhaps her previous films suffered from script-deprivation. This scene could have so easily been overdone by anyone else, but Sandra played it so convincingly. And this continued throughout the film.Her character's daughter also gripped me. Understandable she is mixed up about her parents' separation and is acting out accordingly. The scene with her holding her bag by the front gate and crying, certainly put a huge lump in my throat.The scene at the employment agency could also have been overdone, but I found it realistic - even moving, in a strange way. The acting was subtle, the pauses just long enough, the emotions visible to the viewer, but not blatant or manipulative. This is an example of the types of techniques employed in the film that allow the viewer to relate to the characters - to feel their pain, to be embarrassed with them and to laugh and cry when they make mistakes and when they learn from them.  "},{"Title":"I loved it, and I'm going to buy it.","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a diehard Harry Connick, jr. fan I jump at the chance to see Harry in a film with top billing. Although I would have been happier to see him in more scenes, I thought he did a very good job. It's too bad that Sandra's reviews weren't the best, because I feel this was a great role for her and one she's best suited for. The soundtrack is also first rate, and blends perfectly with the mood of the film. For the hopeless romantics out there who haven't seen it, Rent it. For those looking for action, drama, and thrills Rent Zorro instead. "},{"Title":"Linda Obst production,  ( Sleepless in Seattle and One Fine Day) Hope Floats is a fine","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing wrong with  a chick movie! Like great director/producer Oliver Stone who makes good guys movies, Obst has to made movies from a woman's perspective. I love them all! I want to appreciate the male perspective in Stone's movies. I have watched most of them. I want to understand my husband's perspective, who as the only child understands Stone's frame of mind.  In our household we collect movies. For every  guy movie I get about two or three  chick movies. I like to feel good!  Hope Floats got bad ratings. I don't understand it! It is true women's reality. Many single women as Obst have to struggle and raise a kid alone. That is what this movie is about starting over. Whoever said that there are no similarities when one starts over. Life is full of new beginnings. If the plot is not so original, maybe because life sometimes is not!Sensitively directed by Forest Whitaker! The acting is great.  Talented Harry Connick Jr.,  gets his first leading role deservingly so because he is multi - talented. He sings beautifully, plays the piano with technique and great improvisation. He did the entire Sound track of When Harry met Sally. He is good! Hopefully more directors will give him leading roles. He deserves it!Internationally acclaimed Sandra Bullock ( While You Were Sleeping)  is a doll and a half. She is the type of woman that I would like to have as friend. She seems to be a blast! Mae Whitman ( One Fine Day) does so well as the daughter devastated by her relationship between mom and her dad. She does a great job acting. Gena Rowlands (Unhook the Stars, Something to Talk About)  seems to be the Hollywood mother those days, and she is adorable. She is good. She is talented and was perfectly casted for the part.  I will watch any Linda Obst production because she does great chick movies and I like that!  "},{"Title":"all mothers love their daughters","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was part boring and part good. But I really felt sorry for Birdee(Sandra Bullock's character);her husband had an affair with her best friend on live television (and even her cheating husband did it with her best friend in the her own living room in her own house), her mother dies, and her daughter loses her trust. What was dumb about Birdee was that she denies that her husband doesn't love her, while she's got a great man (Harry Connick Jr) who wants to start a relationship with her and she pulls away still thinking that her husband would come back. And when he finally does come back, all he said was that he wanted a divorce and doesn't even want to take care of their daughter. What a jerk! But what I like most of all in this movie was that in the middle Birdee's mom(Gena Rowlands)said to her all mothers love their daughters even if they don't show it. Now that gave me something to think about! "},{"Title":"What an uplifting film about courage in real life!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was a refreshing look at overcoming what life throws at you. Starting over and becoming better rather than bitter! What a lift! "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really hits that date movie mark.  I loved it.  And, OH MY GOD!, little Mae Whitman who played Bernice deserves the Oscar for her crying scene when she is trying to leave with her father.  It was definitely a four Kleenexer for me.  It makes those of us who live in the city actually wish we could head off to small town America to start over. "},{"Title":"A very beautiful movie.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie 4 times now,and it keeps on growing each time I see it again. It is,in my opinion,really several stories in one,weaved together by the bonds of family (and friends).It is about Birdee (Sandra Bullock) finding her place in life. About Birdees daughter,Bernice,adjusting to her new life in the Texas smalltown,and about Justin Matisse (Harry Connick Jr) who also returned to Smithville,after working in California for some time,looking for a better way of life. Birdees mother want Birdee to be happy again,and is convinced that her happiness lies in a future with Justin. ***** What I love very much with this story,is that it is so beautifully filmed.The director,Forest Whitaker,has done a perfect job. The photo is great,and the images used when changing scenes are just wonderful.Together with the soundtrack,the pictures creates a movie that moves you to tears at times and makes you laugh at times. And when coming out of the cinema,you feel generally good inside. "}{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the movie may be a little mellow, the themes and emotions evoked are deeply heart felt, and I actually cried! I feel that Hope Floats has definitely proved itself worthy of good reviews. A powerful film with excellent acting and strong messages, Hope Floats is one film not to be missed. "},{"Title":"i loved it.","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were so many elements to this movie that I enjoyed. The part that really means a lot to me, is the visit she has with her father, where he remembers hers. In all our trials and tribulations, it's important to remember the people who helped us become what we are. I am also kind of proud of the reality, instead of showing a sweeping wedding, portraiting a happy ending, instead Birdie is taking it (in a wise move) slow.  "},{"Title":"It's OK,","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not bad, but could be better.  Im my opinion it is missing the action and suspense, but that's only because I prefer action/thrillers so don't take that into consideration.  The movie itself  is fine, worth watching, has some funny moments.  Watch it and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"SUBLIME!!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this film!!!  I decided to pick it up this past weekend and remembered how much I love it!!!  The last time I saw it was a couple years ago...Anyway, I think Sandra Bullock was terrific!!!  However, the huge fan that I am I think everything Sandy does it great!  The rest of the main cast was wonderful as well.  I think Mae Whitman is a GREAT talent!  I also liked Mae in One Fine Day.This movie is filled with many touching and heart warming moments along with some funny ones too.However, it wasn't till the very end while Bryan Adams' song When you love someone (great song) is playing in the background that I really appreciated this film!  Mae's character says something like....(Line SPOILER)My dad says that childhood is the best time of your life... but I think he is wrong... I think my mom's right and she says...  Childhood is what you spend the REST of your life trying to overcome... like Mama always said... beginnings are ALWAYS scary, endings are usually sad, but it's the middle that counts the most. You have to remember that when you find yourself at the beginning... and give hope a chance to float up... and it will too.  I LOVE that line because I think it's VERY true!Anyway, I think this film is wonderful and I would definitely say go check it out!  Rent it, buy it... whatever.. because you may learn something as well 'cause I sure did.  I guess one could say I am (kinda) at the beginning of my life (I'm a senior in High School) and because of what was said in Hope Floats (the line above) it made me realize that beginnings ARE scary but ya gotta keep the faith! )  Hope Floats inspired me... an inspiring film!Oh, and the soundtrack is pretty good too! And in my eyes the soundtrack has an added bonus... the LYRICS are inside!!! ) "},{"Title":"Great movie, but some people miss the point the movie makes","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very good movie, with a great storyline, and superb acting. But most people didn't understand or didn't pay attention to the concept of the story. So if you're one of those people, watch it again, and stay awake, and maybe you will understand it. I give it a 10! Rated PG-13 for thematic elements. "},{"Title":"Romance, with a cute twist","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's really what it is. If you come into this movie wanting anything more than a happy ending and tears, don't watch it. Sandra Bullock is great in her little blue baby dresses, but this isn't Speed two, so think small. All in all this is a sweet fairy tale ending, with humourous bits for spice. A very yummy dish if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ImpressiveForrest Whitaker has done so many movies and TV movies, but not until I saw Phenomenon, starring with John Travolta, did I think that Forrest Whitaker had found his ideal character and could not out-do his performance. But now he astounds me with his direction of HOPE FLOATS. The photography all through the movie is soft and golden, warming and opening. The flowing water images that take us from scene to scene are uniquely done and add to the whole idea of hope floats. The locations he chose are perfect for the story line and even though I am not a fan of Country music his choice of music to use in the movie fitted very well. The story however left gaps and some unresolved questions, like what happens to the father, surely he would get his comeuppance for leaving his beloved daughter the way he did. The characters could have developed a little more.... i.e. Birdee could have progressed from photo developer to someone who takes photos for calendars as was hinted at in what I thought was a touch of plot-expose earlier in the movie. But then again if she had moved on then they wouldn't have been able to do the slightly cheesy ending where the nice old store owner helps the hero by planting the photo of him in the pictures that Birdee apparently ruined! But is the hero really a hero?  Look at it, he saw that Birdee was distraught and sad and confused, but yet when he wooed her at his home to be that he was building, they ended up having sex. Was this pre-planned by him, or did it just happen, did he see she was vulnerable and needy, did he indeed Date Rape her? After all, the next day Birdee didn't want to see him and looked nauseous at the very thought of him, or was it just because she had fallen for him and felt like she didn't want to see him right away because she felt awkward and never wanted to admit to herself that she was in love with him, after all she was still a married woman.... right?Bullock's performance is not the best she has done but is without a doubt a great performance. As is all the other actors. The young girl who played Bernice, Birdee`s daughter, was incredible for such a young actress, she was vibrant, direct and has a very bright future ahead in the movie world.But of course, as well as incredibly touching moments in this movie that bring tears to your eyes, like the scene where Birdee`s Altzheimers father holds out his arms to her, there are also the predictable moments that are so cliché to this genre, somebody HAS to die! And of course we could all guess who it was going to be.Overall this was a very enjoyable movie that is easily watchable more than once, if not for one reason then for another, the music, story, photography or for the actress or actors in it! Brilliantly directed. 8/10Any questions or comments Email me. "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Better than one might think. Was very surprised at the quality of the story line. Very good acting. Would recommend. "},{"Title":"a wonderful change from the usual Hollywood trash","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Hope Floats because it is family friendly -no graphic violence, sex, or nudity. It is a crime that Hollywood doesn't give us more movies of this caliber & my hat is off to all who acted in it. They did a great job! It is a feel good movie instead of the usual after-taste of disgust, revulsion, repulsion, etc. I also appreciated the fact that the male lead was promoting a calm, laid-back more natural lifestyle. He realized from his time in California that the pressures of city life were not for him & he had the guts to do something about it! I admired his character tremendously!  "},{"Title":"A movie that old-fashioned(traditional) men and women will enjoy.","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A broken heart suffers real, unimaginable pain. It sends one spiraling down into a vortex of doubt, self-loathing and fear. Knowing that the love of a friend is waiting for the pain to subside makes a difficult journey of tears, anger, depression, and the gaining back of oneself worth traveling down an unseen road. Hope Floats indeed suggests that hope is always there; showing itself through the clouds until it fills the sky with its brilliant light. The above describes the unique affinity I share with Birdee Pruitt. My friend, is a whisper of Justin Matisse, who is becoming a true, strong chivalrous voice. "}{"Title":"Lovely 'old fashioned' romantic movie","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a genre I usually enjoy, but a well produced, enjoyable little film that left me feeling good - a rare experience. Especially good was the child who played the daughter - Mae Whitman was believable as the child let down by her father without being too precious.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic chick flick!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie! Harry Connick Jr plays the most wonderful, romantic character and is perfectly paired with Sandra Bullock. Gena Rowlands is her usual charismatic, hilarious self, Mae Whitman is wonderful, and Cameron Finley is a hoot to watch. Although it is probably classified as a chick flick, my husband also enjoyed it, and it is one I have already watched several times and purchased the video the day it was released. MUST SEE!! "}]