[{"Title":"A hugely original and surprising drama.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"49 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on late night BBC in England and was half watching it while packing for college. By the half way mark, i was sucked in and couldn't not watch.The first thing that will knock you out is Sam Rockwell. Over the last few years he has risen in fame due to high-profile parts in Charlie's Angels, The Green Mile and Mamet's Heist, but here is the arrival of a veritable acting talent. His is a simple, truthful unshowy performance that resonates throughout the film without crushing it. He is the film's heart, rather than a scene-stealer. As we learn more about his poor, white-trash lawn cutter, we sympathise and begin to realise how easily the reactions of others higher up on the food chain conspire to create chaos for him.I won't give too much about the story away, because it frequently heads off in new, interesting directions, but essentially this is the story of Devon (newcomer child actor Mischa Barton) and the above mentioned Trent (Rockwell) and their relationship. He is poor, she comes from wealthy stock, but feels out of place in her materialistic world and they are both children of nature. What makes it compelling is that she knows this and revels in it and Trent has to be shown, by her.John Duigan does a wonderful job of introducing strands and themes which at first seem offbeat and peculiar but which all add to the sense prejudice, division and isolation felt by these two brillaintly-wrought characters. Each find the other intriguing but are hesitant to become close because of others' values. Eventually they become friends and just as they accept this, the world around them turns on them and what started out as an irreverent comedy-drama, turns into something much darker and even terrifying.Where the film goes from there, I will leave to you to discover. Please do, because this is a very unique film in American independent cinema. Much like the more high-profile American Beauty, what at first seems like character cliche and predictability rapidly leads you down the path least expected. Its beautifully shot, making full use of a handful of gorgeous locations, wonderfully acted, particularly by Barton and Rockwell, but also by the ever-reliably sleazy Christopher Mcdonald (Shooter McGavin in Happy Gilmore and Louise's husband in Thelma & Louise), the quietly strong Kathleen Quinlan and the lesser spotted Bruce McGill in one of his best roles as security guard Nash. The music is also peerless, at first playful and calm, building to a dramatic climax.That climax is what makes this film stand head and shoulders above the rest. An emotional pay-off such as you have never seen in a film of this ilk. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Moving and involving story of friendship which acts as an ode to the American poor","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Trent is a young man living in a trailer in a wooded area beyond the suburbs.  He makes a living cutting the massive lawns of the populace of a gated suburb village.  He befriends a young girl from within the suburb, who herself has some stability issues, despite being only 10 years old.  The two build a friendship despite the resentment towards the `white trash' Trent from within the suburb,I didn't know what this film was about before I sat and watched it, reading the plot summary in the tv guide as the title sequence began, I wondered if I would bother, but I'm glad I did.  The film works on several level &#150; the most apparent of which is the simple story of a friendship that is threatened.  This part works well as the friendship never seems forced and, although the spectre of sexual tension is there (in Trent occasionally feeling uncomfortable), it is not a strand that is actually part of their relationship.This all works well due (in most part) to two great performances from Barton and Rockwell.  Barton shows amazing maturity and ability to carry the role off without it being like many child stars (where it is clear they are forcing everything).  Rockwell meanwhile is a mass of subtleties and little touches that make his character likeable.However this part wouldn't work as well if it weren't for the wider theme of the trash being poorly treated by the smugger middle classes.  This theme creates the reason for the threat to their friendship (more or less) but it also serves as a humbling attack on a class that lives a selfish, scared life behind gates with private security guards.  Such places are increasingly common in America and this film is clear as to their effect on both those inside them as well as the wider community of America.  Although it keeps a gentle tone for the most, the film depicts those in the suburb as selfish, aloof and fearful.  Even more condemning about this depiction is that it never feels like they have been exaggerated or monsterised in any way!The script is well written and certainly makes the actors jobs a lot easier &#150; certainly Barton benefits from great dialogue and character development.  Rockwell meanwhile benefits more from direction as much of his best work is not dialogue based.  McDonald, Quinlan and McGill all do solid work in support.  The end of the film is a little worrying as it appears to veer off at a tangent, but the final sentiment is beautifully presented and encouraging (albeit due to a child's apparent naivety).Overall this is a lovely film that I'm very glad I watched.  About more than just an adult/child friendship, this film is moving and involving in both it's core plot and it's wider themes. "},{"Title":"Brave and perceptively written drama","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This superb film, directed by John Duigan, the gifted director of THE YEAR MY VOICE BROKE, is about a friendship between a young girl (Mischa Barton of The OC) and a free-spirited young, adult man (Sam Rockwell).It's self-aware enough to acknowledge the inherent sensitivity of its subject matter, but it doesn't cave into conservative conclusions about how such a relationship ought to be portrayed.At heart, LAWN DOGS is about trust, not the death of innocence or the festering political correctness all around us that sees danger in every unconventional relationship. It does touch on the subject of sexual abuse, but it doesn't come at it from the angle you'd suspect...and that's the whole point, isn't it? Sexual abuse, for the most part, usually visits as someone you've known well enough to trust completely.Beyond its politics, this is a unique, bracing fantasy that is more European than American (or Australian) in its view world both morally and visually. The climax is an unexpected treat and its moral resolution arrives just in the nick of time.Sumptuously photographed and written with great intelligence by Naomi Wallace, it dares to be erotic, provoking, unconventional and incisive.Don't pass it up if you get an offer. "},{"Title":"Innocence triumphs over lawn fetishists","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lawn Dogs is a most un-Hollywood-like American movie but that's not surprising; the director John Duigan is a British-born Australian (The Year My Voice Broke, Flirting) and the production companies seem to have been largely British. The satire is biting and the fairy tale elements are not sugar-coated. Ten year old Devon (Mischa Barton) has recently moved in with her parents to Camelot Gardens, one of those new country housing developments favoured by rising executives with mercenary values and no taste, let alone any culture. This one happens to be outside Louisville, Kentucky, but similar places are to be found outside cities all over the US. These are the houses of the undeserving rich. Huge, barn-like houses are plonked in the middle of their treeless lots and surrounded by vast swaths of ever-growing luxuriant grass. After all, this is Bluegrass country.The lawn dogs are the working class boys who are continuously employed to keep the grass down. They do not enjoy high status and must leave the premises after 5 pm. Devon, a highly imaginative kid who makes up fairy stories, becomes friendly with one of the dogs, Trent (Sam Rockwell), who is in his early 20s. She meets him when sent out by her mother to sell gingerbread for the Girl Scouts (called Rangers in the film). Trent at first tries to put her off, knowing full well what people might think, but Devon persists, and a warm but innocent relationship develops. Trent is a not over-bright but slightly rebellious dog and correctly sees in Devon a spirit like his own. Early in the film he holds up the traffic in an entertaining way while cooling off in the river after a hard day's mowing.The residents of Camelot Gardens are all cardboard cut-out awful, Devon's parents especially. Life is so stultifying that most of them seem to be involved in illicit sex. A bored kid steals all the outside lamps and hurls them into the nearby Ohio river. Two teenagers (one of whom has been screwing Devon's mother and the other of whom has designs on Trent's body) put sugar into Trent's mower engine, destroying his livelihood in the mistaken belief he has taken a couple of their CDs. One girl is quite happy to use Trent as a convenient screw but draws the line at inviting him to her house. The postmen and security guy (an ex-cop) aren't so bad, at least from Trent's point of view. They recognise another working class stiff when they see one.Naturally Trent and Devon are not going to be left alone, but Duigan gives us what is literally a fairy-tale ending, a bit of Kentucky magic realism to match Bread and Chocolate. The real world is told to sod off, in fact.I'm not sure the residents of Jefferson and Oldham Counties, who co-operated in the making of the film, will be too pleased with the portrayal of the Camelot Gardens residents. But the film isn't really about them. The relationship between Trent and Devon is more older brother - kid sister than anything else though there is an undercurrent of eroticism in Devon's curiosity about Trent's scars and her desire to reveal her own impressive scar from heart surgery. Their joint escapades are pretty innocent and the town's reaction to them completely out of all proportion.Mischa Devon and Sam Rockwell give two well-rounded and well-connected performances. Lawn Dogs an offbeat, pleasantly paced film about friendship and the things that matter in life. Freedom, it says, is more important than financial security, and the one should never be confused with the other. At least if you're 22 or younger. "},{"Title":"Ok movie, but VERY misrepresented on the packaging","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  From the picture on the cover (see the picture on the main details page!) and reading the back of the video jacket for this movie, I expected this to be a film about suburban wives sleeping with the hired help. Nope.  It's a movie about a slightly sick in the mental and physical sense young girl about 10 or 11 years old? who befriends one of the guys hired to mow the lawns in her gated community.  While the guy is reluctant at first, the friendship that forms between them is actually fun to watch.  That's what makes the movie interesting.  But while the end has to do with the class system talked about on the video jacket, this is a story about the girl and her lawn dog friend, with the parents and their repressive lifestyle being almost incidental to the story until the end.    This is an interesting movie to watch, but I wish the people who write the blurbs on the video jackets would actually WATCH the movies once in a while. "},{"Title":"Sam Rockwell...well...Rocks!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sam Rockwell has been had. He lit up the screen in Box of Moonlight, is a major player in the upcoming Midsummer Night's Dream, and yet he didn't get equal billing for screen time in either of those films. What gives? In Lawn Dogs Rockwell is stunning as the lawn boy who accepts a little rich girl as a friend and gives her a new view of the world. The movie is rich in atmosphere and color. The central Southern United States has rarely appeared so docile and yet so menacing. Every time I thought I knew where Lawn Dogs was going...it pulled another pleasant surprise. Mischa Barton is amazing as Devon Stockard, the little girl with more on her mind than selling cookies. This is truly one of the best American films of the 90's. If you like off-beat slices of America with a twisted view, then Lawn Dogs is the best movie you'll see in a long time. It is quite simply full of the magic, menace and imagination alive in the heads and hearts of little girls...about to become young women. Oh yeah, and give Sam Rockwell his due! "},{"Title":"Magical realism with a twist","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" LAWN DOGS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalThe haves and have-nots are put under the microscope in John Duigan's diverting drama LAWN DOGS, and it's the haves who come up wanting in every respect. Sam Rockwell (CONFESSIONS OF A DANGEROUS MIND) is the penniless gardener-cum-handyman who makes a fragile living tending the lawns of contemptuous rich folk, all of whom view him with deep suspicion whilst indulging their own dubious peccadilloes behind closed doors. Mischa Barton (THE SIXTH SENSE, TV's The O.C.) is a lonely 10 year old girl who's been shielded from the world by her wealthy parents following a recent health scare (she has a faulty heart), but she dares to strike up a friendship with Rockwell after stumbling onto his ramshackle home in the woods, a friendship which she pursues against Rockwell's wishes, until their 'secret' is forced into the open and grossly misinterpreted by Barton's vengeful family.While the moneyed set lives in antiseptic splendour and conceals its hypocrisy behind security measures of every description, Rockwell's character enjoys an open life in a beautiful forest environment, like the witch Baba Yaga in Barton's favourite fairy tale. In fact, there's a magical, otherworldly quality to much of the film (rendered explicit in the final reel), though the central narrative is fairly low-key and revolves around Rockwell's frequent encounters with the dissolute low-lifes who dare to think themselves superior. With his wiry frame and white trash southern accent, Rockwell strikes something of a romantic figure (watch out for his full-frontal nude scene early in the film), though he never stoops to eccentricity or excess. For one so young, Barton is excellent in such a demanding role, and she holds her own against an experienced adult cast (including Christopher McDonald and Kathleen Quinlan as Barton's narrow-minded parents, and Eric Mabius as the rich jock who can barely conceal his attraction to Rockwell). Beautiful cinematography by Elliot Davis (KING OF THE HILL). "},{"Title":"An unforgettable experience of magic!","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Lawn Dogs' may well be the best movie to come out of America this decade. It's a film that lazily unravels itself, yet succeeds in impacting like a sledgehammer, and does so in such a perfect, unforced and magical way that the experience of viewing it leaves the movie goer completely fulfilled, perhaps like no other film ever has before it.Even more intriguing is the difficulty one has at distinguishing exactly why it is that this film works so flawlessly and just how such a slow moving film can leave a person so thoroughly energized and rejuvenated.Only a few movies of recent times have even come close to carrying off this irony- think 'Fargo' or better still, 'Love Serenade' (interestingly and perhaps not coincidentally also directed by an Australian).Every single element of 'Lawn Dogs' is magical. From the direction, cinematography, music and fairytale infused storyline which deals with the universally important issues of friendship, self-identity, family, community and class divisions, to the powerhouse performances from the two lead performers and amazing supporting cast.John Diugan has demonstrated with 'Lawn Dogs' that he is indeed a true alchemist of the film world that can mix and dabble with the elements to produce pure, solid gold.   "},{"Title":"A little bit of magic.","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that independent film fans search for and hope to find. It's well-written, acted and directed with a story that's off the beaten path a bit, to be sure. It concerns the odd relationship between two people who don't exactly fit in the world an upscale suburban housing community. One is a 10 -year old girl named Devon (Mischa Barton) whose parents want her to be the perfect little daughter. She'd rather live in her own world, one in which she entertains herself with her favorite fairy tale of the child-menacing witch, Baba Yaga. The other is a twentysomething yard worker named Trent (Sam Rockwell), who is treated in this paranoid community almost like a black South African under apartheid, i.e. get in, do you work and get out.Both of them display their non-conformist behavior early on. She climbs out her bedroom window to her roof, takes off her nightgown and watches it magically float away into the night sky. He stops on his way home from work on a one-lane bridge, blocking the traffic, and proceeds to disrobe and take a leap into the river below. Devon gets interested in him, especially after she witnesses his blatant and subtle humiliation at a neighborhood cookout, where he's come to get paid for some work. She more or less stalks him at his mobile home, even spying on him making love to one of the community's young women, a girl who will barely acknowledge him otherwise. Trent tries to shoo Devon away at first, but he can't help but be flattered by the young girl's interest.Of course the potential for misunderstanding in this kind of relationship is great and it inevitably happens. I feared that the movie was about to fly apart after Devon's father and some others confronted Trent, but the fantastic ending (fantastic in the sense of fantasy) made me smile. If you are looking for something different, this movie definitely qualifies.  "},{"Title":"Must see Mischa Barton in this film","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mischa Barton really blew me away in this film. I usually don't care much for child actors, and I went into this film thinking that way. But Barton seemed, with few exceptions, to BE her character. But there's a lot more than just pretty good acting from a precocious child. Barton was a major league charmer. You just couldn't take your eyes off her whenever she was on-screen. Sam Rockwell was decent, and no one else really showed much except maybe Angie Harmon in a small part. (She did have a rare topless scene in this film) But most of the characters do weird things, with no tie-in at all to any reason for their conduct. I think this may be thought by some to be character development, but I think it is either laziness or insufficiently imaginative screenwriters. But in any case you should check out this film just to see Barton. Grade B "}{"Title":"One of 98's very best","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lawn Dogs left me breathless. Thank God that small, quality films like this one pop up every now and then. Two others that I'd recommend if you loved this film are Eye of God, and Little Boy Blue.  "},{"Title":"A storming film that no-one will ever notice, and more fool them..","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**For starters, Lawn Dogs is one of those movies that Hollywood could never produce. Good, I say. I look forward to all those films that haven't been tainted by Hollywood's monetary grip.Firstly, I'd rather not write a review that details every scene. I prefer to not ruin the movie experience for those not fortunate enough to have seen it already. However, I'll still mention a few moments that set it apart from all others.This movie is about prejudice and love, about close-mindedness and the power of friendship. When you watch the movie for the first time, you get the feeling of a community very much cut off from the world and reality. It has a very 'desert island feel' about it. There is actually so much discrimination in this movie as to be rather frightening in its true-to-life nature.Sam Rockwell plays Trent in his finest performance on-screen to date. He was actually a superb choice for this movie, having the perfect 'look' for the part. He befriends 10 year old Devon (the astonishing Mischa Barton who should, in my opinion, have been Oscar nominated). Devon is innocent, sweet and trusting - who has yet to be corrupted or taught to discriminate against others of a lower status than her. Morton and Clare (Christopher McDonald and Kathleen Quinlan) brilliantly play her parents who attempt to pry Devon away from Trent throughout the course of the film, trying to make foul of any kindness he has shown her. This makes for painful, yet brilliantly viewable scenes of maliciousness.There is of course the blatant moral nature of this movie. An obvious one is to look at oneself before judging others. One simple example of this is the scene with Quinlan in her back garden (which I won't spoil). Morton is so wrapped up in the affairs of his daughter and Trent that he fails to notice his own wife. The irony of this is so perfectly fitting and is not resolved by the end of the movie. Angie Harmon plays the user and abuser girlfriend very well which just furthers the point the director was trying to get across. Trent is used physically and emotionally in this movie and you can't help but pity his useless situation. Normally when one watches a movie (generally Hollywood movies) you can shout out 'but why didn't you do 'x'?! In the case of Lawn Dogs you find yourself in the troubling position of not knowing what to tell Trent to do. The 'not knowing' makes for interesting viewing as the tale unfolds.Many people have complained about the fairy-tale nature of the ending, but I see it as beautiful and fitting. This movie is not a fairy-tale. The ending is not wrapped up by any means. Who says the magic at the end of the movie actually happened? Perhaps Trent threw the various items out of his truck as a testament to how strong his friendship with Devon was? Perhaps he imagined the magic as a result of Devon's love? Perhaps, in this community of discriminators, the love from an innocent child took him away at speed from those who would hold him down.I'll let you decide.As the end credits roll, you don't receive the satisfaction that only Hollywood can give you when the good guy shoots the bad guy. You're given the satisfaction that friendship and love has won through, but not in the dramatic way only Hollywood can give you. What else really matters?To sum up, Lawn Dogs is such a sparkling gem that didn't need Hollywood's money to buy it, and is all the better for that. A wonderful film I highly recommend. Watch it by yourself in a quiet room and let it envelop you.(Apologies if some parts of the review didn't make sense - I'd rather leave the discovering part for when/if you actually watch the movie.) "},{"Title":"This Dog Deserves A Blue Ribbon","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have long enjoyed John Duigan's work from Australia (Winter of Our Dreams, Sirens), but did not know that Lawn Dogs was his until the credits rolled.  What a remarkable (fairy) tale Mr. Duigan has given us! Sam Rockwell is as perfect as Trent as he was The Kid in Tom DiCillo's Box of Moonlight. At first Trent seems like any dead-end guy who might cut your grass -- until he parks his old pickup on a one-lane bridge and strips naked, stopping traffic (and a few hearts) as he executes a perfect dive into the river far below.  His at-first-reluctant relationship with the girl Devon (Mischa Barton) blossoms in so many unexpected directions, from dancing on a truck roof to Bruce Springsteen to catching a chicken. You never have any idea where you're headed, but the ride is worthwhile and unforgettable.   The ending is too good to spoil, but will someone PLEASE tell me how they filmed the water-over-the-road sequence?     "},{"Title":"Fairy-Tale Inspiration","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am baptized in the blood, `bathtubs full,' of wild dogs, chicken dinners, and a little fairy princess.  Last night I viewed Lawn Dogs for the second time in 5 days.  I just couldn't return the tape without another look-see, even if it makes Block Buster $2 richer and me $2 poorer, for the awareness and inspiration this fairy-tale masterpiece has imbued me with are priceless.  Like Trent in the film, I am alive with the hope that flight from any kind of poverty, financial or spiritual, is possible.On the surface, the story seems to revolve around the relationship between a young man, Trent, and a little girl, Devon, and between the two struggling economic classes that they come from.  But the magical cinematography throughout the film, and more than that, Devon's running fairy-tale narration, allude to a deeper meaning in the film that is revealed absolutely in the last five minutes.  After all, there is nothing in the world around us that is not represented by symbols within us, and how can we tell whether the inner symbols we deal with represent things outside us, or things within us?  It is natural for the world to discourage a relationship between a sexually-active male, and a prepubescent, vulnerable, hungry-for-friends female.  It is also natural for the world to discourage an individual from relating to the power within himself, perhaps represented by said young female, to imagine and pursue a better life for himself, when it means he will flee the status quo that makes the rest of the world comfortable.The setting is a highly artificial, unabashedly bourgeois, gated community in Kentucky, `Camelot Gardens' (see, we're already alluding to fairy tales), and the surrounding countryside, wherein Trent lives in a trailer, making, what can loosely be called, a living by mowing the lawns of the rich in Camelot Gardens.  The two heroes first meet when Devon happens upon Trent's trailer while wandering into the woods to sell cookies (her capitalist parents' idea), reciting to herself a version of the Russian fairy-tale about the contest between a little girl, like herself, and the witch named `Baba Yaga.'  She continues her relationship with the at-first-reluctant Trent, as he continues to mow her parents' lawn.  Whom she identifies Baba Yaga with, that is, who is evil in the world, evolves with the story.  In the end, she realizes where the true evil lies, and uses the magic charms of her youthful idealism to aid the flight of the oppressed.I really enjoyed this film.  It not only inspires hope, but also possesses a depth sorely lacking in the majority of American films.  Much of the symbolism in the story seems to be lifted directly from classical mythology From the open nakedness of both heroes in the beginning, a necessary reduction of the self to its bare essentials before it can be remade into something new, Trent holding up traffic to dive naked from a one-lane bridge into the local river, a kind of spectacular baptism into a new beginning, and Devon removing her nightgown to bay from her rooftop, like some essential mythic beast imploring the gods of night; to the adorning, i.e. honoring, of the tree outside the door of Trent's trailer, the Sacred Tree, Ygdrasil, the Tree of Life, so honoring life itself, and the demands that life makes of us; to the maenadic frenzy of the dancing chicken feet, a maddening after-chicken-death/chicken-dinner dithyramb; to Trent's conquest over the infernal hound, a Doberman named `Tracker,' who guards the homes of Camelot Gardens, and perhaps guards as well the path to personal power, the hound who, like Cerberus, turns away all cowards (chickens) from the inner realms; to the magic towel and comb of divine deliverance (more on these two symbols below) at the end; the story is full of age-old symbols that affect us deeply, transforming us or renewing us, without our knowing how.The following passage is taken from Marie-Louise von Franz's `Interpretation of Fairy Tales.'  It will help the reader to understand the meaning of the magic comb and towel.  (In von Franz's story, a red handkerchief substitutes for the towel.)Says von FranzThe girl runs, throwing her magic comb and her red handkerchief behind her. Bestrewing one's trail with objects is characteristic of the magic flight. This act of throwing away things of value is a sacrifice; one throws things over one's shoulder to the dead, or to spirits, or to the devil, to propitiate those whom we dare not face.  It may seem panicky to abandon valuable possessions when one is escaping, but one who stiffens himself into a defensive attitude is easily cut down by an assailant stronger than himself, whereas stripping oneself gives mobility.  There are situations in which one absolutely has to give up wanting anything, and in this way one slips out from under; one is not there any longer, so nothing more can go wrong.  When one is confronted by a hopelessly wrong situation, one must just make a drastic leap to the bottom of passive simplicity, and from there one can live it out.What is more, the objects which have been sacrificed generally transform themselves into obstacles for the pursuer.  The comb at once turns into a forest and becomes a part of nature &#150; the hair of mother earth.  Its transformation into a natural object suggests that originally it was an integral part of nature.  Actually, there is no thought or instrument or object that has not originated from nature; that is, from the unconscious psyche.  One sacrifices to the unconscious what once was wrested from it.The comb is used to arrange and confine the hair.  Hair is a source of magic power or mana.  Ringlets of hair, preserved as keepsakes, are believed to connect one individual with another over a distance.  Cutting the hair and sacrificing it often means submission to a new collective state &#150; a giving up and a rebirth.  The coiffure is frequently an expression of a cultural Weltanschauung.  Primitive folk tales speak of demons being deloused and combed when they are caught, which means that the confusion in the unconscious has to be straightened out, ordered, and made conscious. Because of this meaning, hair in wild disarray is often dreamed of at the start of an analysis.  The comb, therefore, represents a capacity for making one's thoughts ordered, clear, and conscious.The red handkerchief that the girl gives up becomes a flame soaring from earth to heaven.  To abandon the staff and comb meant not attempting to marshal herself or to think out a plan.  Now the flame indicates that she puts an inner distance between herself and her feelings and emotions.  She is reduced to a passive simplicity.In the tale, the gaping jaws devour the forest and spit water on the flame. Water and fire battle in the unconscious, and in the meantime the girl escapes between the opposites.   "},{"Title":"A Gem within a Gem","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is excellent.But I must warn you, it is hard to understand, at least for me.I watched and was blown away, but still confused by the meaning, then had to use Wikipedia. It merges a dramatic story with politics or rather the society of America.Either way, this film has great acting, is very quirky, and keeps you satisfied throughout.I hope others will give this film some time.Mischa Barton (The O.C.) and Sam Rockwell (Moon) have both gone on to make names of themselves, but this is surely a film from the past that is a gem. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ignoring anything remotely resembling a more polished big-budget feature ala - strong supporting cast, editing, cinematography, musical score, etc....and focusing just on the painful yet beautiful character development and slowly evolving story...this film is nothing short of brilliant. The director explores a wide range of relevant topics including our collective interpretation of social norms, family expectations, seemingly inappropriate relationships (based on ignorance), personal hypocrisies, the class system, our isolation and longing for connections/acceptance, etc etc. Sam Rockwell and Mischa Barton's performances and for lack of a better word (given the subject matter) chemistry are amazing. I just fell in love with this film! "},{"Title":"inspiring..","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film unravels beautifully from all different directions. It shows the world in all its terrible glory from an innocent perspective.She (the girl) is the story and the narrator constantly re-writing her 'fairy tails' to reflect her perspective and understanding about her life and the people in her life.The lawn dog begins his appearance as BabaYaga the fabled 'bogie-man' and then the story twists and changes and dances as the girl begins to see the truth in the people that surround her; the twisted marriage of her parents, the vindictive and cruel nature of their friends and much more.Through most of the film the girl paints herself as a victim who needs to be rescued. Her final re-write of the 'fairy tail' sees her liberated from that role to the role of the Saviour when the old 'saviors' become BabaYaga, or in her words 'everything that's evil'.A very moving film. "},{"Title":"Completely adorable.","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An absolutely adorable, uplifting, beautiful story centered around two of the best performances I've ever seen. It's a witty, subtly hilarious tale of a young man and a little girl from different worlds who form the most beautiful friendship I've ever seen. Of course due to their backgrounds and their ages they have to keep this budding friendship a secret and when it's discovered everyone gets angry. There are a few little subplots of adultery and homosexuality that are surely interesting, but nothing compares to how much this friendship compelled me. I could have watched those two interact for days and not gotten bored for a single second. They were magical. And the ending had me in tears. The Home is in my hands scene just had me crying like a little girl. Sam Rockwell and Mischa Barton were flawless in their roles. Easily two of the best performances I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Simple, but wonderful. Excellently acted. Everything that ¨The Hours¨ would like to be and is not.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My god what a beautiful movie! Maybe it´s that I´m excited right now and i need a cigarrette fast, but I gave it a 10. Sam Rockwell is simply outstanding, superb. His acting is convincing, he´s got character, he´s got charm, he almost made me cry, and i´ve gotta admit it, he´s very good looking. The girl is also wonderful. Her mother is very good looking too. The plot is very simple, but yet effective. The scene in Trent´s parents´ place is remarkable. Very natural movie, in the ¨Straight Story¨ kinda way. But very critic towards the modern society. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Rich/poor too simple, but good movie","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There were not many characters in this movie, and they are portrayed with a rich-people-are-bad, poor-people-are-good theme that is of course far too simplistic...  But the main relationship between Devon and Trent just fascinates me and makes this movie a keeper in my book. Possible spoilers aheadI like the way Devon keeps flip-flopping about who or what is evil.  First evil is some vague thing outside the gated community.  Then the evil is in Trent's trailer.  When she and Trent are becoming good friends, the evil is something that is after the two of them.  When Devon kills the dog, suddenly Devon sees him as the evil one.  And then when Trent is hurt, she changes her mind again.  I remember being scared of adults when I was a kid, never knowing which ones I should trust or not, and so Devon's confusion rang true with me.As for the friendship, it brought tears to my eyes over and over.  Yes, girls are not and should not be encouraged to wander into the woods after strange men.  But Devon was lonely for a FRIEND, and Trent was lonely for a FRIEND (as most men would be - the few perverts unfortunately give all men a bad name).  Devon's interest was so simple and pure - I loved the scene when Trent cut his finger, for example.    Devon's view of the friendship was a prepubescent one where sticking someone's finger in your mouth is platonic, but Trent as an adult of course saw reason to freak out.  I like that this movie completely avoided the I have a crush on you scene that almost every movie involving a girl and a man throws in - there was no crush here, just true friendship.This movie made me remember being a ten-eleven-twelve year old girl and romanticizing everything that happened, but in a romantic-innocent way instead of in the romantic-sexy way that hit five or six years later!  That's part of what made me sniffle during the movie - life will just never look quite like that again I'm afraid... "}{"Title":"Brilliant performances from Barton and Rockwell.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Haley Joel Osment, et al may be constantly praised, but for my money, Mischa Barton's relaxed and natural performance in Lawn Dogs is superior to them all. Barton plays ten-year-old Devon, an odd little girl who befriends the white trash gardener of her housing estate, Camelot Gardens, Trent (Sam Rockwell). The friendship is kept secret at the bequest of Trent, as he's wise to the world and the consequences that can come of a friendship between a twenty-two year old man and a little girl, no matter how innocuous the relationship may be. Rockwell and Barton are both superb in this touching film about the beauty of friendship from Aussie director, John Duigan. The cute logic of Devon for doing certain things gives her character an almost adult quality that makes their comradeship more credible. (We won't be stealing them, just borrowing them&#133;then changing our minds and eating them &#150; on stealing chickens for dinner and I don't like kids; they smell like TV and talk too fast.) Christopher MacDonald as the father is his usual unctuous self, spouting lines such as Why can't she at least pretend to be happy? It's what we did as kids! and trying to mould his daughter into something that she truly doesn't want to be. Trent bemoans the fact that the small town is suffocating him, so he mows the lawns of the good folk in order to save enough money. With the film's climax, Devon (unwittingly?) liberates him, giving him the sought after escape he's been yearning. Lawn Dogs is a poignant study of an unnatural friendship that seems very natural and is a great achievement from Duigan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Forget Hollywood blockbuster's, rent this for a night!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I happened to find this on TV about a year ago and I haven't forgot it since.  I missed about the first 30 minutes but watched the rest with wonder.I connected so much with this film and Devon in particular.  I rented the dvd a few months after and watched it twice in one night.  The acting in here is amazing.  Everyone is right on key in their parts!  I know you may think well a movie about a friendship between an upper class little girl and a white trash man isn't much for entertainment but believe me it's more than that!  You really pull for Devon and Trent throughout the entire movie until the fantasy like ending.  There is just so much in this film that anyone could relate too.  It's a beautiful story that you won't likely forget or brush off.  If you're looking for a great overlooked little movie that is going to actually get your mind working please rent this!10 out of 10 stars!! "},{"Title":"Elitism, cynicism and self-righteousness bring out the best and the worst of us.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 1998, and it had such a powerful impact that when I saw The 6th Sense a year later, I immediately recognized the young Lawn Dogs star Mischa Barton (who played the murdered little girl opposite Haley Joel Osment in that suspense film), who shines with an amazingly convincing performance.  What makes this film unique is that it takes us to an island of true innocence in a sea of cynicism and hypocrisy.  At its core, this is an off-beat story of love between friends, but nothing close to what most people would call a love story.  It has the distinct feel of a fairy tail while retaining a firm grip on the grittiness of modern life.  I read somewhere that it was written to be a parody, but fortunately, that idea was replaced by one of doomed hope.  If you've seen The Green Mile, it will probably take you a while to relinquish the fear that Sam Rockwell's character Trent is going to brutally strangle his young friend, but that probably serves to accent the subtle menace that builds up to this film's surreal (but beautifully fitting) closing scene. "},{"Title":"A little known masterpiece, one of the sweetest films ever made","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film will blow you away. Whatever your expectations may be, it will surprise and delight you. Mischa Barton is a revelation, turning in a precocious performance as young Devon that signals the emergance of a major talent. Sam Rockwell provides excellent support; in this tale of forbidden and dangerous friendship. Devon longs to escape her claustrophobic existence in her walled community, and uses Trent (Rockwell) to help her break away from her miserable existence. The supporting cast of characters, a classy and bitter take on modern suburban america, reflect well the virtues of Trent and Devon. Different, independent and with a wondeful darkness to her personality, it is often shocking to see just how knowing young Devon is.This is such a beautiful film, everyone should own it. A very modern tale of innocence and its inherent dangers; watch this film and let a young girl named Devon teach you about life. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Rich Tapestry of Film","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful and rich tapestry of characters and development of youthful imagination.  The gentle and articulate direction of John Dugan (who also directed such films as Romero, The Year My Voice Broke and The Wide Sargasso Sea) flows simply from one moment to the next, and the actors seem to develop such a sense of style with their characters that you find yourself truly interested in what will happen.  I sat thinking for moments after the film of the minor characters, which deftly left indelible impression upon my thoughts.  The gentle fingerprints of this film make me truly hopeful for American cinema.  This is a wonderful film to see when taking time to embrace the mystery and magic of story telling set to film.  Truly, this is an artistic jewel.I want to also comment on how wonderful it was to see a film that wasn't wrecked by soundtrack.  The pace of music set to this treasure was almost sublime.  Everything worked well.  I just wish there was a commentary feature to the DVD.  "},{"Title":"Excellent cast, interesting characters","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent cast, especially young Mischa Barton, who presents an alienated, frustrated young girl who doesn't seem to fit in her affluent community. The other characters are well acted and directed, being given enough independence by the director, but not overdone. A fine story that keeps you interested until the surprise ending. Recommended for all.  "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have seen all year.  There is an amazing blend of surrealism and realism that makes this movie work. The overuse of color and the picture perfect scenery used in creating Devon's neighborhood allows the audience to see the artificial world she lives in.  This is offset very well by Devon's more realistic and down to earth life style.I can continue to ramble on about how great this movie is, but really you must see it for yourself.An outstanding success! "},{"Title":"Lawn Dogs in a new Favorite!!!!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think that movie Lawn dogs shows how much different people of different class are but also how similar they are too. The way they express the friendship between Devon and Trent is amazing. I really enjoyed this movie. This is the first movie i have seen Sam Rockwell in and he is a rising actor. I have just seen him in The Green Mile and believe that he will be in a lot of good movies to come. Hopefully some as good as Lawn Dogs. The director and screenplay writer get a thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"An unique and wonderful movie.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lawn Dogs is original in that it does not follow any set movie pattern. Instead it follows it's own path. It has familiar elements but presents them in a unique way. It is hard to put into words the subtle nuances in this movie. The ending is surprising, disappointing and great all rolled into one. I won't give it away. It has to be seen. It was hard to find a bad performance by any of the actors in this movie. Lawn Dogs is a movie for anyone who likes movies about childhood and friendship. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie of all time!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A beautifully made modern day fairy tale that lingers with you long after the credits stop rolling. This movie has it all! The cinematography is breathtaking, the soundtrack is haunting and the writing is superb. Watching this movie is like peeling an onion. Every time you pull back a layer, there's another one underneath. Every time I watch this movie, I learn something new, and as strange as it may sound, I feel like I grow a little more as a person. It is a wonderful little gem of a movie with thousands of tiny details hidden within it waiting to be found. The care with which this movie was made is obvious from beginning to end, overall, a stunning piece of work. "}{"Title":"Innocence is a dangerous friend","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a fan of Mischa Barton and obtained this movie after some research done on the Net. First off, let me just say that the creators of THE O.C. were most definitely influenced by this. Mischa Barton in a gated community, rich girl + poor boy, and, just like at the end of this movie, at the end of THE O.C. #2 there is this shooting incident.It's also the third movie I've watched recently featuring lawnmower guys and their relationships with rich girls - the other two being CAN'T BUY ME LOVE and SUMMER CATCH. But that's just a coincidence. My first observation is very interesting. Wonder if Josh Schwarz would admit to it?As for the picture itself, great! Noticed that Mischa is forever just being Mischa, she is cute and the camera loves her, so film away, she hardly has to do much but remember her lines, and that she does. True feeling for the part is unfortunately not always evident, as is the case with THE O.C. But come on, here she was very, very young, she wasn't even allowed to see her own movie afterward due to the age restriction, and she couldn't have known what the part was really, really about. At times though, here, she is nevertheless just absolutely perfect, unbeatable, the best choice for the part. Other times she is just rambling through the lines.Very worthwhile movie, though. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be seen as a classic, but I'm kind of glad it isn't...","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Lawn Dogs tells the story of an intelligent but aloof little girl (Mischa Barton) who finds it hard to make friends...and with her habits of baking gingerbread men with dead flies for buttons, and peeing on the windshield of anyone who upsets her, it's not surprising.Eventually, she does find a sort-of kindred spirit... in the form of a bloke (Sam Rockwell) who mows lawns for a living, and resides far away from the posh neighbourhood where he works in a dilapidated caravan. They come from completely different backgrounds... her family are pretentious, smug, social climbers, whereas he is just content with the shirt on his back, and an honest day's pay... as well the occasional skinny dip in the middle of traffic.But they find each other, and both being misunderstood misfits who strive to escape the conformity of modern society (wow, that was a mouthful) they become fast friends. They kill chickens together, moon passing police officers... and show off their awesome scars. But a platonic relationship between a couple of individuals with such a huge age difference, AND of the opposite sex is always going to raise a few eyebrows... and it isn't long before a bunch of paranoid snobs is organising a posse...The reasons I love this film are numerous, but they include An incredibly well written central duo with truly original personalities, an unconventional story which never ceases to be less than gripping, the many directorial flourishes that are apparent from the beginning, and the wonderful usage of fairy story imagery they manage to synch seamlessly into proceedings. It's not very often you come across a film as brave and poetic as this, but when you do, cherish it. I intend to... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Kentucky Bluegrass.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This weird and improbable tale opens with a splendid overview of a newly built, upscale, gated community called Camelot, with over-sized houses miles and miles of sprinkled lawns, spotless curving streets, no trees, and a watchful guard packing a side arm. It's a phantasmagorically revolting panorama of modern life.I watched it chiefly because I'd understood that Angie Harmon has a nude scene, and so she does, but it only lasts a second and she's on screen for less than five minutes.But I was enthralled by the fey narrative that followed that bleak opening. The families are all bourgeois in their values as well as their life styles. But it's rather like Blue Velvet in that there are a horde of repugnant beetles and ants under all that Kentucky bluegrass that Sam Rockwell, the young and sweaty lawn man mows.The story is told principally from the point of view of ten-year-old Mischa Barton. She's magnetic. She not the kind of stunning young beauty that arouses the pedophile in every normal man. I mean, she's not Brooke Shields. But she gives a wholly natural performance, despite the sometimes fairy tale dialog that the writers have stuck her with.Barton befriends the modest, poor lawn man, Rockwell, for reasons that aren't immediately discernible. Rockwell looks the part of a poverty stricken working man. He wears sweaty clothes and lives in a tumble-down trailer somewhere in the woods. But the role he plays is constrained by his acting style. He slouches around like James Dean, and he's what some directors call, well, a dung kicker actor, in that he seems so often to be staring down at his shoes, as if prodding a cow flop with the toe of his dirty boot. The growing bond between Rockwell and Barton is the essence of the plot and it doesn't quite clear the bar. Barton manages to convey the desperation behind her attraction, but Rockwell too often seems indifferent and even hostile. It's not entirely his fault. The script doesn't help. See Sundays and Cybele if you can, for an example of how to get this subtle kind of message across without weakening it.The rest of the cast is adequate but stereotyped. Barton's immaculate father takes advantage of a chance to humiliate his gardener, and he's given to jumping to faddish conclusions. Kathleen Quinlan, a fine actress, is enclosed in the iron maiden role of nervous and hypocritical mother, who allows one of the local studs to gobble her up while she prepares a salad for the back yard barbecue. Two of the local studs appear periodically to ridicule Rockwell and do Quinlan when Dad isn't around. One of them owns a hostile Doberman that attacks Rockwell, who later beats to death for insufficient reasons. I'm not sure whether the canicide was intended to show that, like everyone else, Rockwell is imperfect, or whether it was a plot device to drive Barton and Rockwell away from one another for a while. At its climax, the film falls apart.Barton is given to telling others the story of a witch, the imaginary Baba Yaga. She's not making it up. I don't know where a ten year old living on No Problem Drive in bone-dry Camelot Gardens got it, but it's an old Russian folk tale, complete with the magic comb and towel that saves the fleeing innocent victim. There are lots of versions and they're widespread throughout Europe and Asia. It's been written in Sanskrit, and it's one of the few tales that made the jump across the Siberian land bridge with the American Indians, if I remember correctly.The writers have done some research, but the movie fails to cohere, despite some gripping scenes and despite the stellar performance of young Mischa Barton, who grew up to be ravishing and problem ridden. At that, though, its deliberate pace and thoughtful camera work and editing are a vast improvement over the parade of junk now coming out of a decadent Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Surprising, but very good","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Devon (12 year old Mischa Barton) and her parents move to an upmarket estate for the up and coming where most of the residents are, let's be honest, snobs. Devon is a personable if slightly off the wall child, and she becomes friendly with Trent (Sam Rockwell). Trent is a Lawn Dog - one of the local working class men (aka trash) who carry out the menial jobs for the affluent estate residents. Trent recognises a kindred spirit in Devon but, of course, the genuine friendship they enjoy can only be perceived one way by the world at large, and the residents of the estate in particular. Bring in other factors which complicate the issue, and you have a drama which, while possibly predictable in the larger view, has a lot of surprises en route.This is a very enjoyable film, with a warming relationship between the two improbable friends at the heart of it. All the performances are good, but both Rockwell and Barton are outstanding.And the ending will not be what you are expecting, but that doesn't matter it is one of the best endings I can recall. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Camelot","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Edward Scissorhands with added pretence, Lawn Dogs finds Mischa Barton playing a young girl who moves into the affluent Kentucky neighbourhood of Camelot Gardens. Director John Duigan paints this gated community, with its big houses and immaculate lawns, as a throng of smug, conceited white folk, all of whom bully, fear, exploit and prey on those too poor to live within Camelot's exclusive walls. Feeling such wrath is Trent Burns, played by Sam Rockwell, a gardener who, because he is a working class stiff, is accused of crimes, paedophilia, and subjected to much bullying.Lawn Dogs is smooth and well acted whenever Barton and Rockwell are on screen, but many caricatures and buffoonish scenes of violence designed to push us into sympathising with Rockwell rob the film of all nuance. Duigan's aiming for magic realism, a fairy tale plot with enchanted forests, red riding hoods, castle-like buildings and ghoulish villains, but can't quite pull it off. Still, Rockwell is always worth a watch.The film's attempts at class warfare range from affecting to downright insulting. While it is true that the poor are routinely scapegoated, marginalised, blamed for society's ills, ignored by the media (unless being depicted as parasitic welfare bums) and viewed by the middle class with a mixture of fear and hatred, the film paints with such broad brush-strokes that the complexities of these issues are bulldozed. Instead the film plays like The Elephant Man, goading us into crying over bullied outsiders.Bizarrely, the film's twin narrative arcs contradict one another. Barton goes through your standard death of innocence journey (she essentially sheds her childhood), whilst Rockwell is designed to engender audience wish fulfilment, magically being liberated from conditions which would ordinarily crush him in real life. Few magic realism films so literally collide fantasy/optimism (the adult) with realism/pessimism (in this case, localized in the child).7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"a gem in the rough","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's a gem because it is quirky, yet real, and well-done. The rough being that most people have never heard of this movie and then one has to hope they are not a square. I watched this movie 2 times, at least 10 years in-between, and was surprised at how good of a film it was both times. It has some disturbing moments, as I remember, but overall is a sweet heart-felt film with cinematic surprises to boot. When I think of IMDb ratings being flawed, this film comes to mind. Perhaps, this is just do to the word still not getting out, or perhaps it is never going to reach approval by the masses, but if you like to see something different with excellent writing, direction, and acting it would do you good to watch this film and give it a 10 too. By the way females seem to like this movie better than males according to the demographic breakdown but maybe the guys thought this was going to be like Reservoir Dogs, a good film, but not this one. "},{"Title":"A magical film.","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I adore this film, most definitely up there in my favorites. Mischa Barton and Sam Rockwell are both equally amazing in this film with great chemistry. A beautiful story of an unlikely yet true friendship, friendship that is judged too quickly. Inside the life of an innocent girl, dreaming of fairy tales and a man who gives no mind to such things. A truly magnificent film that is easily deserving of 4 stars. This movie used to be (And probably still is) considered very controversial simply because of a 20 year old and 12 year old having a completely innocent friendship. I think it's really sad that an adult and a child can have a platonic, nonviolent friendship when a couple can't exclude violence, words or otherwise. It's obvious that little Devon(Mischa Barton) has an infatuation with the much older Trent(Sam Rockwell). She probably experienced her first heartbreak in it. At one point, it does seem as if it's going to take that route into molestation, but it greatly derives off away from that, the thought diminishing quite quickly. However, their friendship soon has some problems, causing chaos in each of their lives. What I really found stupid and useless in this film was the young boy who just went around terrorizing people in the neighborhood. He was Dennis the Menace who didn't have a purpose in the film. Trent's relationship with the boys really sped up the film and followed through with a great ending to an overall great movie. The ending was far fetched but suits the film's fairytale feel nicely. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is an excellent movie with a brilliant cast sam rockwell plays the brilliant outcast who befriends a 10 year old girl they strike up a unique friendship that if anybody found out it would have devestating consequences it's a weepey film but enjoyable to watch "},{"Title":"Amazed by it's beauty!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I totally tried to avoid this movie for a couple of years at the video store. But I finally got it today and it was amazing. The truth is that I wasn't expecting such a well written story & well developed characters. I lived in the Deep South for well over 10 years & I met lots of Trents & a few Devons. I must way John Duigan did tons of research for this movie. There lots of decent people in the South & Iam glad someone have finally portrayed people of lower income with respect & children like Devon with the true emotions and yearning to escape their monotone lives. This film shows that friendship can develop anywhere & between anyone of us which in turn can be a positive & productive experience. We need to look past our own preconception of class, color & age. Iam glad John Duigan (an Australian) was able to perceive that, through the blinding effect that the suburbs produces & was able to see the world with it's true colors without sugarcoating it. Yes! Devon's parents' characters were one-dimension but it doesn't take a high IQ to figure them out. Kudos to Devon (Mischa Barton) & Trent (Sam Rockwell) for good acting. Is not easy to do a film which is character driven such as this one. "},{"Title":"Oh, I loved this movie","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had heard a lot of good things about this movie and I was really excited to watch it. I wasn't disappointed. I'm the kind of guy who thinks kids are the cutest things in the world and Mischa Barton(as Devon) was perfectly casted for this particular role. She is a girl who was born with a heart murmur had surgery and has an ugly scar because of it. For some reason or other she decides to buck the system of the gated community she lives in( with all the rich folks)and go hang out with the LawnMower man who lives outside the gates. Mischa does a lot of kinky things in this movie, like removing her nightgown and standing only in her panties on the top of her roof. Or when she takes off her panties( she is wearing a short jean skirt) and peeing on her fathers truck. All in all this movie had me going bananas. Definately a 9.9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Mischa Barton - superb.","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw Lawn Dogs because I had nothing else to do. My TV listings mag gave it 4 stars (the maximum) so I thought Why not?Never have I been more pleased with choosing to watch something out of the blue. Mischa Barton's performance is utterly spellbinding. She captures and portrays the essence, the lonliness, of her character with ease and considerable aplomb, somewhat in the same manner as Anna Paquin portrayed her role in The Piano.I have not yet seen any other film featuring Mischa, but I do hope she is taking serious roles and continuing to have the same immense screen presence as she did in Lawn Dogs. "},{"Title":"American Beauty got his inspiration here!","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had no idea what to expect of this movie, but after a few minutes already, I knew this was a hidden treasure!  This beautifully photographed movie has a very strong script, a perfect balance between irony and drama, and it sometimes reminded me of 'Happiness' and 'American Beauty', two great movies that got much more attention than 'Lawn Dogs', although they were made later than this film!  And then, the actors!  Mischa Barton is incredible!  I can't remember having seen any child (certainly not the horrible Haley Joel Osment) acting so great lately.  This girl is a supertalent and I'm sure that within a few years, she's going to be a star!  I highly recommend 'Lawn Dogs' to everybody who has seen enough of the typical Hollywood-drama's! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly engaging modern fable","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As I write, I'm desperately keeping my eyes peeled for a glimpse of Sam Rockwell's star on the rise. I've only recently had the privilege of witnessing this fine young actor in Lawn Dogs and Box of Moonlight and I was mightily impressed. Not unlike John Turturro, (with whom he stars in Box of Moonlight), who has reduced the art of acting to a pursuit seemingly as effortless as breathing, Rockwell exudes a calmness on screen and he simply becomes his character. This is a rare and true gift. Just as well then, that both the aforementioned movies are worthy of his talent. Lawn Dogs sees Rockwell play a disaffected loner, Trent, holed up in a dilapidated trailer in the woods and reduced to mowing the lawns and tending the trees of the ample grounds of an affluent neighbouring estate, constructed to all intents and purpose like a heavily fortified island, replete with twenty-four hour security. Recent arrivals to this whiter than white suburban oasis, are a married couple, played by the ever dependable Christopher MacDonald and Kathleen Quinlan, and their delicate, sickly daughter Devon, played with uncanny ability by newcomer Mischa Barton. From the outset, it appears that all is well with this ordered paradise, once the subjugated labourers are released with a flourish of crisp, clean legal tender back to the nether regions of society and the hatches are well and truly battened down for the onset of another peaceful night. Trent certainly appears to echo the sentiment, celebrating the release and the end of a day's hard graft with a naked plunge from a bridge into a nearby river. This one act alone serves to set his character's liberal, carefree and thus almost directly opposing nature in conflict with the inhabitants of the estate. He becomes an object of illicit desire for the young women and a source of competition for the young men, particularly for a pair of well-heeled types who tear around in a formidable sports/utility vehicle with a rather testy Doberman pinscher. Indeed Trent proves true to his potential as he frequently entertains one of the young ladies in his humble dwelling who appears more than drawn by his animal magnetism. This is but one of a number of clandestine meetings of the mind(and body), that belie the vapid exterior of the estate, an obvious microcosm of greater American suburbia. Out of this miasma comes a shining beacon. Devon is more than a closeted patient in a sickly-sweet homestead. We gradually become aware that even at a tender age, she is quite the most virtuous and intensely interesting member of the community. We learn that she has a serious heart condition and many operations behind her, not the least of which has resulted in an enormous scar which runs the length of her chest. The many traumas that one so young has been forced to endure cultivates an incredible imagination and sensitivity to her surroundings in Devon and she experiences the unseemly underbelly of her neighbourhood, matter of fact-ly, as she wanders about. Her father is a gormless conformist who fails to realise his wife is being serviced regularly by one of the young dudes. Devon also receives some wholly unwanted attention from the same source and we witness a long overdue break from this diseased palace when she happens upon the miserable Trent, who conversely, is gradually withdrawing further and further into a virtual prison, only venturing out to mow Devon's lawn once in a while. From this point the two quickly become inseparable. Devon is literally bursting at the seems with a youthful exuberance that appears to have been stifled for so long and is maturing rapidly into a young woman. She paints Trent's empty emotional canvas with vivid colours and he slowly blossoms, the child in him re-surfacing once again. It is immediately obvious that the age disparity renders such a relationship fraught with danger. Trent is careful to remain a figure of paternal seniority to Devon and the bond between them develops not unlike that of an orphaned child who is unexpectedly re-united with a benevolent father. Devon by the very nature of a young girl's relationship with her father in the formative stages sees Trent as parent, potential lover, friend. Writer Wallace handles the explosive subject matter well; The constitution of Trent and Devon's relationship is utterly wholesome. It is only from an external viewpoint that it might appear unhealthy and Director Duigan conjures up a few genuinely cringe inducing scenes as the viewer is struck by the inherent potential for disaster, namely when Trent admits to possessing a scar also on his chest as the result of a shotgun blast. A mutual examination that both he and Devon engage in almost reduces the viewer to the role of look-out, so desperate does one become to spirit them through the minefield. Both have become painfully disenfranchised from the careful nurturing of a strong familial bond; Devon is but a worrisome work in progress to her noisome parents and Trent has grown apart from his terminally ill father and world-weary mother, unable perhaps to ameliorate their suffering in his present incarnation. Devon and he desperately need each other at this stage in their existence and it's difficult not to wish them well. The denouement, then, is particularly admirable as it refuses to submit to glib sentimentality or unwarranted pathos. All we are left with is the complexity of their tryst and the repercussion of its fateful resolution.  "},{"Title":"A mature eleven-year-old actress","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seemed unpresuming a film on the local regional channel just as the news on the national channel was ending, and there did not seem to be anything else worthwhile on the other channels. As it happened I missed the first few minutes, so got me settled to continue correcting exercises, totally unprepared for what ensued. Within some ten minutes or so all the kids' homework lay unattended and uncorrected as I sat rivetted to the little screen. With all the naturalness of any eleven-year-old next-door girl, Mischa Barton was carrying out an exercise in interpretation which frankly leaves most of the Hollywood Oscar goddesses pallid, insipid and tasteless&#133;&#133;&#133;About 15 minutes into the film I realised that this was no US job it was too subtle, the story was too carefully embroidered with exquisite craftsmanship. Not since Christian Bale in Spielberg's `Empire of the Sun' had I seen a kid playing such an endearing rôle. Sam Rockwell, whose intelligent work in the rôle of a bum living in a trailer and cutting rich people's lawns for a few dollars, studiously elevated the relation between both to exquisite stature and immense depth.  A useful break for all the trivial commercial ads allowed me to hop over to the computer, wind up the search engine and come up with more information, just in time to get back to the film.  So, an Australian production. What a surprise. The fact that both director John Duigan and Mischa were born in the U.K. is merely a geographical quirk, I suppose&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;or is it? Someone (I cannot remember who) once wrote `scratch the skin of a Brit and under the surface you will find an actor.' He could well be right.  Duigan found that reaching fifty is a good age for producing the best he had in him, with maturity. What luck he found Mischa in time.....now the hounds have her lined up across the Atlantic, to convert her, no doubt, into another box-office blockbuster superstar, another Marylin, another Rita, another Julia......another stereotyped, encapsuled beautiful face, another pity....... But for those of you who want to see a very special little film, do what you can to find it on video somewhere. The film is a gem, the girl is a jewel and Sam is just pure gold. Not forgetting that playwrite Naomi Wallace's script is excellent. "},{"Title":"This movie was a very good surprise.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I happened to catch this movie playing on cable quite by chance. This is a movie that seemed somewhat odd, with a dark sense of humor as I was watching it.   At the end of the movie, however, the story took an unexpected detour into a fantasy- fairytale.   This one took me by surprise.    It is not a movie that could ever be considered a Blockbuster, and I am sure that there are those out there that will not like this movie,  It's just a matter of personal taste.   I would say that this movie is definitely worth a rental...as for me, I'm going to buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Need to see this one again...","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, I just saw Lawn Dogs on TV and was blown away at the depth of this film.  I was not prepared for this film at all.  I saw the description in the TV Guide (A young girl forms a dangerous friendship with the young man who does her family's yardwork.) and I thought I'd be getting some adolescent angst-ride a la Fear or the like.Instead, this movie delivered a deliberate, thought-provoking commentary on everything from the superficiality of class structure to friendship and honor.  Earlier posts have compared Mischa Barton's role and performance to that of Natalie Portman in The Professional or Reese Witherspoon in Man in the Moon.  Despite some similarities, this film goes far beyond the others in exploring (and contrasting) the fairy-tale aspects of Trent and Devon's friendship and the lives led by those in Devon's home and neighborhood.  (Although I'll take any excuse to watch a Sam Waterston flick.  Hmmmmm...and Angie Harmon was in this one.  Anyone for a game of 6 Degrees?)I need to see this film again, to absorb and appreciate more of the many nuances the script offers up to the attentive viewer.  Other than her quick bit in The Sixth Sense, I have not seen Mischa Barton in a film before. But I have seen Sam Rockwell, and I gain more respect for his skills as an actor with each new film of his I see.(As an aside, I don't share the same respect for Chris McDonald.  Maybe it was after seeing his job in Happy Gilmore...I'm not sure.  Anyone else with me here?) "},{"Title":"uncanny resemblance to real life","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The good comments about this movie are right. The bad ones are wrong. The thing about this movie that might be confusing to some is that it doesn't suck. People are so used to movies that suck, like almost everything from Hollywood, that they don't know when a movie doesn't suck. I realize that I sound like an extremist. I am. I hate the entertainment that is Hollywood. That is Broadway. It all sucks. It removes thinking. It removes true feeling. It numbs the senses. If you don't want that in your life, see Lawn Dogs. "},{"Title":"Home is in my hands","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm so glad I saw this beautiful, underrated movie! The writing is refreshing, original and magically innocent, but with a certain realistic bite at just the right times. Trent and Devon - Devon and Trent become unlikely best friends and share a very special bond, even though she is a little girl from a wealthy family, and he is a lawn mower who lives in a trailer.  The only thing that was a little trite, and became somewhat annoying, was that almost everyone else in the movie, besides the 2 protagonists, was pure evil. I mean - is that likely?  My favorite scene is Devon and Trent dancing on top of the truck to Dancing in the Dark. It's a beautiful scene. I highly recommend this movie to anyone with good taste! "},{"Title":"I saw this really weird movie last night","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie until I saw it the other night on The Movie Channel.  Really weird, and will get you interested for this reason.  It will have you telling someone about it the next day, if only saying I saw this really weird movie last night  I would have never rented this movie, but I am glad I happened across it.  This is why I get numerous movie channels, cause you never know what you will stumble across. "},{"Title":"An amazing experience, an amazing film","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just lucked out. I had no idea what to expect. This movie was riveting. Rich people in their own little compounds are horrifying. They lack compassion. And they practise all kinds of unkindness. This kid eventually had a perfect relationship with this child and prejudices killed it. I am going to see this movie again and again. The chemistry between the little rich girl and this young man only trying to make a living as a gardener, well it was magic. And Camelot Gardens with its abysmal mores brought their friendship to an end. I am totally pleased with the ending. He to find new endeavors, she to return to her emotionally deprived father and mother. The whole sequestered compound is the evil in the piece. "}{"Title":"A very real and a very human story","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lawn Dogs is an allegorical movie spiced with magic, irony, and symbolism. And it works because it rides on a very real and a very human story. The relationship that develops between the man Trent and the child Devon is fun, loving, deep, and fragile. The chicken and dancing sequences are fantastic, and the final scene between the two is as poignant as you'll find in any movie. Sure, there's a tinge of sexuality shadowing a couple of their scenes together - but only a tinge - there's nothing so indelicate as to put the average viewer off. Trent works very hard at trying to keep a proper distance between man and child. So if you're not into allegory, magic, irony, and symbolism, just watch the movie for the story and you'll be amply rewarded. But if you're willing to explore the movie's concepts in greater depth, a whole exciting world will open out for you. Devon weaves a fairy tale out of the real world that surrounds her, and makes the real world know it's her tale to control. From the opening credits to the end she puts the world in its place every time it dares to violate or or intrude against the rules of her fantasy. Her creative modes of putting the world in its place are always unexpected, often delightful, sometimes shocking, and finally awesome and profound. Listen especially to each telling of the story of Baba Yaga, and, at the end, Devon's revelation of its true meaning. Director John Duigan does a great job of keeping this complex production moving and on topic. All members of the ensemble cast hold diligently to their assigned characters. Sam Rockwell infuses the hard-edged, vulnerable Trent with tender sensitivity; you really care about him. And Mischa Barton. What can you say? At ten years old she was already an accomplished actor. Still, show business is always about ... but what comes next? Actually, she's already added some fine work to her credits. However, in the long run, she will or she won't continue on in the profession. If she does, her career will undoubtedly be star quality. But whether she goes on acting or not, or whether she is or isn't successful, in Lawn Dogs she has to realize her work achieved classic status. That will always be part of her. "},{"Title":"Great performances, great movie!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that deserved more attention when it was released. The main character, Trent, a lawn mower for a wealthy gated community, becomes friends with a 10-year-old girl, Devon, the daughter of social-climbing suburbanites. The girl longs for authenticity and a sense of community, but she doesn't find it in her neighborhood or in her family. Trent is a great character, an example of the worker who must face degradations  when treated as if they are inferior and menacing. But far from work, he is himself, and the difference shows the class distinctions that are apparent in the U.S. The only fault I have with the film is that the suburbanites are too one-dimensional.  The classism they exhibit is all too real, but it would have been more menacing if it had been shown in characters that were more multi-dimensional. Great film. I wish more like it were available. I get tired of the traditional big-Hollywood release. "},{"Title":"The most wonderfully presented and portrayed film I've yet seen.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie proves that entertainment these days don't have to be centered around sex or violence to be truely interesting. My admiration for Sam Rockwell's gift is also confirmed with every thought I have of this movie. Why movies like this aren't more noticed and rewarded, I do not know. Thank GOD there are places and people who are so expressive and relevent. If you have the chance to ever view, rent, or buy this piece of art, please do so and expect to always remember the experience.! "},{"Title":"The best one!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow!I saw this movie at the International Festival of Fantasy film in Brussels.It my favorite movie with also Cube and The Usual Suspects.Lawn Dogs is really fresh.Of course there is violence but no more than every other movie! I recommend this movie to all people who love special movies because it's so normal that we can't believe it! It's too real and that's why it is so cool.If you haven't seen it , just go and watch your TV!Enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Mischa is magic","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mischa Barton as Devon absolutely makes this movie. She is wonderful! I imagine that she is going to be hot property in a few years from now, but for now she appears wonderfully innocent (as a 10-year old should be) without being naive. Basically, you can't help but fall in love with her, and the moment when Trent touches her scar is pure magic. This film absolutely has not received the credit it deserves. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Somewhat offbeat and refreshingly unpredictable","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I caught Lawn Dogs on TV by accident one evening and was quickly caught up in the story. The plot is somewhat offbeat and refreshingly unpredictable. Mischa Barton, the 10-year-old who plays Devon, gives a stunning performance with confidence, charisma and passion.  I predict a great future for her on screen and film. "},{"Title":"A great new performer","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a great independent film.  I just happened to catch it on cable and was immediately hooked. Both charming and strange, it is an interesting look at relationships and suburbia.The young actress is amazing!  Her performance reminded me of that of Natalie Portman in The Professional.  Hope to see more from her in the futureReally a most entertaining film. "},{"Title":"The reality","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mischa Barton and Sam Rockwell. The 11-year old girl and the young unlucky man. They both have a different way of thinking, and they both do not like the society's values. This does not make them similar, but these two common elements that they share, automatically make them strangers to the Kentucky's lawned suburb. The way they act, the way they realise their resemblence, brings them closer, and the end is one of the closest moments of both friendship and love. One of the most important moments of this season's movies. Even though the end was not what the average viewer would want, it was actually the best solution, and as in Leon, the heroes might be apart in the end, but their spirits and their love seem like being closer than ever.In one of the smartest and most important independent movies of the decade, Mischa Barton showed moments of mature acting and gave a performance similar to the one of Natalie Portman in Leon, or even of Tatoom O' Neal in Paper Moon. She is - without a doubt - the newcomer of the year, and probabaly one of the best (if not the best) female actress of 1999. Sam Rockwell gave a calm performance of the motionless and careless young man who gets in danger only because of his not-wealthy condition and his poor profession. There are moments when you feel that the actors were in love, since they both were impressively matched both with their roles and with eachother. "},{"Title":"Scene for scene one of the most Intriguing films in years!!!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Devon & Trent are possibly one of the screen's most profound Misfits!From the opening credits with Devon's narration of Babiaga(an evil witch from a fairy-tale she's lost in),to the film's finale,you are 'transfixed' by these characters & the actors portrayals.Devon is the friend you always wanted ;Trent is the friend you always needed.Together that need & want almost emulates the classic Joe Buck & Ratso Rizzo from 'Midnight Cowboy'without the gritty city glare,but with a ten year age difference(Devon 10 yrs. old,Trent 22 ).The appeal of this film can be that simple.John Duigan's direction keeps the viewer uneasy at times,but with class & good taste he brings these two loners to a common place. Devon(Mischa Barton)keeps your soul young & heart filled with hope.She gives only wanting friendship in return & eventually sacrifices IT for her 'best friend's' freedom.Trent(Sam Rockwell)is reluctant,but vicariously needy as Devon fearlessly drags him into a fantasy world filled with stark-raving reality!This story has been told many times before('rich meets born on the wrong side of the tracks'),but never like this.Chemistry between two characters(& actors)this believable & off-beat only come around once in a great while.See this FILM!.Sometimes freedom is the only gift left to give. "},{"Title":"Very pleasing experience","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie Lawn Dogs.  It was real down to earth and showed how there can be a friendly relationship between two people of different backgrounds, social status and age groups.  This was my first knowledge of the actress Mischa Barton and I believe she was just precious in the film. I hope her true personality is the same as she portrayed in the film. I wish her all the luck in the world and hope to see her many more times on the screen.   "}{"Title":"A strangely wonderful story","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The young Mischa Barton as Devon is fantastic in this movie. She seems like a young Sarah Polley and her part in this movie makes me think of Reese Witherspoon's Danni Trent in The Man in the Moon. It may be that my opinion of this movie is biased by her performance, but I don't think so; this is a strange and wonderful movie. It reminds me much of Edward Scissorhands (a great movie) for two reasons. First for the way it portrays a surreal suburbia. Second, in that it is a modern day fairy tale. It may be a better fairy tale than Edward Scissorhands for the very reason that people sometimes criticize this movie. Wildly different things happen throughout the movie. It is as if someone made it up as they were telling it. But I suspect that is how most fairy tales originated, so for me it enhances the mood that makes fairy tales good. Others criticize the ending that seems to provide no real closure or resolution. But there is no good way to end a story with such an awkward relationship. Similar relationships in The Man in the Moon and The Professional had very painful conclusions. In Lawn Dogs there was some hope implied in the last words of Devon to Trent. "},{"Title":"QUIRKY AND DELIGHTFUL -- A MUST SEE FILM!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented Lawn Dogs on nothing more than a hunch and a whim, and I was completely blown away by it. It's a small, quiet masterpiece of a film, with first-rate acting (most especially by Sam Rockwell, whose charismatic, multi-layered performance as Trent is astonishing) and haunting imagery. Lawn Dogs is part comedy, part drama, part fantasy, part 'Buddy Flick', and ALL visually stunning. Ergo, I reiterate--this is a MUST SEE film! Prepare to be enchanted, enlightened, disturbed, and, ultimately, swept away and inspired. Movie making doesn't get much better than this. "},{"Title":"The chemistry is undeniable","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every once in a while two actors work together who have such chemistry that they ignite the screen with their talent; such is the case with Sam Rockwell and Mischa Barton.  Their portrayal of friendship across age and class boundaries is one of the most touching and original I've seen.  Director John Duigan uses his surrealistic vision as a backdrop for this extraordinary friendship.  This movie will leave you laughing and crying, angry and joyous.  It is a true gem of a movie and not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Not a pyrotechnic crew in sight. Thank God.","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Please allow me to say up front that I love Star Wars. Great movie. A classic. But also the harbinger of the death sentence of magical, thought-provoking films like these. You see, Star Wars ushered in the technology-over-substance era of moviemaking, one in which a the utter lack of a script, quality performances, and masterful direction are obscured by a well-timed explosion. Or two to three hundred well-timed explosions.Lawn Dogs owes little, if anything, to special effects. Sure, a little fantasy toward the end was done post-production, but it was a glorious exercise in masterful restraint. Few films have captured the complex symbiosis of the innocence of childhood coupled with modern loss of said innocence with such gut-wrenching impact. Devon wants to be a kid, but her entire environment is shielding her from that very same experience, all the while attempting to push her into class elitism. We feel for--and with--this kid. Mischa Barton delivers a touching, thoroughly captivating performance as the struggling tulip bulb overwhelmed by weeds. Keep your eyes on this young performer; I don't think this is by any means the last we'll see of her. Perhaps we will one day see her accepting an Oscar just like the last child actor we saw with this much depth  Jodie Foster.Extra acclaim to the filmmakers for choosing my native Jefferson and Oldham Counties in Kentucky for the shoot. The little details alluding to the shoot location, along with many familiar sights, made this film a little sweeter treat. "},{"Title":"What Exactly Was The Point?","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So, I just got done watching this unending movie, and was just wondering what was the point? Many pointless scenes just thrown together and make absolutely no sense. Sam Rockwell does a good job, but his unneeded accent got on my nerves. Little Mischa Barton is just as bad as a kid, she needed a good acting coach even then. And don't even get my started on the story...it's literally all over the place! If you like pointless movies about weird people, then this is for you. It has potential, but ruins it with the story and incredibly weird scenes. I mean, what's the deal with Angie Harmon in this? So we could see her naked? PLEASE! So, if all you fans could explain it to me, I'm here. "},{"Title":"Revelation of middle class hypocrisy","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" John Duigan is a great cinematographic author who has made many admirably charming films such as Wide Saragasso Sea,The year my voice broke etc.Most of his films are about some important issues related to human behavior in our fast changing society and its implications on mankind.Lawn Dogs is a nice tale of inhuman indifference based on class,status which affect the lives of two lonely peoplea young drifter and a young girl.These two roles are nicely played by Sam Rockwell and Mischa Barton.Apart from the two main protagonists, remaining characters of this film are absolutely unusual as they are much too protective of their children.It is for this reason that this theme of this film is absolutely novel and not so much is heard about another film handling a theme of child molestation.As the film takes places in a small town full chance is given to viewers to make an assessment of its bored citizens who have some dark secrets hiding with them.There has been no film before Lawn Dogs which has so deftly handled a difficult subject of child molestation. "},{"Title":"A Movie About Passing Judgment","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sam Rockwell is one of those actors who, no matter what role he's playing, is totally natural. He's immediately likable. I've always been a big fan of his, and up until yesterday had never before seen Lawn Dogs, one of the earliest films wherein he has a bigger role. He's very quietly, calmly good in it, and even in the scenes where he's playing and goofing around with Mischa Barton and it seems awkward, he maintains a pure, natural presence.Lawn Dogs says something important about the most generic slice of American life, the geometrically shaped and calculated life in the suburbs. The film doesn't unmask it. Cleverly, it maintains that quiet, perpetually sunny, middle-of-nowhere feeling of a classic subdivision, and then displays a sad and maddening scenario of misunderstanding in a closed-minded, insular neighborhood and the hauntingly realistic characters. There is a bit of animal violence in this movie, but it's played out in a tautly spare way that's just as frustrating as vain, judgmental people and matter of the rest of the film.Lawn Dogs is a refreshing sort of film. The relationship between Rockwell and Barton is heartwarming and broadly, gently natural. It's good to experience a story that altruistically communicates the genuine existence and state of mind that is often questioned and often misunderstood. "},{"Title":"Yaga yaga yaga...","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A strange and memorable film in its effort to poetically capture the hopelessness of class divisions in America. Sam Rockwell's Trent is doomed like his father, only with a dream of being alive rather than dead.His leading lady, leads him on towards destruction in a less than innocent but somehow naive way. Miraculously, Trent is rescued deus ex towel and comb, and I'm not sure exactly who ends up playing the role of Baba Yaga. I think it is actually young Devin. Though Trent does bite the head off a gingerbread boy with near mythological relish early on.Devin's character will be a touchstone for some. While I enjoy precocious youths in films and will allow them more leeway than most, I thought Devin here verged on painfully precocious. Irritating and inconsistent at times, but then disarmingly charming at other times. Ultimately this is a film that serves up paradoxes...and while I may disagree somewhat with the assessment of classes in America, I agree with this film a lot more than the folks who would reject such an assessment out of hand. Or even out of chicken claw.But they did get the seething cauldron of sexual confusion in the US pretty much down.Strong acting across the board (even when parents were required to play television thin). Also compelling visuals prodded by references to the old Russian folktale (gate of bones emphasized nicely)...and contrasted with a manicured to death view of suburbia. Ultimately the paradoxes I think are what charge this film, that and a reminder that a young girl can be touched by an older man...with a definition of touched that is not as degenerate as we've been conditioned to assume.7/10 "},{"Title":"Honestly Fabulous Film Complimented With Fantastic Performances by Both Barton and Rockwell (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not normally take the time to write a review - but this film affected me so much, I felt compelled to try. I fear I cannot capture the enormity of this film as a seminal work of art in words - kind of like Trent in his speech to Devon about having failed (even though he is celebrated) - the inability to capture in words the gestalt of life or in this case, just this film. I will leave to others to describe the plot, I am more compelled to describe the impact/impressions this film had/made on me1) Incredible acting by the entire cast right down to the main kids (the little girl). Loved Mischa Barton- a perfectly portrayed precocious little kid - caring daughter but cheerfully oblivious to the deeper currents in life that only become really known to one as we age.2) The Trent created by Sam Rockwell was so real - I couldn't even find the celebrity when I looked closely for him. Kudos to hair & makeup because even on the closeups it was perfection. So compelling a character did Sam create, that I want to see him again in other films - nose and all playing different characters.30 Mischa Barton- wow - what was the Academy thinking with Helen Hunt? - absolutely no comparison in layers of complexity between the two roles and Mischa's mastery of that depth and of her character. She had the more difficult role by far and was perfection in it.4) Was this movie life changing as said by another commenter? Yes and I cannot even tell you exactly why. Perhaps an even greater appreciation of the art and contribution to humanity of a brilliantly written, designed and acted film. Perhaps a greater sense of my own humanity - because our humanity is a shared thing and there is such a thing as the collective/universal unconscious. That many of us sometimes feel lost or that we do not belong or cannot find the meaning we so eagerly search for - happiness (whatever that is exactly) is elusive. We are not alone - it is human to feel despair even when by all accounts we have nothing specifically to complain about and should feel happy.I went to see it twice and it was even better the second time.This movie is mainly about a young girl who finds friendship on the wrong side of the career tracks in this drama. Camelot Gardens is a gated community where wealthy people can purchase luxurious (if sterile) homes and a security force ensures that riffraff will be kept away from your door after nightfall. The Stockard family are new arrivals at Camelot Gardens; father Morton (Christopher McDonald) is a businessman who wants to go into politics, while mother Clare (Kathleen Quinlan) busies herself with affairs with younger men. Neither seems to have much time for their 10-year-old daughter Devon (Mischa Barton), who doesn't care for children her own age; Devon's uncle likes to entertain her with stories about a witch named Baba Yaga who lives in the forest, so one day she wanders into the nearby woods looking for Baba. Instead, she finds a trailer that's home to Trent (Sam Rockwell), a 20-something free spirit who scrapes together a living by mowing the lawns of Camelot Gardens. Devon and Trent both have physical and emotional scars to deal with, and they soon become friends and confidantes; however, Devon's parents become upset when they learn that their daughter's best friend is a grown man, particularly one who lives in a trailer and does lawn maintenance for a living.Mischa Barton was absolutely fabulous and honest in her well written role-she truly deserved some kind of award.Mischa Barton has the more troublesome role. She must portray attraction to Rockwell without slipping into `Lolita' mode, or the dreaded melodramatic may-december domain. While Barton isn't Rockwell, their chemistry is one to step back in awe of. An 18 year gap separates the actors, but it is easy to accept them as a couple. Barton steadfastly maintains her character's intelligence and maturity, without her stooping to childish pranks to sell the differences between Devon and Trent. Through her writing, Wallace does all the work for Barton in this regard.Barton matches Rockwell in just about every way, making them, outside of Freddy and Jason, to be one of the more peculiar, yet lovely screen couples in the history of film. Wallace ends `Lawn Dogs' on a wonderful, secretive note, also staying away from emotional indulgence. We leave the film with a peculiar, fantasy ending, and that's exactly the note to end on. With the guitars dripping with feedback, trying to cover up the sweet melody, `Lawn Dogs' is doing the very same thing. Wallace is now two-for-two, in the quality of her recent product. I can't wait to see what she does next. Mischa Barton deserved an Oscar for this. Some people won't get it.. ...and that's the truth. This movie may not have a story that hits you over the head with a 2x4, but that doesn't mean there is no plot.That plot is loneliness.Lawn Dogs is one of the most honest movies I've ever seen. There are no explosions, the two main characters don't hop into bed every 5 minutes, and the dialog isn't ridiculously clever--this doesn't mean the movie is stupid or dull or political hype. It's just real.Maybe you don't see movies for realism, and that's OK. Most the time I don't either. This film touched me, though. The view of 2 people lost-- not only in life but in their own relationships--was perfect.Maybe my opinion is favorable because I saw a lot of myself in the character of Devon. If this makes me dull and tedious, so be it. How many people do you know give long, eloquent, dramatic speeches every 5 minutes?If you want flashy, warmed over plots and special effects, I advise you to see any movie but this one. If you are looking for some truth in how people relate to each other, Lawn Dogs is for you. The best part of any romantic film is when the leads recognize the critical chemistry they have growing between them, yet are powerless to do anything about it. While most onscreen relationships are eventually consummated, `Dogs' stays inside that reserved, wistful area where declarations of love and sex are kept at arm's length. `Lawn Dogs' is a story of heartache, but conceived by Wallace not as a downer, but as a luminous observance of attraction and connection in unlikely situations.Devon is rock steady as is Trent, but the thin layer of melancholy running through the character makes the experience all the more fulfilling. I had a fun time reading all the reviews for this movie. I can't help but wonder why adults who hated and didn't get this movie would bother to set through it let alone write lengthy reviews using highly colorful & hateful terms. If you don't like friendship movies don't watch them. Intelligent people wouldn't set through something they hated with a passion unless they were deliberately trying to find fault with it or the starring actors.Either you like the movie or the actors or you don't. I have a list I don't care much for either but I'm not going to waste my time using colorful metaphors talking about them.Mischa is one of the sweetest kids you will ever see. She's cute, honest, and when she smiles her entire face glows.Mischa was literally thrown into the acting business after doing a commercial or two. Before that she sang and danced. She was in fact very inexperienced when she did Lawn Dogs. Her two first films aren't even available in the USA though I have seen them and LOVED them. If you understand the circumstances you should realize that with no more experience than she had at that time she did a fantastic job in this movie. The audience loved her!For those people who really love to watch bad movies so they can hate them I have list they might like. ;^) You could start with The Polish Vampire in Burbank and move on to Behind the Green Door just for starters. I find it frustrating to turn the TV on and have 300 or so channels with nothing worth watching. But that's how the movie and TV shows are these days. I can't help but wonder if it is a lack of good scripts or if the producers just can't recognize a good script from a bad one. When a movie as bad as The Blair Witch, made by students on a budget of $8000 can turn a profit of more than $140,000,000 that's sad business. When people pay to see bad movies it sends the wrong signal to every producer in Hollywood. I have no doubt my kids could make a better movie than that.Lawn Dogs is a feel good movie and if you like John Duigan of these characters you should like the movie. The acting and stuff in it are geared for a friendship flick and they accomplish exactly what the director wanted them to. I cannot believe that no critics have praised her or she hasn't got any awards. I know you may think a relationship between a 10 year old and a twenty-something is hardly entertaining and boring, but Barton's performance is one of the best I've seen in age and that alone makes it worth seeing. Critics must have their heads up their butts because how can Lawn Dogs get average reviews yet some movie like Titanic can get 3/4 star reviews.  In short, Lawn Dogs is an excellent underrated little gem. 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Truly fantastic...","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Naomi Wallace has written an insightful, clever screenplay with the aroma of the fantastic wafting throughout. It's the kind of material perfectly suited to the low budget, willing- to- take- chances independent film and it comes off near perfectly.The lines are blurred between a tale being told and so called reality faithfully represented. This is complemented by the eerily sterile suburban visuals, clearly the extension of a child's board game vision of such a landscape.The portrayal of closeness between an adult male and a young girl (who is not his daughter) possesses an inborn tension with the inferred potential danger of this relationship moving from genuine mutual affection into darker areas; (Tiger Bay played on this effectively). In present times with paranoia at high levels as to any possible incorrectness as to such friendships, Wallace puts a delightful spin on the matter by making the precocious and yet not obnoxious girl, Devon, the stalker, while Trent the young adult, is her initially unwilling prey.In order for all this to work, two exceptional actors were needed and by some miracle they were found. Young Mischa Barton has a complete grasp on her alien character and manages to express her wiseness beyond years with intelligence, rather than the excruciating hamming children particularly in sitcoms are coaxed into. Her unlikely soulmate is played by Sam Rockwell, whose quirky charms have graced many an indie movie but here is given full rein to show what a terrific actor he is. It's a beautifully controlled, understated performance that few of his peers would be capable of. No wonder the big studios have finally come calling. With his slightly unconventional looks and a touch of the other, its may not be that easy finding suitable roles. He was born to play indie roles. (His role in Lawn Dogs has something in common with his breakthrough role DiCillo's wonderful Box of Moonlight &#150; both being outsiders, solitarily in nature &#150; and both having a penchant for skinny dipping.)Truly fantastic&#133;. "}{"Title":"Enticing and Confusing","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie confused me.  At times there is a wonderful relationship between a working class landscaper and an imaginative 10 year-old girl.  On the other hand, there are some very dark overtones in this movie.  The relationship between Trent, the landscaper and Devon, the 10-year-old begins in an eclectic, curious and friendly way.  What developed is a confusing array of plot directions that don't seem to have any ending nor even to serve a practical function in moving the plot along.  For example, the way the suburbanites treat Trent is perversely cruel.  The relationship between the mother and her college-age pleasurist is extremely perverted.  The little boy in the neighborhood who has no friends and who steals the neighborhood lamps serves no purpose.  Trent's father, whom he visits late in the movie, and who attempts to give him his Korean War flags serves only as a distraction.  Each of these examples tends to distract the story.  On the other hand, Mischa Barton, the girl who plays Devon is wonderfully fresh.  She is a bright, intriguing actress who really captures each scene she's in.  When she is in her magical, storyteller mode, the movie is wonderful.  When she plays Trent's friend, the friend who seems to understand the real Trent, the movie is interesting.  The problem is the script seems to lose focus on what message it intends to create.  Some parts of this movie are excellent.  The problem is some parts should have been removed. "},{"Title":"Left me a little uneasy!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was excellent and the performance of Sam Rockwell was a real star turn for the actor.  But being the father of a daughter, the relationship between Rockwell and the 10 year-old girl made me uneasy.  It really pushed the envelope about their relationship.    "},{"Title":"A Complex Delight","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Movies are a commercial endeavor, especially in America. This is because we have almost no public financing for The Arts. One can not expect those in the private sector who invest in  making films to finance many projects which promise to return none of their investment.This situation makes films like Lawn Dogs a rare American breed. In fact,the credits hint that the driving force behind the project came from the UK and/or Australia, both of which subsidize motion pictures.Mysterious and enigmatic, this movie contains few of the elements which are typical of the New American Cinema. Mainly, these techniques revolve around the dumbing down of the audience. Lawn Dogs presumes that there are people who will make an effort to think about what they see and who are capable of seeing both the realities and the mysteries of existence that film can only hint at.Of special note is eleven year old actress Misha Barton, who here gives the finest performance by a child actress in a very long time, perhaps since Jodie Foster in Taxi Driver. "},{"Title":"This film fell short of my expectations","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw Lawn Dogs and wasn't that impressed as others who have written in.The two leads in the movie are a twenty-something guy and an eleven year old girl.  I'm personally not a fan of movies with adult themes that star juveniles.I also didn't think it was a good idea to sanctify the idea of the two main characters hanging out with each other away from the girl's home and family. It was kind of like- what does this guy think is going to happen if he spends a lot of time with this kid?The more interesting elements of the film such as the unsettling neighborhood culture, class inequity, etc. were obscured by a fair amount of wooden acting and clueless acts on the part of the characters.  I must say that the two leads were both very good actors.In a word, the potential was there, but it didn't come through.  "},{"Title":"A Story Lover's Dream","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie had me laughing and crying and remembering the bittersweetness of childhood. Possibly the best film ever made about the class struggle. Unbelievable acting on the part of the two leads. And the most incredible use of a fairy tale ever - Baba Yaga and the Little Girl. Who would have thought that a simple tale illustrating the principle of the Golden Rule would make such a heart-rending film? William Bennett, take note - this film embodies a moral compass, a book of virtues. It is simply beautiful. "},{"Title":"Disjointed and distracted...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To put it simply, this movie annoyed me. Immensely. I am all for a message in a movie (in this case that socio-economic status does not relate to the value of a person's character), but this point was made fairly quickly once the two principals were connected. I was incapable of suspending reality long enough for this movie to take hold. The clownish adults, the stereotypical 'rich kids', the closeted gay, the completely clueless main character (Trent), and the fragile, yet completely ignored 10 year old made for a jumble that never gelled coherently. Too many extraneous elements pollute the film (the disappearing lights, the scene at the river, the howling on the rooftop without a nightgown, etc.) and are nothing more than distractions.I have read many of the other reviews, both before I viewed the movie and again afterward. I opted away from spoilers before to keep the experience as fresh and open as possible... and I just don't see what all the gushing is about. No one else was changed for the better and Trent escaped... but with what? His soul? A renewed faith in humanity? (I seriously doubt this!) Friendship? I think none of the above as he would only find that people are people everywhere and his situation was not likely to change... with or without magic.Or maybe you are all in tune and I am just missing the point. ;-) "},{"Title":"Oh so precious","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let me admit up front that I turned this movie off after a half-hour. I'm a big fan of quirky, low-budget movies with odd characters, but movies that attempt to satirize contemporary mores need to have characters whose actions have some relationship to the way human beings would act in the real world. I didn't believe one second of the part of this movie I saw. The parents and community cop were straw people and the worst kind of clichés. Nobody, no matter how quirky and counter-culture, would stop in the middle of a bridge, strip naked, and dive into a creek while holding up a line of traffic. If he did, the people being held up wouldn't just sit there and watch. No ten-year-old girl would know the make and model of an old pickup truck. No---these are many other scenes were just the screenwriter's lame ways of pounding into our heads that the sympathetic characters were offbeat and charming and the unsympathetic characters were stupid and lacking in imagination. I can't believe anybody would rate this movie higher than a 3 or 4. The fact that this film could even get made and released is symptomatic of how low modern movie standards have fallen. It's really bad. "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this film.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a definite must see. Whilst portraying a look at America's middle class society but still providing a sense of realism, and a mixture of black comic moments between leads Mischa Barton and Sam Rockwell against a darker tone of the uneasiness of the residents towards these lower class workers. Its a slow and delicate build up as the two characters friendship grows but ends with one of the most tense and exciting scenes you are likely to see. Mischa Barton as you have most likely read from other reviews is outstanding with acting that rivals all of her OC performances put together. Although i think this film was slightly ruined by the final scene, it is easily one of my favourite films and one you certainly wont forget "},{"Title":"a bloom of a movie","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" lawn dogs has two distinct portions... i think some people will find the start a little off-putting as it seems clunky... after one sees the movie as a whole (firmly establishing the fairytale motif) the beginning makes perfect sense and the tone of the movie is made stronger...i suppose it is hard to justify the score i give this movie and i think in this case it is purely my own taste and emotional response that made me give it such a high rating... the metaphors and themes are not as easy as in many commercial hits, yet they are strong and simple... one could argue the lack of complexity is a problem but i think in this case, it makes the movie so wonderfully accessible without being completely obvious (and rarely are the symbols and intents, simple though they may be, meshed more completely and in such a satisfying way)...it would make a superb introduction into even more thought provoking movies, as it's just so human... the movie's strongest point is the rich poetic visuals... swathes of crystal green, bold blues, sparkling lights in the interior of the trailer, haunting red streaks... the combination of the care taken visually and the strength of characters, message and plot make it such a compact, powerful movie...mischa barton has weak moments, but then those are balanced out by her performance as a whole... the other players are excellent, particularly rockwell, who is supremely likable and understated at once...it's a cliché to say this movie stays with you, but it has one of greatest endings ever, some of those shots you could see being part of a montage of amazing cinematic moments... i love movies that combine the ordinary with just the slightest, most subtle hint of magic...oh and some of the songs and music are just... well perfect... "},{"Title":"Superb. A must see movie.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It worries me slightly that one or two people saw this as pornographic (I wonder where they get their kicks?)This film is all about an untouchable friendship. It's no accident that the two friends are both gender and age opposites and it's this premise that carries the whole film in a way that never once sees Trent as a predator but finds a kindred spirit.Trent makes it obvious early in the film that he is not interested in the young girl in the way that some viewers found uncomfortable (why? He is seen naked with a girl his own age that surely says he is a normal young man)I can understand why some Americans would prefer not to see themselves in a certain light, but this is the point of the movie.See it, and be a better person. Yes, it's that good. "}{"Title":"And here I thought I was the only fan...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Per my heading - seriously! I've never known anyone else who's seen Lawn Dogs, except the people to whom I've shown it.I first saw it on a whim in the theatre when it came out, fell in love with it, bought the DVD and then watched it many, many times and showed it to as many people who would sit through it with me. But I hadn't put it on in a couple years until tonight; the piece stands up completely, and it still moves me as much as it used to.After it was over, I came to IMDb and was surprised that so many had voted on it and then that there were a whopping 82 user comments! Wow! Again, I just didn't know it had that kind of fan base, but I guess I shouldn't be surprised given that both of its leads have gone on to become immensely popular stars. Back when Lawn Dogs came out, both of them were unknowns; even back then, I assumed that would change.I'm happy Rockwell's career has continued to move into realms that are not always for the masses. It's a bit disappointing that Barton is stuck on The O.C. (sorry fans!) as I think she's capable of greater things and she should be working with somewhat more challenging material.A few others have commented how nice it would be to see the two of them work together again. I think I agree, but it'd be unfortunate if a similar chemistry wasn't there. As far as a sequel goes? Certainly the film leaves you wanting these people to meet again. I'd love to see such a thing, but perhaps it's asking too much for that particular brand of cinematic lightning to strike twice. "},{"Title":"This movie left an impression. I would recommend seeing it.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie takes you into a fairy tale, but then seems to make you forget the fairy tale until the end, which might could be confusing at the same time that it's emotionally moving (and somewhat disturbing). Some experiences in real life have too much depth to be explained in a movie except through the use of magical realism,as in this film. The seemingly obvious plot of conflict between rich and poor is like a trick to draw you into a story that explodes outward from that plot into the circular mythology begun at the start of the movie. Then there is the phenomenal appropriateness of Mischa Barton's every move, expression, and enunciation. I'm thinking maybe the real conflict in this story is between sickness and health. I would recommend seeing it but with viewer discretion. "},{"Title":"Other reviewer summed up well","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story, anyway. Not much I could add to that.  However, he blew the Angie Harmon nude scene out of proportion. She appears topless for a few seconds.  If you ask me, one of the highlights of the movie is Sam Rockwell's full rear & frontal nude scene on the bridge. That guy is toned and tanned. I'm still not entirely sure why that scene was included in the movie, but I'm certainly not complaining.  Male nudity is so rare in American films that I can't help but notice it when it happens. Oh yeah, interesting story, too.   "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has become my absolute favorite.  i first saw it in the theater, which is of course the ideal place to view any film.  i believe my husband and i were the only two people in the theater, which was at the time the only cinema to play independent films for 200 miles.  It later closed (.i love everything about this film.  The writing is wonderful, the story line is incredible, the acting is wonderful and very realistic.  The direction couldn't be better (especially the beautiful finale that had even my husband in tears).  i have seen this film over and over through the years, in the theater, on television (IFC), on DVD, and every time it brings me chills and a feeling of belonging to something, even in a small way, much bigger than myself. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved watching this movie. It was filmed here in my home-town of Lousville, Kentucky. It was cool to see and recognize certain landmarks and places shown in the movie. When I was a teenager, me and some of my friends would go down to Harrods creek and jump off the same bridge as Trents character did, although we had on swimming trunks -). Lawn Dogs is an excellent movie. Trent, a hard-working yard worker is just trying to make it day to day. He is a honest hard-working man, who loved to dive and swim. When he was young he dreamed of becoming a professional diver, but his dream, like most things in his life didn't turn out the way he wanted. Trent comes from a poor but proud family who live in a trailor park. He works taking care of rich peoples yards. The people he works for are snotty stuck-up self involved people. Only the young daughter of one of the families he works for seems to understand Trent and becomes friends with him. The rest of the people in the rich gated community couldn't care less about Trent, and they let him know it. There are a couple of rich young men about Trents age who are constantly belittling Trent. They treat him like crap, but one of the men is gay and has a crush on Trent even though he knows Trent is straight, he can't act on his feelings toward Trent because he is in the closet and his conservative friends would probably kick his ass if they knew he was gay. Trent knows this man has a crush on him, and after he gets into a fight with one of the mans friend for accusing him of stealing something off their truck Trent ask the gay man 'what do you want from me?' I think I know Trent says, and gives him a kiss on the mouth in front of the gay mans friend. This humiliates the gay man and is now out to get Trent in trouble. The other people in the upscale gated community aren't any better. They treat Trent like 3 day old fish. Finally at the end of the movie Trent makes the people realize how wrong they are about him and makes them realize to themselves the type of people they are. As you can probably tell by reading my review I'm not very good at writing them. Anyways, this is a great movie!! -)   "},{"Title":"Under-rated masterpiece","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  John Duigan is one of those directors that can be really frustrating for his fans. Starting out as one of the great auteurs of the Australian New Wave, with One Night Stand and the Danny Emberling duo, he began to lose the plot in the 90s. Not writing a lot of his later material probably didn't help. But this film is quite an incredible little piece, particularly when you consider how little recognition it seems to have received. Lawn Dogs shows that that deft artistry of Duigan's which revolutionised Australian film certainly hadn't been lost by 1997 - it just wasn't getting much of a cinematic airing.A lot of talent went into this film - Mischa Barton, who sadly couldn't follow up one of the best child acting performances ever with anything decent (Tart, anyone?); Sam Rockwell, who everyone knows now for Confessions of a Dangerous Mind and Matchstick Men; DOP Elliot Davis, who gives the film an incredibly magical, almost dreamlike feel. And the story is phenomenal. Devon is one of cinema's most beautiful characters, and the relationship that enfolds between her and Trent is so amazingly touching. The final act will leave you speechless - perhaps a little depressed, but overwhelmed with emotion. Movies are so rarely this beautiful and complex. Don't even bother finding out the story. If you want to be touched by one of the most artistically impressive and beautiful films of the 90s, get Lawn Dogs out instantly and let Duigan, Barton and Rockwell blow your mind. You won't regret it.10/10. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sam Rockwell plays Trent, a white-trash guy who lives in a trailer and mows the lawns of the rich people nearby. He befriends a 12 year-old girl, the daughter of one of the families living in the wealthy estate and wisely tries to keep their friendship secret. He faces daily prejudice from these people and only the young girl sees him for who he is, rather than what he is.A touching, well made film with outstanding performances from Rockwell and Barton (who plays the 12-year old). One of the film's many highlights is seeing Angie Harmon (naked!) in her first film role.Recommended and worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A Profound Experience...","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only reason I came across this film was in a search for movies starring Angie Harmon (a prior obsession).  From the reviews I read the story actually seemed interesting with the potential to be quite moving, so I decided to buy it... and I've never been so moved and touched by a story in my life.  I'm a 21 year old male who found himself brought to tears at this film's close.I'm tempted to talk about specific parts of this movie but for those who haven't seen it, I can only suggest, in the most profound and well-intentioned way possible, that you take the time to find this movie and watch it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Springsteen meets Scissorhands","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's not fair to say that there are no films made about the American poor.  Countless tough, inner-city thrillers belie this fact.  Also we have films about honest hard-working folk who live in small mid-Western towns, as well as dramas featuring comfortable suburbanites or aspirational professionals.  But what is very rare is to see these portraits side by side, to watch a single film that dares acknowledge the truth that America has a class system, or bear witness to the fact that middle America sits firmly on top of a downtrodden bottom.  Lawn Dogs is not a political film per se, but there's an honesty here (perhaps because it's made by an Australian director) that challenges the way that the USA usually prefers to think of itself.Sam Rockwell turns in an outstanding performance as a white trash outsider in a closeted community lacking not just money, but also any kind of respect.  The film is initially slow, and in places its symbolism is fairly heavy-handed, but the power of a story in which the everymen are the bad guys grows with the threatening sense that a horrible ending can not be escaped.  A film to wake you up from the American dream. "},{"Title":"A gem.","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film truly is a gem. Superbly acted by the leads and a host of minor characters. Excellent photography. Full of detail. Good soundtrack. But above else there is a compelling storyline - simple, entertaining but thought provoking. It depicts a strong class system alive and well in the USA and with the suggestion that we do not start off with prejudices they are visited upon us by those (adults) around us.  The search between the two main characters for friendship is more about being forbidden territory because they originate from different sides of the American social divide. The sexual tensions are perhaps merely a smokescreen. And as other reviewers have said the DVD cover is absurdly misleading. But whatever your views this is a terrifically well made film that is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Children Are Psycos","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Its hard to believe that a relationship between a twenty something blue - collar worker and a ten year old middle class girl can be seen as heart warming. But what this film has infact tried to do is show an age gap between friends can be extremely innocent. It also proves to us that children today are so smart its scary.Although this film starts off reasonably slow it proved extremely entertaining. The story is strong and and the two leading actors give very stronge performances. You can really read into their relationship as they are so different. We see perfect American paridise at its best with a town that whos only reserdence appear to be Devon and her family, two odd teenagers, a rather disturbed little boy, a security guard and a mail man, so its obvious to see why a young vivid interlectual child such as Devon opted to explore.Although slow Trent knows of what the town would see of his relationship with Devon and infact first of all wards her away, but as Devon progresses Trent cant help but coincide with the little girl.I still cannot work out the ending, although it was good the whole fairy tail unrealistic approach didnt really fit with the rest of the film however with a story is strong you cannot help but feel warmed by the erbundency of the little girl helping her friend get away safely "},{"Title":"A nice change of pace","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Enough people have generally explained the plot, so I will not. Suffice it to say this is Mischa's best movie, and perhaps the best of any actors first performance. Unfortunately, her subsequent major roles are hit-and-miss - Skipped Parts being a hit, and Lost and Delirious is to be avoided at all costs.Sam Rockwell was also excellent as Trent, the friend of Mischa's character (Devon).Elsewhere I read the one negative review of this movie by someone who seemed upset over nudity and child pornography. The fact that Mischa is topless for a few seconds (and shot from across the street, at night, and about 2 inches tall on my TV) does not quite fit the category of child pornography, I do not think, unless you are predisposed that way and really, really hard up.This is a story about a mis-matched friendship, and all the prejudices that attracts, plain and simple. Great dialog, too.Also, ignore the DVD cover - it has nothing to do with the movie. Why the mother takes up half the cover is a mystery - she is a minor character. The picture of the shirtless man is, I think, from the photo of his swimming award, and the image of Devon and Trent on the truck actually takes place on a river bank, not on a lawn. I suppose it is Hollywood's influence creeping in - fortunately it does not affect the movie.  "},{"Title":"Original sexuality and violence","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was zapping on my TV one saturday at 100am and i started to see this movie because of the nice countryside, and i realized it was not an american movie. But the movie became more and more interesting so i just want to see it until the end. I really recomend this movie, but be careful with the children.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing but disappointing","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lawn Dogs is an intriguing film which has a certain curiosity value but one that ultimately fails to satisfy. Part of the problem is that the script is far too weak to sustain the film for over 90mins. Consequently the narrative is far too slow and the characterisation in underdeveloped. The film moves along at a snail's pace and yet the ending is so fast and ferocious.The acting also lacks any real quality. Sam Rockwell is badly miscast in the lead role, a limited actor who fails to win over audience sympathy. Mischa Barton is better but she is no Linda Blair or Danny Lloyd. Perhaps the most disappointing aspect was that the one illustrious actress in this film, Kathleen Quinlan, had such little screen time.   "},{"Title":"STRANGE","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was slightly good. I think it's an independent movie so I'll cut it a break. 10-year old Devon is sheltered and is forced to walk around the neighborhood selling cookies so she can make friends. She comes across a 22-year old bum who mows lawns in her ritzy neighborhood. These two boys find out, one of who is fooling around with Devon's mom, and somewhat pick on the boy. It's an okay movie. I give 7/10 only on the grounds of Kathleen Quinlan is a total fox and i want to caress her body.  "},{"Title":"Mystical.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beautifully shot movie with great acting and possibly the greatest finale in any drama. Simply superb. "},{"Title":"lofty intentions, hollow results","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The primary reason Lawn Dogs is so maddening is that it's horribly obvious in its efforts to be irreverent. Oh look, a free-spirited girl scout befriends grown trailer trash of the opposite gender, isn't that strange & befuddling? Oh look, the lawn boy blocks cars on a bridge to casually strip naked & perform an Olympic-caliber dive into the lake while everyone watches, isn't that arty & unexpected? There are some interesting images that might intrigue you, but that's just high style with little content outside of a handful of good performances. saving graces? An adorable Mischa Barton is excellent as curious young Devon-- she was certainly talented at this age, though that might be hard for some to believe since she's inexplicably worsened with age (or laziness?). You might find flaws with her in Lawn Dogs if you're searching for them, but it's probably because you can see the Marissa Cooper in her and because Devon is a cliché construction precocious youth represents innocence, revolts against the hypocrisy surrounding her. I've seen it, read it, heard it before, and never before did I have to roll my eyes with pseudo-evocative comments like I don't like children. They smell like TV. A 10-year-old abstracting via synesthesia to get her disillusioned point across? That's abusing any willingness I had left with this movie to suspend my disbelief. But that's not her fault. Overall she's endearing, engaging, even funny, which makes her weekly exhibitions of acting on The OC all the more unforgivable. Of course, the #1 reason to watch this movie is Sam Rockwell, who I have yet to see give an uninspired performance in anything. Always bold, unusually brilliant, he'll strangely affect you whether you want him to or not. It's actors like him who make you realize why you love the movies. The relationship between Barton & Rockwell's characters is the third saving grace. Read the problems with this film do not lie in the performances.I'm not going to argue with anyone if they love the movie, there may be moments that resonate with you. But like it for it's strengths and not because you're mistaking well-shot moments of quiet insipidness for moments of meaningful poignancy. If I had seen it 10 years ago when I was 13 and just starting to consistently watch indies then I might have enjoyed it more. But I've seen enough to know that Lawn Dogs chews up & spits out ideas & techniques pilfered from preexisting offbeat movies without actually having any real insights of its own. The overt symbolism between class differences is so obvious it's insulting, and comments meant to be profound are executed with as much depth & insight as angsty teen poetry. Now let's count the painfully obvious cliché's, shall we?1) guy from wrong side of the tracks as society's scapegoat 2) unlikely relationship between kindred spirits this usually comes in the form of crossing age, gender, & class differences 3) Projecting a myth/fable/fairy tale/work of literature/history lesson as a conscious allusion to the themes & realities of the film. Yeah, I read several versions of Baba Yaga (also known as Bony Legs) when I was younger and it doesn't work so well here as, say, the use of Peter Pan in ET or countless other movies where this technique is used. 4) precocious youngster represents natural goodness & guides the action of the story 5) manicured lawns and pristine suburban sprawl represent falseness, superficiality, a loss of individuality None of these would be remotely problematic if they were better executed with some originality. Think how well the show Weeds pulls off #5. But I digress&#133;Lawn Dogs says little and means even less. This movie is like a sentimental blubbering loner who sits, cries, whines, but is never for a moment aware enough to know why. You take an interest, you feel kind of bad...but in the long-run you're not really sure why on earth you're supposed to care. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is by far the best movie I have ever seen! Mischa Barton is very beautiful and talented young actress, and this is the first movie I have seen her.The movie itself is also amazing - it is a beautiful story of a forbidden relationship between a young adult and a preteen girl, which would evolve much further if it hasn't been for our backward society which opposes love and supports hate and killing.I give this movie 10/10. Without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Young girls are very devious and dangerous creatures","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I was a little boy, my mother told me to be careful when in the company of young girls, particularly preteens. I asked her why and she said that they lied and believed the lies and that could get me into a lot of trouble I did not need. When I asked her how she knew this, she said, Because I was a little girl once, trust me! Well, her advice was based on the assumption that I was straight and would be interested in girls other than for occasional acquaintance. I avoided them mostly because they seemed to detect that I was a young gay boy who was 'not in the market' and just another form of competition, I suppose, so the advice was moot.This movie illustrates my mother's warnings to a tee. It ought to be required for hetero boys. On the surface, this movie seems to have a lot going for it--adequate actors all, plot, subplots, etc. You are slowly drawn in and then the tension builds which Hitchcock would have appreciated. It unfortunately loses me with the rather abrupt contrived ending. This little girl, first of all, is obviously extremely aware of her power over the people around her. She may not be obviously manipulating her parents, but nonetheless, with the lying, withholding, going along with their lies, she aids and abets. The parents mimic every Republican I've ever known, having grown up in a mixed community of both wealth and middle to low-middle class. The two young men, Sean (closeted gay attracted to Trent) and Brett (hetero gigolo servicing Kathy Quinlan while her husband barbeques himself silly) evoke every town bully I've ever run into--both gay and straight. They are just idiotic testosterone driven manimals played adequately by Mr. Mabius and Mr. Gray. The costar to the main character, Sam Rockwell (aka Trent) is extremely James Dean enough to get you to pathos and empathy for his hard luck life and lack of breaks. Actually, if one looks differently at the film, the manipulative little girl ends up being his answer to freedom. Unfortunately, in the process of plot, I assume to move things along in the time allotted, they have her implicate Trent (her supposed friend) and again, let events go where she wants them to. I think it was intended to be more about the perceived powerlessness of youngsters who are shown to be actually pulling all the strings with their deviant daydreams and behavior towards the adult world that they both long to be a part of and detest and rebel against. In life, I do NOT believe this girl would have shot the young man with the stick. I think she'd have let it happen and watched voyeuristically. Trent would have been dogmeat. Perhaps, years later as a repentant adult she'd have told a stranger what really happened or written a book and done the talk shows after having gone through some fake therapy. I just don't believe that particular character capable of that ending. I think it was obvious where she was headed from the start. She knew the power of her seductive behavior in the guise of friendship with this poor slob, Trent, and what she could do with it. She also knew how predictable her parents were and set them up constantly. This doesn't exempt them from being the most horrible parents on record for alienation of affection and misteaching of general rules of life. The parents are like the Bushes or Kennedys, externally real but internally vacant. Even when they are present, nobody is home. Like most wealthy people, they are masters of self-deception and withholding. All is surface. I think, however, the notion that those two bimbos could've raised a young woman with somewhat human attributes is silly. As most animals with genetic programming, we tend to turn out very much like those who sired us. She more likely would've toyed with this guy because of her boredom and lack of friends, but then set him up (which she does in fact) and walk away. It would've given her a sense of power, having some control. That ending would've been believable, but not very popular with audiences. Rank was famous for taking risks, however, I think they gave in to pressure to 'normalize' the message. The chance that Trent in the end would get away is not reality based either. Anyone with that much money would hire lawyers and detectives to drag Trent to justice (alive or dead) and then massage the media to conjure up and prove the false stories they would create to live with this situation. So, nice try guys, but no 10s here. "},{"Title":"An excellent opportunity wasted.  Tragic.","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The set up for this film is just weird and off-beat enough to engage fascination without going overboard. The characters are well-observed and presented and the essence of 'don't judge a book by its cover' finely pursued. Sam Rockwell is brilliant. Unfortunately there are deep flaws. The juvenile lead, Mischa Barton, is just OK and is required to deliver some sugary nonsense at the end which her gift for acting is unable to transcend. All in an inexplicable and hurried,'tragical/magical' denouement which utterly ruins the film and the interesting balance it had achieved until that point. Sam Rockwell's character's position is hopeless but wait, 'in a single bound, Jack was free'. Tragic. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies of recent years","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Do not believe the high user ratings - they have clearly been corrupted by insider voting! When I saw this movie there were very few people in the audience, some walked out during the movie, and several of the rest made very negative comments when the movie was over.  This movie is artificial, stupid, pretentious, and boring.  It's not really worth my time to write about, but when I saw the voting results here I felt compelled to insert a strong warning to discerning viewers.  To clarify, there is nothing particularly offensive about this movie, it's just very, very bad. "}]