[{"Title":"Inspiring And Haunting","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the real-life story of Oregon runner Steve Prefontaine who, despite physical imperfections, draws on inner strength of character, to set American track records, and race in the 1972 Munich Olympics.  As a runner myself, I found this 1997 docudrama inspiring.But Prefontaine is far more than a cinematic pep talk for runners.  It's a character study of an extraordinary young man from an ordinary background, his personal relationships, and his date with destiny.  It is a story that has lasting value.The film's visuals and music effectively convey the look and sound of the early 70's.  The acting is above average.  Jared Leto is superb as Steve.  Just as good is R. Lee Ermey as Steve's coach, the legendary Bill Bowerman, a man who found a way to make running shoes with the help of a waffle iron.  Ed O'Neill, Breckin Meyer, and the lovely Amy Locane are good, in supporting roles.Leto's acting, combined with a clever script, portrays Pre as gutsy, determined, intense, charismatic, vulnerable, at times reckless, self-absorbed, brash, and arrogant.  One of my favorite segments of dialogue has Steve and his teammate Pat Tyson jogging along, and talking about the great runner Jim Ryun.  Steve comments Forget Jim Ryun; he's done; I'm gonna be the first Steve Prefontaine, to which Pat responds It must be nice to want to be yourself.Later, Pre frustratingly says to his girlfriend Nancy All of my life people have said to me you're too small Pre; you're not fast enough Pre; give up your foolish dreams Steve.Pre's story is told in another film Without Limits; both now available on DVD, and both good, though I prefer this Steve James directed movie.Often and rightly compared to other sports films, Prefontaine reminds me of a film one might not think of.  Pre's life was similar in some ways to another notable person from an ordinary background, one who set out bravely on a personal quest, of sorts, and who, in the process, like Pre, made a powerful and lasting impression Karen Silkwood.Coincidentally, Pre's fate and Karen's fate were tragically similar, and only six months apart.  In both Prefontaine and Silkwood, the message to the rest of us ordinary mortals is don't underestimate your life; do your best; and make each day count.  You never know when fate may intervene. "},{"Title":"Excellent Sports Film","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this last night on the BBC--I don't think it ever had a theatrical release in Britain--and thought it was excellent. I remember this film and its rival, Without Limits, when they were released in 1997 but never saw them. Users have commented on how much this film resembled the '70's era, right down to the soundtrack and overall style of the film, as if that kind of authenticity is to its detriment. It does remind one of that '70's TV movie classic, Brian's Song, but then, what other era should this film resemble?! It's no surprise that the documentary storytelling style works so well since the director and writer, Steve James, made one of the most acclaimed documentaries of the '90's--the basketball flik, Hoop Dreams (highly recommended as well). But shooting a documentary and recreating the style of one are two different things and though they probably both have their perils, recreating that style in service to drama must have much steeper pitfalls. Steve James (and company) completely succeed here. Jared Leto gives a compelling performance as Pre and forces the viewer to sympathise with him in very unique ways. He's not immensely likable but when he runs...one understands that great athletic performers, like Steve Prefontaine, did not win races on personality alone. But it's the way that the rest of cast responds to him, their admiration completely palpable and on the surface, that moves the viewer to embrace him as well. He's heartbreaking when he asks, Do I look like a runner? American sports films usually obscure their central figures by ladling on heavy doses of heavy-handed inspiration. Not so with this film. Pre emerges a gifted, young, confused but determined individual who inspires not through his athletic performances but through the strength of his character and what he did for amateur athletics. The ending doesn't so much jerk tears from the viewer as it allows them to flow freely and copiously. An underrated, lost gem of a film. "},{"Title":"Captures the spirit of his times","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a grad student at the University of Oregon in the early seventies when Steve Prefontaine made his mark as a runner there. This film captures his life and times reasonably well, and Jared Leto's performance does a good job portraying the Steve Prefontaine the general public like me knew, though Leto has more of a preppy/Abercrombie & Fitch appearance than the somewhat craggier Prefontaine. Those who knew him then personally can make a better, further assessment. Despite the limitations of its budget (for example, they shot the film in 16mm--Super16 actually), it's one of the better sports films made and should have had a stronger theatrical run. If memory serves, the release also had a woefully limited marketing budget.An athletic apparel store in Boston has a glass case which displays one of Steve Prefontaine's running singlets. It made me pause to see it there, an inanimate object which once clothed someone so highly animated. This film does a decent job of bringing life to that persona. "},{"Title":"Pre is god.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a runner, I cannot resist but love the story of Steve Prefontaine's rise and fall.  He is an inspiration to all who lace up and head out the door for an hour long trek through the woods trails and roadsides.  The movie truly captured the spirit of Pre and the emotions experienced by many athletes, not just runners.  This was the one movie I watched on the bus ride up to Vermont's State Track meet.  As I ran, my lungs and legs burned and all I could think of is this one scene  Pre running and all that can be heard is his breath, the camera focuses on his chest, up and down.  When running, I am in my own world, just as the movie shows, everything around me is just a backdrop, a supplement to my race against myself, my own times, and my fellow runners.  They push me, I push them, like Viren does Pre.  This movie captures all of the aspects of a race and the qualities of a true runner. If you run for fun, your drive to strive will reach unfathomable levels. "},{"Title":"Prefontaine is the best running movie ever made.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Steve Prefontaine was America's best long distance runner ever.  This movie shows how you can achieve your dreams and that anything is possible. Prefontaine is filled with great action, that is if you actually enjoy watching someone run on the TV.  After watching this movie you will feel like going outside and running a five kilometer.  This is one of the best movies ever made in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Interesting if basic sports biopic (spoilers)","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since he was young, Steve Prefontaine was always too short, too skinny or too slow to be the first choice for any sports &#150; a thing that only made him work harder to become whatever he felt he needed to be and to make the most of any chance given to him. At age 16 he decides that he is not only to be a runner but that he will be representing his country in Munich at the 1972 Olympics. Training hard for the mile event, his coach at Oregon State, Bill Bowerman convinces him to focus on the three-mile and make the media interested in it. Keeping his goal of getting three seconds faster every year of university, Pre gets closer to his Munich date while his reputation as a cocky yet gutsy athlete grows.First of all, I, unlike many other thoughtless reviewers have put a spoiler warning on this review because I, like countless others, had never heard of Steve Prefontaine and therefore didn't know how the film would end; didn't know, that is, until the very plot outline on this site proclaimed it. Anyway, despite this I decided to watch it because it didn't strike me as the sort of film that knowing the end mattered (of course I would rather have been allowed to decide that for myself). From the start of the film a picture is painted of Preforntaine as a cocky but driven individual who worked to overcome anything that life threw in his way but was ultimately (and untimely) beaten by the obstacle that defeats us all. In telling this story the film tries to develop a character while also making sure it delivers the basic memorable moments in his career. As such it doesn't quite succeed but then I suppose it depends what the audience is; if you know all the milestones then it is likely that the film might bore as its focus is really on the what happened rather than the who. However for a viewer like me who didn't know it then it does enough to be interesting. The docu-drama approach worked better than I expected it would and the film does have a good pace (sorry) to it and, because it made Prefontaine an interesting character it actually made for a quite emotional film.The cast work pretty well; certainly Leto's presence had me worried but he not only had a good resemblance but did well with the material he was given. His character is not a complex person, but then with biographical films it is always difficult to write such a character and usually it is more effective to condense them down to the essence of who they were. Ermey is good value here in one of only three films where he doesn't play some sort of sergeant-major (I'm joking but it feels like it could be true) and is a nicely grizzled character. Support from O'Neill, Meyer and others is OK but really the film belongs to the lead two and, although Leto is hardly the life of the film, his character's story is worth the watch.Overall this is a solid, if unspectacular film that may not win you over if you have a working knowledge of Prefontaine but, for me, it was interesting at the level that it was presented. An interesting story that told me what I needed to know &#150; could have been better but did enough to work for me. "},{"Title":"The runner's Rocky...A four star film, that inspires and excites.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With so few films devoted the the unique sport of running Prefontaine is a shining beakon.  It is a runners movie that maitains mass apeal, so both the average man, and the avid runner will come away satisfied in the idea that they just sat through a very good movie. As a young runner I jad heard stories of this God this Prefontaine, but to me he was nothing more than a funny name with great times.  With this biographical film I could see the enigma, a man I heard stories about but never really knew.  With this movie a hero was born to a new generation, in a portrayal that is so inspirational that after watching I just want to go out and run my heart out.  This is the runner's Rocky.  A four star film than unfourtunatly received little fanfare and has thus been forgotten much like the man it tried to immortalize. Over all I give this movie 8-8.5 definatly worth the rental, definatly worth your time. "},{"Title":"Prefontaine Inspiration","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When 14 years old, I was glued to the TV set every night during the 1972 Olympic games. I remember well the 5000 meter race and Steve Prefontaine and it was a very exciting race. This movie greatly helps bring closure to the Prefontaine phenomena by telling the story of how Prefontaine embraced challenge and competition, propelled himself to the top, and then his ultimate fate.To measure a movie's success, I take note of my thoughts the following day. Anyone watching Prefontaine in 1972 run the 5000 could not help but be inspired. And now in the late 1990's, the movie Prefontaine refreshes that inspiration. A very well done dramatization and documentary. "},{"Title":"Truly captured the essence of the 70's and Pre's obsession.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was shocked to discover that 'Prefontaine' was made in the 90's. It truly captured the essence of the 70's.  Everything, including the camera work, was so 70's it transported me back in time. Every bit as good as 'Without Limits'.  Excellent portrayal of Steve's obsession with winning, and the struggle to pick up the pieces after Munich. "},{"Title":"Why isn't this movie on DVD?","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was brilliantly put together and the end result is phenomenal. Every scene in the movie is important to the overall end result and I didn't feel this movie was overly long at all and I don't understand those who said it was.  The movie deals well with showing Pre's determination to be the best and the emotions of overcoming failure.  I wanted to buy this on DVD only to find out they don't make it on DVD, and I couldn't understand why, this is an amazing film and you don't have to know who Prefontaine was to enjoy it, although you might appreciate it more..... "}{"Title":"A great film about a greater man ......","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a huge armchair sportsfan I was keen to see this when BBC 2 showed it in the UK. This was a story of a man fighting against almost impossible odds, the underfunding of the USA team, his slightly imperfect physique, and everyone telling him he was not good enough to win. But here was a man prepared to fight all of this and be a winner. After an unlucky fourth in the Munich Olympics he made his comeback and everything looked set for a rematch with Viren at Montreal. Tragically he died in a car accident before Montreal could take place. Years later it emerged that the Finland team which Viren represented were blood-doping at this time so who knows what the result would have been on a level playing field. What Prefontaine did achieve was to show how poorly amateur athletes were treated in those days and hopefully this no longer happens. Despite being British I found this film wonderfully moving and had tears rolling down my cheeks at the end. A film of bravery, courage and above all determination .... Bravo, a great film about an even greater man. "},{"Title":"A film about the American runner Steven Prefontaine.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was fabulous!!!!!!!!!!!!! It was on BBC2 very late so i thought it wouldn't be a good film because they usually put bad films on at that time of night, but OH MY WORD was i wrong!I loved it!it had a funky kind of feel to it (very cool) and great music! Jared Leto plays Prefontaine.Truthfully i had never heard of him before but i wont forget him! he is an amazing actor! not only was he amazing at acting he is very,very, very good looking!!!!!If you love drama, sports, romance, action, or hot guys this film has the perfect amount of everything for your taste! I would advise anyone and everyone to see this film!.GO PRE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Boonville, Indiana","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"    This is a great movie that tells a universal story...dream big, and when you do anything- give it all you've got. Steve Prefontaine, if this movie is accurate, was not only a great athlete, but he was also a great man.  I read a few things about him on various websites, and it seems that he did quite a bit of charitable work in his short life, and he was indirectly responsible for great strides taken in improving the quality of amateur athletics, and the overall treatment of those athletes taking part in it.  The movie is cast really well, and it goes a long way to improve my personal view of Jared Leto, who did a brilliant job here.  He proves, with this film, that he has a lot more talent than he is given credit for...and this movie, tho no blockbuster by any lengths, is a great film to showcase that talent.  The rest of the cast goes to build a solid movie that is crafted into a sort of documentary style film half of the time, and a straight-cut movie the rest of the time.  It's a great story that can be used in any context, outside of sports altogether.  Like I said, I know nothing about the sport itself, but Prefontaine's death was a tragedy anyway you look at it.  No athlete to date can even get close to beating Steve's record, and that alone is amazing. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The day I saw this film I was trying to steer clear of doing work my father wanted me to do. So I stayed in my mother's room and watched it. I was at first flipping through the channels then I saw Prefontaine. I had heard of it so I started watching it. I was going to turn the channel, but something made me not. I was so interested in this movie. I liked it a lot. It isn't one of my favorite movies, but it is good enough to watch. After I saw it I put on my shoes and tried to run as fast as I could. It was a good movie! "},{"Title":"Sometimes the truth hurts&#133;.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There has been much fascination with Steve Prefontaine, for his courage, his will-to-win, and for his far too early death. A man who was the ultimate competitor, denied his just due not only by the tragedy in Munich, but an even bigger tragedy on a roadway in Oregon. Such fascination led to 2 movies chronicling the life of Steve Prefontaine were made in the 1990's.For first release, the battle of the PRE-bioflicks was won by this movie, and its release and luke-warm reception shelved the Robert Towne-directed &#145;Without Limits' for more than a year.Perhaps this story would have been better served as a Made-for-HBO film, where one-name titles like `Prefontaine' give stars like Matt Damon a chance for some good work, and media recognition.This version, directed by Steve James of Hoop Dreams fame is very watchable, with strong support of Jared Leto (Prefontaine) by Lindsay Crouse, Ed O'Neill, Amy Locane, and R.Lee Ermey-excellent in the role of Pre's coach and mentor,  Bill Bowerman, the man who subsequently founded Nike.Maybe not an overly familiar story for the non-runners, this story needed to be told, once&#133;and is told well here.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie  10/10","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt this movie did a very good job telling the story.  It moved at a great pace and the race scenes were fantastic.  I was a track runner in high school and can remember the feeling standing on the line.The acting may have been a little weak at some points, but I felt Ed O'Neil did a fanstastic job breaking away from his stupid Ed Bundy role.  As usual, Mr. Emrey was a pleasure to watch in every scene.There were some comments that the movie should have ended after Munich.  I feel the last half, while not the best part, is probably the most important.I would strongly recommend this movie to anyone, especially anyone who has run track in the past. "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this is an interesting film, well-made and thoughtfully constructed, the deviations that it takes from standard storytelling cause it to fall a little flat.Namely, what feels like it would be the climax in another movie (Prefontaine's race in the Munich Olympics) falls about half-way into this film.  (Not to mention the fact that a standard climax is prevented due to the actual events surrounding those Olympic games.)The second half of the film concentrates on Prefontaine's frustrations and difficulties following the games (stemming both from the events that occurred there, and also the treatment of amateur athletes in general around that time).  Because of this, the second half of the movie, to me, feels drawn out and longish, even though the movie itself comes in well under two hours.While the interesting format of the film (it is told as though it is a documentary, featuring interviews with now-older friends and relatives of Prefontaine well, not the real people -- they're all just actors playing the parts) lets it stand apart from the standard Rocky-type sports film, that uniqueness can't quite make up for the weakness of the structure.(One note -- I was particularly impressed at the way that the characters were aged for their older appearances.  It's rare that this is done well, and it is surprisingly well done here.) "},{"Title":"A mediocre docudrama of a stellar runner's all too short life story.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Prefontaine tells the story of Oregon's Olympic runner Steve Prefontaine who set American track records for all races from 2Km to 10Km, advocated athlete's rights, and died tragically at age 24. Shot as a docudrama, the film has a low budget indie kind of feel with mediocre camera work, second tier actors, and marginal directing. Most likely to be appreciated by those interested in Olympic running or American sports history. "},{"Title":"Prefontaine - great movie for running enthusiasts","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Running is one of my favorite activities, so I found this movie and wanted to see what it was about...Prefontaine was an outstanding American runner, never heard of him until I stumped into this movie, (starring Jared Leto, who I think is perfect for portraying a runner)... I like people like Steve Prefontaine who didn't leave this world without being remembered, despite dying at such young age...and who are moved by their heart, nothing can stop them, it's very inspiring. I enjoyed this movie from 1997, the 90's seem not too long ago but when you watch those movies makes you think it was a 'while ago' already , and the movie is set in 1972 so it feels even 'older'. I also enjoyed the acting, but the fact that it is a real story, and the fact that it happened during a world known tragedy (The massacre during the 1972 Olympic games in Munich) that touched the life of this athlete, makes it more interesting, so is not just a movie about runners. "},{"Title":"'Yeah, they might name a street after me, 4th street.'","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some years ago I had seen the 1998 movie about Prefontaine starring Billy Crudup and really enjoyed it. Now I have found this version with Jared Leto on Netflix streaming movies. It is very well done with generous old stock footage used too. In fact Leto is so good in this role it is often hard to tell if we are seeing him or the real Prefontaine in some running scenes.I remember Prefontaine well from the early 1970s because I was a young adult then and still an avid track and field fan. It is too bad his life and running career were cut so short with the automobile accident.A good segment of the middle of the movie depicts the 1972 Munich Olympics, the one where Arab militants killed some Israelis, and throwing the games into turmoil. Pre's big race, the 5K run, was held anyway and going for gold, in the last few meters just lost 3rd place, and a medal, by a fraction. Thus the comment, They might name 4th street after me. Jared Leto is Steve Prefontaine, R. Lee Ermey is good as coach Bill Bowerman who invented the waffle sole running shoe and went on to establish the company Nike. And Amy Locane is good as Pre's girlfriend Nancy Alleman.Those who are indifferent to track and field might not enjoy this movie, but for us fans it is truly a fine movie. "}{"Title":"Unexpected","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason why I watched this movie was the actor Jared Leto and at the beginning it kind of looked like a slow, boring movie. I was so wrong and am now so happy to have seen it. Jared Leto did such a great job and the movie was done very well too. The story, the movie is great! Often this kind of movies about someone real can be a bit dry. Like it is just the telling of facts about a great person.But not in this movie. Prefontaine was giving facts, but also a story and a very moving, filled story. I don't only want to find out more about Fontaine, but like someone else in a review said, after watching the movie you just want to go outside and start running! I loved the very end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Long Distance Runaround","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being benched during his Coos Bay, Oregon grade school football games only makes young Steve Pre Prefontaine more determined to succeed. He grows up to be beautiful, blonde, and cocky Jared Leto. Fulfilling his athletic dreams in becoming a college track star, Mr. Leto makes it to the 1972 Munich Olympics, which are targeted by terrorists. Leto looks forward to his next Olympiad, but fate has other plans&#x85; Mr. Prefontaine was the subject of two biographical films released almost simultaneously, this one and the bigger-budgeted Within Limits (1998) starring Billy Crudup. The two life-telling movies elevate Prefontaine and, upon seeing them, the attention seems warranted. After you get used to his sometimes looking more like a carefully made-up 1970s physique model than a runner, Leto slowly convinces. The use of pseudo-interviews, wobbly camera, actual sports footage, and other filming tricks are less successful, in the long run.****** Prefontaine (1/24/97) Steve James ~ Jared Leto, R. Lee Ermey, Ed O'Neill, Amy Locane "},{"Title":"WOW ** I liked it, I recommend it ** You should see this **","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am goofy for any sports movie, so I don't tend to go out looking for one to watch, otherwise it is just not a special experience. After spending a whole day sleeping through the arduous process of not getting into a trial jury, I stumbled out into the streets of downtown Portland, Ore. only to stumble onto the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame. They were offering free ice cream and admission only $4. We were let out of jury duty early, so what the heck, I went for it.A sizable percentage of the hall of fame focuses on Steve Prefontaine and his achievements. I knew the name, but not the whole story. I found his story very compelling. A few hours and a few blocks later, I walked by the Duck Shop (Univ. of Oregon Ducks) which had the two Pre movies for sale. I have never had any interest in this store before, but now I knew I had to get my Pre movies.I watched this one (Prefontaine) first. It was surreal to ingest so much of Steve Prefontaine's life in one afternoon. I never did drugs of any kind, but the movie made me high on inspiration. I am a sports guy (aspiring 47 year old speed skater), so this movie had a lot of impact on me. I will soon share the experience with my bro-in-law who is a marathoner. I hope to snag him and others to go back with me to the little known Oregon Sports Hall of Fame to repeat the experience. We will follow that up with the two movies. I expect I personally will see the movie and visit the museum time and time again.This is a great movie. I would consider it a sports classic. I highly recommend it. Steve may not be too well known outside the running world and Oregon, but here in Oregon it is a different thing. So maybe you should come here awhile first before watching the movie. (I say that, not being a native). For sure, catch the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame in downtown Portland across from the courthouse and park. (Hey, I feel sorry for them, the clerk told me I was the 2nd guy to come in in two whole weeks! But I will go back not out of sympathy, but because it's a great way to learn sports history and get souped up for Prefontaine).BTW, my sports fav's are too numerous to mention, but off the top of my head... Shaolin Soccer, Chariots of Fire, For Love of the Game, every football game of the last 10 years (even though I really don't like football very much), the old B&W flick about the Harlem Globetrotters. I proudly add Prefontaine to my fav's list.As he is known to have said, To give less than your best is to give away the gift (posted outside the Hall of Fame). "},{"Title":"hard to say","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of Steve Prefontaine before I learned that they were making a movie about him, even though he was from Oregon. When I finally saw the movie, I figured that I would just have to accept what the movie showed. Prefontaine mostly does a good job, although it goes a little overboard in focusing on how the assassinations at the 1972 Olympics affected him personally. Also, I would have liked to have learned maybe a little more about his childhood.So, although we may not be certain about how accurate the movie is, it's an interesting look at the athletic world in the early '70s. Also starring Ed O'Neill and R. Lee Ermey. "},{"Title":"See the other Prefontaine Movie","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this one accidentally thinking it was Without Limits starring Billy Crudup. I had seen that before and thought it was a great telling of a terrific story. This one was garbage. The acting was generally bad -- like sitcom bad -- and the makeup was ridiculous, as silly as that sounds, but the actors were made to look older for parts of it and it looked ridiculous. In short, this movie sucks. The other one is actually really good. Don't make the same mistake I made. Get Without Limits instead. It's way better. I'm really annoyed I just sat through this with my wife and brother. It takes a great story and makes it super-boring. There are not nearly enough races in this movie considering it's about racing. "},{"Title":"Steve Prefontaine  1951-1975","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jared Leto plays the title role in Prefontaine, a biographical study of the American track star who rewrote all the record books in his short life for distance running. He also put his town of Coos Bay, Oregon on the map where it still proudly displays it's the hometown of Steven Prefontaine.Of course the Holy Grail of amateur athletics is the Olympics and even Mark Spitz who was the American star in the summer Olympics of 1972 was overshadowed by the cowardly murders of several Israeli athletes in that year. Munich will probably never host another Olympics, just too much bad history is attached to that city.It was also Prefontaine's downfall, he finished third in his big race to Finnish miler Lasse Viren. He got a rematch of sorts against Viren in Oregon, but before the 1976 Olympics in Montreal, Prefontaine was killed in automobile crash.Jared Leto does a fine job in essaying the part and showing the hopes, dreams, and frustrations of Steve Prefontaine. R. Lee Ermey and Ed O'Neill play his college and high school track coaches and Lindsay Crouse does a fine job as Leto's mother. Special mention should also go to Kurtwood Smith who plays the voice of the Amateur Athletic Union who Prefontaine faces down and wins. They've been running amateur sports in this country and in some cases arrogantly and not too well for most of the last century.It's a good sports film and should be seen in combination with Chariots Of Fire to see how amateur athletics are dealt with in a different time and culture. "},{"Title":"Good intentions, lacking the genius to set it on fire...","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rarely take the time to rate, let alone to comment on a movie I give a 6.This one has a lot going for it. When I searched IMDb, I looked for a movie of the seventies or eighties... NEVER would have thought it's not ten years old. So, at the very least, it succeeds in re-creating (or mimicking?) the atmosphere of that time, including how movies of the seventies feel. That's quite an accomplishment in itself!Jared Leto is unrecognizable (to me, at least) and very convincing...I saw this on TV. I was tempted to leave, but stayed on it until the end. The movie manages to have quite some power of attraction, although the story is rather thin after all... as is Prefontaine's character himself. There was a moment where I just became tired of everything evolving around him and his problems and success... I wondered more and more when someone would tell him there where other people in the world. But no, everyone around him is full of dedication and just wants him to win... it becomes ridiculous. The way his girlfriend, who's equally devoted as anyone else, who's there only to comfort him, NEVER to criticize him, reminded me of some movies of the seventies where women had the same kind of extreme, self-denying devotion - another reason for me to believe the movie actually WAS MADE in that time.It becomes ridiculous, the girl appears to be really brighter than to only be there for him, never encouraging him to question his self-centered attitude... I'm aware this sadly has been true for ages in most couples before the first feminist efforts told women they had a choice... and that it hasn't stopped either just because we are in the third millennium... But the movie is smart in other ways, so it feels wrong his characters aren't.Well - still, the movie has an undeniable charm. And I still recommend it, maybe because the naive side of it strikes me as rather sincere than sarcastic, and, again, because you really believe you are in the seventies. Don't run for it, but give it a shot when you can. "},{"Title":"My favorite sports movie","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a sports fan, it's tough to call one movie a favorite, but I do give the title to this movie. I'm not even a runner, but the movie struck a chord. This was a guy that worked hard to be the best and he died tragically. I first thought I was not going to be able to finish the movie because of the format...actors telling stories as if real life friends of Steve, but I'm glad I finished.  "},{"Title":"GO PRE!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is GREAT!  Jared Leto played a great role playing Steve Prefontaine.  This movie does really make me have feelings for someone that I haven't heard of until I saw this movie!  He also reminds me how long distance runners should look up to him.  So I say if Pre was still alive today he would have been my role model that I could ever look up to.  GO PRE! "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much even though I knew very little about Steve Prefontaine.  Jared Leto is very good in the lead.  My only complaints would be that the romance felt obligatory, and the make-up that made the characters age was awful. Other than those minor points, its also a reminder that death comes too soon for many people.  "}{"Title":"Leto helps make this good character study","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike one of the comments I read, I happen to think WITHOUT LIMITS is a better film on the same subject.  Where that film was poetic about running, this is merely a prose biopic, and doesn't really develop the other people in the story (though it must be said R. Lee Ermey is good as Bill Bowerman). But Jared Leto captures the essence of Pre, the cockiness, the desire, and the running ability he had. "},{"Title":"Heart-touching movie lets you dream big.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Prefontaine is a movie that touches your heart. It lets you dream about your own dreams and goals, while watching the life story of a determined long-distance runner unfold. The documentary style of the film interesting to watch. The story itself is somewhat uneven, because the second half on Prefontaine lacks the drama and punch of the first. However, Prefontaine does deliver a story forged by human experience; a story that captivates the struggle of someone brave enough to dream  And dream big. "},{"Title":"That old made for TVlook","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a little disturbing to me that anyone found this movie inspiring. As conjured by Jared Leto, the character of Steve Prefontaine was an unlikeable pretty-boy SOB, who basically inspired disbelief in me...does it really require that level of narcissism to be an exceptional athlete? The guy reached out to the little kid who was ahead of him in a spontaneous race and pulled him back, saying. its not your time, kid' or something like that, and later after getting all high an mighty about the (fictional) Amateur Athletic Association rules, he all but shuts down the special event they finally agreed to because HE was not going to meet his match there. Yet all the other characters were always in his thrall (you'll know why at the end). I did like the mock documentary style, once I figured it out. The 70's style rugs on some of the younger male athlete's heads were pretty funny though.  "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Prefontaine's life is what makes this movie watchable, not so much the movie itself.  However, Jared Leto as Pre, and R. Lee Ermey and Ed O'Neill as Bill Bowerman and Bill Dellinger, respectively (Pre's coaches), offer good, convincing portraits of these historic sports figures.  On the minus side, the sound track sounds like it belongs in a 70's made for TV movie, and the film's stadium scenes are unconvincing because the shots of fans are done close up to hide the obvious fact that there's only a hundred people or so in the stands and not the thousands that watched Pre race in reality.  The producers should either have spent the money to pay for more actual footage of Pre's races, or paid for the extras to make the stadium scenes more convincing. "},{"Title":"True Athlete","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a marathoner I did find the movie inspiring. I first saw it when I was going to a regional state meet for Cross Country (the three mile) in High School. In response to the other comment, yes Prefontaine was a stuck up SOB. Most top athletes are. If you are the best-you are the best and you will not give up that title without a fight. Pre gave a fight to get the title and he refused to let it go. In order to be the best, you have to have the self confidence in yourself to make it there. Goals must be set. Pre made his goals known to the world and even if he failed, he still acted like he won because that is what it takes to be the best, to even compete with the best. Which is what Pre was and what he did. "},{"Title":"An inaccurate portrayal of Steve Prefontaine","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Prefontaine provides a deeply inaccurate portrayal of the life and skill of American track star Steve Prefontaine. The film creates a girlfriend whom he never had, and shows him as uneasy and unconfident about his ability. It makes claims of him having a poor kick to finish races, and yet this is not as large of an issue in actuality, while the issue of his body type not being that of a runners is true. The film is poorly scripted as well, doing a terrible job of capturing Bill Bowerman's personality. Bowerman was certainly eccentric, yet the film shows him in more of a lunatic or crazy form. Especially with the introduction of him by the mailbox scene. Another film created based on Prefontaine's life, Without Limits, truly and best finds the truth. The script and production were overlooked by Kenny Moore (writer), whom was a close personal friend of Prefontaine, and Mary Marx, Prefontaine's girlfriend, in the film Without Limits. The misinformation provided in Prefontaine extremely frustrates me because the least a biographical film can do is stick to the facts. "},{"Title":"Most boring movie ever","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've only ever fallen asleep once during a movie in my adult life and this was the movie. This movie was seriously the most long, drawn out and boring movie I have ever seen. I would not recommend it to a single person. Just awful, I'd rather watch grass grow. (pardon the cliché) "}]