[{"Title":"Under-rated, surprising, beautiful","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The marketing for this film in America was absurd when compared to the real thing.  I had seen the trailers, and as I am intrigued by anything with Ralph Fiennes, I took notice.  However, the preview stressed an gambling-chance-obsessive fun aspect that I found less than compelling.  Had the true soul and purpose of the movie come through in that two minute-long advert, I would have been hooked.  As it was, I waited until it came out on video.My expectations, coloured by this misleading trailer, were well exceeded. The film had to do with love and gambling, yes, but there were elements of faith, guilt, family, destiny and survival that were wholly ignored in the press.  Ralph Fiennes is marvellous as a disheveled and uncertain faithful, with a boyish charm and utter purity that is difficult to portray without seeming slow-witted or unlikeable.  Cate Blanchett, who has received a tremendous amount of notice for her recent portrayal of Elizabeth, is a fountain of strength, charm, capricious abandon, intelligence and sensuality.  Like her minor role in _Paradise Road_, she steals scenes and breaks hearts with an undeniable charisma and resolve.Set in Australia, the story is surprising, and ultimately shocking in its constrast of the ideal and the real.  I was moved, and thoroughly impressed with this movie.  This is a romance for those who are tired of the predictable, the trite and the overworked.  The scenery is beautiful, and the direction is both soft and unflinching.  A wonderful achievement.--Salome "},{"Title":"Unusual Love Tale","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not one for love stories, but this one truly moved me.  It is wonderfully strange!  It's nothing like anything I've seen before.  I loved the awkwardness of Oscar and Lucinda, and the way that we had a chance to see (at length who they were before they ever met each other.  It made their attraction to one another make sense (something so rare in cinematic romances).I think this is Ralph Fiennes' best performance of his career, and he's proved his versatility.  Compare his Oscar to his Count in The English Patient - completely different people, not even carrying themselves in the same way! This was a very good role for him.  Cate Blanchett was really the standout for me; I took notice of her right away, and determined to keep an eye out for her future performances (she did a terrific job in the flawed Elizabeth).Of course, the film is beautifully made (I wouldn't expect anything less from Gillian Armstrong) and imaginative ... the way it depicts reality as almost surreal, and the surreal as quite real ... it's lovely.On the one hand, this is a sad film, in that it's about two people who are just ... odd.  They don't really fit in anywhere, and people  don't understand them.  Neither Oscar nor Lucinda are even anticipating (or aspiring) to be understood, and yet they find, and take comfort in, one another.  Here is where the film turns from sad to joyful ... it is thrilling to see the surprise and delight they express as they discover that they have found their soulmates.   I have to say that I found, in their story, a true (and hopeful) portrayal of love.   "},{"Title":"In order that I exist, two gamblers - one obsessive, one compulsive - must declare themselves.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what it is about Ralph Fiennes and Booker Prize-winning novels (like 1996's THE ENGLISH PATIENT), but this shows him to have a pretty good track record with them.  This novel was extremely difficult to follow, but director Gillian Armstrong, who also did a good job with her adaptation of the more straightforward LITTLE WOMAN, cuts through the confusing storyline to make an entertaining and thoughtful film about gambling, religion, and, of course, love.  She and writer Laura Jones can't quite defeat some of the overdone symbolism of the novel (like the glass church), but for the most part, this avoids the stateliness of many literary adaptations by being alive.Fiennes took awhile to warm up for me as Oscar, because this is a more outwardly nervous character than he's ever played before, and the voice he uses takes getting used to as well.  Once I got over that, I enjoyed his performance.  But the real star here is Cate Blanchett as Lucinda; she is simply enchanting, and you can really see the fire in her eyes.  The supporting cast is excellent as well.  "},{"Title":"A Story of Obsession and Guilt with Wonderful Acting","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do you like great acting? I mean something subtle where an actor's face is like an artist's brush or music by a fine composer. In this film Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett are the virtuosos and they simply dazzled me with their talent.The main story of Oscar and Lucinda is not very original, a tragic love story. The film does involve pre 1900 English characters that present some basic dilemmas of life. How strange the English of the 1800's seem today. Their repressed world can make an interesting contrast to the lives of free spirits and native cultures.The dilemma Oscar and Lucinda gives us is that if we follow our feelings and obsessions, we will break away from many silly and confining customs. But such devotion to feeling taken too far can lead a person to commit hideous acts. Oscar and Lucinda goes to the heart of many of these conflicts which are also touched upon by the fine film, The Piano, and by the more obvious and superficial Sirens.With such weighty issues, there is much hand wringing guilt by several characters. And all of that gets in the way of the love story which was alright with me but may bother some.There are a few novelistic touches (why use the flashback technique a la Fried Green Tomatoes at all) that felt unnecessary. But these are minor points. The talented director Gillian Armstrong finely crafts many of the scenes and keeps the story moving. As a final dilemma, even though Western Civilization has tragically spoiled much of the beauty of the natural world, it has also created beautiful, finely acted films such as this. "},{"Title":"Neglected masterpiece.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *Oscar and Lucinda* is based on a brilliant, though very tough-to-adapt, novel by Peter Carey. It is a small miracle that director Gillian Armstrong succeeded so magnificently. (I'm giving all the credit to her the end-credits tell us that the script was developed by the Australian Film Commission or something, whatever that is. I doubt that they were actually on the set.) For all you young filmmakers out there dreaming of making a Big Epic with Big Themes, I urge you to watch this movie right now, and learn how to construct a narrative out of the most rambling source material. The two titular characters -- one starting out in England, the other in Sydney, Australia -- don't even meet until about 40 minutes into the film; it's all the more impressive that we don't feel impatient for this meeting, realizing that their connection will occur as a result of the natural and logical development of the story. Aside from Oscar and Lucinda, Armstrong also has to manage about 8 or 9 other characters who will be crucial to the plot. Each character is introduced just when they need to be the process is never hurried or confusing. As all the elements of narrative and character come together, we realize Armstrong has created nothing less than an art of cinematic fugue tantamount to genius.Budding filmmakers may also want to take notes on Armstrong's judicious use of voice-over narration in the film. The Narrator pipes up only when he needs to, providing crucial information or the occasional bit of witty commentary. (In order that I exist, two gamblers -- one obsessive, the other compulsive -- must declare themselves.) It's also marvelous how the Narrator himself, seemingly so omniscient, becomes the very culmination of the story. In other words, the Narrator is a key element, rather than a superfluous chatterbox -- the case of most movie narrators.The story is set in the 1850's, revolving around a saintly young Anglican minister (Ralph Fiennes) who, trying to escape his gambling addiction, takes a ship to Australia. On board, he meets Lucinda (Cate Blanchett), an ahead-of-her-time independent businesswoman from Sydney who is returning home after a buying expedition for her glass-works factory. She is also nursing a gambling problem. Naturally, the two misfits form an immediate bond. Upon arriving in Sydney, Oscar promptly wrecks his ministry before it even gets started when he's caught playing cards with his new friend. Adding to his woes, he believes that Lucinda is in love with ANOTHER minister (Ciaran Hinds) who has already been run out of town -- banished to the church-less frontier -- because of his friendship with her. (Beautiful and single and a gambler, Lucinda is a sort of eye of a hurricane -- only her wealth keeps her from getting tarred and feathered, apparently.) The naif Oscar, despite all indications that his affection for her is reciprocated, hits upon a new wager he bets Lucinda that he can deliver a glass church to Hinds via a dangerous overland journey across the continent. The stakes? Each other's inheritance . . . and, for Oscar, ultimate proof that he loves Lucinda more than any man.This is a wonderful story, chock-full of some pretty startling ideas -- for instance, that religious faith itself is little more than a cosmic gamble -- and immersed in the visual symbols of water (i.e., Death) and glass (declared here as a solid form of liquid). The two symbolic motifs converge near movie's end, when Fiennes sits alone in the glass church as it floats down a river -- truly a magnificent sight to see that would justify a dozen lesser movies than this one. One review below mine judged this as overdone but it seems to me that if you aren't impressed with this image, then you just don't like the movies, sorry. I also differ with the general opinion that the climax of the film is intolerably depressing. It seems to me that God saves the saintly Oscar from an unhappy life shared with someone he could never love. True saints can never be with us for very long they set examples for us, but they're soon called home to God. In any case, the movie's symbolism was telling you all along what Fiennes' fate would be.Sorry for the long review, but this is a great film. Let me conclude by saying that Fiennes has never been better than here, perhaps because he's not handsomely and sulkily brooding, for once Oscar is a true oddball, and Fiennes handles him delicately. Excellent work. And this movie also introduced us to the great Cate Blanchett, who has more than lived up to the promise that she manifested here.9 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Odd and appealing","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This beautifully made romance has an odd appeal.  I only ranked it a seven, because it has some flaws - the complicated story is is not rendered clearly in all its details (I could not figure out what was going on with the Reverend Haslitt, for example) and the style tends towards a gothic/romantic manneredness in places.All the same, I recommend it for anyone who can tolerate the genre.  I love these two actors, Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett.  They and the supporting cast, including the bit parts, fill out their roles with life, warmth and poignancy.   There are numerous evocative touches in the details of the production - the mysterious moving church in the opening scene, for example, the music, the costumes, and the sets.  The story is unique, original, character-based, and there are some unexpected flashes of insight into human nature. "},{"Title":"Obsession, Compulsion","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. Regular readers of my comments will wonder why I elevate it to my must see categoryPart of the reason I want you to see it is because of how well it pairs with Cate's masterpiece, Heaven. Now, that film can stand on its own as a transcendent cinematic experience. It easily shifts us from a real world into one more magical and over the course of the experience that distance increases. It took Kieslowski's notion of cinematic distance and added the journey to that distance. It is one of the most important successful experiments in cinema and it owes much to the collaboration of Cate.That reflects on this. A smaller project. A less ambitious director, but still with an affecting emotional directness. A pre-existing story that has literary strengths that become cinematic defects. And yet there is that same collaboration with the creating of an alternative magical reality fueled by obsession.There is that same smooth slide from here to there. There is that same equating of wilderness (a Herzogian river) to the internal landscape. The same trigger of the gamble. And also, there is the remarkable glass chapel. One shot has it moving down the river, but it seems as if it is floating through the trees. You are dead if that does not stick with you for years.Alas, not much is made of a central image in the book &#151; the tensed glass tears that explode when gently traced at their origin.The major flaw is Fiennes. Both brothers have a sort of forehead acting style which unravels much of the subtleties of Cate's acting by breathing. But she is so breathtaking an actress in both these films, even though she is only the referent in the last part of this.See the two films in one night. Any order.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3 Every cineliterate person should experience this. "},{"Title":"Not all tales have happy endings","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are many films that are so controversial yet so beautiful, they appeal to only a select number of individuals. Oscar & Lucinda is one such triumph. It manages to border on heresy and yet sustain profoundness. Altogether a masterful piece of work from one of my favorite directors (Armstrong also filmed Charlotte Gray, and Little Women), with an absolutely stunning, star-studded (before they were big) cast.You simply cannot comment on the film without considering the two leading cast members. Cate Blanchett is stunning here. She was beautiful, aloof, and impressive as Elizabeth, but her role as the uncertain yet adventurous Lucinda is extremely memorable. Note her childish transformation into womanhood -- the discovery that not all tales have happy endings, that love eventually leads to sorrow. Her scenes with Ralph Fiennes literally crackle with intensity. These are two actors who manage to convince us they're not acting. The passion and devotion put into the role gives the film it's sparkle beyond the stunning cinematography and absolutely breathtaking musical score. Ralph Fiennes is rapidly becoming one of my favorite actors. He's extremely versatile and never shies away from challenging roles, whether it's a heartless Nazi in WWII, a Cambridge professor caught up in the throes of a quiz show scandal, or the impassioned Evgene Onegin. With Oscar we see him literally at his finest. The appropriately-nicknamed Academy Award should have been handed to him the day this sweet little Australian film premiered. His Oscar is passionate, guilt-ridden, complex, and utterly sweet. If you're not in tears by the end, you've not managed to give your heart over to one of the most fascinating literary characters ever created.The sub-roles are all very good (Richard Roxburg in yet ANOTHER 'villainous' lead, but no one minds his untimely demise; Cirian Hinds in the upper-crust role of a minister shocked by his lady friend's gambling habits, even Geoffrey Rush as the unseen narrorator) and lend themselves to a highly romantic atmosphere. I love a slowly unfolding, deep love story but dislike superficial attachments. In the course of this film you believe Oscar & Lucinda actually get to know one another. They're involved in a series of narrow hits and misses, which make the ending all the more tragic. They connect in a way other people cannot; in a world full of round holes, two square pegs make the perfect match.The religious aspect of this film is also highly interesting. As a Christian myself, I regard anything bordering on heresy with wary suspicion. At first glance, the film borderlines on blasphemy, as Oscar so prudently considers in a key scene (... unless it is blasphemy to consider mortal pleasure on the level of the divine!) when comparing eternal salvation to gambling (It's all a gamble, isn't it?), but if you take the time to explore it more fully, there are very realistic truths tucked in with the uncertainties. Oscar eventually does find Truth and clings to his beliefs to the bitter end. The rivalry between different denominations is also notable.Older viewers seeking enthralling but not necessarily uplifting entertainment will find Oscar & Lucinda an excellent way to spend a couple of hours, particularly in a group. There is one scene of sexual content that is offensive (although clothed and necessary to the plot; for my own enjoyment, I always skip this provincial scene) but otherwise the film is surprisingly light in content. But it's a movie you shouldn't enter lightly. Out of the group of friends I showed it to one weekend, two out of five found it depressing. But the rest of us were enthralled. "},{"Title":"The Best Film You Never Seen...","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on Australian novelist, Peter Carey's award-winning book, Oscar and Lucinda, this  is a faithful period piece about iconoclasts and their attempt to find love and purpose in strait-laced society despite their fears and obsessions.Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett have glorious, quirky chemistry in the title roles. Ralph Fiennes is such a mercurial actor that while watching this film, it's hard to believe this is the same man that played Amon Goeth in Schindler's List and Charles Van Doren in Quiz Show.Cate Blanchett was discovered by Director Shekhar Kapur and awarded the title role in Elizabeth as a result of her natural, unforced acting in this little-seen Gillian Armstrong film. Brilliantly adapted, visually stunning, and (above all) extremely well-acted this is a film that it would be sad to miss. "},{"Title":"This one is for Fiennes!?","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a slow beginning, Oscar and Lucinda meet and create a peculiar relationship with God on one side and the addiction of gambling on the other. The last half hour is quiet fascinating as Oscar takes a journey to sail a glass church down the river and into a small secluded town. This unfortunately was treated with rather hastily, not given the attention the early scenes received. But we still get the picture and by the end of it Ralph Fiennes' brilliant performance as the saintly manic, bible guilt-ridden, phobia riddled Oscar, makes it worth the while. "}{"Title":"Strangely wonderful sort-of love story","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Odd, unique, beautifully photographed character study/love story. Two eccentrics, one the rich owner of a glass-works (Cate Blanchette), and one an emotionally damaged and physically fragile young minister (Ralph Fiennes) are united in friendship, and eventually romance by their obsession with gambling. Blanchette is luminous and wonderful. Fiennes pushes at times, going right up to the edge and occasionally over it with his tics and quirks, but he's ultimately very deeply effecting. A strange mix of tones, comic, romantic; it behaves both like an epic and a parody of one. But it has never failed to move me, and it's full of moments where the beautiful imagery dances so well with Thomas Newman's delicate score that I get a shiver. "},{"Title":"This film's mix of irony, humor and tragedy leads to frustration and impatience for the viewer.","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hate to sound like a Philistine, but although I have enjoyed many an indy film that was slow and deep and unusual, I found 'Oscar and Lucinda' such a mish-mash of events, characters and crazy actions that I eventually was left simply shaking my head and wondering what on earth could happen next, while not really caring any more. I hated Ralph Fiennes as Oscar, wanting to jump into the film and cut his hair or give him a new hat and wardrobe. He plays a kind of holy fool, a sweet man overwhelmed by his own skinny limbs and awkward movements and tendency to have strange, non-epileptic fits. I appreciate the chances Fiennes takes here in playing such a character, but I'm afraid I prefer him as a romantic lead. Watching him in this role was as painful as it would be to watch, say, Brad Pitt play Lenny in Of Mice and Men--rather frustrating, and seemingly a waste of talent and good looks. Lucinda (Cate Blanchette) is a more sympathetic character, a tomboy shortening her skirts for greater freedom in an era of female repression. Still, why on earth would a business woman like Lucinda back the idea of making and transporting a solid glass church for some outback town in Australia, especially after several of her advisers point out that the congregation would surely be burned by the sun through the panes? Apparently, love of Oscar has blinded her to all reality. Or else it is her desperation to gamble that drives her do so despite all reason in this case.And the gambling! We know that respectable Christians at that time disapproved of gambling; and even today, gambling is perceived of as a dangerous addiction. Yet it still seems strange to see the social stigma Oscar and Lucinda face for their obsession. If these two characters kept losing, say, the rent money or food for their families, the social approbation might be more understandable. But they both win all the time. Besides, neither has a family, Lucinda is already rich, and Oscar gives his winnings to charity, so who is hurt by their betting? Only themselves, it would seem, and only because of Victorian religious mores, which appear to view gambling as some kind of horrid act like murder. In fact, Oscar gets away with murder, but he can't seem to escape being punished for his gambling habit.This is part of the irony and humor of the film, and irony can be by its nature, very frustrating, especially when tragedy lurks so close at hand at all times. It reminded me of a Thomas Hardy novel, filled as it was with frustrating happenstance and bad choices.The trip across Australia by the men taking the pieces of the glass church to its destination,seems to be so quick and apparently easy (with only one scene of a wagon mired temporarily by mud, for example, and no incidents of threats from the aboriginals) that we never really get the feeling that this is a very dangerous journey, especially comparing it to movies showing wagon trains crossing America around the same time, with the pioneers constantly in danger of attack by angry Indians. And yet we know that this must have been a rough journey; Gillian Amderson simply doesn't take the time to show us the difficulties. Yes, the scenery is beautiful, but not amazingly so--or at least, not for anyone who has seen the Lord of the Rings trilogy, shot in New Zealand. To a Canadian, this looks more like British Columbia than Australia, pretty but tame. In other words, viewers are not going to be so thrilled by the scenery that they will forgive the film's strange pace and frustrating character development. Only in the last few minutes do we get a satisfying sense of the film coming together. By then, it's a little too late.- "},{"Title":"You might like it if you didn't read the book.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The book was great - but the movie, not so great... One of the biggest points of the book was Lucinda's love of her glassworks, which the filmmakers didn't find so important - AND they changed the ending, on which the whole book balances.  I couldn't believe it.Despite the story problems, Cate Blanchett and Ralph Fiennes were excellent.  "},{"Title":"What a beautiful movie.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching the film for a second time with a critic's eye did not do one thing to diminish the awe I felt the first time I saw it. I could not find a weakness. It's well-constructed, well-shot and well-acted. The story and characters are interesting. I care about the characters and their conflicts and I want to know what happens to them. What else is there? There's a moral, that's what.So many people had a problem with the ending. Nobody likes an ending in which such a sympathetic character meets his end, but what other choice was there? Even if it hadn't been an adaptation, could one really imagine Oscar and Lucinda settling down, making a go of the glass factory, raising a flock of kids and sneaking-out on Saturday nights for some cards? No. We all want happy endings, but we all know too well that their existence is a blessing more than a given, and that has everything to do with why we crave them so much.Oscar and Lucinda are misfits, pure and simple. They're ahead, or behind or beside or below their time. We know by now that people who are on the fringes of society are never treated well by it. I don't think the ending should have come as a surprise to anyone. That's how life was then and how it still is today. Fit in or you're setting yourself up for sacrifice. We don't like to think of ourselves as the slaughterers of society's squirrely lambs, but if we aren't, who is? I think the ending's so disquieting to so many because nobody wants to think of him/herself as one of the wielders of the axe ... especially when such an innocent, like Oscar, is the victim. It's not a shock that such a misfit dies, the shock is that we killed him, under the guise of society.The scene in which the husband-nabber, for all practical purposes, rapes Oscar, drives this home starkly and succinctly. One minute she's sympathetically lowing, Look what they've done to you and the next she's sealing his miserable fate for her own warped needs. Society's a self-serving hypocrite.Unfortunately, that hasn't changed much for the better in 150 years. Anyone who calls this a period piece is so very wrong. The setting is merely a sly vehicle to slip into the front of our collective psyche those ills of which we already are aware, but which we daily choose to ignore. Any attempt, successful or not to accomplish this should be lauded.This attempt was successful. I'm not going to go into any specifics about performances or camera angles. That would be an insult. I can think of so few films that teach so important a lesson. The obvious lack of ego shown by any participant is evidence that the perfect cast and crew was assembled and that they got the job done. They already know they did ... they've got the finished film as a beautiful reward for their hard work.It should be required viewing for all as a beautiful lesson in tolerance. There are Oscars and Lucindas around us everyday. It's up to all of us to create the happy ending that we say we want to see so badly. "},{"Title":"Besides music and depiction of settlers-natives relationship, the rest is really well done.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has shown that Australian filming industry has something to say. Almost everything is done with a lot of attention to detail. For instance, the plot is coherent and includes a great deal of figurative, meaningful scenes, for example water plays an important role as a symbol of life and cleansing all sins. As far as acting is concerned, I would give the highest note for that without a moment of hesitation. R. Fienes and company have done a lot of good work to show convincingly the hectic, unusual protagonists. If it comes to music, it enhances the power of the film, however it passes rather unnoticed. One thing I did not like is that this film depicts relations between white settlers and the natives in politically correct approach; namely the whites shoot indigenous people, rape them, do not respect their rituals, etc. I feel that this great theme of Australian cinema needs a bit of differentiation, things not always looked like that. Besides that little thing seeing, I consider this work as a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Odd duck of a movie","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's a movie which appears to have a lot going for it adaptation of a Booker Prize novel, directed by Gillian Armstrong, Ralph Fiennes straight from his triumph in the English Patient, and Cate Blanchett in her first significant role. I haven't read the novel -- and after seeing the movie I certainly won't. This is a strange story (whose plot I won't repeat for anyone wishing to be surprised) with characters that are completely unconvincing, despite the best efforts of Fiennes and Blanchett, in a story that might serve the fantastical imagination of certain directors. Gillian Armstrong is not one of those. Instead we are given a semi-realistic exposition of a tale that never inspires the suspension-of-disbelief necessary to put it across. Pay no attention to the names on the marquee. This is not a good movie, merely an odd one. "},{"Title":"A Story That Has The Tendency To Stay With You Through The Years","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is so unique. So deep. So odd, you cannot help but love it. I have been searching for it for years. I will never forget it again. These tow actors are exquisite in this film and the storyline, well, it goes into your deepest place and lives there. I adored it. And a floating glass love nest is beyond what most of us can even imagine let alone adore. Please let me know your feelings after you have seen this film. I need to know there are others on earth who love it as i do...I need to know that my taste is not so unusual as to set me apart from the majority of movie fans...but then again, I really do not care. I am a Tim Burton lover, so that about says it...don't you think? "},{"Title":"No Salvation Outside The Church.","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" TV Guide describes this as something like two gamblers meet on a boat, but it's much more than that. It's a story of romance, religion, and ruin -- but not hopeless ruin.The first half presents Raif Fiennes as a semi-deacon of a strict English sect, a young man who has been beaten into neurotic submission to the extent that almost EVERYTHING is forbidden. I'm not sure he wouldn't hesitate before scratching an itch. Estranged from his father for some slight, he supports himself by playing cards, giving the rest to charity. He leaves Oxford aboard the Leviathan for a ministry in Sidney. At the same time we meet Cate Blanchett, an ambitious young lady who enjoys gambling, does well at it, acquires a glass factory, and moves to Australia aboard the Leviathan.The two of them DO meet aboard the ship and spend a lot of time together in Sidney, playing poker and making wagers on all sorts of silly thing, such as who can finish scrubbing the floor first. They're in love, of course, and Blanchett more or less offers herself to him -- she's something of a rebel -- but he shakily backs off.The second half resembles Fitzcarraldo, when she furnishes the components of a small chapel made entirely of iron and glass plates. Fiennes' job is to schlep it up overland through tough country to an isolated settlement. He gets the job done but it all ends rather badly. Maybe. I mean, he dies a horrifying death by drowning, but then he sees his smiling father reaching out to him, and then a smiling Blanchett reaching to him. I don't know what to make of scenes like that.It's a very genteel story as befits the times. Towards the end, Fiennes does get balled by a horny widow but only when he's half conscious from exhaustion and illness. I didn't know it was possible and I'm still dubious.The photography is crisp and at times epic. The art direction would be hard to improve upon. Blanchett and Fiennes play well together as two somewhat wild redheads. In a way, despite the skilled acting on everyone's part, what's most memorable is Cate Blanchett. She's an actress of considerable range, of course, but she's transcendently beautiful at times in this film -- that long face with its slitted blue eyes, that wide generous mouth, and that impossible, fluorescent nose. It's a face you could fall into. "},{"Title":"Two wonderful performances","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the 19th century New South Wales, Australia. Oscar Hopkins rebels against his strict father as a child and runs away to Anglican priest Hugh Stratton (Tom Wilkinson). He studies to be a priest in England. He (Ralph Fiennes) is always an outsider to his classmates. He doesn't fit and is addicted to gambling. Lucinda Leplastrier (Cate Blanchett) receives a large inheritance which she uses to buy a glass factory in Sydney. They both find themselves as outsiders in society. They are both avid gamblers and transport a glass church to Revered Dennis Hasset (Ciarán Hinds) in a remote settlement.These are two stellar performances of oddball characters. The flow of the story does jump around a bit. The narrative is somewhat disjointed which is usually due to trying to squeeze a novel down to a movie. Once the two leads get together, it's a fascinating combination. These are also such odd unconventional characters. Oscar is a tightly wound ball of neuroses. Lucinda is much better by comparison and is really a woman looking for liberation. The differing views on gambling is weirdly compelling. The performances and the strange situations add together for a fascinating movie. "},{"Title":"Strangely wonderful sort-of love story","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Odd, unique, beautifully photographed character study/love story. Two eccentrics, one the rich owner of a glass-works (Cate Blanchette), and one an emotionally damaged and physically fragile young minister (Ralph Fiennes) are united in friendship, and eventually romance by their obsession with gambling. Blanchette is luminous and wonderful. Fiennes pushes at times, going right up to the edge and occasionally over it with his tics and quirks, but he's ultimately very deeply effecting. A strange mix of tones, comic, romantic; it behaves both like an epic and a parody of one. But it has never failed to move me, and it's full of moments where the beautiful imagery dances so well with Thomas Newman's delicate score that I get a shiver. "}{"Title":"Had no idea what I was getting into","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oscar and Lucinda, made in 1997 by Gillian Armstrong, stars Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett in the title roles. The film starts out one way and becomes something else, and then something else again - it's quite a saga, and very beautiful to look at.Fiennes plays an Anglican minister, Oscar, who is a compulsive gambler. On a ship to Australia, which he took explicitly to get over his problem, he meets Lucinda (Blanchett), a free-thinking businesswoman who owns a glassworks factory. She, too, is a compulsive gambler. The two get together and start gambling, Fiennes justifying it by stating that faith is a gamble as well. After all, one stakes everything on the fact that there is a God.The two arrive in Sydney, and Oscar finds himself down and out before he even starts. When he and Lucinda are caught playing cards, his ministry goes out the window. If Lucinda weren't so wealthy, she'd probably have to leave town, but she's tolerated. Upon arriving in Sydney, Oscar promptly wrecks his ministry before it even gets started when he's caught playing cards with his new friend. Oscar then makes a bet with Lucinda that he can deliver a church - made of glass - to her minister friend Hinds, which means it has to travel across the continent. If he can do it, it will be proof that he loves Lucinda.The vision of the glass church going down the river alone makes this movie worthwhile - truly stunning.Blanchett gives a beautiful performance, very organic. Fiennes is very good, just not quite as impressive as Blanchett. The narration is given by a great-grandchild of one of them - I won't say which one.I found this an odd story, full of symbolism, and what a credit to the director that she was able to pull of the elements together. The very last scene in the film pulls it out of what could have been a real downer.I can't say I loved it, but there are some wonderful elements in this movie. If you have a big screen TV, it is a glorious watch. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is simply perfect. It is extremely rare for me to feel this way about a film. Acting, story, costumes, casting, cinematography, sets (which include the amazing glass church). Perfect. Flawless. Every single aspect works in support of the whole.This is not to say that this is one of my favorite films. It is not. It is a dark story of introverted characters with obsessive, compulsive behavior. The fullness with which this is explored, in the complexity of family history, religious influence, the restraint of both social construct and insecurity, make this a remarkable gem that deserves the overwhelming word of mouth that this film has accumulated.If this type of film (period piece, character studies, off beat story and characters) is not your cup of tea, don't waste your time. If this IS your kind of film, don't waste any time - see it now!Amazing film story telling. "},{"Title":"Haunting and beautiful.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful movie. That's the best way I can find to describe it. It's odd and quirky and desperately sad, and it will stick in your memory for a long time to come. The leads are fabulous, I read the book before I saw the film and they were every bit as I'd imagined them. I'd recommend this film to anyone who wants to watch a romantic movie that follows none of the clichés of romantic movies. The soundtrack is great too, haunting and utterly, utterly perfect. Everything about this movie is right, the casting, the script, the look of the sets. The only reason I haven't given this movie 10 is that it doesn't measure up to the book it is based on. "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Haunting and beautiful and not a little eerie, this is Gillian Armstrongs best film since Little Women. The acting is brilliant as is the cinematography, and the story while not wholly original is thought-provoking and tense in a good way. I was sorry to see it end and wish it had a sequel, although that surely won't happen!   "},{"Title":"One of my Top Ten films of all time.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  Blanchett and Fiennes are equally fantastic, yet the kudos go to director Armstrong and cinematographer Simpson.  Certainly the film could not have existed without Peter Carey's novel, but Armstrong's ability to turn the written word into a stunning film is as magical as the fact that glass is considered a liquid element.  Indeed, the ever present glass and water motifs are what make this film appear so mesmerizing.  The love story and quirky characters are just an added bonus, albeit some of the best I've ever seen.  Whenever I watch or think about this film my life seems to illuminate and sparkle just like the movie does. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing story and great acting","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film - I'm amazed it didn't get more recognition when it came out. Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett are perfect as the two misfits in this love story/tragedy.  Watch Mr. Fiennes hands - they are incredibly expressive.  The cinematography, musical score and direction are wonderful. Go search out this film and watch it!  "},{"Title":"A broken thing, a miracle, a tragedy, a dream...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oscar and Lucinda is only A broken thing, a miracle, a tragedy, a dream... This says it all. Those who have seen it will never be able to forget this picture a church made out of glass slowly going down a river in the heart of the Australian desert. In this church stands Oscar and this is the proof of his love for a  woman called Lucinda. If this is not enough to tempt you to see the film nothing will ever make you love it. Not even the dreamy performances by both the lead actors. Not even Oscar's violent outburst and the look of pain that follows it. Not even the enchanting music and the glorious Australian landscapes. Not even the fact that this is one of the queerest love stories ever told. And not even that this is as close to the fairy tale as you will ever get.... "},{"Title":"A triumph of acting and directing","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of you know a little about Stanislavsky and objectives in acting you'll know that in a role you must apply only one objective at a time, but cleverly pointed out by one of my friends, Fiennes defies this and plays multiple objectives making his character so much more deeper. A less talented actor would not have been able to carry this off, but Ralph Fiennes, as usual makes it seem like water off a ducks back.Cate Blanchett shines as the strong female in the film - a successful female in a man's world. Blanchett, not being the most attractive woman in the entire world is perfectly cast as you find yourself watching her and finding her incredibly sexy - and just want to jump and say Oscar and Lucinda - you are so perfect for each other! The scene with Blanchett in the glass church is an amazing piece of acting.Gillian Armstrong (Little Women) triumphs with the breathtaking Australian and English countryside scenery, and certain shots just shouldn't work, but amazingly they do.Oscar and Lucinda is acting at it's best, and an amazing screenplay from such a dull, long-winded book. "},{"Title":"Playful and lively film, great indeed...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love those movies that play and have fun with religion. Great characters and character developments. Dialog was interesting and it was full of life. A film to recommend "},{"Title":"Unique and splendid","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a week ago.  I'm still thinking about it.  Delicious, absurd, and tragic -- a true new world manifesto. Beautifully shot; breathtaking use of music. The fugue use of glass and gambling throughout insists the main point of the film, the fragility of our inherited existence, the so-delicate threads of choice and fate that are the difference between survival and annihilation and which connect us with our ancestors. "}{"Title":"A beautiful, triumphant film","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oscar and Lucinda, directed by superb Australia director Gillian Armstrong , was very worthy of much more notice than it received in America.  Strong  performances by the entire cast (especially the supporting character, Oscar's  adoptive father, played wonderfully by Tom Wilkinson of 1997's hilarious  The Full Monty, who proves here that he can be an intensely passionate  dramatic actor as well as a comedic one), together with intensely beautiful  cinematography, a tight, well-woven plot, and incredible direction make  this a film not to be missed.  Ralph Fiennes' incredible talent touches me  once again as he portrays Oscar, a timid, nervous gambler with a heart of  gold.  And Blanchett shines as Lucinda, a young, rebellious woman seeking  adventure and fame.  One of the best things about this motion picture is  the fact that it looks and feels real.  It is convincing, lovely, and well  worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Obsessive-compulsive brilliance!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First things first, Cate Blanchett and Ralph Fiennes are water and air for the world's film industry as we know it. Very few actors working today can stand side by side with them when it comes down to the Nitty-Gritty of acting chutzpa! So when reviewing a film in which they both starred, with a fine director, fine script and cinematography, it's very hard not to want to get that out of the way first. It's also very hard trying to put into words how well they did justice to this film. It was breathtaking (especially the floating church scene), it was heartbreaking, it was bittersweet, it was beautiful, it was thought provoking, it was marvelous, it was well narrated, it was well acted, it was well directed, it was picturesque!Oscar and Lucinda (Fiennes and Blanchett) are two young adults who love to gamble. Oscar's a priest and Lucinda's socialite just coming out in society. One evening, they meet aboard a gigantic ship (almost like Jack and Rose in Titanic) and the instant chemistry between is ignited. But they quickly have a falling out when Oscar's fear of the Ocean causes him to offend Lucinda. By the way, let me point out that both of them had scarred childhoods, Oscar's mother died while he was very young and the impact virtually drove his father insane, while Lucinda endured parents who were unhappy with one another but pretended to be happy for the sake of their daughter. When her father died, her mother slowly became a living corpse until she eventually died years later, leaving Lucinda devastated but well taken care of financially.One day, Oscar and Lucinda make amends to their friendship and slowly become closer and closer. Lucinda then decides to build a glass church for their mutual friend, a priest who lives miles away and Oscar bets he can deliver it to him before Good Friday. By doing this, they both break their promise never to gamble again and this sets up a dramatic chain of sorrowful events that occur in the wake of Oscar's journey. A character that Fiennes plays to the pulp! "},{"Title":"Top 5 film","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oscar and Lucinda is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  I feel it should have been nominated and maybe even won the academy award for best film.  Also I think Ralph Fiennes should have been nominated for best actor in his performance.  Good movie. "},{"Title":"Simply beautiful","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oscar and Lucinda reminded me why I keep watching movies, even though so many of them turn out to be disappointing - because every once in a while you stumble across one that takes your breath away. The acting, the story, the images and the music in this movie have haunted me since I first saw it a couple of weeks ago. (I have it on videotape, and have rewatched it several times already.)I can't remember the last time I cared so much about two characters in a film. Both were very odd and unconventional people (at least Oscar was - Lucinda struck me simply as a woman way ahead of her time, but Oscar would have been a misfit in any era), but through the course of the movie you get to know and understand and sympathize with them to an unbelievable degree. It is such a delight to see their relationship develop slowly and in totally believable fashion from friendship into something much deeper. It was especially moving because they were both such outcasts from society that - to use the language of gambling that permeates the movie - the odds were stacked against either of them finding someone who would love and understand them. Of course all this makes what happens at the end of the movie so heart-wrenching. I could see why some people would be disappointed in it - in fact, I remember my gut-level reaction being, No, no, no, it isn't fair! But then I realized life isn't fair either. Besides, the fact we can get so worked up about the fate of fictional characters is a testament to how good this movie is.If you are a romantic, but hate conventional, cliched, sappy, superficial Hollywood love stories, this is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":" Gambling On a Dream","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To follow ones heart takes courage. And though the awkward, nerdy Oscar doesn't seem to be made of that stern stuff, he does indeed possess it. A Victorian minister fraught with guilt because of his addiction to gambling, he meets Lucinda, a modern woman in a crinoline, who also loves to gamble. This shared vice brings them together in an unusual way & sets them upon a rocky path. Lucinda is a bold, wealthy woman who owns a glass factory, seemingly the opposite of Oscar. But their unconventional relationship deepens & to prove his love, Oscar wagers that he can deliver a glass church to a rustic town in unmapped country. This movie is filled with magical imagry & layers of meanings.Oscar, while not the usual dashing character that Ralph Fiennes plays, is one of the most romantic.Cate Blanchett, at the beginning of her rocketing rise to fame is his perfect match.They make these unusual characters extremely engaging & endearing. Glass & water are the perfect symbols for this mixture of religion, acceptance & fate explored in this film.It is not your regular costume drama. It is a timeless story of the chance & dangers of risking everything just for the love of that one perfect person. "},{"Title":"What do you want?","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd ask those who rated this film low, What do you want?  It is a delightful and profoundly uncliched film, interesting in a way few films are.  It is not a period piece, not a look at Victoriana or Australian frontier days. It is a meditation on fate(or is it luck?), and its gambling metaphor should make that obvious.  The actors are sublime, Blanchett riveting.  I've learned to treasure unpredictable tales, and this is just such a treasure. It makes me want to read the book. "},{"Title":"Accomplishes a difficult task","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Making this movie was very brave, considering that the book was a masterpiece.It's not as good as the book, but treats it with respect and does it justice.Beautiful cinematography. Superb acting and direction. "},{"Title":"Glad to see others have discovered this","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm very glad to see that others are discovering this widely overlooked film.  Thank goodness for video stores.  Though I didn't like the film as well as Peter Carey's splendid novel on which it's based, I think it a good and quite unusual movie.  Deserves to be brought back to theaters.  "},{"Title":"GRAND ILLUSIONS","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gillian Armstrong's previous films were either tepid and inconsequential (Mrs Soffel, Little Women) or too precious and unfinished (My Brilliant Career, Last Days of Chez Nous).  In Oscar and Lucinda, Armstrong takes a quantum leap and creates her riskiest project to date, recalling the folly and bravery of Herzog's Fitzcarraldo, a work that has come to signify the grandeur and illusions of filmmaking.  Like Fitzcarraldo, Oscar and Lucinda is imbued with the same obsessions and romantic longings that border on madness--defying reality at all costs.  The courage to succeed or fail, the conviction to carry a project through to its final course is what separates this film from her previous efforts. In the past she sometimes mistake indifference for detachment.  But here her heart and mind are completely in sync--she fearlessly wears her heart on her sleeve without compromising her determined, unmitigated intelligence. For what does it profit a man if he should gain the whole world but lose his own soul? Like Oscar who eventually redeems himself through death, Armstrong appears to be undertaking her own cinematic rebirth.  "},{"Title":"fiennes shines again","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a beautifully original movie, deeply sad, with a mood almost reminiscent of Edward Scissorhands. Again, another example of Ralph Fiennes' versatility. I had thought I'd seen him at his best in The English Patient, but he has amazed me yet again. I was also impressed with Blanchett's performance, as this is the first time I have seen her. They make a believable, though very curious pair. A truly heart-wrenching film. "}{"Title":"Ralph Fiennes, cinematography steal the show","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very well constructed, and there are many instances of simply marvelous cinematography.  Ralph Fiennes is wonderful as Oscar and Cate Blanchett is quite good, as well.  There were a few minute problems with the movie, but overall it was very well done. "},{"Title":"Unique and wonderful film","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wandered by it in the video-store a couple times before deciding to rent it.  After seeing it, I wondered why this wonderful film wasn't in more places.Ralph Fiennes and Cate Blanchett are dazzling in their roles, as a aqua-phobic priest and a defiant glassworks business woman.  The scenes with them together are simple radiant.The church floating scenes are also brilliantly audacious and thrilling.One of the ten best of 1997. "},{"Title":"Wretched film about a wretched lost soul","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What do those of us who loathe the film want? How about a credible lead character? Instead of a compulsive gambler who never loses. I find Lucinda's love for Oscar completely unbelievable. Lucinda's character is underdeveloped in the script, but played all-out by Cate Blanchett. She and the scenery (crossing Australia and the church on the river) are the only redeeming features of an atrociously bad movie. "},{"Title":"Genius movie from brilliant novel about two lonely geniuses in love","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why hasn't this movie been released on DVD? If I'm wrong, please correct me.The palette of colors, the wondrous settings, the cast -- the beauty of Ralph Fiennes eyes, Cate Blanchette's cheekbones --, the way nature and industry, religious piety and intemperance conflict and coalesce is too magnificent to describe in a short review. See the movie and read Peter Carey's novel. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was truly awful. I don't know what movie the rest of you watched. But I found the acting atrocious, the plot trite, the characters incredibly clichéd and the lack of drama depressing. This was a low budget character-driven flop. Since I don't want to post spoilers I can't comment on specific scenes. But...there were so, so many scenes that just didn't work. Scene after scene, piled on top of each other. One bad directoral decision after another. And the actors were not -that- bad. But they weren't -that- good either. I watched this because I was looking for something 'Victorian'. And as a historical recreation piece it wasn't bad. In every other way it was god awful. And had one of the worst endings ever put in a movie. In summary? I hated, hated, hated it. There was not a single redeeming feature. Not a single scene in the last 45 minutes had an iota of believability. It was...jarring and rushed and poorly constructed. I gave it a 1. "},{"Title":"Looks art-house but is more Tim Burton comedy RFD","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Armstrong's screen adaptation of Peter Carey's bestseller is great fun - the character quirks that saturate the far from straightforward story are wonderfully realised by Fiennes (primarily) and Blanchette (looks great with dark hair). Fiennes can do indecipherable and broody for the rest of his life and make a good living but this is ample demonstration of his fluency with open disfunction.Despite these considerable points of interest however, the film suffers from it's inability to engage John Doe at the local Odeon - it can be a surreal experience. Watch it with your other half when you're both really loved-up. 5/10 "},{"Title":"What A Waste","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautifully filmed movie about absolutely nothing. Happily, I saw it on television or I would really have felt cheated. The only reason I watched it to the end was to see how many anachronisms, absurd improbabilities and historical inaccuracies the film would commit; there were enough to keep me slightly amused for about an hour. After sixty minutes of so, the movie seemed to drag on for ever because it was so full of nonsense that would never have happened in Victorian times or any other time for that matter. Just being beautifully shot wasn't enough. What a waste of a fine cast! That may be the thing that got me most vexed about this movie. "},{"Title":"Too slow and boring to enjoy","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Cate Blanchett and also admire Ralph Fiennes's acting skills. They are both superb actors and i was thrilled to see them together in a film. But i do wish they would've picked a more interesting project.This movie was so mind numbingly slow and boring that it's a disgrace to their careers (in my humble opinion).Sometimes movie can be a bit of a bore plot-wise, but it might have something in it that makes it worth your while. Actors do a magnificent job with character development; music score is specially outstanding or cinematography very good etc. Well, this movie was completely average. Acting was OK etc, but all in all i consider these two hours a waste of time. The movie left me no emotions - except maybe perhaps a pressing wish to go to IMDb.com and write a warning review.5/10 points "},{"Title":"Quite Slendid","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe this movie was quite splendid indeed.I especially enjoyed the part where Oscar said The It really was quite smashing.Coming from England I believe this movie was very accurate.My mates and I had a wonderful time watching this film; We believed it was Sexcii as the hip kids call it these days.Well I must be going now.Chereo! Toodaloo! Right Oh! Goodbye Chaps! Good Evening And Etc.p.s. It was exciting.p.p.s. It was also romanticp.p.p.s It also was a tab bit sadp.p.p.p.s It had a nice plot i say! "}]