[{"Title":"A little one-sided in it's story telling but it's all very funny","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The true story of Howard Stern's rise from schoolboy nerd to leading DJ in the USA.  This is adapted from his book and is a whirlwind ride through 30 years, with the main focus being on his career at small stations and his big break at NBC.  The fact that it is from Stern himself means that the story focuses on his good sides and tends to brush over the more difficult issues relating to his insensitivity towards his wife etc, but that doesn't stop this being a funny enjoyable film.Stern plays himself with a great sense of self - most of his jokes put himself down rather than being arrogant.  This helps endear the audience to him with great effect and makes him more sympathetic.  The comedy is very sharp (and rude) throughout and even if we don't get any great insights at least we have a good laugh.Stern is good in the lead role (admittedly if he can't play himself what can he do!)  And his colleagues are also good as themselves.  Paul Giamatti is great as the put upon producer at NBC and the rest of the cast is filled out with weird characters.  One complaint would be the copious amount of nudity in the film - I realise that it's a true story but it did seem to be put in just to get the audience at times (well....like Stern's show itself I guess).Overall this plays like a rude Woody Allen film (funny narrative voice-overs) and it has a certain charm to it that towers over the smuttiness to make it feel a much nicer film than it is.  Even if you don't know who Stern is (i.e. most people outside of America) this is a very funny enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!  One I never get tired of watching!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Howard, and I'm sure fellow fans will also have a kick-a** time with this hilarious biopic of Stern's road to stardom.  This is obviously not a professional biopic.  There's even one scene, where Howard plays himself AS A TEEN!!  He tries to patch it up in the voice-over by saying, For this movie ya just have to believe.  There are many hilarious antics, and if you're a fan of Stern I'm sure you will not stop laughing!  If not, I can't say you'll have the time of your life.  I've heard many critics say that this movie is even suited for those who disapprove of Stern's behavior.  I can't say I agree, and for those who want to take the critics' word for it and give this movie a shot--enter at your own risk.  Expect lots of Stern's typically crude, offensive, tasteless humor.  Of course, you also get to see his sweeter side, and learn that his personality on radio does somewhat differ from that in real life.  Just like Andrew Dice Clay, his crude actions are exaggerated, and he really isn't exactly like the pottymouthed jerk that the general public sees (or hears, in Howard's case).  The open-minded moviegoer will probably come to that realization after viewing this movie, but others will be so turned off by Howard's crude antics that they won't feel compelled to sit through the entire running time--approximately two hours and fifteen minutes.  Private Parts is based on Howard's autobiography, so this is pretty much the life of Howard through the eyes of...Howard.  Yet I can't say this movie is a glorification of Stern--though he obviously boasts jokingly about his God-like status among his many followers (And I'm one of them--GO HOWARD!!!).  Personally, I still think there are a lot of closet Howard fans out there who are simply opposed (better yet, act like they're opposed) to him because they would feel humiliated to say they're not.  There are hypocrites out there, and I know some of them.  So for those of you who locked yourselves in that closet--get out and rent this movie!  Stop your whining!Many of Stern's fellow cast members on the show appear as themselves--Fred Norris, Jackie Martling, Robin Quivers, Gary Del'Abate.  The other actors are good as well, especially Paul Giamatti who plays the NBC manager with a short, short fuse who springs from his seat if Howard were to utter the word penis.  Just his facial expressions alone crack me the hell up!  I've never seen Howard's real wife Allison (I just found out she appears as an NBC operator, but I have to watch it again to spot her on screen), but Mary McCormack, who plays her, is absolutely BEE-U-TI-FUL!!  Nice casting, Betty Thomas.  She is stunning to look at, and the chemistry between she and Howard is electric.  I sometimes forget that she's just PORTRAYING his wife.  If you're in the mood for Howard's comical vulgarities, gratuitous nudity, cool 80s music and a damn entertaining comedy that will never tire out--Private Parts is DEFINITELY worth seeing!!  If you're not a Stern fan, I'm pretty sure you'll be croaking more than a sick frog, so don't start preaching your blasphemous thoughts on Howard.  We really don't have the time.  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Howard Stern IS The King Of All Media!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This gem of a flick is the great Rockyesque story of shock jock Howard Stern's rise to fame and infamy.  I was thinking this film was gonna really suck going by a lot of the movie previews prior to its release, but I was sorely and happily mistaken.The film is perfectly structured, perfectly written, and it's absolute travesty that Howard wasn't nominated for an Oscar for best actor!  Here's what the Oscar nominees shoulda been for this film Howard Stern for Best Actor, Best Director, and Best Adapted Screenplay.Private Parts also manages to take a fresh approach on the old woman having a noisy orgasm comedy scene.  Yes, this flick is one of the few cases where the movie is actually better than the book.  Over, out, and all that jazz. "},{"Title":"Don't really like the guy but love the movie.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The ratings that I see on Private Parts really do the movie an injustice. As of now I see the ratings are at 6.5, but I have to tell you that I'd give it a 9.Stern is not GLORIFYING himself here. He's just telling a story as to how he got to where he is and in many cases criticizes himself. The movie is by no means egotistical which is what I TOTALLY expected to find. Instead it leads you through a tale of Poverty to Success. Great Job Howard. I may not like you much, but you really pulled this one off. 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since I'm a Finn everything I know about Howard Stern I've learned from this film which is quite a shame, actually. I still have absolutely no troubles to understand what works and what doesn't and this movie most definitely works. Howard Stern works. Private parts is pretty much a terrific film. I've been watching it all over and over again and it's always entertaining, witty, extremely funny and amusing and it contains some of the best music in the world from Jimi Hendrix to The Ramones, Deep Purple to Ted Nugent and AC/DC to Ozzy Osbourne. I highly recommend this one and I have to remind you don't forget to watch the end credits too. "},{"Title":"Excellent look at the life of everybody's favorite shock jock","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that although I am a fan of shock radio (I've been a regular listener of Washington DC based duo Don & Mike for over 10 years...), I rarely get a chance to hear Howard Stern. I was only vaguely familiar with his program, and the folks on it. That being said, I absolutely LOVED Howard Stern's Private Parts. Wait... that didn't come out right... anyway...HSPP follows Stern's career from being the misunderstood son of a radio engineer with aspirations of the big time, through his student film days at Boston University, where he meets and marries his wife Allison, to his first big radio gig at DC101. The humor comes from Stern's slow realization that pushing the envelope was the way to garner HUGE ratings. His arguments with management, and Paul Giamatti as Kenny Pig Vomit Rushton in specific are at once both hilarious and sad, as management tries to crush Stern's free spirit. It's also nice to see that, yes, Howard Stern is really a nice guy, a devoted friend, and a loving father, and the image that we know as Howard Stern is really just an act. Although he did make some questionable decisions in his life, he always stood by those who stood by him, and for that, he should be admired. Whether you are a fan or not, check this movie out, and see if you don't come away from the experience with a smile on your face, and a respect for the self-proclaimed King of all Media! "},{"Title":"Part Comedy, Part Biography, ALL GOOD!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Private Parts went way beyond the call of duty. I went expecting only solid laughs. That is all I really was asking for. It delievered on all fronts writing, directing, and acting were all top notch. It left me dumbstruck that a movie with such lowbrow humor could hand out a solid emotionally driven story at the same time. I feel this has much to do with the mix of Howard Stern's raunchy humor combined with Betty Thomas' female touch. A terrfic film.   "},{"Title":"a story of success and devotion to family.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is for everyone including those who think that they don't like Howard.  It shows Howard as a regular guy who can do some outrageous bits. Some bits you like, some you don't.  The two thoughts that I was left with leaving the theatre is 1) he is devoted to his wife and family, 2) he is a success story despite so very many obstacles.  Love him or hate, all but the most prudish will enjoy this.  "},{"Title":"This could have been so bad instead, it's a masterpiece","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I SO enjoyed this movie.I watched this movie without realizing until close to the end that Howard Stern was playing himself.I was a radio announcer myself, during the period when Stern got going. This movie has the 'feel' of reality to it. I recognized so many of the people I worked with in this movie. Every radio station has some of them. The studios of the period were just like this.Of course, this movie was severely compressed in time and space. Radio is like warfare lengthy periods of utter boredom punctuated by periods of pure panic. We don't need to see the slow bits. Each hour of on-air radio presentation requires something like three hours of preparation we don't see the hard work that goes into such a show.We do see a very funny and entertaining movie. Don't forget, I was in the industry at the time this all happened and this one feels 'real' to me.Many autobiographical pieces by stars turn into awful sycophantic schmaltz-fests. This one didn't. It could have been awful. Most of this kind are. This one... is excellent.And if you've never worked in broadcasting -- it's still very funny! "},{"Title":"a look at the life of nasty Howard","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film documents the life and times of radio talk host Howard Stern. While his younger years are displayed in a hit and miss fashion, the years concerning his radio heyday are nicely done. He started out as a local d.j., merely spinning records and doing weather. Becoming bored with this format, he chooses to do a more spontaneous show which causes trouble with his employers. When he reaches the top of the pile at NBC, his antics become even more outrageous which catapults him to enormous fame. Vulgar, but very funny. Go on and watch it. "}{"Title":"Shock jock hits the big screen","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was working as an usher at my local cinema when I first saw this movie, so I saw it quite a few times and it seemed to get better with every viewing. The story is of American disc jockey Howard Stern and his rise to superstardom.  It has a great script with good scenes especially the one through the end titles. "},{"Title":"Marvelous feature with shockingly original screenplay and approach","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I detest Howard Stern and viewed this film under protest.  Surprisingly, I found it to be my favorite American film in some time.Whilst the movie is based upon biographical material and many of the principal characters play themselves, director Betty Thomas does a marvelous job of creating a fresh feel of taking us behind the scenes.  Equally surprising is that Stern allows his warts and ego to be on full display. Private Parts, in its own way, is a far more trenchant essay on the state of the American entertainment industry than The Player or Network. "},{"Title":"The almost true story of the King of All Media?","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having been a Stern Fan since '84, I had the great opportunity to live through most of what Private Parts chronicles as Stern's NBC experience. While some of the events portrayed in the film may be out of sequence & even punched up for the film's audience, the fact remains that Private Parts most unbelievable scenes are absolutely & positively true. Where does the film fudge the truth? Little things like Stern's look. The long hair & sunglasses shown in his Wash D.C. days didn't occur until after Stern was fired from NBC. And the redhead / bathtub scene, that is actually part of an incident that occurred with Jessican Hahn. But the real outrageous things, like learning to say the call letters properly (W-ENNN-B-C!), the fist fight in Pig Virus's office & the pure jealousy of Imus were 100% on target. This is a great film which could only have been made better by the addition of WNBC facts like Stern's on-air feuds with Soupy Sales, & the utter destruction & disappearance of WNBC radio as a result of Stern's departure. A must see romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"A self-serving and unrealistic look at a funny man","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Howard Stern, I admit it. He is funny and he pushes the envelope like no other person, ever. When they took him off the air in my town, I cried, literally. When Howard and Robin did the news, with Fred and Jackie cutting in, pure comedy heaven. I have bought his books as well. Now, my problem. This movie portrays Howard as this naive, babe in the big city. He floats in like an angel and is persecuted by the evil management forces. This is so false. Howard is a jerk! OK? He is a jerk and an a-hole. Anybody that has heard his show, knows this. Some of Stern's material goes so far in the gutter and deals with such horrendous topics (mocking Selena and Mother Thresa's deaths for example)that it is not even funny (literally). He gets very personal and says things about people that could never be excused. He created the term shock jock. The shock came about by saying stuff that rattled cages. No, this bogus movie is pure fiction. It tries to make Howard a Saint and an all-around good guy. Moreover, his decency is based on his devotion to his wife (which has since ended) and his commitment to being true to his straight forward professional values. However, if he was all of those things, why would anybody listen to him? No, we want someone to spit venom for us and Howard is a viper. God Bless him! "},{"Title":"Somewhat appealing","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"       I enjoyed Private Parts, I think Howard Stern is an iconoclast who won respect from people by breaking the rules.  This movie had a lot to do with the 70's and the 80's when Howard Stern's career was in the process of evolution, and was a time before I was born.  I don't like how he shared his personal life on air for millions of listeners to hear.  However, I do respect Howard Stern as an artist and entertainer even though most of his material was vulgar and raunchy as it is portrayed in this movie.  I originally had no intention on seeing this film, but spotted it in blockbuster video and I just grabbed it off the shelf since I was in a hurry.  Private Parts is somewhat of an appealing movie, I must say I liked it even though I had no interest in Howard Stern prior to watching it.  I think the acting is pretty good, I love how a lot of these real life characters play themselves several years later to capture the experiences they had during their careers.  I'd say this is a good movie to catch if you are over the age of 14.  Three out of Four Stars I give Private Parts.P.SWARNINGLADIES MIGHT BE OFFENDED DUE TO THE NATURE OF THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"It's all just an act...","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me get one this one item clear to  everyone  I was not a Howard Stern fan  before this movie and I am not a fan of  his after this movie.  However, this is  one of the best autobiographical movies I  have ever seen.  It is thoroughly  enjoyable and it shows that Stern is  really just a normal, family man and his  other persona is all schtick.  I had  serious reservations about watching this  movie but after I did I was very happy.   The basis of the movie is that if you  believe in yourself, set goals and work  hard you can achieve those goals.  Now how  can that be bad?!?  A rating of 9 out of  10 was given.  A final word.  This is not  an endorsement for Stern, but give this  movie a chance.  There are some very funny  scenes and a most excellent story to be  told. "},{"Title":"Funny.  Typical Stern","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I used to watch Stern on late night.  His antics soon got old, but I loved Stuttering John as he harassed and embarassed pretentious celebrities. This film was funny and it hit home because I worked breifly as a rock DJ.  I left because of the Program Director so i really loved the Pig Vomit bit. It's not a film that grows on you though, I've watched it about 4 times and it may be a while before I watch it again.  Oh yeah I didn't care for the miscarriage stuff.  Some things just are not meant to be joked about. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard Sterns Private parts was better than I expected because quite frankly, I thought the book had too much information.  But the film condensed it all into one, funny bundle.  It also shows how outside of his radio life, he is just like everybody else.  But in his radio world, all bets are off.  Comedy gets into this film by showing what happens when Howard defines authority and his bosses responses.  Some of those moments are sick, but they're also funny.  True, it's sad to see Howard's relationship with his wife seeing as he is now separated from Alison (in real life), but it's still true to itself, and gives great entertainment for the audience at large.   "},{"Title":"Private Parts","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw a clip of this featured in one of those Channel 4 countdowns, I didn't acknowledge that the film was based on reality, so I was very keen, from director Betty Thomas (Doctor Dolittle, John Tucker Must Die). Basically, Howard Stern always wanted to be a disc jockey, working for a radio station, playing popular music and speaking his mind, and during the 1970's it was his goal to do it. Howard started out in college with not a lot of zing in his approach and hardly any personality on the Mic, but then he got his big break on a Detroit radio station. It is soon after starting out that Howard has a snap, his glasses and moustache come off, and his more vibrant and opinionated personality is brought out. He is joined on his own show with news anchor Robin Quivers, who shares his unorthodox approach to expressing his opinions, talking whatever he wants to, and doing whatever he can to get high ratings. The radio heads don't share all of Howard's ideas of what the listeners want, but his hilarious off-the-wall antics are getting the listeners, to the point where he is the most famous disc jockey on air. After a little misunderstanding between Howard and wife Alison (Mary McCormack) about her baby miscarriage, where he joked about it, and her forgiving him, Howard gains a bigger opportunity with NBC in New York. Howard also has the good fortune to have Alison pregnant again, but with his new bosses not understanding how he got such high ratings, it is only after taking him on board that they experience it. It is the job of Kenny Rushton (Paul Giamatti) and one or two other crew members to keep Howard in line, or force him to quit with the limitations of what he can do on radio, but this won't stop him. He has many troubles on and off Mic, high demands, including having Robin with him once again, and of course another hit with being the number one disc jockey again, but he also stays true to his family. Also starring Fred Norris, Gary Dell'Abate, Jackie Martling, Carol Alt as Gloria, Richard Portnow as Ben Stern, Allison Janney as Dee Dee, Jenna Jameson as Mandy, Ozzy Osbourne, Mia Farrow, David Letterman, AC-DC (including Brian Johnson, Iggy Pop and Wendy Whoppers as Big-Breasted Woman. Stern completely steals the show with his madcap radio hosting, and the real people playing their own parts keeps the momentum high. The best sequence is Stern using his voice with a stripping woman turning the bass up high on her speakers to have vibration style sex, it was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments. A hilarious shock jock, a cast of well-knowns as themselves and in cameos, sexually explicit radio broadcasts, the story is based on facts, this is everything you wants in a biographical comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Mix of Boorish Egoism and the Mechanics of Talk Radio","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" WARNING! SPOILERS AHEAD!Howard Stern is a raving egomaniac, and it shows in this film. For those who know his personal life, this movie reeks of absolute hypocrisy. He states that, in spite of all the naked ladies he pranced around with in the studio of radio program, he remained true to his beloved wife. There is an interesting scene where Howard cuddles with a naked Jenna Jameson, and jokes that his wife is dead. Meanwhile, his wife and her friends listen in to Howard's show. Alison says, with a great lack of self-confidence, that his husband's show is just an act, and that he is really not unfaithful. The unsure look on his wife's face adds a touch of honesty to this movie, but it is not enough to save Howard's narcissistic paean to his own brilliance and fidelity to his wife. He tries to sell his story as a struggle against unsympathetic and narrow-minded producers and program directors, and that he ultimately triumphs against their attempts to rein in his raunchiness. He fails to sell himself as a sympathetic character, and in fact convinces the audience that all of the problems in his life are of his own creation. Howard baits the unctuous program director at WNBC---nicknamed Pig Vomit by Howard---with deception and over-the-top bits. When Robin, Howard's co-host, is fired, it is not in the least bit surprising. More interesting than Howard's focus on himself are his humorous observations into the talk radio business. They keep this movie from being totally bad, and actually allow me to keep some respect for Stern as a storyteller. Good scenes include the dialogue between Stern and the owner of a cheap New York state FM station; the actor who played the owner was funny and made these scenes fun to watch. Howard shows that his obscene and insulting radio skits would only be tolerated so long as they generated revenue and attracted advertisers. It's interesting to watch how quickly the WNBC program director turns to Howard's side when his program gets high ratings. Talk radio is not particularly high in show business, but the mechanics of the business are very fun to watch. For this, I praise Stern.Watch for the scenes of Howard's childhood, the crotchety owner of the small New York station, and Alison's expression when Howard flirts with Jenna. Those are the best scenes in the film. Most of the rest of the movie is lame. Unless you are a Howard Stern fan or a Jenna Jameson fan (which I am), don't expect a lot from this movie. "}{"Title":"Stern's Attempts to Have it Both Ways-Very Conventional Movie","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another poster had the following heading for their review of Private PartsA self-serving and unrealistic look at a funny manAnd I totally agree.  I like Howard Stern.  I don't love or idolize him like many of his fans do but I think he fills a necessary niche for people.But this movie reeked of self promotion and an attempt to win over people (mostly women) who didn't or don't like him.  This was confirmed when my wife (who hated Stern) turned to me after the movie was over and said he's so nice...I liked it!  Oye.  The kiss of death.This movie was a big hit in it's opening weekend but quickly fizzled out.  I know why.  His true, core fans flocked to see it the first weekend and were put off by it's nice moments (all the cuddly stuff with his wife and kids...the sorrowful, thoughtful look he gets before he hits it big..etc.)  This movie is NOT what hardcore Stern fans want or were looking for.  Oh, yes...there's the nudity and the naughty Stern behavior.  But for some reason, despite some of it being taken directly from the original airings, these scenes have a cleaned/scrubbed feeling to it which zaps them of their spark, fun and originality.  The scenes are simply NOT funny, daring or in the slightest way dirty or daring.  It does not push the envelope at all.After the opening weekend, most non Stern fans would not go near it because they feared (incorrectly) that the movie was near pornographic and anarchic.  So the film fell into a void between the (disappointed )hardcore Stern fans and the non fans.What the film could've been is something along the lines of a Monty Python film.  It needed an edge or some zippy editing to move it along.What's amazing about the film is how completely, shockingly CONVENTIONAL it is.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie, even if you never heard of Howard Stern","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (rating good) In Europe no one had even heard of Howard Stern before this movie came out. This is by no means a problem, because the movie is very enjoyable and there are some extremely hilarious scenes (the scenes with the mentally challenged and the pussy of Dicky Nixon come to mind). Of course, you have to like this kind of 'offensive' toilet humour. But I for one certainly do. "},{"Title":"What can I say?  A great story, very well told.","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was astonished.I just wanted to see a couple of emerging fave actors work, so I rented this, 9 years after it came out.I was completely surprised. Stern is a fantastic film actor.I guess this is a testimony to the power of fine production. I was expecting to have to wallow through an indulgent ego-fest. I wound up being moved. Good acting, good story, good production, a lot of soul.It's also a little bit of a nostalgia rush for the boomers.If you like a rockem-sockem cavalcade of wild humor and delightful conflict, check it out. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not that much of a Howard Stern fan which is basically to say that I choose not to listen to him on account I think he is an ass.However this movie was pretty good. I never thought I would want to learn anything about Howard Stern or even care to. This movie (if in fact that it is accurate) gave what seemed to be a good idea of what Howard Stern was all about. Basically a semi-normal guy who shares his life on the radio good and bad and likes to shock people basically.........., because he can, and some people like that. The movie was good, and the character development was a definite plus.I realize now that he does a majority of this stuff to get that SHOCK value but like I said in the beginning, I still think he is an ass, and just about anyone around him other than Robin Quivers are just a bunch of little yes men and want to be in his group, just to be there. "},{"Title":"Self serving, but funny","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seeing the scene in which Stern bathes with the horny nude woman but never removes his underwear and never follows through reminded me of Bill Clinton saying he never inhaled (or never had sex with that woman, for that matter). Uh, yeah, right. It's just another example of Stern having his cake and eating it too he's a bad boy, but not really. Like any Hollywood bio, you have to take a lot of it with a grain of salt. If nothing else, it proves why he's the king of all media. No matter what he says, you still like him and want to believe him. As for plot, it's just the old underdog/misfit makes good story--with an attitude. What makes Howard Stern funny on the radio is his lack of pretension, and the way he skewers everything equally. The movie is best when it shows this in action. The love story works surprisingly well too. What's refreshing about the movie is that it never gets stuck in a groove. It finds the right balance in its elements. Cutting to Bababooey, for instance, auditioning women on the street, then cutting back to Howard's home life, then cutting to Howard's battles with network execs such as Pig Vomit and cutting to the show itself. The portrait of Howard as a gawky nerd in the seventies is something that all us gawky '70s nerds can identify with. It's got some of the funniest tasteless humor this side of the Farrelly brothers (ie., the Match Game parody and the woman with a special orgasmic attachment to stereo speakers.) When I give acquaintances the one-sentence description of Private Parts, I say it's an X-rated WKRP in Cincinnati. Somehow, it all works beautifully.  "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I lied to my parents and went and saw this movie in the theater and I loved it. It is so funny, and Betty Thomas uses smart direction also. Len Blum's adaptation is very smart. And Ivan Rietman was left to make sure no one f***ed it up. They all succeed. This movie is hilarious, and the only people who would rate this movie a 1, are the angry hypocrites for censorship. This movie is great, and is highly recommended? Oh, yeah, got something controversial to say, anything at all? E-mail me. "},{"Title":"surprisingly solid bio-comedy","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" there are many who will say nay, nay to sitting through a bio on shock jock (the original!) Stern...if said demo can contain their revulsion to bathroom humour on steroids, they will enjoy this movie. they will find a fair amount of disgusting private part area humour and this actually gives the movie some credibility! it's a little twisted...but sit back and enjoy an excellent job of acting by.....believe it or not , Howard and by actor Paul Giamiti (now, of course, being lauded for an amazing job as Brian Wilson's Doctor/Caregiver in Love and Mercy.all Stern's on main air crew are featured..and not just in cameos..they have a lot of scenes! yes, finally a show biz biopic we can sit thru! I want to add that the timeline is handled beautifully, and the cinematography is wonderful. the run down, radio station shacks he suffered in...to the big time NY fully-fitted studios. "},{"Title":"Baba Booey the Movie!","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Private Parts (1997) Dir Betty Thomas / Cast Howard Stern, Robin Quivers, Mary McCormack, Paul Giamatti, Carol Alt Intimate look at controversial radio personality Howard Stern and our commitment to listen. According to the film Stern wanted to be in radio since childhood inspiration of his father. It chronicles his childhood to college where he meets his wife, to small radio jobs. He is soon partnered with Robin Quivers and has bitter battles with station managers. Although it seems self gratifying the film is insightful despite Stern's questionable antics. The film takes its subject seriously as when he attempts to mend his marriage, and the miscarriage that led to unfavourable discussions on his show. Directed by Betty Thomas and easily one of the greatest achievements of her career. Stern is convincing in his self portrait blending reality and humour. Quivers plays herself in her loyalty with Stern as well as her struggle to maintain sane even at the cost of her job. Mary McCormack plays his supportive yet frustrated wife who would like to believe that her husband's on air rantings are just a joke. Paul Giamatti steal scenes as a station manager who falls victim to Stern's perseverance. Carol Alt makes a cameo as a woman reluctantly seated by Stern on a plane but eventually becomes won over. The film argues that there is an ordinary side to Stern that challenges viewers to look beyond the cover. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hail to The King of all Media!!! Hey Now! 143","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A man so hated & loathed for being outspoken, raunchy, and possessing a juvenile sense of humor (whose ultimate goal was simply this to illicit great laughs to be had by all & good ratings to keep him on-the-air) finds plenty of opposition as he departs from his formal university education & enters into the difficult journey of achieving a successful broadcast entertainment career!Howard Stern is by far one of the most under-appreciated, overlooked, unjustly blacklisted, guilty-until-proved-innocent humans on Earth! I have listened & watched the Stern Show since the early 90's when the show was finally coming into its own, and reaching global audiences, as opposed to the 80's, when Stern nation was just barely reaching East & West Coast listeners. I realize Howard Stern's reputation & outlook on life while being a shock jock is too much to handle for lots of uptight victims of a sheltered upbringing; the morality hypocrites in this country - where freedom of expression/speech is often tested, ridiculed, and ultimately determined to be just a farce. This country will never outgrow CENSORSHIP. But for many of us in this intelligent, open-minded, love- laugh-live army of dedicated fans... we wouldn't want it any other way!In Private Parts, Howard Stern gives us insight into the career-long battle with the FCC, and shows us his human side where he shares his experiences of becoming a father, a husband, and a great & loyal friend to all who are deserving. Thanks to his many lifelong critics (who are just embittered fans anyway!), there may be a lot to dislike about someone who is so often misunderstood and dismissed as an overgrown man child... whatever opinion you may have about Howard Stern and his empire, you simply cannot deny his genius & overall success! "},{"Title":"sweet charming biopic","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Howard Stern plays himself in his autobiographical movie. Following his MTV Video Awards appearance as Fartman, he believes himself to be hated and misunderstood. He recalls his life as a child being put down by his radio engineer father. He's an awkward teen in a mostly black high school. He becomes a disc jockey at WTBU as a senior at Boston University. There he meets his future wife Alison (Mary McCormack). He struggles to find his voice despite many ups and downs.Stern is actually a very effective actor playing himself. He is self-effacing and awkward dork when he needs to be. He shows that he is more than his radio personality. The movie is solidly good biopic material. He is endearing although there isn't much dangerous edge in this movie. It's hard to say if this is the truth or the cleaned up truth. It's probably close enough to be the truth. It's also a love story with Mary McCormack doing a very good job. "}{"Title":"Just When You Think You Know Howard....","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Big fan since DC 101 days and the 'let it all out' format leads listeners to believe they have a clue about his life. I recall thinking this confidently until I read a very obscure clip in a Palm Springs newspaper that he was divorcing his first wife, wtf? He complained incessantly about his lack of privacy at home, his daughter demanding ice water before bed and things of that nature. However, every married man has marital complaints and the topic did make good radio fodder, especially for the lovelorn, henpecked demographic.I enjoyed this film immensely as the characters were played mostly by themselves with surprising ability. I had no idea that Howard was so handsome during this timeframe as well as gorgeous Robin.I appreciate one man's victory to overcome the staid radio format and share more personal information with various ostracized groups. I have never met a porn star and found it fascinating to hear their life adventures. Same with many of the wild, zany characters that littered his program daily.My biggest disappointment of the script is that it did not portray how he treats his assistants with great disdain. I never found that entertaining, but this aspect is an integral part of his show. I know Howard expects perfection but pays poorly and takes advantage of those who are competent. My only real complaint about his persona. He invites all into a secret world of misfits, outcasts, and miscreants that otherwise would have no voice. I applaud his effort to mainstream the outliers of society and attempt to humanize them. I was extremely shocked and saddened that he remarried, albeit to a beautiful, gracious model, that made the major theme of this film fall flat. He started therapy with the famous Dr. Sarno which relies heavily on expressing your deepest emotions and suppressed rage. I believe this is what precipitated his need to live a different life.I did not follow his program to satellite radio and have missed his crazy antics but after so many years of the same shock jock tactics, now with the F word, I am bored.If you were ever a fan of the show this is a delightful Horatio Alger like tale with caveats. Be prepared for blunt discussions on sex and variant behavior. I felt Mary McCormacks role was so underplayed and mousy. Her voice barely registered and her lines were spoken so quickly like a scared cat. Her beauty carried the role but did not suffice to play against such a hard boiled character like Howard. Most likely intentional direction by Thomas as every scene is dubbed with construction noise or traffic, extremely annoying! The FCC story was never mentioned when Howard, supportive of the war post 9/11 (his most memorable broadcast fyi), takes a turn to defile the leaders decisions and suddenly licensing issues prevail.This film was a delightful surprise in that it portrayed the radio persona well with insight into the personal realm. High Recommend! "},{"Title":"Stern is good","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a long term listener of Howard Stern I was satisfied with the adaptation of the book to the big screen. Betty Thomas was smart enough to allow Howard be himself. It works because Stern is not really acting. Having heard the actual tapes of his father berating him as a kid, seeing Richard Portnow as Ben, was dead on accurate and funny as hell. The other highlight is Paul Giamatti as the program director called pig vomit, who is hired to control Stern's free wheeling and often vulgar on air persona. At one point the self proclaimed king of all media is subjected to a lecture on the proper way of announcing wnbc with a prolonged and exaggerated W NNNNNNNBC; it is exactly as it happened because I actually heard the broadcast and the constant battles between Howie and the management at the now defunct radio station. Previous to the WNBC job, we see the struggle from college radio to Briarcliff, NY to Hartford, Ct. to Detroit and the last stop before the Big Apple is Washington, D.C. It is a ride filled with odd ball characters, nude women and people behaving badly, all for the ratings, and it works due to Stern's ability to communicate at the level of a regular guy. The film is well made and should be entertaining even for non listeners. "},{"Title":"Free speech all the way!  Also, I once got to know the woman who played Kenny's wife.","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Betty Thomas's Private Parts came out, I had only loosely heard of Howard Stern, and usually in a negative context. But the movie really opened my eyes. It turns out that beyond his sometimes shocking radio content, it's all about free speech. Stern may pull some of the grossest stunts on air, but he's just showing what the First Amendment is all about. Like Lenny Bruce, George Carlin, Larry Flynt, John Waters, and the Farrelly Brothers, Stern always goes for the funniest shock value. And the movie does a great job showing that.And yes, it's true, I once got to know Aimee Luzier, who played Pig Vomit's wife. She was the assistant in a history/literature class that I took in high school. "},{"Title":"An honest biopic work of art","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Howard Stern is an acquired taste for the diverse and eclectic. Never listening to his radio show, but an avid listener of scattered clips on the internet, I felt Private Parts could give me the proper introduction the man I was looking for. After all, the man has been a radio icon for many years and an FCC bandit for just as long.Like him or not, Stern has changed the face of radio. He has revolutionized the definition of talk radio. I can't stress enough that I love talk radio. I find it to be not only relaxed but an insightful way to collect information on certain, gray topics. I used to religiously listen to DreX in the Morning, a Chicago-based radio show on WKSC-FM. Once he was gone at the end of 2010 so was I. I couldn't imagine not having him on my radio every morning before I ship myself off for my daily grind. Then in March I quickly turned over to Eddie and Jobo on WJMK-FM. To this day that's my cup of coffee in the morning.Stern has been more controversial than all of three of those men combined. He threatens the very patience of the FCC, and has pretty much thrown caution and restrictions to the wind as he sits in front of the mic and speaks his mind on whatever he wants. Through various warnings and threats made from his station and the FCC, all of which have been dismissed by him, it's pretty clear that as long as there are faithful listeners, Stern isn't concerned with who he offends or what he is faced with.The movie chronicles his life starting at a very young age where we see Stern's father makes an exercise out of verbally abusing his son. This may have contributed to Stern being a very closed book. Not to mention the fact he went to an all black high school, which only made his differences stand out.As years go by, and because of his father's occupation in radio, Stern develops a passion for the airwaves. This is an awkward and unexpected choice from someone who cruised through high school saying almost nothing. The thought of him pioneering a genre of talk radio which focused more on humor than news was not even present at the time because of his very shy nature. After hits and misses at different radio shows, Stern is finally hired by WNBC in New York City where he would wind up in numerous arguments with his station manager nicknamed Pig Vomit (played very well by Paul Giamatti).Stern's run at WNBC in the eighties was where he gained his most popularity and notoriety. After tirelessly working throughout college on their own brand-name radio and at a number of dead end jobs, he finally got the break he deserved. If you can look past his crude, vulgar, shameless persona there lies a sweet, gentle, hilarious side to him. That may have been added since Hollywood is notorious for factoring in little clichés into biopics, but since Stern rejected many, many scripts before settling on this one I assume this one got it to almost pin-point accuracy.I forgot to mention that Stern married the beautiful Alison (McCormack) in 1978 after dating her prolifically throughout his run at WRNR. Alison was the first woman who ever gave Stern the time of day. But Stern makes it very clear being married to him is not an easy task. Stern is notorious for releasing private affairs with his wife over the air, which is what lead to their divorce about four years after this film was made.Private Parts is a provocative look at talk radio and where it was and now is because of Howard Stern. Sometimes it appears as if it is glossing over some events and instances that might have happened during Stern's long run. Surely he had to be suspended a few times, and maybe some of the fights with his wife lead to his expulsion from the house for a few days. But the movie doesn't dive into that as much as it looks at Stern's mark on the radio. Which is what it should look at it. It rarely simplifies the story, and comes out to be a very honest biopic work of art.Starring Howard Stern, Robin Quivers, Fred Norris, Mary McCormack, and Paul Giamatti. Directed by Betty Thomas. "},{"Title":"Terrific and very funny biopic","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Howard Stern has only ever been a vaguely familiar figure here in the UK. When Private Parts first came out I knew who he was and had seen a short segment about him on TV. My opinion of him was not good. From the small amount of information I had, he seemed like a completely unlikeable malicious idiot with an annoying haircut. So I certainly had some preconceptions about the man before seeing this film. After seeing it, I had to admit that, like most things in life, the truth is much more complex. In actual fact I came away from Private Parts liking and respecting Mr Stern quite a bit. Quite a turn-around.Sometimes with a biopic it's good to have very little knowledge of the subject. The trajectory of the story is then more surprising to you. This was true for me with Private Parts, as I had no real clue about Howard Stern's rise to fame. However, what surprised me the most was Stern's character. He was not afraid to paint himself as pathetic, and the honesty of this approach is the key to why it's such a compelling film. Some people have commented that this movie is self-serving and that Stern portrays himself as some kind of misunderstood innocent. While I can't definitively say if this is true or not, my gut feeling is that he depicts himself in a fairly honest way. Many times he shows himself to be seriously uncool and pathetic. And because his whole shtick is about not holding back and saying what he thinks, you can't help but feel that this ethos must apply to the movie too, and this is most probably what he is like.The film is often very funny, and I can't really often say this for most comedies. It mixes standard biopic drama with some inventive comedy moments that recall the style of Woody Allen; although an admittedly lower-brow Woody Allen with a fair smattering of naked women. But still, it's in that general ball-park. Stern is very good as, well, Stern. I think it's quite a reasonable achievement to be fair as it's actually not always that easy playing yourself. Take a look at a few of the cameo appearances in some of the episodes of Extras for proof of this bizarre truth. Anyway, he is a compelling central character, whose underlying personality seems to be very decent. Paul Giamatti is the other actor who stands out. His portrayal of Pig Vomit is hilarious.This is a great comic biopic. You certainly do not need to be familiar with its lead character to enjoy it, as it's a very well delivered and funny story. The humour never feels forced either, it just flows into the narrative. I am surprised I like Private Parts so much. It really changed my view of Howard Stern. Except I still think he has an annoying haircut. "},{"Title":"The King of all media is also the court jester","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Howard Stern is a polarizing figure in entertainment, probably the most hated and loved figure of the last half century, depending on whether you are an opponent or a fan of his. As the stats are laid out in this film, Stern's enemies are just as, if not more, likely to be found listening to his show. The program he hosts is like millions of people's cup of coffee in the morning.This room rocker of a movie is the first chapter in the big screen project of his life, showing what a crazy thirty plus years it was. Rabid fans want another instalment showing what has developed since the mid 80's when Private Parts ends. He's since been divorced, remarried, seen his daughters become young adults, had his head writer Jackie The Joke Man Martling walk away and replaced by stand up comic Artie Lange and, last but not least, left terrestrial broadcasting to become the most popular talent now on satellite radio, where millions pay to hear the show that still offends and amuses with it's political satire, prank calls, more candid than anywhere else celebrity interviews and cast of characters who make up a very broad spectrum of voices in society.Private Parts is one of the few comedies that's funnier each time I watch it. The showdown Stern has with his nemesis at WnnnnNBC is one of the ten most hilarious scenes in history as far as I'm concerned. Paul Giamatti is so good as Kenny (or Pig Vomit), you'll practically throw up with laughter when he's on screen. Not so pleasant moments before Howard found his true voice are recreated, as are classics like The Match Game and Fartman (with friend of the show John Stamos filling in for Luke Perry at the MTV appearance).Radio has it's share of popular talent, but Stern has really achieved something unique with his approach. His phenomenon doesn't come around once a generation. Just once, period! "},{"Title":"The King of All Media made a very funny movie...","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" PRIVATE PARTS is the hysterically funny and raunchy film version of the autobiography of the self-proclaimed King of All Media- Howard Stern which is a comedic chronicle of his rise from college communications student to the #1 radio disc jockey in New York, who has shocked audiences and kept the FCC on their toes for years with his shocking and outrageous on the air antics that have offended audiences, sponsors, and even his own family with equal opportunity. Breezily directed by Betty Thomas (THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE), Stern offers a comic tour-De-force here, playing himself and recreating some of his most outrageous radio stunts, aided by radio cohorts Robin Quivers and Fred Norris, also playing themselves. Stern is backed up by a solid cast including Mary McCormick (lovely as Stern's wife Allison), Michael Murphy, Allison Janney, Jonathan Hadary, Paul Hecht, and towering above them all, Paul Giamatti, who officially became a movie star with his roll-on-the floor funny turn as Kenny Pig Vomit Rushton, Howard's program director at WNBC, who challenges Stern at every turn but never gets the best of him. The film is hysterical from start to finish and features cameo appearances from John Stamos, Mia Farrow, Carol Alt, Ozzy Ozbourne, Dee Snider, AC/DC, and another of Stern's radio buddies, Stuttering John. A laugh-out loud comedy that entertains right through the closing credits. Not for the kids. Beware of edited prints. "},{"Title":"What a man!","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I decided I needed to watch this film again, a while after the last viewing, after constantly hearing the praise of the film from the rather biased source of the Howard Stern show.The film was as I remembered it. Pretty standard entertainment, slightly raised for those who are followers of the show.I wonder how differently this story would be told if it weren't based on material written by Howard Stern himself. Possibly as a result of this, the entire film comes across as self-promoting propaganda for Stern, which, naturally, feels a little immodest and most probably embellished.However, what surprised me was that all the praise that Stern lathers on himself for his performance in this film is well deserved. Howard slips into actor mode with the greatest of ease. Within ten minutes he has conquered the hardest hurdle of his transition people know him too well when he's NOT acting.Why I consider this such a feat is because the audience expects a rather inorganic performance from him (or at least I did), due to the ability to compare it to his true relaxed state, every day, for five hours.Stern must be commended for the believability and immersion his performance allows the audience to enjoy. Although, one may argue that to play oneself is not that difficult to capture.Paul Giamatti also gives a stellar performance, with his red-hot outbursts being particularly memorable. (YOU ARE THE MOTHERFUCKING ANTI-Christ!) All in all, a fun film for Stern fans. Perhaps still enjoyable for those that aren't, perhaps not. "},{"Title":"Fartman beats Spider-Man","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Private Parts is an unusual name for Howard Stern's movie because there are no private parts of his life that he won't use on the air. This was a source of consternation to his lovely wife, Allison.I first heard Howard on a Dallas station. He was eating Richard Simmons alive. Now, I don't care about Richard Simmons, but no one should have to go through what Howard did to him. He was merciless! But, that's Howard. he did change radio and he was the top DJ in the country. Does that say something about our country. Is the Apololypse beginning soon? Seriously, the movie is funny and shows how he rose to the top. It also shows what a jerk Don Imus was even 20 years ago. I bet Howard is laughing his a** off. "},{"Title":"This answers a lot of questions . . . and poses a few.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a short-time listener of Howard on Sirius. I get the humour and have come to love it in the past six months. This movie is an excellent primer for anyone interested in Howard Stern's history, (and I know there are lots of those).I used to think, like a lot of other people have and do, that Howard was like one big dick-n-fart joke. Since listening to the show a while I know that's not true and the movie confirmed that for me. Howard is an every-man hero who lays his life out like a smörgåsbord for everyone to come and poke at and go eewwww. He allows us to feel better about ourselves by showing us that we're all flawed in one way or another and that we're all part of the same circle of life.I'd love to see a 10th Anniversary edition of this movie . . . .Thank you Howard . . . .I love you man! "}{"Title":"The king of all media strikes back!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a Howard stern fan i enjoyed his 2 books,and when he announced on his terrestrial radio show about the movie i was excited.the movie is a portion of his book but it covers a lot of ground.Fred Norris steals a lot of the scenes,hes hilarious.everyone plays themselves,except Allison his now ex wife,who's played by Catherine McCormick,look for the cameos of sopranos star;Edie Falco,along with the late tiny Tim,Ozzy Osbourne,and Dee Snyder.its put together well,there's a lot of laughs and Mr stern deliverers an awesome portrayal of......, himself.i was a huge fan of his channel 9,wor-TV new york,TV show.even if it was heavily censored.I'm going to endorse this film even to those who don't like stern.it may grow on you,like a fungus(like he tells the beautiful sexy carol alt on the airplane)private parts is a hilarious Bio pic.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to laugh at least twice during this film","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This a funny movie. That's the bottom line. Whether you're a Howard Stern fan or not, this film has some funny material in it; not because of the dialogue, but just because of the way the characters execute it in the filming. If you're a Stern fan (which I happen to be anyway), you will most likely find this biography of his rise to fame as both a very funny movie and a lesson in life on how someone on the bottom can rise to the top through perseverance and a never ending dedication. If you're NOT a Stern fan, you will most likely still admire this film to some degree. And if you don't like it, it will certainly help you understand STern a little more and see what makes him tick.The only major problem that I observed through this film is that it can't quite decide whether it wants to be a 100% side-splitting comedy or a touching drama with humorous elements weaved into it. Therefore, this movie kind of sits uncomfortably on the fence between comedy and drama. Although the comedic parts flow smoothly, the occasional dramatic moment comes off as cringingly awkward.Overall a good film. I recommend it to those who aren't easily offended. "},{"Title":"A bonafide comedy classic from the 90's","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie at the cinema when it came out. Originally me and my friend had wanted to go see Men In Black, but it was sold out. What a shame! So, we decided to see this other flick that I had heard about in a smaller cinema. It was one of the luckiest decisions I've ever made at the movies.Private Parts is a funny, politically incorrect tongue-in-cheek biography of the life of Howard Stern, self-proclaimed King Of All Media. Having never heard Stern's show I can only guess that this telling of the events doesn't have too much to do with reality, but that's not really what's important. The movie is entertaining and endlessly quotable.Private Parts is the perfect movie for a light hearted evening. Something that cannot be said about Man In Black. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and acidic, but also accurate","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As biopics go, this one was at once entertaining and true to heart about the trials and tribulations of talk radio. Earlier attempts gave ample coverage of the subject (Oliver Stone's 'Talk Radio', 'Pump up the volume', the 'Nighthawk' TV show and even Terry Gilliam's 'Fisher King') but there's always room for more. Having never lived in the States, I was only vaguely familiar with Stern's persona, but seeing this movie made my memories of talk radio come alive again. Greece had it's own golden era in free radio 15 years ago, with some really talented people behind the mikes, but because there was no ratings system to vindicate them, they were persecuted to extinction, leaving only bland playlist deejays behind. I'm not a fan type of person, but if superstars and ratings is what it takes to keep free speech in radio alive, then more power to Stern and his likes! Kudos to Betty Thomas for conveying Nighthawk's feel to the film.Rated 8/10 -not for the abundant profanity and nudity, but they didn't hurt either! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny and truthful biography of Howard Stern","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I started out watching Private Parts with some skepticism because of Howard Stern's rude behavior and the movie's crude name, but I ended up being surprised by the humor of this film.  The movie is narrated by Stern and his commentary adds a lot of successful comedy to the script.  The movie was far from perfect, with some offensive jokes and egotistical remarks from Stern, but the movie's good outweighed the bad.  I gave this movie a seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"F. Jackie!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard Stern spends a lot of time on his radio show, in his books and in the press, biting back at his many critics.  This practise has become so common with Stern that it truly is an important part of his act.  This movie follows the same pattern.  Like it or not though, and I'm sure Howard would never argue with this,  his stuff is offensive ... to a lot of people.Private Parts is based on his autobiography of the same name.  Stern plays himself in a story that takes us from his childhood through to his struggle and eventual success in radio.  Stern is not the first shock jock on radio, but he is certainly the first to put political banter on the backburner and put front row center a contingent of freaks and geeks and lesbians.In the movie Stern learns that he is at his best as a disc jockey when he is himself.  He says what he thinks.  He lets others express themselves.  He talks openly and graphically about sex.  And all of his antics fly in the face of the radio chiefs and the dreaded FCC.Critics seemed surprised to say that they liked this movie.  And it is good because it works on several levels.  For his fans there are plenty of comedy bits taken directly from his radio show.  For those that don't know Stern, or perhaps refuse to listen to him, there is his argument that he is misunderstood.  As a story it moves well, with funny sight gags and decent acting from people who don't normally act.  There is one memorable performance by Paul Giamitti, playing Pig Vomit.  One of the few main characters not played by the actual person, this NBC henchman becomes the arch villain in Stern's passion play.The movie does blindside us with his view on the controversy surrounding his show.  The bosses are all portrayed as nasty dimwits who blame Stern until the ratings come in. Even though many of the gags in this film are graphic and outrageous, I can't help but think that it has still been Disneyfied for the audience.  So much time is spent trying to prove that Howard is really a nice guy that we don't get to see the essence of his comedy.If there is ever a sequel to Private Parts, I hope that Howard Stern will ignore his critics and give something to the fans who don't misunderstand his humor. "},{"Title":"Rent it on Video or Watch it on HBO","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Private Parts just isn't the same on regular TV.  While the USA Network made a gutsy decision to air this excellent movie, the edited version doesn't have the crucial elements that 1) make fans love Stern and 2) make other people hate Stern.  Still, this an excellent story about how a regular guy went made it to the top. "},{"Title":"Hilarious !","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I hated Howard Stern, bad ! But when I saw this movie, I had to admit, it was hilarious, and I took a liking for Stern.The movie is hilarious, and shows alot of the funny things that go on with the radio show. But they don't show any of the real wacky stuff that has happened, or made references to anything that happens that has really made the Stern show known.Howard Stern's life was well acted out, and well scripted. This movie is definitely on my Top 100 List. "},{"Title":"I'm not bad, I'm just misunderstood!","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is the plaintive cry of this movie and Howard almost manages to make me believe it. The movie is almost a autobiographical documentary, but with a dash of revisionism I suspect. Nevertheless, it is certainly an interesting tale, colourfully told, with ample amounts of craziness, and a fair dash of nudity/sexuality here and there. Although I found much of the radio 'humour' to be merely crude and bordering on the dull, there were moments of comic brilliance. In all, a movie worth watching even if just for the background look into this modern phenomenon's psyche. I gave it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is very funny.  I wonder if it's really 100% true.  If so, NBC should be ashamed of itself.  Pretty funny stuff... "}{"Title":"Unexpected rudeness can be funny!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard Stern manages to be rude in such a way you cannot help but laugh. He is the horror DJ of every radio station director...and maybe that is why the listeners love him so much!  "},{"Title":"Mr. Stern portrays himself with panache...","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you didn't know the man portraying Howard Stern in this movie was himself, you'd think the guy playing the part really nailed it. You never get the sense that Mr. Stern is blowing his own hornrather, you feel the undercurrent of a genius always on the verge of another breakthrough, and that is the appeal of this film.  Anyone could have made a documentary of Mr. Stern (some have tried, and fell far short of their mark) but no one can deny that Private Parts says it all it's just a bonus that we see it from the man himself. "},{"Title":"All Funny Parts","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Private Parts is unlike most films it makes you laugh. I loved Private Parts, because it showed that Howard  Stern was human. The idea to have Howard Stern playing himself was ingenious and the scenes which involved him in the past were excellent, they were simply funny. Most people were put off by this film, I don't know how they could. Stern is likeable, and funny. The story is great, it is original. It shows that Stern isn't a jerk. That he is nice. I was on the floor the whole way through this film, and I'm sure there are a lot of people who were the same. Top marks for a top film. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the film","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the film.  The movie based on Howard Stern's life cracked me up because some parts made me laugh.  Some people hate Howard Stern because of what he does on the radio, but I think that Howard Stern is the greatest entertainer on the planet.  You could disagree with me if you want, but Howard Stern is going to stay as an entertainer for a very long time. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly engaging love story!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I should first confess that I find Howard Stern's radio and TV shows to be redundant, banal and permanently locked in male adolescence. Having been a male adolescent at one point in my life, I can tell you with authority that it's the stupidest part of any man's life, by far.And yet, I found Private Parts to be a surprisingly uplifting and touching love story, and in some parts, extremely funny -- even clever. It's a well-made story of a young man trying to find his way in the world, supported by a loving wife who stands by him, no matter what.Some have said that this film contains a lot of inaccurate information about who did what when -- forget all that, and just watch the movie as a story. It's a shame that Howard Stern's real life isn't *exactly* like this film's plot -- but anyone with more than a half-functioning adolescent brain knew that before they walked into the film, didn't they? It's a movie, folks, not a documentary.There are some great scenes in this movie -- this was the first film in which I got to see Paul Giamatti act, and he's perfect. Howard Stern and his sidekicks all acquit themselves well as actors, although I can't imagine any of them ever playing any role other than themselves.Bottom line this is a fun and surprisingly touching movie. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"In praise of Howard Stern","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very entertaining autobiography of the disc jockey Howard Stern. Wisely producing a film palattable to a mainstream audience, the result is a quality hilarious effort that even detractors can't help liking. This movie is inaccurate because I listened firsthand to Howard ever since he came to New York. His personna has undergone such a dramatic change in those 20 years, and the film chose not to dwell on that fact. Probably because Howard really can't see himself as he was in the old days. His view of his past has him as the misunderstood rock star trying to be discovered. Truth is, for most of the time chronicled in this movie, he was a very ordinary looking and sounding guy. His schtik was the total cynical family man dork with the whiny voice who was funny as hell; mad at the world, and he rarely if ever laughed on the show. He made us laugh, but he was all the time miserable, and that made it even funnier. Of course now all he does is laugh, now that the material is no longer funny. I just point this out, because it was through this undocumented personna, that he amassed the huge loyal following that led him to the promised land. The film was made as the show hit its high water mark, when it was at its best. Its never seen those heights again, and undoubtedly never will. Its strange that the widespread fame he so desired and ultimately gained, in the end killed his comedy. Bring back Jackie and Billy!!!!  "},{"Title":"This is a really funny movie!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't live in the U.S., so I never really heard anything of Howard Stern. I guess I read the name online a few times, but I never really heard him. And I think that's very sad, because I absolutely enjoyed this movie. It's true that his humor might disgust some people, but I don't really care. Some of his jokes are really intelligent and I like his behaviour. Good movie, I gave it 9 out of 10 points. "},{"Title":"Shamelessly entertaining","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Private Parts makes no apologies for whom or what Howard Stern is, but it never denies the fact that much of his work is in poor taste. Let's face it, it's what he's best at. Someone famously stated that you can never overestimate the taste of the American public. Judging from Stern's ratings, he was absolutely correct. However, few will deny that his act is fascinating and often hilarious. As the film points out, even his detractors can't stop listening to him, since what he says is so damn outrageous they just have to hear what the hell he'll have to say next. I laughed several times, despite my better judgment.Stern himself has a strong screen presence. I don't foresee an Oscar in his future (the gag at the end notwithstanding), but when the credits were rolling, I felt like I knew him better. Even if you don't like what he says, you can't help but root for him. Despite his shortcomings (at times even he admits to faulty judgment calls), he displays a strong sense of loyalty and a genuine love for his family. I was also fascinated by the look at his early life. It's hard to believe he was such a dorky nerd, but even someone like Stern has contradictions. He wasn't always such a wise guy, but was seriously hampered by his own insecurities and lack of direction. It was only by happy accident that he finally found his voice. One could only wish that everyone could do the same.The moral never judge a man based upon his radio show.*** (out of ****)Released by Paramount Pictures  "},{"Title":"funny,and entertaining","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the first time i saw this movie i thought it was just ok,but some how i liked it a lot more the second time i saw it,and i still do. it's funny,and entertaining. the funniest scenes are the ones with howard,and kenny (pig vomit) rushton. kenny was very funny in those scenes. it's a kind of feel-good movie you can watch on a bad day. it's sure to put a smile on not all,but a lot of people's faces. i give private parts *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Try watching with an open mind.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Private Parts' portrays Howard Stern as a sensitive nice guy who would do anything for a laugh and thus is misunderstood much of the time. When you watch him on his E! or CBS television shows, his radio 'bits' seem much less harsh. His radio 'partners in crime' are also playing themselves and do a great job.  Repeated viewings do not dull the hilarity of this movie. If you don't like Howard Stern, try watching this movie with an open mind. "}{"Title":"If you're a fan, you'll love the movie","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A very entertaining movie.  Very self-serving, although that to be expected. People who hate Stern may even like the movie.  Some of the most entertaining scenes are the fictional what really happened scenes, but if you don't care about historical accuracy, its great. "},{"Title":"Three cheers for the underdog!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Believe it or not, Private Parts is a classic success story in which the audience is compelled to root for Howard Stern as the unlikely hero. And while you need to be able to at least tolerate some of Stern's antics to sit through this movie, you don't need to be a fan to enjoy it.From his upbringing to his early years on radio, Howard Stern's future seems a bit, well, dismal. But as he begins to discover his voice and allow his personality to come through on the radio, things change. And we, the viewers, are cheering as he overcomes every hurdle to success.That's the magic of this film--that someone as crude and overtly immature as Howard Stern, can be the hero of the story. But regardless of how you feel about the man, this movie wins you over. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Masterpiece","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really captures the Howard Stern that the radio talk show host's fans love most - an average guy with great talent.  A great script and a superb cast help to cut past the image of the racist pervert to reveal a down to earth guy.  Howard and Len Blum created an excellent story that puts this side of Stern in the spotlight, but still contains some of the raunchiness that has made a superstar out of Howard.  Paul Giamatti is great as Pig Vomit.10/10 - I'd love to see more from Howard in this medium, but this one will be hard to match.    "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Man this movie is good big breasted women and is very funny my favorite part is when they have sex on the phone that is awesome. Howard Stern is a genious and is the king of all media and that is why i gave PRIVATE PARTS a 10 "},{"Title":"Howard should stick with radio","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, I love the Howard Stern show and listen to it at work everyday so I'm not a Stern-basher; however, I found this film to be average at best, and not up to the level of hilarity of one of his morning radio programs. As a matter of fact, the funniest moments in the film are depictions of radio bits (the Match Game for instance, was terrific). I suspect that this film was aimed at people who are down on Stern to try to win them over to him by showing that he is indeed a real person, but for existing fans, this did not break any new ground. Howard Stern resurrected the media of radio in my mind, but when it comes to film he's got a long way to go. BABABOOEY!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining but crude portrait of the controversial disc jockey.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any nut who skips a single minute of this film on purpose will know exactly what they're missing! Do give PRIVATE PARTS a fair chance for its amazing hilarity from Howard Stern, who looks like he's cast in a fictional outing, let alone the life and times of his controversial career in radio. Its notorious moments are aplenty to keep anyone from running naked for the restroom. Those who can't worship the guy must exit the building immediately! A giant portion of this film's success is due to its foul taste and extensive use of offending sexuality. How's that on Wal-Mart's recommendation? I'm no Stern fan, but at least PRIVATE PARTS was presentable on a cultural basis. While loved and respected by movie buffs and critics alike, it's not for everybody! "},{"Title":"Outrageous filth, but don't ban it - its hilarious","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A warning straightaway &#150; do not watch if easily offended (or find anything at all offensive).It's unclear just how much of a 'biopic' of Howard Stern this film really is, but to query its' accuracy (even with Stern playing himself!) is to miss the point completely. The film is rude, crude and lewd. And absolutely hilarious.Admittedly the film takes quite about half an hour to get going, but once Stern gets to Washington D.C. and later New York City to broadcast radio shows there, the film really takes off. Stern's journey from local radio DJ to American celebrity would even seem assured if the film wasn't based on his own life. Stern is simply far too unique to be confined to simply playing records and telling the time and temperature every fifteen minutes on air. He works strictly on improvisation and inspiration, and the results are inspired. From his early 'weather reports' and adverts, to banter with his newsreader (played by his real newsreader Robin Quivers) and his experiment with the capabilities of bass output on speakers live on air (oh yes, this bit has to be seen to be believed, and it is quite possibly both the rudest and funniest thing I have ever seen. Ever.) he is simply a hilarious man, and a genius.Paul Giamatti is terrific as the uptight radio station manager at WNBC, who does everything in his power to get Stern off the radio (why he got Stern the job in the first place there is no point questioning) and holds his own against the scene-monopolising lead.Believe it or not, there is actually quite a sweet love story buried under all the crudeness and political incorrectness. Mary McCormack as Stern's unbelievably tolerant and loyal wife is perfect. Again it's hard to know how accurate the story is, but who cares? That's not the point of the film.Be warned though, this film is not for everybody, most especially those easily offended, who should not even consider watching this. But if you have a (very) open mind, are not easily offended, and preferably find South Park hilarious, then you will no doubt love this film.Plus there are some unbelievably beautiful girls who make 'cameo' appearances in every sense of the word &#150; and that's the kind of double entendre you will have to get used to if you watch the film. Think Todd from Scrubs on speed, and you're halfway there.Sit back, disengage the brain (and good taste sense) and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I'm Not A Big Fan Of Howard Stern But... (SPOILERS)","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Howard Stern but this movie is hilarious! Howard Stern and his whole crew are funny as Hell! I couldn't stop laughing at all of the funny scenes, including the scene where Howard and his crew do a parody of Match Game and use some of the seven dirty words. It was funny how Kenny a.k.a. Pig Vomit(Paul Giamatti) flipped out and fired Howard's news woman Robin Quivers(as herself). I never realized how funny Howard Stern is until I saw this movie. There were A LOT of funny scenes in this movie. For example, a scene where Howard is a boy, and his mother is driving him and two of his friends home. The two friends are saying that they are moving out of town because of black people(by using explicits, and I don't mean anything racist by this). Howard's mother stops the car and says to Howard's friends that she and Howard are half Negro. Howard is shocked by what his mother says. Another funny scene is when after Howard brings a naked woman on the radio, Pig Vomit takes Howard off the air. Howard runs into Pig Vomit's office and starts fighting with him. It was all hilarious.8/10 "},{"Title":"Great introduction to the king of all media.","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Private Parts could have been a disaster of epic proportion, but thanks to Howard Stern Himself, we get a compelling film about a family man who bucks the system and revolutionize radio as a true medium of great talent. Howard Himself does a great acting turn, reveling not only his successes but his bad times as well with a real gusto of talent, and the movie is not only a great tribute to him and his life but to the struggles of the common man as well.A great film indeed.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Movie","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although I have to admit I'm not a fan of Stern at all, actually I think his show stinks, this was a funny movie to watch.  Howie didn't do too bad in this, as well as his co-horts from the show.  Although the bits in between scenes with that jackass big mouth trying to get girls to take their tops off was annnoying as hell, the rest of the movie was very entertaining.  Fast forward to the present, I guess Allison finally got tired of Howard and his antics, for they are now separated.  Sorry Howie!! "}{"Title":"The King Of All Media's Big Screen Debut","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  PRIVATE PARTS (1997) *** Howard Stern, Mary McCormack, Robin Quivers, Fred Norris, Jackie Martling, Gary Dell'Abate, Paul Giamatti, Michael Murphy, Reni Santoni, Carol Alt, David Letterman (cameos AC-DC, Ozzy Osbourne, MC Hammer, Dee Snider, Flavor Flav, Tiny Tim, Slash)  Better than anticipated big screen adaptation of radio shock jock and self-proclaimed King of All Media Stern's blockbuster best selling autobiography plays like a punk version of Rocky with some surprisingly good moments of comedy and a valentine to his long-suffering yet supportive wife Alison.  Stern shines with natural born emoting throughout the crazy antics particularly his gauntlet run at WNBC with arch nemesis suit/boob Giamati aka Pig Vomit.  Nicely paced by director Betty Thomas and produced with smarts by veteran comedy icon Ivan Reitman. "},{"Title":"Howard Stern sends a valentine to his wife and hate mail to Pig Vomit","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Private Parts is the life story of Howard Stern. As told through the eyes of...Howard Stern. A bit one sided? Hmmm&#133;yeah. Howard Stern is a jerk. But that's good because that's what his audience wants to hear. Stern being a jerk to celebrities, porno stars and anyone else who walks on his radio show. His sidekick Robin laughs at his jokes and tries to rein him in a bit if he goes too far. Nothing fazes Stern as he proceeds to rip into anybody who tries to touch his radio show. But he's still a nice guy. Honest! The man may be a pig on the air but it's all just an act. He really, really loves his wife! Stern says so! It must be true!So Stern weaves a valentine to his wife with Private Parts. He may act loathsome sometimes but his heart is pure. Private Parts also sends some hate mail to one of his old bosses, Pig Vomit. The scenes where they are going at each other were hilarious. Paul Giamatti did a great job.Private Parts is a funny flick. The phone sex scene was boobirific. Overall, I enjoyed it. I'm just not sure how much I buy his nice guy routine. If his radio show is Just an act, what's his movie? The truth? Nahhh...  "},{"Title":"Got to see that...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I just watched that movie and I tell you I had a GREAT time!! I had never heard of Howard Stern, especially here in Greece, but now I found out he's one cool dude! No matter what, check out this movie and you are going to have a great time...It really ROCKS! "},{"Title":"If I got a chance to whitewash my life on film , I'd do it like this","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an intermittently hilarious, but completely self-serving autohagiography of Howard Stern. It would be easier to digest if it was a work of fiction, but as it stands there is always the nagging doubt that events truly occurred as played out here, and the tone of humiliating his enemies mars the film somewhat.All said, the funny bits are hilarious, but the rest smacks of triumphalism. "},{"Title":"great laughs","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually never laugh when watching so called comedy-movies. I think most of them are pure rubbish. So anyway, I rented this film with no great expectations and what happens ?? It's a hilarious piece of movie art !! I must say, I have never laughed as much as when I saw Howard & co's (I can't remember the show's name) Quiz-show (whatever). Goddamn it was fun !! I recommend this movie to everyone who's not afraid of some 'funny' language. I just gave this film 9/10. Way to go Howard !!!! "},{"Title":"Private Parts","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A constant laugh ride from shock disc jockey Howard Stern who stars in the film version of his famous book on his start in the radio business. There's laugh after laugh. It never slows down. Betty Thomas' direction is fine, but the film belongs to Howard.  "},{"Title":"9 on a scale of 10","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thank God there is nothing for me to be personally offended at. Thus, I was able to laugh (quite hysterically at times) along with Howard's joke-a-minute gags. Unfortunately, the vast majority of people have some reason to be offended and that means the vast majority would be watching this movie squirming in their pants as no stone is left unturned.In addition to telling the amazing account of Howard's rise to fame came a surprising, touching and very memorable love story - that between him and his wife (Alison).Also, memorable was the intense loyalty shown between Howard and his main sidekicks - Fred and Robin.All in all, this was a very unique movie. If you miss it, you won't watch another one to make up for it - ever. And, you won't have learned the other side of a man that (like it or not) is going to be around and in your face for a very, very long time.   "},{"Title":"Not for people who don't like Howard Stern","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did a review of this medicore movie a few days ago but had something to add. For a Howard Stern fan It's pretty much what one would expect. But if you are not a stern fan you probebly won't like this as much as a diehard fan would, ESPECIALLY if you don't like stern at all. The movie's medicore to begin with, told entirely from stern's point of view. You really have to like stern to appreciate the movie.I was more of a fan of his in my younger days then I am now(not much of one now honestly) which is probebly why my interest in this movie has decreased over time and I wouldn't have any interest in seeing the movie again. Any biographic movie told from the point of view of the indivual the movie's about is questionable because you don't know how accurate  and true to life the story is. Most people I know who are not fans of his have not liked this movie. "},{"Title":"As tasteless as the title...only for Stern fans...","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thumbed through Stern's book, Private Parts and wondered how on earth they would ever make a movie out of it. Well, they did, and the surprise is that some of it is even funny. Not surprisingly, all of it is a vulgar, crude and self-serving portrait of a man who still looks like the nerdy guy from the '70s but thinks he's handsome. It's this staunch belief in his own myth and self-worth that makes this crude comedy irritating to watch.Stern's radio fans will no doubt think the film is sanitized (as compared to his on the air antics) and only mildly outrageous and they will be disappointed in this white-washed version of his life. There are some chuckles early on as he goes through the tribulations of a gawky adolescence, but after that it settles for the vulgar aspects of his radio humor--which his fans love--and fortunately does not go as far as the book in depicting all of his shortcomings.Recommended only for avid fans of Howard Stern. Others, beware at your own risk! Stern plays himself with a surprising amount of natural ability. "},{"Title":"Just a reminder","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was watching this one recently with friends and I realized I was the only one being amused. I just realized why. This is Scarface, not a comedy, but a dramatic account of foul taste with balls taking over. It's Tony Montana p***ing everything in his path.It's the logical outcome when ratings decide who stays and who leaves. But why do I find it amusing? Well, I don't, really. I guess it was just the anticipation of Giamatti's performance I had forgotten was so short spanned.I write the comment just in case I get the urge to watch this again in the future. "}{"Title":"Not So Private Parts","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard Stern is my guilty pleasure. I mean, I know he's often politically incorrect, but also know that it's mostly a schtick for radio. While it's fashionable to dislike him for his mysogony, he's still manged to remain on top for many years. I like him. I think he has a good heart. I even like this movie, not as much as I thought I would, but Stern definitely comes across as a caring human being with a slightly skewered view of the world we live in. I believe he made this movie to give himself some credibility and it works on that level. When it's funny, it's hilarious and when it's corny it's sweetly so. It lacks a certain ooomph, and of course, the breakup of his long marriage shortly after the release of the film leaves one to believe there's more to the story than what's shown on screen. Watch it for the laughs; there are many!  "},{"Title":"It's howard.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? The movie was all right. If you are a fan of howard you will probebly like it. I have been a moderate fan of his and although I found the film interesting, I can't say I was totally wowed.That's probebly because the film was created by Howard-so you think of coarse it's gonna be making him look REAL white bread-which he very well might be, but how will anyone ever know for sure because it's his movie so it's his version and would he tell us the bad stuff-if there were bad stuff anyway-overall a reasonably interesting movie, pretty much what I expected.  "},{"Title":"He is GOD!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk about trying to discreetly hide profanity and almost-taboo subjects on radio.(think ----- willows and ---- a doodle doo, those who watched it should know what i'm talking about)Private parts is about one man's life and that man is Howard Stern. Never heard of him? well neither did i, but its not likely i'll ever forget him either. We follow Howard Stern's life from bad haired bespectacled 60s' hippy geek loser to 80's rocking ego tripping NY no.1 most desired radio DeeJay, with in between scenes of him making tsunamis (gigantic monstrous waves) with his microphone. He takes radio to another level, breaking conformity by 1)interupting the newscaster by throwing in personal questions or opinions directed to the topic 2) talking about sex 3)giving a woman an orgasm on air 4)having the first ever butt nekkid woman come in as a guest 5) criticizing his own employers over the radio etc.You have to love him for trying, even though he was indescribably bad in his first radio session. Strange leap into this career choice, when young Stern was perpetually demoralized and told to shut up as a boy. such determination, stemming from low self esteem.  His openness, on his sex life and other personal arenas, comes from trying to capture the listener's attention and his previous failures. By doing so, he gained nationwide recognition and fans (many of them blonde bare breasted beautiful women) How many people you know would broadcast his small **** or conduct a porn-like steamy session? to a sea of faceless listeners? It seems, only Howard Stern. That and more made him funny and original, perhaps also a little warped, but so likeable. The average joe listened to his show for an hour and twenty minutes. if you hated him, you listened for that and an hour more. no wonder the uptight, suit-wearing employers of Stern's radio station were up to their necks in frustration. Private parts, a battle against conformity, is a must watch if you were ever intending to make a statement. p/s i heard this is the man Jerry Springer got his inspiration from.  "},{"Title":"Good for fluff-value, but otherwise...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you can't stand Howard Stern, there's nothing more to recommend about it. It was obviously made to give him a better public appearance, but it didn't, because he still makes sick and disrespectful routines on air in real life (Like the time he played a record and dubbed gunfire into it when that Mexican pop star was shot to death)and on top of that he's not really an interesting enough person to make a biography about.Only two scenes were actually funny, like the part when we was first hired by that lowlife suburban radio manager, and the raunchy guessing game.(Kind of strange, because whenever you switch through the television and find a taped show you don't see any of that; he's always interviewing some bid busted amorous supermodel.) But otherwise, that's about it. Good entertainment,like I said in the summary, but someone really could of made a better life story about the life of a religious exhibitionist. "},{"Title":"Howard Stern & the History of American Comedy","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard Stern would have been jailed for most of his comedic routines as recently as 20 years ago. This is not to condemn him or his comedy, just a reminder that things have changed. I found the movie funny-- hilarious in spots, somewhat painful in others. As a woman, I was very uncomfortable in those scenes where men clearly exploited women who were pressured to take their clothes off for the camera. But this exploitation was clearly shown--unlike pressure that usually exists behind the scenes--so it was, I think, more informative than deserving of condemnation. Because Stern makes himself the butt of most of his jokes, with Authority being the other fall guy, in various forms, his comedy is less painful than it might be if others were continually the victims of his often incisive--if also often bathroom and adolescent--humor. I was reminded of both Weird Al (the wonderful UHF) and Kevin Smith (Clerks, Mall Rats) in the style of the movie.  "},{"Title":"A Sexy Independent Film","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Along the same lines as 'Mallrats' and 'Kingpin', this independent film focuses on small town America and tells a very uninteresting story. There was nothing original about it, nothing ground breaking or significant. It was just 90 minutes of a mechanical chore. "},{"Title":"A predictable bio-pic focusing on an unpredictable US DJ.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A comedy bio-pic focusing on the rise from obscurity of America's most famous radio shock-jock.I always say that comedy is the hardest thing to write - most comedy writers can perhaps get three minutes of use able material out of a working day for home media. You could halve that if you are talking about cinema or even TV film. For such reasons most American sitcoms are written by teams of writers.(By the look and sound of some of them - writing alternative words!)In my life I could perhaps name about ten people (not all are well known) that could be funny without prior warning of subject or topic. There are many others that appear to be funny on cue, but they are actually using pre-written scripts provide by others.As the comedy writer and performer Bob Monkhouse once said there are people that say funny things and the people that are just funny. However which is Stern? A bit of both? I would take the cop-out view and say neither!There is something I don't like about the guy under today's microscope. A rude, ignorant and sleazy side that slips out now and then. When married he seemed to live his sex life through his guests. Maybe the man says much more about the great unwashed of America - his main audience - than we think? Paradoxically, for someone in show-biz, I think he has an introvert and shy streak - the long hair and the dark glasses are things to hide behind. Rock disguises against looking middle-aged. On the box cover he appears half naked, holding his stomach in and lightly greased up. Looking for all the world like a clapped-out Chippendale!Despite all presentations (in film and life) he is not really a team player. He is the king of this own castle who also wants to be the dirty rascal too!He is too me-me-me to be any kind of give-and-take comedian - he is the custard pie thrower not a custard pie taker. Not there is any democracy in any comedy - the guy with the microphone always has the last laugh.Despite all the hype and being new and different, he is merely a variation on the I-don't-care comedians that have gone before like Rodney Dangerfield and Don Rickles. Only they didn't use four letter words.Stern gets fined by the US authorities for his programme, but this is part and parcel of his marketing appeal. Soon he will broadcast from space in order to say what he wants more readily. What will that be - the same-old with more obscenities?This film is strangely limp-along at the beginning - showing Stern (playing himself in a silly wig) at college about to go out on small stations - one of which praises him for simply showing up on time! His private life (which has now included divorce) is shown as Mr Begging and Pleading - presumably to show that the radio thing is an act.The film is clue-less as to how to show Stern as anything more than a passable comedian and open-mic wise-cracker surrounded by acolytes - most interesting of which is the black female producer Robin Ophelia Quivers (this isn't chance) who (uniquely) does a lot of tut-tuting/laughing on air to suggest there might be another - more PC - view on any given topic.He may be a guerrilla DJ - but this is not guerrilla film making. This is the one film that would have benefited from digital video and a lot of camera wobble!There is a kind of Howard's Greatest Hits section where famous moments from the radio show are re-created, including a bit of studio nudity (on radio?) and some of his better stunts, the most memorable being getting a woman to orgasm on a loud speaker cabinet. Naturally the woman is a perfect porno blonde - because this is a film not real life.There is only so many ways you can say I don't really care about Howard Stern. Outside of the US - where people can hear the show - I doubt most people know who he is. The few comments he makes about foreigners (including us Brits) he doesn't seem to care. Despite the many faults with both the film and the life of Stern this is passable entertainment. Limp, but passable. Stern is no real actor and uses voice-over like a heckler in his own movie, presumably knowing another trade secret getting the joke in first.The soap opera of his private life is neither one thing or another and the scene in which he snubs people that once snubbed him is risible and predictable.I have always said show-biz is the happy home to many a social misfit - this film is the proof. "},{"Title":"YAWN!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is about an American  Shock Jock and his life up to now. Well ,after watching this all i can say is What a boring life,Boring man and a boring film! if this is the best America has to offer then i am pleased i live in the UK. This film goes nowhere , Howard Stern should have got an actor to play the part it might have made him look a little more interesting! 5 out of 10   "},{"Title":"one chuckle in the whole movie!","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I listen to his radio show 2-3 days a week, and I had read the book and liked it. The movie, however, wasn't funny AT ALL! Stern's a lousy actor, and the movie was stupid, stupid, STUPID. The one (somewhat) funny part was used in the TV commercials over & over, so who thought it was funny for the 10th time? There were about 25 people at the theater when we went, and I heard no more that 25 laughs TOTAL (that's one for each person). It was just a re-hash of the (once-in-a-while) funny stuff on the radio show. He brags that it made money, but who says that's an indication of quality? I wouldn't sit thru it again for $50. "},{"Title":"Synopsis Hey I'm not that bad; nobody understands me!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pathetic attempt by radio shock jock Howard Stern to redeem his extremely negative image after utterly offending everyone and everything in the planet, and self-proclaiming king of all media (laugh). The whole point of the movie is to display Mr. Stern as a loving family man whose sense of humor is just misunderstood by the general American public.It's not a bad movie, very funny at times, and shows a lot of care in the writing of the script. The sad part is that Mr. family man Stern still makes horrendous, tasteless jokes on his radio show, and just recently he aired some perversely disgraceful jokes (for lack of a better name) about the female victims of the Columbine high school shooting.This movie did not change my view of Howard Stern; I still don't see him as a misunderstood, caring family man. He still is mean and tasteless in his radio show, and keeps pushing the limits of what's even ethical or responsible to broadcast. "}{"Title":"self-glorifying crap...","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i can't begin to explain how uninteresting this movie was.  i've listened to howard stern's radio show several times and find it to be obnoxious.  why should the movie be any different, i thought.so i watched it.  maybe i would glean something about the guy's life.to make a long story short, i never in my life have seen someone praise themself more lavishly and publicly than in this film.  maybe i am supposed to admire howard stern for his self-centeredness, but i truly truly don't.this movie does nothing but try to make howard look like some sort of revolutionary.  instead he seems more like a money-grubbing ego-maniac. hardly admirable.  i thought perhaps that there would be some sort of personal change or admission of a nicer, softer howard or something.nope.what i got out of it was this  get a job, tick off your co-workers, become self-absorbed, alienate your wife and friends, ask for more money, fake an apology to your wife, continue to treat your family like garbage....then get a big raise for it and repeat this cycle.  CRAPOLA!the whole point of the movie appeared to be an apology to his wife for an argument or something.  i have to wonder if it worked.i'd say the only saving grace in this movie (i won't call it a film) would be the character pig-vomit.  well delivered lines, and sincere acting made his role the only enjoyable aspect (for me).  if i want to see nudity for nudity's sake, i will look elsewhere.1/10... i only wish i could give it a zero. "},{"Title":"Stole Title From the 1972 Paul Bartel film.","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"    This two-bit chump is about as funny as Road Kill. If your a creep you'll get a kick out of it. I see nothing exceptional about what the guy does, nothing exceptional at all. I've heard it said that he's nothing more than A punk someone owed a favor. I'm not impressed by people who do the sort of things only a two-bit coward would consider. Having a sense of humor about life is one thing, using people is another. Don't buy into it! When you go about setting people up in various cowardly ways that goes beyond any notion of free speech and becomes vile corruption. Nothing is what it seems to be. "},{"Title":"Almost completely made up history. Why?","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The fact that this was directed by a woman turned what might have been a much raunchier film into a blandish comedy but Howard was probably looking to reach a broader audience at the time. It is a good movie, not great, but mostly a disappointment for Stern fans as it is not a real history of the events that took place. Here's some fake movie history Luke Perry introduced Howard as Fartman on MTV not John Stamos.Why would Dee Snider make a face at Howard behind stage when they were great friends at the time. Oh by the way, Dee was not even there as Twisted Sister had broke up in 1988, the event was in Sept. of 1992. Neither was Flavor Flav, Ozzy, Blues Traveler, MC Hammer, or Tiny Tim, etc, etc. Also no one treated Howard that way back stage, he was very famous at the time, had a #1 book and many of the same powers to help or hurt peoples careers.There is no song called Mama Look-A Boo Boo from the time Howard was driving with his father.The dirty puppet show at the old folks home never happened.They leave out the fact that Howard was doing bits for years before he discovered himself and don't show any of the many people he worked with on air over the years in college and up to NBC.Howard was not playing punk music like the Ramones at WRNW, in fact he played mostly disco.Howard did not meet Fred in his first minute on the air at WCCC.Howard was never in a bathtub with Fred and an actress.Howard didn't have long hair until the very end of his time with WNBC.Howard did not quit on the air at WWWW when they went country.Robin did not meet Howard on the air, they had both received tapes of each other prior to meeting and then decided to work together.The on the air orgasm did not happen that way, it was with a small radio and sounded completely different. Technically it could not be done as shown in the movie.Robin was not with Howard at the beginning at NBC as she quit in DC taking a straight news job after not being picked up by WNBC and blamed Howard for abandoning her. So the first night tryout for the Stern crew could never have happened with her. It also did not sound that way, they did not say sperm and gargle with it.Their programmers nickname was pig virus, not pig vomit, why they changed this I have no clue.The prevalence of breast implants is ridiculous in this movie, (girl on phone, girl in studio, girls in lesbian dream) this was not very common in the early 80's especially for women not in the porn or movie industry.In the last scene at the concert (the film says July 27th 1985), Howard looked nothing like this in 1985 nor did Robin. Phil Rudd was not in AC/DC at the time, nor did Stern's wife go into labor. His kids were born in 1983, 1986 and 1993. She wasn't even pregnant at the time, their next child wouldn't be born until May 9, 1986.I really have no problem with movies condensing or changing things a little because of time restraints or creativity but please, when you actually make things up that never happened its a little disconcerting. I mean why don't we just make a movie where Jesus is at the Battle of Waterloo, or John Lennon gets shot on a space ship or George Washington meets Hitler. The sad thing is this happens all the time and people believe its true and take it as history, just look at Braveheart where historical characters are in the same time period even though they lived 200 years apart.Its just sad and stupid. "},{"Title":"Pig Vomit Trivia","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Howard really hit a home run with this movie!! However, Howard always referred to his hated program director Randy as Pig Virus. Howard gave the name PIG VOMIT to the band that did all the music for his radio shows and live performances, eventually making the band his own. While PIG VOMIT used to play Zeppelin and AC/DC tunes at the live shows, the movie production company actually used AC/DC in the movie instead of Howard's own band. I guess once they realized that they had screwed up by getting Randy's name wrong, it was too late to make corrections. That's showbiz! The movie was great nonetheless. With the exception of leaving out the original band, I'm glad they used the actual radio cast members in the movie. Long Live STERN!!!!  "},{"Title":"There is nothing private about this guy's privates.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By all means I'm no prude; but lewd and crude does not always make a movie worth watching. You can take or leave this account of radio personality Howard Stern as himself in his rise to fame as an astonishing successful shock jock. Also in the cast are Robin Quivers, Fred Norris and Mary McCormack. Of interest is that Betty (Hill St. Blues)Thomas directs; and a splatter of cameos featuring Ted Nugent, Carol Alt, John Stamos, Iggy Pop, David Letterman and Ozzy Osbourne. "},{"Title":"Expected Much More - Sadly Disappointed","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a reluctant Howard Stern fan today.  I refused to listen to him for years, but once I settled down and spent enough time with him on the radio, I came to really appreciate most of his sarcastic, intelligent humor.  There is a lot I have to over look, but enough of what he says is delightfully amusing to me that I keep tuned in these days.  So I really looked forward to seeing his film thinking it too would be a pleasant surprise.  Boy, was I wrong. With the exception of the pleasure of seeing lovely Robin in the flesh, there were few entertaining moments. A few more maybe if you count laughing at those ridiculous wigs Howard wore. In short I was bored. Still love you though, Howard. Hope you'll try it again with a little bit more pizzaz. "},{"Title":"Strictly for superfans","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I tried very hard to find a laugh-out-loud moment in this film and have failed.This is a film adaptation of HS's autobiographical book, and as such is portrayed through the eyes of a self-centred megalomaniac. As badly as HS wants us to think all this is interesting and even funny, it simply isn't. The scene with the patient in the park, for example, looks so poorly acted and so predictable.Too bad really. Lots of interesting characters have appeared on the show, and many of them could have made this movie more interesting. The supporting cast, particularly Fred, are very good; the sole exception is of course Robin, who comes across at least as equally self absorbed as HS regardless of whether she actually is or not.Rent it on a slow night only. "},{"Title":"Terrific Comedy with a (Gasp) Heart","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Private Parts (1997) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Taken from Howard Stern's best selling autobiography, this film follows Sterns early years as a loser in high school all the way up to becoming the king of radio in New York City. While the majority of the film deals with his struggle of making it on the radio, we also get the story of his relationship with wife Alison (Mary McCormack). No matter what you think of Stern I think anyone will be able to enjoy this film and in fact I still remember going to see it when it was first released with someone who hated the guy with a passion and even they walked out liking him. I think a large portion of the film and the original book wanted to make people understand Stern and there's no question that the film is a bit one-sided but in the end it accomplishes what it set out to do and that is show people the real person. The film is full of raunchy humor including a great take-off on the Match Game and another terrific sequence with Stern having sex with a woman over the radio and while these comic bits are terrific what really makes the film so memorable is its charm. The film is incredibly charming and one can't help but really fall in love with Stern's character and especially the way he's determined not to stop until he reaches the top. I think the film is rather remarkable in that it can be downright filthy one moment but then sweet the next. It's really hard to mix those two things but the screenplay and director Thomas really make it work and by doing so they've created a rather special movie that keeps getting better with each new viewing. It should come as no shock but Stern makes for a terrific actor even though he's playing himself. I've heard many great actors say that playing themselves would be a very difficult thing to do but Stern handles it with no troubles as does his supporting mates Robin Quivers, Fred Norris and Jackie Martling. McCormack is also extremely good as the wife and her chemistry with Stern comes off as real and they make you feel as if you're watching a real couple. Even better is Paul Giamatti who plays Kenny, aka Pig Vomit, the man who tries to tame Stern when he gets to NBC. The fire and passion that Giamatti brings to the role is rather remarkable to watch and you can't help but laugh at loud when he and Stern are going at it. PRIVATE PARKS is a hilarious movie and a touching one that tells the rise of Stern with loving care and in the end it really delivers everything you'd want it to. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"      This movie is total TRASH, It is about Howard Stern's success story that is one of being counter productive. Stern's radio show is unfit for listening to and this movie is part of of it. The acting and dialog is also substandard made for people with simple minds and no intelligence.    The radio airwaves are a communications resource and a public and community service not an avenue for garbage like his show.   This has to be the worse film ever made, avoid and watch paint dry or anything but this. "},{"Title":"whats the point?","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have never heard Howard Stern's radio show but from all the comments I hear about it, it is really horrid. Offensive, vulgar, and adolescent nonsense have never interested me. This movie, by extension, is the most boring, repetitive, puerile nonsense coupled with horrible acting, repugnant characters, and basically, total lack of any humor. The People vs. Larry Flynt is a movie about a repugnant character eventually finding some socially and morally redeeming quality (and it is even amusing in parts). Private Parts has none of that. In fact it has none of really anything resembling humanity except humanity at its basest, crudest adolescence. This movie is just a movie about Howard Stern for Howard Stern. All his uneducated minions have just been served a movie about nothing with nothing. No human emotions, no character development and no relationship between characters (even between Howard and Alyson). Nothing! I am not kidding, this movie has nothing. I have commented on bad movies before. Some movies worth stems from their worthlessness. Private Parts isn't even worth its worthlessness. If someone told me to write a script about a worthless movie, Private Parts would be it. But then again I thought to myself that fans of Howard Stern's radio show listen to Howard Stern talk about his life and his fantasies. All this is wrapped up as entertainment. Since this movie was written for those uneducated Stern fans, I guess they got their moneys worth.If I had to find something interesting or amusing in the movie it is when Stern is self deprecating. Asking a blind woman for a date and then have her feel his face and then turn him down. Or when he first met Alyson and his awkwardness. Or when he was first on the radio or was troubled by his position as program director. Those parts make him seem human. The rest of the movie is just self glorifying, infantile crap.As for Howard Stern. I can't stand him personally. His utterly reprehensible, morally bankrupt, tripe nonsense is a complete debasement of humanity. All of the characters were ugly people. And what is up with the title? Private Parts? Does he mean the part about his wifes miscarriage? "}]