[{"Title":"Not half bad","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Okay, truthfully, I saw the previews for this movie and thought to myself, what are the producers thinking?  Hutton, Jolie, and  DUCHOVNY?  How could the monotoned actor possibly compete with Jolie's natural power on the screen?  But surprisingly, the two had the kind of chemistry that showed intense caring without a kiss.  Even David's humor matched up to Jolie's spark and fire.  As for Hutton, he played the psycho very well, contrasting with David's calm delivery of life threatening situations.  Overall, I was very impressed with the writing and character development.  I gave it 8 stars. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Eugene Sands is a drug addict doctor - although he has long since been barred from practicing medicine having been found operating high, leading to a girl's death.  When he is at a club buying he witnesses a shooting and steps in to do enough to save a man's life.  The owner of the club and criminal to boot, Raymond Blossom, takes an interest in Eugene and begins using him and his doctor.  However the FBI are after Raymond and make moves to use Eugene to trap him.Coming off as a slightly upmarket video thriller, this film could have been much better but ultimately fails to engage or rise to it's potential.  The plot is OK but the script doesn't manage to lift the story up into something that is really strong and engaging.  The delivery is a big part of the problem - it isn't that well directed, nothing very wrong but certainly the feel of a video film as opposed to a big screen thriller.  The decision to have a voice over narrator is always a gamble; sometimes it works but sometimes it really doesn't.Here the narration doesn't work for two reasons. First of all, the narrator has to explain or develop so much because the film fails to do it as part of the story being told.  To make matters worse Duchovny delivery is so flat that it really sucks any energy out of the film.  His actual performance is not as bad as his voiceover but he doesn't exactly manage to lead the film. This leaves the way open for Hutton's villain, but he struggles with a lack of character and eventually gives into overacting.  Jolie is good but again suffers from having no character.  Regardless of performances, not having any buy in with the main people meant that I wasn't into the story as I needed to be.  Support from Massee, Stormare and Dourdan doesn't so much add quality as add familiarity.Overall this was very much a workmanlike thriller.  It is passable but really it is difficult to overlook the fact that the film has major weaknesses in most areas.  The plot is good but the script can't do anything with it, the narration is rubbish and the acting is only reasonable on the whole.  Worth watching once but it's hard not to feel let down by it. "},{"Title":"Script/movie comparison","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Smart, funny script with interesting original premise of the doctor forced to work for criminals. The movie wanders, though, as there's no real central plotline. Great dialogue, but maybe the subsidiary characters are more interesting than the main characters. Script is dramatic/comedic; movie is played down, but the choice to do so seems to have robbed the movie of much-needed juice. The stakes don't seem to be too high for any character. Direction is competent, but doesn't match the script. Hutton is scary, but doesn't have much to do except act scary. Duchovny is fine, but I think he was cast mostly for his X-Files fame at the time. He's not exactly the most charismatic lead actor.  "},{"Title":"God help this movie","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood possesses the penchant for remaking old classic films, such as Gus Van Sant's re-working of Hitchcock's Psycho. Here's an idea instead of remaking GOOD movies, why don't we remake bad ones, and try to improve them? In such a world, I would nominate Playing God for a treatment. The premise is interesting, and the script, although at times uneven, has moments of poetic lyricism and some nice touches. So . . . what happened? The finger must be pointed at the performances, which fail to capture the essence of the screenplay. David Duchovny is cast against type as a drug-addled ex-physician, and Timothy Hutton's portrayal of gangster Raymond Blossom borders on the plane of villainy and its cariacture. Duchovny, whose deadpan delivery and solemn glances work fine in the X-Files, must realize that the role he's playing here is NOT Fox Mulder, but a much more unsympathetic character. Grade C "},{"Title":"Credible Performance","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" David Duchovny plays the lead role in this film.Now a lot of people upon finding that fact out wouldn't even bother watching it.Very unfair to say the least.David made his name on the x-files and is a decent actor. Dr Eugene Sands(Duchovny)is a drug addicted doctor struck off for malpractice.By sheer accident he becomes a private doctor for criminal millionaire Raymond Blossom.However the FBI take an interest in using Eugene to snare Blossom. Angelina Jolie is cast in the supporting role of clare-the gangsters moll.She puts in a solid performance. Timothy Hutton playing Blossom is superb and immersed himself deeply into his character. Duchovny himself isn't as bad as many people would think and in the end i would rate his performance his credible.His familiar monotonous tone and straight face is present but dosen't detract too much from the film "},{"Title":"better than your big Hollywood block busters","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. Unlike like some of the pumped up, steroid trash that is passed off as action movies, Playing God is simple and realistic, with characters that are believable, action that is not over the top and enough twists and turns to keep you interested until the end.Well directed, well acted and a good story. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly decent Thrill-packed drama","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This film started off seeming a little bit tv-ish but turned out as a very watchable and slightly tongue-in-cheek thrill-ride. David Duchovny is very watchable and provides multiple sides of his lead character, a geeky surgeon, a down-and-out druggy, a hard-balled hero and a hopeless Romeo. Fighting for the love of Angelina Jolie as the sexy and good-natured mistress of Tim Hutton. Hutton has loads-a-fun as the hip and ultra-slick Mob boss, very almost unconvincingly evil, but not quite. Peter Stormare is underused and loud roles with screaming obscenities certainly aren't his scene, roles such as the one in Fargo suit his style alot better. The narration is well-used and Duchovny's voice is interesting as he explains his past, feelings, opinions. But unfortunately there's a point where his slightly mono-style voice gets a little too much. Still, he proves a solid lead and leads the film into a successful finale, ending a worth-while and overlooked Thriller from 1997. "},{"Title":"not your everyday action flick","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Normally, I don't watch action movies because of the fact that they are usually all pretty similar.  This movie did have many stereotypical action movie scenes, but the characters and the originality of the film's premise made it much easier to watch.  David Duchovny bended his normal acting approach, which was great to see.  Angelina Jolie, of course, was beautiful and did great acting.  Great cast all together.  A must see for people bored with the same old action movie.    "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie, as I must admit I only watched it to see David Duchovny. I was pleased to find that David was not the only member of the cast to turn in an interesting and entertaining performance. Timothy Hutton was very convincing as the bad guy with a real weakness for his beautiful girl friend, played by Angelina Jolie. Angelina is both a beautiful and talented actress. I have seen her in several movies since this one and enjoyed her in all of them. I thought she gave an especially moving performance in Gia. I enjoyed watching Playing God as the story moved along at a good pace, there was plenty of action and I especially enjoyed David's narrative which lent some humor at just the right times to what could have been just another bloody movie. I would recommend this film to any David Duchovny fans as he is at this best here, and also to any of you who enjoy Angelina Jolie. I give this movie 8 stars. "},{"Title":"David Duchovny way too cool!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" I went into the experience of watching this movie expecting very little. I wanted to see the movie ever since I saw the preview for it years ago. I wasn't even aware that Angelina Jolie was in this. I'm not a great fan of David Duchovny. Timothy Hutton I expected to play his usual 'charming criminal role' and not do much more. That said, I was truly pleasantly surprised. The film had a nice even pace, lots of blood-spattering gun play and very little sex. In fact, I don't recall Angelina Jolie planting those huge lips of hers on anybody. Hmmm.David Duchovny played his part to perfection. Next to Angelina Jolie, his slouching casual self, muted by his dope habit, could have easily been a drooling fool captivated by her 'loose woman' persona. Instead, befitting an ultra-cool guy with years of education and socialization behind him, he turned it way down and was the cool hipster dealing with really evil hipsters who, like himself, always had some drugs in a pocket or the glove compartment. And like a cool hipster, he naturally kept encountering more and more cool hipsters. Like the bikers on the road who turn out to be allies when he is on the run.He had great lines, as did Timothy Hutton. He showed a mastery of timing, as did Timothy Hutton. Angelina kind of passed from man to man, looking beautiful but NOT having great lines and not having much of a history. I am glad I ordered this film from Amazon and finally got to see it. It was satisfying if you like any of the aforementioned actors. I liked Angelina Jolie in this film and I usually don't. She just looked good - good enough to make men want her but not interesting enough for anyone to want to get to know her. "}{"Title":"A pleasure to see a film so different from the rest.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps one of the biggest shadows to ever get out of, TV. Upon hearing that an actor is moving from the small to the big screen, immediately the average fan judges said actor poorly, usually for the sole reason that they feel he is betraying his medium. David Duchovny was unfortunately, no exception.His portrayal of Eugene, a doctor who loses his license for losing a patient while under the influence of a controlled substance is excellent. Drawn into a world that his education never prepared him for, he feels himself wanting to leave it on the surface, but intrigued by it in a way he'd rather not admit.Timothy Hutton, continues to show us that his Oscar in 1980 is still very well deserved. As Raymond Blossom, the underworld czar with his fingers in just about everything from bootlegged CDs to murder, he befriends Eugene through a incident that is as well thought out as it is acted.Angelina Jolie rounds out the cast as Raymond's girlfriend who has as her own agenda as much as Raymind and Eugene do.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Great for David Duchovny fans","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I saw Playing God recently and it is an average movie. I am a big fan of David Duchovny, so that was the reason I rented this movie. The movie has a lot of blood and gore, a lot of swear words, but no nudity. It is good to see David in a different role. If you are a fan of David Duchovny or any of the other actors in this movie then it is worthy for you to see. If not this movie is not anything to be excited about. The last half of the movie is much better than the first, it is actually good quality film-making and shows that David can shine in other roles. My rating A 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" David Duchovney creates a role that he was to replicate somewhat in Californication - the troubled talent. And it is a role he plays well.This thriller starts off at a good speed and carries you through to the end. Timothy Hutton plays a fine villain and Angelina Jolie pouts. The story of a disgraced doctor finding his way into a criminal world is well scripted. Drug addiction and a desire for the sultry Jolie mix a heady cocktail. Unfortunately towards the end the story gets a little weaker and the relationships between villains and the FBI is muddled and rushed as if it was created only to develop the final scene. But, that aside, a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"94 minutes of slick surreal entertainment","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Don't analyse the plot if you can help it. Boring, it is not.It's unusual to find a movie that seeks to entertain within a self-imposed time constraint and this one has a few memorable one-liners to take away. That, alone, makes this worth seeing.In case you're wondering, I'm not a Duchovny 'fan'. A Timothy Hutton fan...? Well, it was a show-stealing performance... "},{"Title":"Better than expected, worse than it could be.","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This film has a lot of raw potential. The script is sharp, the dialogue is (usually) excellent (though it could stand to lose the cheezy voice-overs), the direction and cinematography is surprisingly quite good, though some of the experimentation just doesn't work. The main problem here is David Duchovny. Once a geek-boy, always a geek-boy; and the sad, simple fact is that he's incapable of playing anything but Fox Mulder. He postures, he tries to be slick, he poses, he tries to be macho. In the end he just tries too hard. He overplays his character, he overspeaks his lines, and he's just outplayed in all ways by Timothy Hutton and Angelina Jolie, who are each in a class above him in terms of acting skill. Timothy Hutton was (as always) really good. There was a spotty moment or two where he over-dramatized his role, but you could tell he was having fun with it. He looked the part, and he became the character both physically and atmospherically. Angelina Jolie was also really good. She didn't have much of a role; in fact, I though she could have used a much stronger one...her character wasn't nearly developed enough, though she did remarkably well with what she had. And the chemistry between her and Hutton was apparent (gee, maybe that's why Uma left him...;) All in all, it was rough around the edges, but a solid effort by a good cast and great supporting roles. If David Duchovny hadn't ripped his role to pieces it would've been *that* much better. 7/10. "},{"Title":"lifeless and trying too hard with the style","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Dr. Eugene Sands (David Duchovny) was stripped of his license when he operated while high. He is at a bar scoring drugs. There's a shooting and he helps the victim getting the attention of Claire (Angelina Jolie). Goons bring Sands to counterfeiter Raymond Blossom (Timothy Hutton) who hires him as a personal doctor. Claire is Blossom's girlfriend and Sands is paid $10k for saving his 'friend' at the bar.Timothy Hutton is not a good tough guy. When he's surrounded by other actors who always play tough, he looks silly. The movie feels fake on its own but he just makes it worst. He should forget about the blond hair and the slick clothes. They don't fit him. He's better off with a nice suit and act like a CEO. Duchovny is not good enough as a drug addict either. Jolie is oozing sexuality. Most of the movie struggles for pace and tension. This is trying for neo-noir crime drama with the style and the narration. It fails badly. The wipes, the camera effects, the locations and all the rest seem to be trying way too hard to make a bad movie more interesting. "},{"Title":"Good performances, lousy movie","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" 'Playing God' would be nothing without three of the best actors around to bring a tired genre piece to new heights and make it intriguing.David Duchovny stars as Eugene Sands, a former surgeon who was disgraced when his attempt to balance pill popping caused him to lose a patient. Instead of trying to save his shattered career, he chose to take the easy road to addiction. As the movie opens, he is trying to buy heroine in a bar when a man is shot in argument. Quick thinking Dr. Sands becomes McGyver and fashions a breathing apparatus out of a coke bottle.His quick thinking saves the man's life and captures the attention of Claire (Angelina Jolie). She is so impressed that the next thing he knows he is being invited to the home of millionaire Raymond Blossom (Timothy Hutton). Blossom offers the good doctor a job in which he will be paid to take care of some of his friends who run into, let's just say, some unfortunate gunshot wounds of which hospitals would ask too many questions.The story is, of course, completely stupid and so is Duchovny's quicksilver surgical methods. But it didn't bother me because the realm of this kind of hard-boiled story allows it some freedom. It's helped by Duchovny who is a good looking guy but doesn't seem to be standing around posing all the time. He isn't afraid to look foolish, a quality the most actor's shy away from.Hutton is never a slouch, he goes into even the most tedious screenplay and acts his heart out. Playing the villain is easy when all you have to do is look mean, kill people and issue threats. But Hutton, as Blossom allows us to see what seduced him to his life of crime in the first place. He is an amazing presence in this film because watching him I'm drawn into his character so that I more easily identify with him.Angelina Jolie is a rare case of a gorgeous young woman who doesn't just stand around behind the actors. There is an intelligent person beneath her looks and her screen presence is as welcome as her looks. She could step into the window dressing in this film and simply be the object of lust but we sense a smart woman who is a sucker for a stray dog like Sands.We know that what we are watching is preposterous but with these three wonderful actors they are able to break away from the confines of the screenplay and absorb us. "},{"Title":"Only Timothy Hutton","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Yesterday I watched this movie on television and I'm not very happy about it.Script can pass as OK but other things can't.First,director Andy Wilson didn't do nothing special,so ordinary directing with few flaws.Second,casting is not good.David Duchovny doesn't have anything to be a leading actor in this movie.That scene when he raises his voice to say something is more funny then it is authoritative.He's very poor actor and his highest achievement are X-Files.Angelina Jolie also nothing,zero,bad.Why did she won Oscar?The way she acted is easy and that role could do any other actress.Only Timothy Hutton left some impression on me.He's mean and that suits him right.He can be good guy and bad too.He's the reason this movie can pass.Because of Hutton 5/10. "},{"Title":"A trap of a movie as was for the characters.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Duchovny plays a surgeon who had his operating license taken away, he gets pulled into a criminal mafia where one action leads to a bigger one. Getting synthetic herion was his prime objective as he goes to a sleazy bar but he ended up saving a man's life.  Not any man but a man within a overlord's keep. Leaving the bar he not only had the blood of the shot man and his drugs but the acquaintance of the overlord who would not forget him. Duchovny will always be Mulder to me but from this movie I can see that he can actually act outside of the X-files, with the help of Angelina Jolie and Timothy Hutton of course.  Over all the movie had a unique plot but a foreseen ending.  Out of ten I would give this movie a six, worthy to watch but not something I would watch over again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Film","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  It's always interesting to see in what way the nouvelles celebrites choose to spend their fame. Playing God is certainly not a groundbreaking film, but it was very enjoyable, with some good laughs and an involving storyline. It's especially interesting to watch David Duchovny act.  Duchovny has always been the strength of the X-Files, and he has the presence, timing, and delivery for a vehicle such as this. He makes a convincing and compelling Everyman.7/10 stars, I recommend it. "}{"Title":"An overlooked gem","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  With the mixed reviews this got I wasn't expecting too much, and was pleasantly surprised.  It's a very entertaining small crime film with interesting characters, excellent portrayals, writing that's breezy without being glib, and a good pace.  It looks good too, in a funky way. Apparently people either like this movie or just hate it, and I'm one who liked it. "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad wipes, bad film.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Not even Timothy Hutton or David Duchovny could save this dead fish of a film. For starters, the script was definitely written to be made into a B-film, but somehow Duchovny (looking for a star vehicle to elevate himself out of television) and Hutton (looking for the two of a one-two punch he had hoped would define his career after Ordinary People) became attached to the picture. Cheesy lines, big bad wipes from scene to scene (Come on--who uses wipes after 12th Grade Telecommunications class?), and plain old bad acting sink this film. Even Duchovny is not immune to the bad acting plague that is this film. Only Timothy Hutton rises above the material at all. I must admit feeling Duchovny's pain as he read the lines that are the voice-over. While I found myself laughing when I'm sure the director wanted me to feel terrified, nothing prepared me for the closing line of Duchonvey's voice-over if you ever need a doctor, be sure to call 911. If only the studio had called 911, this dog of a motion picture would never have been made. Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, Extremely Terrible","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Cool idea... botched writing, botched directing, botched editing, botched acting.  Sorta makes me wish I could play God and strike everyone involved in making this film with several bolts of lightning.  "},{"Title":"Playing Duchovny.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Playing God (1997) Dir Andy Wilson / Cast David Duchovny, Timothy Hutton, Angelina Jolie, Peter Stormare, John Hawkes Intriguing action film about life rendered to the hands of another. David Duchovny stars as a surgeon who loses his license after practicing on a patient while on dope. After a shootout at a bar, he assists a wounded individual using a bottle. This impresses a criminal, played by Timothy Hutton who wishes to employ his services. Duchovny is hired to patch up associates who suddenly end up dying. Great setup grows repetitious but the climax is powerful. Andy Wilson directs with insight with an excellent performance from Duchovny. He is seen as a total wipe out whose life spirals downward after losing his license. Now his skill finds new ground that leaves him asking questions and eventually facing right and wrong. Hutton steals the film as a gangster who employs Duchovny's services to dire orders until the two have a great showdown that presents a strong conclusion. Angelina Jolie as Hutton's girlfriend will obviously become romantically linked to Duchovny and become nothing more than a prop. Other roles are flat and serve mainly as fillers or faceless thug criminal drug dealing idiots. The message regards the value of human life and the idea that nobody can play God but we often destroy what God creates. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"David Duchovny becomes a surgeon for Timothy Hutton's gang needs","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Back in 1935, Paul Muni played in Dr. Socrates. He was a doctor who had to work for mobster, Barton MacLane. Playing God is a neo-noir with something similar in its setup. David Duchovny is a skilled and dedicated surgeon who has lost his medical license. By chance he saves the life of an associate of criminal Timothy Hutton. Hutton rewards him handsomely and induces him to work for him. Hutton's girl friend is Angelina Jolie. She likes Duchovny and wants him to end the drug addiction he's been on ever since losing a patient by operating when he was exhausted and under the influence of drugs. The story nicely elaborates on this setup. With Duchovny's narration and the hot water he gets into, this film is a clear neo-noir.It's a solid effort in all departments. As a noir, it's not as dark as some. It does have a satiric edge to it and does not take itself altogether seriously. It has plenty of tense moments.I liked this movie. "},{"Title":"David Duchovny, Doctor on Dope","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Don't let his tanned and muscular good looks fool you; underneath that healthy exterior, Los Angeles doctor David Duchovny (as Eugene Sands) is a washed-up drug addict. Stripped of his medical license after operating while high, Mr. Duchovny makes a barroom dope deal at the same time someone is shot. Duchovny uses his medical knowledge to save the otherwise mortally wounded crook. This attracts attention from blond crime boss Timothy Hutton (as Raymond Ray Blossom), who rewards Duchovny and uses him as a personal physician. This way, Mr. Hutton can save lives while avoiding hospitals and police. Hutton comes with a strikingly beautiful girlfriend avec especially sensuous lips, painted bright red &#x96; yes, it's uber-attractive Angelina Jolie (as Claire)...You don't have to be told, but things get complicated when Duchovny and Ms. Jolie become mutually attracted...Leading the capable supporting players is steely-eyed FBI agent Michael Massee (as Gage). He also wants to deal with Duchovny. This production, directed by Andy Wilson from a Mark Haskell Smith script, moves along well. There are more than a couple problems, however. Duchovny, propelled to stardom on TV's The X-Files, delivers some terminally ill narration; it should have declared inoperable and put of its misery. As far as looking like a drug addict, Duchovny's more cool than strung-out; that's okay, but we're never really sure why he's one of the least stoned-looking members of the cast. Anthony B. Richmond's cinematography is fine, but Mr. Wilson includes double-exposure and scene transition/dissolves effects that look more like mistakes than effects.***** Playing God (10/17/97) Andy Wilson ~ David Duchovny, Timothy Hutton, Angelina Jolie, Michael Massee "},{"Title":"Cross Gender Popcorn Picture","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Underrated action movie that cannot escape that late twentieth century style of combining violent thrills and hard-boiled criminals with a patina of aloof detachment and self consciousness. Sometimes it works well (Tarantino/Rodriguez/Rami) but it is a tricky conceit and you have to be a talent to pull it off. Often the style fails miserably, but not here.While not in the same league as films directed by the above mentioned, this one has enough attraction to keep it from failing. It is an entertaining romp with a good story and is not brought down by some soggy script development and a couple of over the top, completely out there, characters (F.B.I. Agent and some assorted cartoon villains).Overall this one is overlooked as one of the better of this type of thing, a viewer-friendly cross gender popcorn picture, and is worth a view. "},{"Title":"This is definitely not bad","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Like I said its a hidden surprise. It well written well acted and well cast. I liked everything in this movie. Look its Hollywood all right but the brighter side. Angelina Jolie is great in this and I'm totally watching every movie with her in that I can get my hands on. Well worth a look.  "},{"Title":"What A Let-Down!","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Nothing good comes out of Playing God, a pointless Faustian medical thriller anesthetized with clichés about a busted surgeon whose synthetic heroin habit lands him in with the dregs of the Los Angeles underworld. As X-Files actor David Duchovny's first starring role, this mediocre melodrama about redemption and retribution is less than scintillating. Actually, it is downright embarrassing. Ineptly directed and predictably scripted, Playing God penalizes both its rising star and moviegoers with implausible plot twists, cornball situations, and klutzy villains. Perhaps if the filmmakers had taken their straight, sober-minded drama and played it as broad comedy the film might have been more entertaining and less moronic. The Mark Haskell Smith screenplay is the stuff of which pulp fiction classics are created. Blazing shoot-outs, careening car chases, smart-aleck dialogue, eccentric criminals, and a blast-from-the-past soundtrack, featuring pop tunes such as the Bee Gee's Jive Talking, flesh out what essentially constitutes a thin, one-dimensional character study. Under Andy Wilson's lackluster directing, these solid elements make for a soggy saga. A graduate of British TV shows such as Cracker, Wilson never generates the adrenaline rush or visceral thrills that Playing God desperately needs to slam it into hyperkinetic overdrive. The filmmakers plunge their hapless hero into harm's way, but he never appears to be in real jeopardy. Wilson and Smith strive to make the murderous antics in their storyline appear surreal, but these results are hopelessly farcical. Especially annoying is Wilson's obvious video-editing style that employs geometric wipes as transitional bridges between episodes. As a doctor who has fallen from on high, Eugene Sands (David Duchovny) spends his time now getting high. What should qualify as cinematic irony in Smith's script winds up as comical incongruity. One night while he's scoring his junk in a dive of an L.A. bar, Sands witnesses a brutal shooting. When nobody calls 911, Sands intervenes and uses his ingenuity to save the wounded man. As it turns out, the poor slob worked for international smuggler Raymond Blossom (Timothy Hutton). Blossom is a wacky psycho who'd double-cross his own mother on the flip of a coin as well as a fashion designer's nightmare. Sands finds himself suddenly being smothered by Blossom's offer of works and drugs. The young, disadvantaged doctor doesn't know quite what to think. Blossom requires Sands' considerable medical talents to save a Russian hit-man who has information vital to Blossom's criminal interests. Initially, despite some misgivings, Sands agrees to perform the surgery and pocket a cool $10-thousand dollars. Before Sands can cruise into the sunset, a scheming, Dagwood Bumstead-esque FBI agent (Michael Massee) recruits Sands as his material witness to back up the person working undercover in Blossom's motley gang of Metallica rejects. Meanwhile, Blossom's sultry moll Claire (Angelina Jolie) complicates matters. Initially, she admires Sands, but she doesn't trust him. Things go incredibly wrong for everybody when a gang of vengeful Russian hit men invade Blossom's posh premises. They gun down one of Blossom's henchmen and put a bullet through Claire's chest. Before Playing God grinds predictably to its harebrained conclusion, the movie has Claire and Sands become lovers. Everything in Smith's script hangs on sudden reversals that are more stultifying than startling. Most ridiculous is Sands' unconvincing metamorphosis from a drugged out, self-depreciating loser to a resourceful, jaw-clenched action hero. Sands' fight with the sharp-shooting show-off Cyril (Andrew Tiernan) in a car is particularly unrealistic. Wilson's efforts to make Playing God different are doomed by his derivative approach. He bungles what should have been a minor film noir thriller. The story comes apart early on because the chain of events lacks dramatic cohesion. The final car chase starts out promisingly. Blossom and Claire dive into a truck, and as Sands follows them, two identical trucks breeze into the picture on either side of Blossom's ride. Sadly, Wilson does nothing original here, and the rest of the chase is a yawner. Nothing exciting occurs probably because their low budget couldn't afford any car crashes. The shoot-outs are staged with little panache. Most jarring of all is the surgery vignette enacted on a pool tale in an isolated hillbilly biker bar where Sands doctors the wounded Claire. Meantime, the FBI agents are so incompetent that a couple of brainless bad-guy buffoons can smash into their safe house and blast them into oblivion with little difficulty. The cast struggles with Smith's pseudo-cut dialogue that calls attention to the preposterous nature of the script. In the middle of the climactic car chase, Hutton's villain berates his struggling Claire for trying to disrupt the big auto chase. When movies indulge in self-mockery, you know that you're in trouble as an audience member. Presumably, by letting the characters poke fun at the plot twists, Wilson and Smith both hoped to distract spectators from the contrived quality of the story. Their well-intended attempts backfire miserably, and Playing God looks goofy. As the good guy hero who realizes the error of his ways, Duchovny maintains a poker face throughout the laughable proceedings. The filmmakers seem more intent on endorsing a didactic, anti-narcotics message than consistency of character. Playing God might have played better had Wilson and Smith kept their outlandish hero more strung out and challenged than straightened out and scrupulous. Duchovny's voice-over narration in the style of the old film noir detective thrillers seems more heavy-handed than handy. Jolie does little more than look pretty and pout her abundant lips. The movie takes a time-out to let the hero and the heroine bond with each other without shedding their clothes. As Sands' scumbag foe, Hutton drums up pathetic nastiness. Credit composer Richard Hartley with contributing a bouncy theme for the film. Die-hard X-Files fans beware Scrub this one. "},{"Title":"94 minutes you'll never get back...if you can stay awake","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" One of the most boring movies i've seen in a long time, with a story that never really takes off, and a plot that goes nowhere, makes no sense, and can be summarized in one line. The only reason i even watched it was because i was having trouble sleeping, bored, and it was on a 2 for 1 Blu-Ray with Color of Night with Bruce Willis and Jane March (a GREAT B-movie, that is one of those it's so bad it's good...highly recommended and underrated!). I would never have paid to watch this movie or even taken time to download it for free...i can't imagine who would. I never understood why some actors have a career (David Duchovny, Kevin Cline, Kevin Spacey) who can't even act and deliver all their lines like they're stoned or asleep, in every single movie they're in. I guess they have good agents. Funny to see Angelina Jolie before she got all buffed and toned; her face actually reminds me of Christina Ricci in a strange way, without the toning and slimmed cheeks. I found nothing in this movie believable, including the strange casting choices (is Timothy's Hutton's character supposed to be bi/gay, because he certainly gives that vibe...i have never seen another movie with him in it either, and can't say i'd desire to). Basically no point to watch this movie unless you're having trouble sleeping, or out of curiosity because you bought the Color of Night Blu-Ray. Nuff said. "}{"Title":"Backyard of Baywatch (DVD)","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" I know there aren't any ties between Baywatch and this movie. Except that they are shot in California, and more exactly in LA and its surroundings. Those locations struck me strongly while watching this movie. The audience moves as well in downtown than in the country, alternating beach and forest. The views you can find here complete the dreamy, cool ones of Baywatch, and even I didn't go there, I think this movie offers a good picture of the real LA. And really, I don't like very much this environment for a living and I prefer the San Francisco area.Now, the story is original but the gimmick (a doctor for healing thugs) is too much used. After the first one, the script becomes a collection of what-if what-if the doctor visits junk heads, what if the doctor cures the wife's boss, etc..Then, I am perplexed with the cast Hutton has really no charisma for a nutty and violent boss. On the contrary, Jolie and above all, Duchvony are excellent. I really appreciate Duchovny, because he is a tall man but he is also quiet. He knows what he wants but he doesn't speak a lot. I like his humor, dry, detached that fits well with his personality. I'am sure that without this hot ticket, this movie would be actually left in limbs.NB my trailer proposes a love scene between the two but it has been cut from the movie. "},{"Title":"Lame but Angelina was cute","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Overall the movie was fairly lame....I was doing dishes while I watched it... I only watched it because Angelina Jolie was in it. The movie could have been better. The idea for the movie was excellent, which is why I'm sad this movie was such a bore. A doctor gets his license taken from him when he does a surgery under narcotics and then starts working for gangs as their doctor. That last sentence I just wrote was the movie, so if you read that sentence, congratulations...you saw the movie!! Angelina was 7/10 in this movie. She is cute, but not stunning. Her face is a full.. looks healthier than she does now, but in the movie it was a bit too full for my taste. Her lips are still very juicy and kissable in this movie.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Now I am a David Duchovny, but I didn't think this movie was going to be good, but was I wrong. The dialogue was great. A little humor, but nothing stupid to ruin the moment. David Duchovny was good, didn't overplay his character, maybe overdid a few of his lines, but that's about it. Timothy Hutton was good as well. He played his character quite well. Having fun with a few of his lines, but pretty good. Angelina Jolie had a smaller role, but not too small and worked surprisingly well with David. They just kinda fit. The relationship between her and Timothy were good as well. The two 20-some year old's that were Timothy's little gang were quit funny and worked well together too. The cop after Timothy's character, I found quite annoying, but was there for a reason and wasn't so bad. The music in this film, the little music it had, I quit liked and fit with the film. I would rate this film 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"could have been a B movie, if not for Duchovny's acting","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This could have been a decent B movie if only they hadn't attempted to cast David Duchovny as an action hero. He makes no attempt to act, and seems to be either half-asleep or squinting at the cue cards. This being a B movie, sex appeal could have canceled out the bad acting, if he had any.Jolie and the rest make a valiant effort to save this film, but Duchovny spoils it. Obviously their budget didn't allow for one of the Baldwins, maybe Steven? "},{"Title":"Curiosity asks, Why did they even make this movie?","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Typical action movie, except no nudity. Normal mindless violence, opening with a pointless, plot, advancing blood-spurting moment. David Duchovny proves he has very little range, Angelina Jolie provides ample view of her over-bite, and the only real entertainment is mobster Timothy Hutton's villain. Admittedly, this plotless movie does begin to pick up towards the end, actually gaining some intensity, of which it had none from the beginning. There are about two, wide-spaced, humorous moments in this movie, providing  brief relief from David Duchovny's monotone monologues, but hey his lines were monotone too. If Duchovny was hoping this would be his big break, he (and we) are sorely disappointed. Perhaps if Hutton and Duchovny had switched roles, we might have had some, any moments of entertainment. A waste of money, do NOT rent this movie, it will disappoint. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of David Duchovny and I was thrilled to see that he was leaping back into the big screen with Playing God. However, I was a little hesitant about rushing out to see this movie when it came out Oct. 1997 because I knew I was in for a slight disappointment, even if it was David as the leading man. So, I waited a while to see it in the theater, and I knew I had to see it on the big screen because it would mark my first time ever seeing David on the big screen. All his other movies I have on tape. So, I saw it, thought it was pretty good, and thought he was great and gorgeous in this movie. Of course, now I have it on video-cassette. Not his best movie, but watchable. Not bad for a movie that was shot in under 2 months.  "},{"Title":"playing badly","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe that in 1997 David Duchovny was at the top of his fame, with X-Files, one of the best sci-fi series ever, being at the top of the glory. Nine years later he is almost forgotten, and his tentatives to make it on the big screen failed miserably. I cannot even explain why, he is a fair actor, but probably his moment of fame cast him in a eternal role that takes big talent to break from.At the same time Angelina Jolie was much less known, and she was really lucky that a film like 'Playing God' did not led her career into a dead-end. Fortunately for her, 'The Bone Collector' and 'Girl, Interrupted' were waiting beyond the corner, and when Lara Croft came, her career was launched.There is not too much to be told about this film. It's the only big screen film of Andy Wilson, and there must be a reason. All is banal and most of what happens on the screen expected in this story of an ex-doctor who saves the life of a shooting victim in a bar only to find himself working for the mob. The off-screen voice is especially bad, with a moralistic text that kills any shade of cinematographic experience from the film. You probably will not meet the film but in DVD rental stores, or on TV. Try to look for something better. "},{"Title":"A True Hollywood Hemmorhage","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Wow. I thought this might be insipid but it was even worse than I imagined! Sometimes I like to watch a good car-crash movie those that are so bad that you can't look away because you want to see how bad they can possibly get. This is really the only reason I could leave the television on - morbid fascination. It wasn't so much the acting, which was only mediocre or slightly worse than one would expect from this cast, but the premise and the plot which never should have seen the light of day. The script, too, is groan-inducing. As for cinematography, did anyone else notice that they used a curtains drawing segue device, like in an old 50's TV show...but without irony? At first I thought they must be kidding but the movie takes itself too seriously to have used this in a tongue-in-cheek manner. Don't even ask me about the score...the only high point is the final song, by Morcheeba. I guess they wanted to leave people with something for their $8...glad I saw it on TV!!!!! Just silly! I wonder if this is why Timothy Hutton has had trouble finding much work recently? I guess if you don't expect much, and want to watch a mindless thriller, it would be better than spending an evening clipping your toenails, which is why it merits a 2. "},{"Title":"I really liked the movie.","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This movie really kicked some ass. I watched it over and over and it never got boring. Angelina Jolie really kicked some ass in the movie, you should see the movie, you won't be disappointed. And another reason you should see the movie is because the guy from The X-Files is in it, David Duchovny. "},{"Title":"way to suck, guys","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Trite, predictable, and yet ludicrous.  Wow what an awful movie!  Duchovny proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that an Ivy League education doesn't mean a damned thing when it comes to acting.  He's been upstaged by the intelligent and understated performance of Gillian Anderson for years and that was with good scripts.  In this movie he utters vapid dialogue and then subjects us to an interior monologue so contrived it's laughable.  However, despite the horror that is this script and the tragedy that is david duchovny's performance the movie avoids being a total loss.  Tim Hutton is funny and engaging.  He has a great line in the chase scene that makes the whole movie worth while.  Angelina Jolie takes a part that's not worth the paper it's written on and makes it into a role upon which to step into the national spotlight.  She takes nothing and makes it something...  a benchmark of her career remember Hackers, how about Foxfire...  of course you don't because they were bad movies made bearable by her superior performance.  The combination of Jolie and Hutton makes this movie.  If you like action, you might as well see it.   "}{"Title":"I AM a David Duchovny fan, and I STILL thought it sucked","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Cheesy script, cheesy one-liners. Timothy Hutton's performance a little over the top. David Duchovny  still seemed to be stuck in his Fox Mulder mode. No chemistry with his large-lipped female co-star.He needs Gillian Anderson to shine. He does not seem to have any talent of his own. "},{"Title":"Great score, good acting, great cast, good plot, and good characters","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I'd always wanted David Duchovney to go into the movie business, and finally he did, and he made me proud.  This movie lived up to what I had hoped for. Duchovney played his character very well, managing to remain consistent with something new, instead of playing the Agent Molder we are used to. Therefore, I give him extra credit for his role, also because I could not see anyone else playing that particular character.  David was great, but nothing compared to the psychotic  Timothy Hutton.  A brilliant performance that you don't get tired of throughout the movie, because he never fails to surprise you.  He has weaknesses, and strengths, making the story all the more believable. I also very much enjoyed the narration, it added to the story a good deal, and had some very memorable quotes that i still use to all the time. This movie also had a wounderfull score. I recomend this for anyone who likes drama, and doesn't mind blood. "},{"Title":"Fallen angel","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" What makes certain TV idols fail miserably at the movies? It's something that is hard to explain. While a lot of actors that start in television go to have great film careers, there are others like David Caruso, Matthew Perry, Gillian Armstrong, and as it is proven in this movie, David Duchovny, that will be better off to keep the day jobs in the small screen where they can excel.A ridiculous screen play doesn't add anything new to the genre, as is the case with this film. Then, we hear the flat reading that Mr. Duchovny, as the narrator, gives in a voice over, that practically sinks the movie. He sounds pathetic. Just hearing the theme song is enough to turn any would be viewer away!Most films are made with the best intentions. There must be a lot of things that can go wrong, as it appears to be the case with this one, and not because the film makers decided to sabotage the movie. I had not seen this film in its commercial run, and since there was nothing else going on, decided to take a look at it when it was shown on cable.A caution Watch it at your own risk! "},{"Title":"A Doctor who Lost His License !","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":" Looked forward to viewing this film and seeing these great actors perform. However, I was sadly disappointed in the script and the entire plot of the story. David Duchovny,(Dr. Eugene Sands),Connie & Carla,'04, was the doctor in the story who uses drugs and losses his license to practice medicine. Dr. Sands was visiting a night club and was able to use his medical experience to help a wounded customer and was assisted by Angelina Jolie,(Claire),Taking Lives,'04, who immediately becomes attracted to Dr. David Sands. Timothy Hutton,(Raymond Blossom),Kinsey,'04, plays the Big Shot Gangster and a man with all kinds of money and connections. Timothy Hutton seems to over act in most of the scenes and goes completely out of his mind trying to keep his gang members from being killed. Gary Dourdan,(Yates),CSI-Vegas TV Series, plays a great supporting role and portrays a real COOL DUDE who is a so-called body guard for Raymond Blossom. Angelina Jolie looks beautiful and sexy with her ruby red lips which draws a great deal of attention from all the men. This film is not the greatest, but it does entertain. "},{"Title":"Mulder Playing a movie star.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  PLAYING GOD, a failed attempt from David Duchovny to kick start a movie career, is a big-screen vehicle in desperate need of repair.  He plays a disgraced M.D. who saves the life a shooting victim - a henchman of local crime boss played by Timothy Hutton.  Impressed with his currently unused talents, Hutton hires Duchovny as his gang's full-time doctor.  This premise could have made an interesting thriller, but the plot just drunkenly stumbles along, stocking up on clichés (soft-boiled monotonous voice-overs; technoesque soundtrack; pointlessly artsy cinematography) like they're going out of style, until the storyline creates a level of ennui in the viewer that's too much for anyone to bear.  And Hutton is about as menacing as a squirt gun. "},{"Title":"what a load of crap","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that the more I think about it, the more it sucked. Just for fans of Duchovney or if u wanna see Angelina Jolie before she really became a big star. A crappy thriller with few thrills. But then again, im not much of a fan of Duchovney or Jolie. "},{"Title":"playing bad =)","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I did not like this movie, cause its violent. That does not make a movie bad but its violent IN A STUPID WAY. It has the taste of movies like Pulp fiction. INTERNATIONAL underground people who look like some cheap role models which are some junkie punks. I can only describe it like that. Especially the british guy is so fun. He wears colored designer glasses in the hardest situations. They probably thought that it makes him COOL =) Raymond Blossom is trying to play the psychotic villain but unfortunately he is NOT Gary Oldman who can act 1000 times better. The whole movie looks like the computer game interstate 76 Man, Americans are so cool! =) There is scene where he talks with the russian mafia guy. The guy says something like that he is always right and that they always win. Ray says Just like in Afghanistan! Hehehe, that was funny. I would like to ask him a question too... what about vietnam? =) dont watch this movie, it looks kinda good but very stupid dialogs. "},{"Title":"What a Pity ......","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  I must admit I was (and still am) a Duchovny fan.  I love him in X-files and Kalifornia and so looked forward to this film with great expectations. What I found was mediocre story which dragged in most places and yet shot through other points at break-neck speed. David was good, but I felt the ghost of Mulder was there, not enough to influence the character but enough to sour his performance. Tim Hutton was as excellent as ever and I thoroughly enjoyed his role. On the whole I give this film a 7.  That is not bad considering my friend and I were they only people in the cinema, she fell asleep and the soundtrack broke down during the last 15 minutes. As it says on my school reports Must try Harder ! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  Very smart, sometimes shocking, I just love it. It shoved one more side of David's brilliant talent. He impressed me greatly! David is the best. The movie captivates your attention for every second. "},{"Title":"stinkbomb of the lowest order","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Drama","Review":"  God, I'd love to run IQ tests on the people raving about the script and the acting in this movie! Guaranteed average IQ of 85 or below.How could they fit so much B movie acting/dialog in... well, in any one single movie, but let alone such a big budget one? Incredible.Duchovny manages to make Keanu Reaves look like Duvall, Olivier, Pacino, Hackman, Nicholson etc., at their peaks, all rolled into one compared to his performance! When you look up piece of wood in the dictionary of phrases you'll find Reaves picture has been replaced with Duchovny'sIt's beyond believe that this movie is rated anything above a 2 on this board. What on earth is wrong with you people?  "}]