[{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" More so than Horse Whisperer, the movie deals with life altering changes for the four characters (the mother, the father, the daughter, the horse whisperer) and the horse of course. Even the affair is positive. It helps Tom Booker get over his wife when he puts that record back in it's sleeve, and it helps Annie get off her so called high horse attitude. It's a movie of changes for the better all around. Enjoyable, real, well done.The scenes interacting with the horse are wonderful. Sitting in that field waiting for the horse to feel comfortable enough to deal with Mr. Booker was an enormous hurdle. The best scene is after two and a half hours when Tom brings the horse down to Grace's level, so that they both rise together. That scene,is to joyfully cry for, and laugh yes. "},{"Title":"Very well done!","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Redford and the entire cast is excellent. The music and scenery is excellent. Saw this movie for the first time three years ago. I rented it due to the horse plot and it ended up being a very important movie in my life. I was involved in some very personal problems with my family at the time. What was important to me was that even with the terrible situation Grace was in, there was a way to heal. The most important line in the movie was when Tom Booker makes the comment Knowing it is the easy part, saying it out loud is what's difficult Oh how true this is. A lot of good thoughts in this one. It has my highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If I could, I would give this movie a 100! I highly recommend this movie for everyone to see.It was moving; emotional; and truly humbling.The actors and actresses were excellent, and portrayed their characters better that most movies I've seen. Although I always like good endings, this ending is great - depending upon the person who see's it! I felt this ending to this movie was as it should have been, although I also wanted it to go the other way. Guess I sound pretty mysterious, but I don't want to ruin the ending for anyone.I give great credit to the writers; producers, and directors of this movie. "},{"Title":"Some of the most beautiful cinematography you will find","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It is one of Robert Redford's best - the quiet rancher - meets the pushy high powered NYC editor who is determined to help her daughter after a traumatic riding accident.As others have mentioned the experience not only changes the horse but most of the supporting characters. The cinematography was powerful - while I am not a student of the discipline I could see that the angles chosen for the subject, the landscape scenes of the beautiful Montana ranges and sunsets - one could watch and understand the movie without the dialog. I believe Ansel Adams - if he were alive - would love some of these scenes. I vote this as a must see for everyone. It not only has a powerful plot but beautiful cinematography... "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer is an exquisite work........a gift","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Last night I was blessed with an experience that is the gift of cinema - a very very beautiful film that celebrates the glory of the human soul in a way that drove me to tears of joy and gratitude at having had the privilege of being a part of it.The Horse Whisperer is an exquisite work, with multiple levels of relevance that are marvelously integrated into a seamless story. On one level, it is a celebration of man's great capacity for and heritage of attunement to nature and the limitless beauty that he chooses to return to, having tired of the unsatisfying world that he had created in its place on his path of discovery. It is also a testimony to the process of healing, of how it is an opportunity to delve deep into the recesses of the traumatised soul, and how it can only be undertaken with a simultaneous caring for everyone involved in the circle of influence. It is also an examination of relationships, of the relationship between the parent and the child, between man and woman, between human and animal, and ultimately between body and soul. Ultimately the film is a triumph of spirit, a paean to a long forgotten wholeness and harmony that is celebrated in the film as though it just were, and had never ceased to be, without the wrangling and flailing that one has come to expect of a piece of art that attempts to recapture the glory of the soul.One of the very many great moments of the film are where the mother tries to understand the Horse Whisperer's failed relationship with his love in the past, as a love that was 'wrong' because they were not 'right' for each other. He says 'I loved her not because it was right, I just loved her'. This clear differentiation between love on the one hand and the rightness of the relationship on the other elevates both to a respectability that is incomprehensible when love is understood only as a manifestation of the rightness of a relationship. This kind of 'simple wisdom', so to speak, is the fabric of the entire film, it is the tongue in which the story is told. In fact much of the film eschews dialogue completely in favour of the vast visuals of American ranch-land, always with humans embedded as part of the landscape in a harmony that seems so obvious as to be almost unremarkable. Among the most poignant of these are the moments between Tom, the Horse Whisperer and Pilgrim, the horse, moments where they communicate wordlessly, often soundlessly, slowly going through the stages of distrust, caution, diffidence, examination, trust and sharing that are necessary on the path of friendship, here shown between man and animal.The story of the Horse Whisperer is simple enough and I shall neither describe it, nor analyse the components of the film. Doing this would reduce its stature to that of a product.The Horse Whisperer is a gift, accept it. "},{"Title":"Typically brilliant Reford film.","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" As with every film directed by Robert Redford, The Horse Whisperer is beautifully acted, masterfully directed piece of cinematic poetry. Redford even manages to do what no other actor/director ever has or probably ever will - direct himself in a love story without becoming self-indulgent.Along with the uniformly excellent cast, Redford's direction and Richard LaGravenese's script, special mention must be made of Robert Richardson's cinematography - some of the most breathtaking Hollywood has ever seen.Redford is truly one of the giants of American cinema. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a unique, moving story about a girl whose tragic horse-riding accident and subsequent trauma led her family to Montana in search of the man known as the Horse Whisperer. Little did they know that their lives were about to change forever during these few, memorable days spent on the farm. This is a truly beautiful story, a story for sensitive souls, a story for those who care about animals as much as people. The characters are finely drawn and it is a pleasure to watch them unfold as the film progresses. The dialogues are often memorable and wonderfully devoid of the clichés that most Hollywood productions are sprinkled with. This is a film for people who understand that the 'little' moments in life are the best; a film where pictures truly speak more than a thousand words.It is a story of love and courage, the courage to fight for you want, or accept things the way they are; the courage to risk losing everything, the courage to accept that loss. There is a wonderful message in this film for all of us - for all those who care enough to see it, that is. "},{"Title":"A Bit Melodramatic, But Beautiful To See","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Here's a beautifully filmed horse opera about a New York teenage girl (Scarlett Johannsson, who is now a well-known actress but wasn't when this was made) and her horse, both of whom are badly injured in a mishap and are healed by a Montana horse expert, played by Robert Redford.Redford also directed this film and being such an outdoors-man, you know this is going to show nature in a beautiful way....and it does. The Montana scenery is just awesome.After a dramatic opening scene in which we see the horse and daughter hurt, the mother (Kristin Scott-Thonas) takes the girl and the horse out West to see if the horse can be salvaged. Unfortunately, the mother - who is married - falls for the horseman Tom Booker (Redford) and an adulterous relationship almost comes to fruition. That romance is the soap opera part of the film but it's nice to see everyone, including Redford's character, healed of emotional as well as physical wounds.Some of the teen's bad attitudes are not fun to watch, but otherwise the people in here are very nice. Ranchers Redford and Chris Cooper and Cooper's sons are all nice people, especially of one Cooper's little kids. This film is a bit too much of a melodrama at times which makes it a long in spots, but it's a long movie to begin with (169 minutes). It's so beautifully filmed, however, that for that alone the movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer (1998)","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Ordinary People. A River Runs Through It. Quiz Show. With this track record, Robert Redford has proven himself not only to be one of the great modern American movie-makers, but one of the only actors to ever make a smooth -- not to mention impressive -- transition to the director's chair. And considering his success, one might worry that he'd make a misstep somewhere and back a sub par picture. Well, skeptics beware, because with The Horse Whisperer, Redford has secured his spot as an A-list director, and as a man who knows how to please his audience. Adapted from Nick Evan's best-selling novel, The Horse Whisperer depicts a New York family that is struck by tragedy when their daughter is involved in a horrific accident while riding her horse in the woods with a friend. Her friend is killed, and she is required to have her leg amputated; as for the horse, he is so severely traumatized that putting him down appears to be the only option. But the mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) refuses to watch another part of her life fall apart before her eyes, and demands that the horse be kept alive. She examines every source on horse healing, and learns of a strange treatment known as horse whispering, which deals with the spiritual healing of the animal. By this point, you should be able to figure out where the plot goes she contacts the horse whisperer, drags the horse (and her daughter) to a ranch in Montana, and through the experience they all find emotional healing. And while this might seem like a recipe destined for sappy Lifetime melodrama, Redford somehow makes it work. Not because the story is particularly unique, but simply because his characters actually feel real to us -- which is where so many other similar movies have failed. Thomas is superb as the controlling (yet confused) mother; instead of being portrayed as some manipulative matriarch, we actually sympathize with her situation. In fact, we sympathize with everyone's situation. Thomas eventually falls in love with the horse whisperer himself (played by Redford), and when she ultimately has to choose between him and her husband (played by Sam Neill), the dilemma is not boiled down to mere preference. Neill is a loving, caring father, and in the most moving scene of the picture, he declares his love for his wife yet allows her -- and even encourages her -- to follow her own heart. As the daughter, new-comer Scarlett Johannson gives a terrific performance, and with a supporting cast that includes Chris Cooper and Dianne Wiest, the ensemble is flawless. The film is deliberately paced, yet it never drags; instead, it uses its length (which runs close to three hours) to its own advantage, conveying the rare grace and tenderness that we saw in A River Runs Through It and Ordinary People. Each and every character is filled with an emotional depth rarely seen in mainstream romance epics, and the scenes that involve the horse being healed manage to be both compelling and powerful in spite of their contrived nature (which is really an accurate description of the entire picture). And even though it might not hit every emotional chord it tries to strike, The Horse Whisperer does so much right that it puts all the other wanna-be epics to shame. Here's to a future classic.Grade A- "},{"Title":"good movie, book is even better","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I read the book before seeing the movie and was thus, not expecting it to be as good ( I thought the book was extremely well-written) HOwever, I did enjoy the movie.  Redford is a terrifc actor and director and I thought the cinematography was great.  I found it interesting that the end in the movie does not parallel the book, but I guess they wanted a Hollywood ending.  Anyway, good overall movie, and as another viewer eloquently stated, this movie is a refreshing break from all the special effects one sees in many other films. "}{"Title":"Healing Art of Re-bonding","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Redford masterfully directed and stared in this deeply psychological portrayal of wounds and healing. He would have had to explain all the nuances to the actors because so much is accomplished without words. Tom, the Horse Whisperer, gifted in the art of re-bonding, has to decide whether he can bring healing to only the horse (all that he is asked to do) or extend his therapeutic touch to the three humans as well. How does he achieve emotional mending for each member? By careful listening and observation, he gleans the signals until he knows the interlinking dynamics between all the wounded members. You can do the same if you practice the skill to understand the internal driving forces.Tom knows the pain of lost love and is magnetically drawn to the mother. But not until the father arrived could he know how his daughter loved him or that he cared for his girls. I believe Tom made a conscious decision to stop his bonding with the mother. The moment of decision was watching the bedroom light go out in his creek house across the meadow when the dad came to visit. He early achieved healing for the horse but he knew he could never achieve wholeness for the daughter if he wounded her again by replacing her father.He faced the excruciating challenge of healing the mother by opening her up to new bonding with her husband. After several touching moments, he did that finally at the dance by drawing her into his love then leaving her a soft place to fall into her husband's love again. He executed a delicate, deliberate maneuver so she didn't stay bonded to him marvelously done without rejecting her). He did that by leaving the dance (when he could have driven a wedge between her and her husband right then.) A man of few words, he had kept her back to her husband drinking at the dance, covertly expressed his love, then left before he damaged their bonding. The sacrifice of true love! He had always spoken so honestly and clearly to each one. In the barn, he didn't soften the reality of how she would hurt her husband and daughter if she chose him. He signaled to her what she should do by saying your love&#151;that I will always have with me. And by saying I wanted to be here when you left. He taught her the value of relationships above careers. He was refreshingly grounded in knowing who he was. He also understood that you could deeply love someone and it not be right to marry them. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I can't understand why some people commented so negatively about this film. Clearly some love vanilla ice cream and some love chocolate and there is no acceptable argument that one is better than another. However, I expect the negative reviews come from people who think Snatch and Grindhouse are great movies. (Not a surprise, IMDb people rated these two pieces of crap amazingly high.)The Horse Whisperer has great acting, from the supporting cast to the stars and, by the way, it is the best thing Johansson has ever done, great cinematography, and four excellent story lines, the love interest between Thomas and Redford, and the strained relationship between the career mother and her daughter, the nobility and courage of the horse (as great as the equines in Hidalgo and the Black Stallion) and lastly, the pain and trauma of a young teenager losing a limb.I also don't understand those why one compares a film with a book. Who cares? I read more fiction than most and enjoy it immensely , however, they are different media and I see no value in comparing the two. This movie stands on its own merits, whether the book was better (or worse) should be irrelevant.Although Redford is 24 years older in reality and probably 10 years older in the story, the chemistry is clearly there. Those used to the naked buttocks, the groaning and the spit swapping that passes for romance in the films of the last 30 years may not be able to see the romance, but only the comatose would not feel the heat in the scene where Redford and Thomas are dancing close.The dynamics of Thomas and Scarlet are also extremely well done. It may sometimes appear a bit formula, but I know it is quite real.Lastly, I think this is one of the greatest romances of its era. I can't think of one better. "},{"Title":"One of the best.  Deserves its ten.","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I wonder how many people have actually been in Montana for any length of time? It is a beautiful state, full of opposites, contrasts, and subtle colors. Everyone who has ever been there knows that Montana has windstorms that are like hurricanes that last for three days. There are snowstorms that isolate rural families for what seems an eternity. Then there is summer sunshine that lasts for hours and hours with heat that would make sidewalks feel like walking on coals even with shoes on, which says nothing about rainstorms that can bring down trees.Living on such land produces flexible, self reliant, open-minded, leather hard sunburned, understanding people. Such a man was Tom Brooker and the rest of the Brooker family. The seasons brought each of them whatever rewards and challenges only a place like Montana could bring.Other reviewers have not given the complete descriptions of the wonderful choice of possible settings. Nor should they. Redford's great direction picked an ideal time of the year to tell an idealized love story. Spring with all its glorious almost iridescent greens and promise of so much growth was what he choose.Kristin Scott-Thomas (who played Annie) and her daughter (Grace played by the always touching and sensitive Scarlett Johannson) travel from New York after an accident which cost Grace her leg and Pilgrim (her horse) his sanity. It was a miracle that either survived. From sophistication to a practical simple reality was what this film was about.People who watch this film fall for the most part into two categories those who like the unlikely love story, those who do not. There are those who like the scenery to speak for itself, and others who wish things would move on, that Redford would actually DO something.Personally I liked the Horse Whisperer. I'm willing to accept all the criticisms as just that. They do not shake my basic belief that this was a well-crafted artistic endeavor telling a beautifully complex story where three living beings (two people and a horse) were cured of ills both obvious and hidden. They were rehabilitated not by medications, or health spas, or special diets, or leisure or anything else that was out of the ordinary.They were cured by fresh air, hard work, good fellowship, and kindness and understanding, the virtues offered by the people of Montana. It is a great film to watch devoid of either obvious sex or violence. My vote is 10/10.At the risk of adding a spoiler, many people on the board despised the ending. I did not. Annie merely found it difficult to say goodbye. She wanted to stay, but she could not leave Grace yet. She simply sent him away so that she herself could leave. Hers was an act of great and touching sacrifice. What she wanted could never replace her responsibility to her family. Unlike his first wife, who could not stand the open dullness of Montana and would never return, Annie did not want to leave. She had to meet higher obligations than her own needs. The door was always open for her return, and Tom knew this and so like the vast prairie of Montana, he could be enduring and patient. "},{"Title":"One of my top 20 movies to watch!","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie, for some reason brings me to tears each and every time I watch it. Overall the action moves quite slowly, but I think that is its charm. I am a long haul professional driver and recognize many of the locations in the show as so far as Montana goes. The damage to the horse, and subsequent recovery is amazing to say the least. Watching the players interact is a dream, mostly because I am such a huge Redford fan. The way he moves the movie through its paces is excellent, with one sub-plot running smoothly into and out of another. A bit of a downer - my wife didn't care for it! She's a big horse fan and had a lot of difficulty with the accident scene. "},{"Title":"No modern director seems to know more about horses and people","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There is one unavoidable, minor spoiler herein, but once you read this review, you may think it belongs more in the trivia section. This is not the one to read to learn about the plot.An inveterate Robert Redford fan, Mother adopted this as one of her favorite movies when we watched it together years ago on one of her visits. Since she keeps mentioning it from time to time, I slapped on the DVD today to let her watch it again while I intended to take care of other business. The darn thing is so mesmerizing, however, I couldn't stop watching.The first time I saw this, I might have given it an 8, or maybe even a 9. It was simply a very good movie. Once seen, its story becomes known, however, and a second viewing allows one to focus more acutely on the details. Few directors are so adept at getting his actors to portray the subtleties of human emotions, sans dialog, as Robert Redford (cf. Ordinary People, etc.). The interplay and facial expressions are so good and appropriate, it makes you want to cry. No fake emotions here.Before beginning the DVD, I showed Mother Kate Bosworth's photo on the cover of the current (July, 2006) issue of W magazine, the one with her fashion spread and interview inside, saying, Remember the girl who dies at the beginning of the movie? This is what she's grown up into. She just opened as Lois Lane a couple weeks ago in 'Superman Returns'. After the movie started, I immediately recognized the girl at the heart of the story and exclaimed, That's Scarlett Johansson!...Both girls are big stars now. Having forgotten these unknown child actors had appeared in this movie, I immediately wondered about the relative casting, how the decision was made on which actress got which part, until research revealed that this was Bosworth's first film, while Johansson was a four-year veteran at the time.Having already extolled Redford's skills as a director, let me go on just a bit about his acting herein. Superb, simply superb. No more or less, however, than that of his co-star, Kristen Scott Thomas, and the rest of the cast. A fine job all around.At 169 minutes, this is a relatively long movie, but there are no fillers, and no scene is wasted. Redford's scenes with the horse, and the people surrounding the horse (i.e., the child and the mother) are simply amazing. One can but wonder about his life journey from a wild child speeding down the streets of New York City in the middle of the night to catch the green lights, to his retreat to the wilds of Utah which allowed him to portray a taciturn Montanan with a talent for taming horses.The way I've prattled on here, you'd think I was trying to use up some cell phone minutes. Although this may be my worst-written, rambling review to date on IMDb, that doesn't diminish the value of this movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A truly important motion picture that I highly recommend.","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I shall not give away the movie, but I think maybe it would be helpful for the reader to know what to look for.  An Important note I'm really tired of the two words functional and dysfunctional, but they are the politically and apparently medically correct terms that apply to the description below.  Not to mention the word family, which is over used, but for which there is simply no substitute.The surface story is about a thirteen year old girl, Grace Scarlette Johansson, who was thirteen when the movie was made  and her horse, Pilgrim, who are in an awful, tragic accident, leaving both the girl and the horse severely injured and traumatized.  The girl's mother finds a horse whisperer, Tom Booker Robert Redford, a man who knows instinctively how to help horses with people problems.  That's the up front and surface story.Mixed into this story is a sort of on and off and on again love story between the married and very successful mother, Annie MacLean Kristin Scott Thomas, and Tom Booker Redford, and how they try and relate and resolve a relationship as the movie progresses.The underlying and real theme of the movie is a truly beautifully told story about two families, the MacLeans and the Bookers; one a very functional, close knit, caring and loving family and the other, a dysfunctional divided and out of balance family who barely exist in the confines of an apparently very successful, by New York City standards, family, but who under the facade only exist together and don't really know how to be a family.  Gradually, as the two families mix, the dysfunctional family, so trapped in their careers and unsuccessful relationships, begin the long journey toward being a caring and decisionally loving family.  It's in this almost hidden story of the two families that the true purpose of the motion picture, the real point of the movie comes through.I saw the horse, girl, horse whisperer story the first time I watched the movie.  The second and third time I watched it, I saw the wavering love story, but it was the fourth time I watched it that I finally saw the true story that the producer and director, and star, Robert Redford, wanted to tell about the journeys people are given a chance to make.This is both an important and rare gym of a motion picture that truly has something to say to our culture.  I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still good film","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" While of course he'll always be remembered for his remarkable work as an actor and as the mind behind the Sundance Film Festival, Robert Redford has also slowly build up a solid reputation as a very good director despite his somewhat limited output (only 6 films in 20 years). Ever since his debut in 1980 with the highly successful Ordinary People, Redford has demonstrated a natural talent at directing actors, as well as a good eye when choosing collaborators for his projects; two important skills that have earned him awards and recognition through the years. In his fifth film as a director, 1998's The Horse Whisperer, Redford not only directs, but for the first time in his directorial career, he also plays one of the main characters in his movie. In The Horse Whisperer Redford is once again back in his element, as this is also the story of a troubled family, however, small problems arise that sadly diminish the power of the film.Loosely based on Nick Evans's novel of the same name, The Horse Whisperer is the story of Annie MacLean (Kristin Scott Thomas) and her daughter Grace MacLean (Scarlett Johansson), who travel to Montana looking for the famous horse healer Tom Booker (Robert Redford), in order to ask him to cure their horse Pilgrim. The problem is that on a cold winter day, Grace and her best friend Judith (Kate Bosworth) were riding their horses when a terrible accident happened a truck hit them, instantly killing Judith, and tragically hurting Grace and Pilgrim. Both horribly injured, horse and rider are taken to the Horse Whisperer hoping to recover not only their health, but also the will to live. Not only Grace and Pilgrim will try to find peace in the West, but Annie too will discover a new way of seeing life under the care of the Horse Whisperer.Written by Eric Roth and Richard LaGravenese, The Horse Whisperer looks at first sight as another typical movie about a person's recovery after a traumatic event (in this case Grace's losing a leg and her best friend), however, more than dealing with the physical and psychological healing of the horse and it's rider, the movie deals with the emotional problems of a group of souls. The screenplay is not exactly faithful to the source novel, although it keeps the main story lines intact and despite the changes done the essence of the story is still well translated to screen. Some may disagree with me, but I think that the way Roth and LaGravenese build up the plot was considerably superior to Evan's book, and the toning down of the melodrama (although it's still a passionate story of romance) was for the most part beneficial for the story.An excellent director of actors, Redford lets his cast to completely domain this character driven melodrama, creating a very natural and real portrait of human emotions. As in the book, Redford makes a nice analogy between the healing of horses and the healing of emotions (of course, with the advantage of a visual medium), although in a subtler, less melodramatic tone. This is very notorious in the way he lets his actors to use body language to express themselves, using silences, stares and face expressions as ways to communicate emotions. Still, even when the movie is certainly focused on the actors and their characters, Redford allows himself to give the film an extraordinary good look with Robert Richardson's brilliant cinematography, which captures the majestic landscapes of Montana in a very impressive and beautiful way.Being a character driven story, the performances of the cast are essential for the success of the film, and in this case one could say that overall the cast did a good job in the movie. As Annie, Kristin Scott Thomas truly transmit the confusion of her character, torn between her life and the one represented by Tom Booker. As Tom, Redford is excellent, very effective in his role and completely becoming a character who expresses more with silence than with words. A young Scarlett Johansson appears as Grace, delivering a remarkable performance considering her young age. It's not a surprise that she went on to become a major actress as she grew up. In small but important roles, we find Sam Neill, Dianne Wiest and Chris Cooper as the main supporting cast of the movie, all giving an excellent performance despite their limited screen time.If a movie is really well directed, has good performances and a nice script, what could be wrong about it? The answer this time is sadly so simple that it hurts it's unnecessarily long. Pointing out this as a problem may sound like nitpicking, but it's long runtime truly damages the movie as it makes the film to drag a while, becoming tedious and boring at some point. I'm not saying that movies should not be long, what I'm saying is that in this particular case the long runtime feels unnecessary and out of place. I find the way Redford slowly develops his characters a notable feature of the movie, given that he allows us to really known them; however, I think that a better job of edition would have improved the final results a lot.Overall, The Horse Whisperer is a very good movie on its own right, and while not being exactly faithful to the source novel, it keeps the whole spirit of the book intact. While the long runtime truly damages an otherwise good film, it's still a very good recommendation to those looking for a character driven love story without exaggerated melodrama. It seems to me that once again, Redford has made a classy film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A gifted horse trainer transforms a mother and daughter, helping them to re-discover what they value most.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer is a film of contrasts the driven career wife and mother whose husband and daughter don't quite meet her standard; the traditional ranch wife and mother who subordinates herself, with grace, to her family while wistfully wishing for just a bit more; the gifted horse trainer and cattle rancher who chose the rustic life over his city roots, at peace with his re-discovered values despite a painful divorce from the woman he loved; the loving husband who can never live up to his wife's expectations, though he spends his life trying to please her; the wounded teenage daughter who, unlike her father, rebels against her mother's attempts to mold her in her own image. The catalyst that brings all these contrasts together is a beautiful horse that is horribly injured, both physically and mentally, in an accident that also maims his young rider. Both are so traumatized that they have lost their will to battle their fear and despair. The mother finds a trainer known for his success in gentling troubled horses and drives horse and daughter from New York to Montana to meet him. His quiet strength, patience and ability to sense what is wrong has a profound effect, not only on the horse, but on the young daughter and her mother as well. The movie is long, but the healing process requires time. The pace of the film is appropriate to the unfolding of the story, the lush and majestic scenery and the serenity that seems to emanate from the vastness of the open spaces. The romance that develops between the mother and the trainer is poignant and compelling. The scene between them at the dance is worth the price of admission. Ultimately, the mother must make a choice between resuming her former life returning to (the city, her career and her family) and the seductive stability and tranquility she has come to cherish at the ranch with the man she truly loves and who loves her. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I loved this film, i am an experienced rider and i think the portrayal of the horse and rider was amazing.It was so moving and the way they captured each moment in the film was fabulous.It makes you not only want to ride but to go to America or be a part of the film.It takes some acting for a young girl to play that kind of role and she fulfilled it perfectly, capturing every emotion in one.I know from experience horses can be the scariest of creatures no matter how gorgeous The way the directors captured the emotions of the youngster was brilliant and so realistic.I don't care what people say it was ace and anyone with a heart will agree this movie was spectacular "},{"Title":"Grandpa's Excellent Adventure","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I couldn't get past Robert Redford being the leading man while looking to be in his mid 60's.  Annie MacLean (Kristin Scott Thomas) looked to be someone who was approaching middle-age, mid 30's perhaps, looking young and vibrant.  Going to great lengths to help her young daughter.  She obviously loves her daughter and her family.  She takes a trip from the city, leaving a loving husband back at home to wait for her.  Then she finds The Horse Whisperer  a wrinkled, stoop shoulder old man living in the middle of no where.  He looked like he could have been in his 70's.  So, what happens when a mother in her 30's takes a trip from the city, leaving her loving husband behind, to find help in the country... Obviously she will fall in love with a wrinkled up 80 year old toad who walks around in cowboy boots and hats while grunting through his meals prepared by the women folk, and eaten off of checkerboard table cloths.  There probably was an interesting story in there somewhere,  I just couldn't see past the fish out of water city girl, falling in love with some 90 year old guy that seemingly had absolutely nothing in common with her. "}{"Title":"Real good film","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" one of the best films for me, I watch it each time with the same enthusiasm as the last and each time I see something new. Amazing. For various personal reasons I love this film. The acting from all, the story itself, the fact that Tom Booker doesn't quite engage on the telephone to the Annie, I thought he was rather shallow ie we are in Montana and I am not interested in anywhere else. Annie's sole commitment to healing the horse, whatever it takes, her pain and patience, the latter sometimes diminishing due to emotions. Scarlet excellent from beginning to end, the pain of her friend tragically dying, her horse being ill and near to death. I like Robert's ways, but prefer Tom. I watch this film at least once a month. "},{"Title":"For sheer pretentiousness, I take the cake","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There are things we can understand and not fix, things we can fix and not understand, things we can stand under and not hear, things that don't exist yet tap us on the shoulder when we least expect them. Horses are like life. They pretend to be your friends. So why do they whisper? Robert Redford has captured a moment. I saw this film and I was ashamed. My Grandfather would cane the horse each Christmas. I grew up wanting to be Monty Roberts or at least John Yard. Remember in the Movie the Shining when Nicholson chopped through the door? Imagine Robert Redford doing that, only it's the barn. Here's ROBERT he would say, and then he'd go to work on the horse. Then there was page after page of him saying all work and no play makes jack a dull boy. I need some filler so I'm going to repeat that until I have the required ten lines. all work and no play makes jack a dull boyall work and no play makes jack a dull boy all work and no play makes jack a dull boyall work and no play makes jack a dull boyall work and no play makes jack a dull boy. I think it was Teddy Roseville who said Dreams are like Rainbows. Only Idiots Chase Them. "},{"Title":"Great movie. Great entertainment.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I must have seen this movie at least five times, and somehow I never tire of seeing it even though it's not really my kind of movie.I won't go into plot, and things like that, I'll just say it's exquisitely shot, beautifully acted by all with young Scarlett Johannson being a standout. But of course, Robert Redford deserves special mention for this is not only one of his best directed films, but also he gave himself one of his better roles. He's very good here. There's a close-up on him at the end of this film that has to be seen to be believed. Everything his character is feeling at that moment is revealed perfectly on his face. It's one of those moments that happen every once in  a while. One of those moments that make you glad there is a thing called film. "},{"Title":"A very touching movie","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I liked this movie very much. A girl and her horse are both seriously injured in an accident. The girls friend died in the accident. With time and love, the girl and her horse eventually are healed, physically and emotionally. It is a good family movie. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford has no trouble with playing an aging cowboy named Tom.  He pulls off the quiet, but sturdy cowboy image with perfection.  Kristin Scott Thomas portrays Annie Maclean, a woman whose daughter's horse has been injured in an accident.  The same accident caused her daughter, Grace, portrayed by Scarlett Johansson,  to lose one of her legs.  She goes to Tom to get help for the out of control horse.  Sam Neill plays her husband, and appears to be an afterthought.  For animals lovers, this movie has a disturbing beginning.  The movie is about relationships, daughter to mother; child to horse; husband to wife; man to horse.  The scenery in this movie is breath taking, and Redford took full use of it while directing the movie.  "},{"Title":"Slow but moving","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Yes, I agree the film is slow and, perhaps, overlong. Yes, there appears little in common between the methods presented in the film and documented 'horse whispering'.However this film needed to show the passage of time, which is, after all, the greatest healer. I found the film to be moving.I was interested in a comment that there was no 'motivation' for the disfunctionality in the family unit. As one who has witnessed many divorces I feel that I can safely say that in real life these forces can be subtle enough to elude the participants; let alone an audience.I was greatly relieved that the trite ending I envisaged didn't occur.Overall if you want a gently paced but powerfully emotive film then it is to be recommended; a liking of horses helps greatly!! "},{"Title":"great inspiring movie!","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" this movie helped me tons when i fell off, i was 13 and fell off and snapped my arm completely in half. except the methods to train Pilgrim at the end were horrible cruel, a true horse whisperer would never do that, thats old fashioned breaking in. not on. and he acted like a predator. that would freak out a horse. horse movie makers need to GET THEIR FACTS RIGHT!!! the bit at the end where she gets back on though, that was beautiful. inspired me to get back on even though i was terrified, still remembering my own horrible accident. THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!! this movie helped me tons when i fell off, i was 13 and fell off and snapped my arm completely in half. except the methods to train Pilgrim at the end were horrible cruel, a true horse whisperer would never do that, thats old fashioned breaking in. not on. and he acted like a predator. that would freak out a horse. horse movie makers need to GET THEIR FACTS RIGHT!!! the bit at the end where she gets back on though, that was beautiful. inspired me to get back on even though i was terrified, still remembering my own horrible accident. THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!! "},{"Title":"absolute class","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" as always ,anything Robert Redford does is pure class.i really enjoyed this movie.the acting ,superb.there is nothing worse than seeing a movie with what i call,over dramatic actors.unfortunately,there are many of them around.the horse whisperer,really left me thinking about the whole story,you feel as though you are part of it.i have seen it 26 times and still enjoy every minute of it.i must confess,i do not really have a favourite movie,actor,actress or type of movie.I'm inclined to rate all that i do see on a scale of one to ten.i would give this one a rating of 9.i do admire the fact there was no nudity or full sex scenes.i don't think the latter is really necessary. "},{"Title":"Richardson Cinematography","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I loved Redford on BRUBAKER like actor... I love how Redford directing this film using in a smart way an intense Thomas Newman's score and a great Robert Richardson's Cinematography,according me one of best cinematographer on Hollywood Industry with Elliot Davis;Dante Spinotti and Dean Cundey. That not mean only Greetings from Montana,his lights and shots are melt and useful for catch and keep the strong emotions and feelings of this story...story about the destiny and the faith...story that seems lack  in any parts but at the end this film worth be watch without using FastForward button...  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Enjoyable Moralist Movie","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer in indeed a very beautiful movie, with wonderful landscapes in Montana and supported by a magnificent first class cast. Although a little bit long and moralist film, it has a perfect timing, the viewer does not get bored and the situation is credible. The plot is based on a teenager girl who suffers an awful accident with her horse and her best girlfriend. After this accident, the girl loses one leg and her spirit, and her horse becomes wild and violent. Her well prepared and career devoted mother Annie (Kristin Scott Thomas), an editor of a magazine, decides not to sacrifice her daughter's horse, and tries to heal it, using the expertise of Tom (Robert Redford), a horse trainer. She leaves her husband (Sam Neil) in New York for a period, and moves to Montana with her daughter, towing a trailer with the injured horse. There, in Tom's ranch, not only the horse, but other wounds in the breast of her family will be healed. However, Tom and Annie will fall in love for each other, but the end of the romance will be too much moralist for the present days. Looks like the moral principles in those movies in the 40's and 50's. But perfectly credible! The movie has a great and long continuity mistake. Tom and Annie are riding horses and from the upper shots, Annie is wearing hat. In the closes, inserted between the upper shots, she does not have any hat . In the end of their ride, the hat appears on her shoulder. The accident scene, in the beginning of the movie, has too much cuts. Maybe an induced accident (like in Mary Lambert's 'Pet Sematary' ) would be more appropriate. But these last comments and remarks do not affect the quality of this enjoyable movie. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) O Encantador de Cavalos (The Horse Whisperer) "}{"Title":"Great Visuals, story suffers a bit though....","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is a pretty good story, a bit too slow at times. The scenery is what makes this film tolerable, sometimes enjoyable. Some of the equestrian practices shown are not depicting correct or safe methods, but this is normal in films. Horses don't flip out like people in the first place. They may be scared of places, sounds and things where the trauma occurs, but would never become psychotic as shown here. The other troubling thing I kept seeing over and over in the film is Scarlet Johansson's character kept trying to do things with her prosthetic instead of her good leg. I myself had a slow healing broken ankle and spent 9 months on a cast. You learn to use your good leg quickly, like when trying to climb a corral fence and mounting a horse from the side of your good leg, not your bad. These little film maker faux pas and the acting by Kristin Scott Thomas (trying too hard, obvious fake smiles- how hard is it to smile?) kept this from being an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"I've fallen and I can't giddyup","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford directed Ordinary People in 1981. That film watched as two wealthy parents feebly attempt to rehabilitate their suicidal son. Assisting them is a psychologist, with whom the son bonds.Based on a novel by Nicholas Evans, The Horse Whisperer finds Redford telling a similar tale. It stars Kristin Thomas as a mother whose daughter (Scarlett Johanasson) becomes suicidally depressed after losing a leg during a horse riding accident. The horse was similarly scarred. Both horse and child are rehabilitated by Tom Brooker (Robret Redford), a horse whisperer with remarkable gifts for understanding people and horses.The Horse Whisperer's first act works well as a domestic drama. Young Scarlett Johansson conveys a powerful mixture of self-hate, depression and sadness, all of which she hides behind a facade of bitter sarcasm. Kristin Thomas is also fine as a mother who vows to preserve her daughter's will to live.By its second act, The Horse Whisperer has morphed into an idiosyncratic western. Tom Brooker is your traditional cinematic cowboy, stoic, tall, wise and wordless. But he's also something new a healer, a nurturer, a cowboy who solves problems with compassion rather than six-shooters.During its final act, The Horse Whisperer then become a full-blown romance. Stuck in a love-triangle, the film watches as Kirstin Thomas falls madly in love for Brooker. Here the film resembles trashy erotic fiction &#x96; she's a big city British girl, he's a fantasy cowboy, complete with tight jeans, manly aromas and buttocks of steel &#x96; but Redford's direction is restrained and he keeps the duo's love powerfully unrequited.8/10 &#x96; Overlong for its subject matter, and filled with too many fades, montages and musical swells, The Horse Whisperer is nevertheless interesting and at times handsomely shot. See Ride With The Devil. "},{"Title":"I Won't Whisper It I LOVED THIS MOVIE!","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Talk about being almost completely snubbed at the Oscars in 1998&#x85;The Horse Whisperer is a near-masterpiece of filmmaking. Beautiful cinematography, gorgeous score, excellent acting, deep messages, perfect mix of humor and tragedy and deliberately slow-paced to absorb it all the more.I tear up every time I see the daughter breaking down, I've listened to the score 10x more than I've seen the movie and my this is one of my favorite movie storiesOne of my many, many Vegas trips caught me tiring tremendously on day four of four. While my friends wanted to walk the strip and window shop, I was hot, tired and all-but broke. I decided on my first (of just a few) movie(s) I'll see in Las Vegas. It was a cool theatre, no one hardly was in there and it was a very long and slow movie I absolutely needed at that time. This experience was one of my favorites because it fit my mood, lifted my spirits (again, broke) and it was a great movie, to boot. "},{"Title":"It Improves In Its Source Material","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer is a film directed by and starring Robert Redford,who plays the title role as a Montana rancher named Tom Booker,a talented trainer with a remarkable gift for understanding horses and that is hired to help an injured teenager and her horse to go back to health following a tragic accident.Kristin Scott Thomas,Sam Neill,Dianne Wiest and Scarlett Johansson co-star in the film to play key supporting roles.The screenplay was written by Eric Roth and Richard LaGravenese,which is based on the novel of the same title by Nicholas Evans.Fourteen-year-old Grace MacLean and her friend Judith go horseback riding in upstate New York on a winter morning, but their horses lose their footing on ice and slide onto a road, where Judith and her horse are killed by a jackknifing truck. Grace and her horse are also seriously injured as doctors must amputate Grace's right leg and the frightening incident leaves a lasting trauma not only on Grace but also on her horse, Pilgrim. Grace's mother and magazine editor, Annie MacLean is seeking Grace's recovery.She feels there's a link between her crippled, embittered daughter and Pilgrim's behavior. Learning about a horse trainer with a special gift, she takes Grace and Pilgrim to Montana where horse whisperer Tom Booker lives on a ranch with his younger brother Frank, Frank's wife Diane and their children. Tom's work with the horse also has a rejuvenating effect on the guilt-ridden Grace. Annie loses her magazine job, and the low-key romantic involvement between Annie and Tom develops during the summer, stifled by the unexpected arrival of Annie's husband, Robert MacLean.Directing himself for the first time, Redford has lavished his usual meticulous care on popular material that comes alive on the screen in ways that it never could on the page.The viewer may find this to be have similarities with The Bridges of Madison County but his directorial approach offers the kind of graceful stature, tenderness, and intelligence required to elevate the simple story. The film takes all the time it needs to let its characters heal and make their important decisions, and that alone makes it a refreshing alternative to the frantic pace of most big-studio movies.Also,it maintains a spiritual atmosphere and decent hold on personal problems, keeping the long journey to the cure compelling.And most of all,the movie improves in its source material despite of being old-fashioned and somewhat melodramatic. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer is an uncommonly graceful film with luxuriant landscapes, subtle performances, and human decency and warmth.","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is an uncommonly graceful and subtle film, which will not appeal to those who favor hyper-heroes, deafening decibels, and seven-second scenes. Set primarily in the vastlands of Montana, the cinematography, editing, and direction create an unparallelled aesthetic, which is colored by a warm, bonded family whose members intend meaning in making their cattle ranch a working home. Verdant meadows, glistening streams, and the chiarascuro of sunrise and sunset luxuriate in the eye of the beholder.Onto to this serene landscape ride the mother, Annie; the daughter, Grace; and the horse, Pilgrim; all three are deeply wounded. The healer wears a denim shirt, a weathered face, and a history that has taught him to give No for an answer. His name is Tom Booker and he treats not people with horse problems but horses with people problems. Annie, Grace, and Pilgrim learn that this horse whisperer means for all creatures to fulfill their purpose. He includes himself in this stricture and will not brook interference even from the self-important New York editor who has driven two-thousand miles to urge him to heal his equine client.A well-structured script adapted by the brilliant screenwriter Richard LaGravenese and directed by star Robert Redford give the film a luxuriant pace in which to linger at a roundup barbecue or on a mountain ridge. Kristin Scott Thomas embues her character with a wide emotional range, and Scarlett Johansson as her disspirited daughter actualizes her role movingly. Robert Redford, Sam Neill, and Chris Cooper admirably portray decent men with examined lives. Diane Wiest and Ty Hillman are delightful as family members whose generous spirits shine on their loving faces.  "},{"Title":"Fine Effort Why you will like this movie.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Putting a book to a movie, especially a literary work, is an impossible task to do with true parity. What the creators have done for us is to give us a visual sense of place with beautiful pictures and a long list of conflicts to help mitigate the merciless demands of the movie medium to clip at a pace in physical form compared to the more psychic realm of writing.For those emotionally mature, the film presents many metaphors for the unfairness and draconian sensibilities of the emotions. On the other hand, the philistine-loving high-action dramas with sensationalized artificialities will find this film to be quite boring and too long.When presented with such astute observations and warnings of the human heart, we must somehow suspend our natural criticism when we see the Rockwellian choice of costume and iconic cotton-top naturalists, for the cliché must have a purpose. The cliché provides the visual effect of communicating what probably was so easy to write in the book, that of the mind looking back through the lenses of its feelings; for, when we experience emotional pain and longing, when we recall lost loves, we see the time and place through that love. When we see the two twin boys in the back of the truck, throwing out hay, it is from the angle of an angel looking down upon the two blonde headed, happy, boys wearing matching bright red and clean cowboy shirts. When we see the horse whisperer's buckskin gloves, they are none the worse for wear after working hard on the ranch. Gloves, hands, rope, and fences are among some of the visuals reverberating the thematic elements of the film.There is plenty to watch, and every moment we get to see more of the beautiful landscape.The most surprising non-event is that many feminists did not deride the film for its implications that strong-willed women subdue to the strong and gentle, manipulative touch of a man whose own understanding of how to direct the emotions of a horse translates well enough to a woman, teetering on the edge of filial impiety.Thanks go to those who created this movie for giving us a film of maturity, compassion, and beauty.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable family movie","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Enjoyable family film. Nice photography of the horses. My kids enjoyed it. My 12 year old thought the movie was very well done as far as how the teens/children were portrayed. I would recommend it to anyone who has a child with a crush on horses. "},{"Title":"Very well made, great shots, good acting","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I never saw The Horse Whisperer in the theater. I bought it on DVD (region2) when it was released, only after reading reviews and hearing people talking about it. I must say I liked it. This is really a fine movie. It is made with real craftsmanship. Like with Quiz Show, Robert Redford is very good at creating the right tempo in a movie, using beautiful shots, nice music and very good editing together with the acting. The Horse Whisperer is worth watching. It's not a tear jerker, it's not about cheap emotions. "},{"Title":"This film, like the book, goes astray","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film is deeply flawed the same way the book was.  I read the book first and was very excited by the first couple of chapters. Everything was fine until the author decided to introduce the love story element.  Instead of being a deeply moving story of redemption and healing, it got swamped by this schlocky, pappy and very unbelievable love story.I don't know if the author got swayed by the fact that Robert Redford was interested in the film rights when the author was half-way thru and decided to make a good old Hollywood romance.  Well if he did it was a shame because this could have been one of the truly great stories this decade.The only plus points of this film were the acting and the stunning Montana scenery.  "},{"Title":"very good 'sentiment****'","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Well, in Holland we call movies like this a 'draak' which meansdragon. Very sentimental ****. I happen to like sentimental ****. To make good sentimental **** is more difficult tham it may seem. Robert Redford did a perfect job. The chemistry between Kristen and him didn`t work so well, but the mother-daugther relationship was of a quality I don`t see so often. It was  true to life and gripping, of course I cried a lot. It got me thinking about my life. So, thank you Rob, most films I forget the minute I walk out of the cinema. "}{"Title":"Well made but schlocky chick flick with horses","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" If you're Robert Redford, you have the clout to make a movie with a solid cast, outstanding cinematography, and great production values. This movie has all those things, plus horses as an added bonus. Unfortunately, the story is the sort of romantic fantasy that is often called chick flick. Redford plays the Perfect Man--a cowboy who understands women and horses, listens to classical music, is a source of wisdom and good counsel for all who come his way, and is ruggedly handsome to boot. Even Kristen Scott Thomas, a tough New York magazine editor, is a pushover for him. He fixes her broken daughter and her broken daughter's horse and then proves so irresistible to Kristen Scott Thomas that she is ready to abandon husband and career to live out her days on a Montana ranch.There is one really nasty scene whose nastiness seems to have escaped the film-makers. It takes place at a barn dance. Kristen Scott Thomas's husband has arrived from New York. Redford and Kristen Scott Thomas have a steamy dance in which they explore each other while her husband sits nearby, fortunately not looking their way. No one seems aware of how cheap and low their behavior is.Scratch a romantic chick flick--at least this one--and underneath it's all horse manure. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Triumph - Redford/Scott Thomas At Their Best","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Contains Spoilers I watched this movie for the first time some years ago. As a die hard RR fan I was very impressed with the fact that he directed and starred in this film. Usually previous to this when Redford Directed he didn't star in. Ill bet he had some fun directing himself.KST delivers a touching performance in this film as the mother struggling with a dysfunctional relationship with her daughter. I didn't find this movie to be over sentimental which I liked. A few of the highlights for me were The scene at little bighorn where Annie loses it after Grace rants at her this whole them is continued later in the film when Grace finally acknowledges to both herself but also to her mom how much her injury has effected. This is a very touching scene and illustrates just what a find the young scarlet Johansen was.For me personally the scene that effected me most watching it was the dance between Tom and Annie. It has to be one of the most erotic pieces of film making ever.I think RR did an excellent job with this movie both as an actor and as a director. I highly recommend this movie totally loved it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing in comparison to book","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I watched this movie about 24 hours after I finished reading the book, so my opinion may be slightly biased. I found that it was a generally good movie - pleasant soundtrack, beautiful scenery, and relatable actors. My main problem though was the script, I found that they took too many liberties with the script and as such the story is very different from that in the novel, which is a shame. In the film rendition, the relationship between Annie and Robert is just plain on the rocks, there is no love there, and they have cut out all scenes of lovemaking between this husband and wife. In my opinion this makes Robert much less likable, and it undermines the huge step that an affair with Tom really was. One even wonders what was the point of Annie's going back, since there was clearly no love there. Furthermore, I do not believe the budding romance between Annie and Tom was well expressed. The one exception is the dance scene - it was one of the most erotic, heart-breaking movie scenes I have ever scene, possibly the best scene in the movie. The end of the movie really strayed far from the novel and I think it's really a pity because that made the novel great. However, for anyone who hasn't read the book this would be an entertaining movie and not a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Spectacular.... Spectacular !!","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" this movie is one of the most touching and moving experiences that you will never forget and if you are a horse owner you will adore it.it contains some the most beautiful cinematography ever, i don't know where did Robert Redford find the time to come up with this great achievement.i think this film was ignored in two categories, direction and cinematography, if any body asked Robert Redford about his greatest achievement as a director i bet he'd say The Horse Whisperer, the camera work is fantastic.This movie witnessed the sparkle of Scarlett Johansson's brilliant career she was amazing, and the acting was good overall. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I've seen all of Robert Redfords movie and this one is one of the finest ones I have seen. Wonderful actors in the cast and Robert Redford gave a superb performance in this particular film! A well written script and great story line. We are all intrigued and have the utmost respect for horses and therefore love watching any movies that involve these wonderful animals and this movie touched my heart in such a way I will never forget. I bought the movie and watch it once a month, absolutely in love with The Horse Whisperer. I hope Robert Redford continues to produce, direct and act in more movies, his past history speaks for itself! "},{"Title":"an epic that tells more about ourselves than horses","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I don't know much about horses, even less about horse whisperers. I can't say if Robert Redford as Tom Booker is giving us the genuine and accurate technique of a rancher who deals mainly with the psychological problems of horses. Io me it's not that impressive staring a horse in the face for hours on end or fettering a foreleg so that it cannot leap. It's a kind of mental telepathy between man and beast I suppose, if you can believe that, and as for the horse without the use of one leg, well it puts the horse in a similar category to young Grace MacLean who has lost hers in a tragic accident in the snow.The casting is excellent and I particularly like Annie MacLean (Kristin Scott Thomas) who discovers the true meaning of happiness far from home in the sweeping vistas of Montana. The photography is so wonderful you can almost smell the freshness of the air in those wide open spaces.I like the home-spun philosophy and the little bits of wisdom that leap out of the script as we assess each saying in turn and think Yes...Life's like that or How true...when you put it like that! The message seems to be that you can still be happy even if your dreams are never likely to be realized.This is a film about human relationships falling apart at a dreadful pace. And then gradually, with all minds directed towards saving Pilgrim a beautiful horse shockingly injured in an accident, animosity towards others is temporarily forgotten and the healing process begins...both with the horse and all those concerned.The film is bound to inspire, make you think and perhaps urge you to reassess your own attitudes. Not everyone will agree with the ending to this story about a horse whisperer, but as I mentioned, Life's like that.By the way, I watched the sub-titles and learned a new word nickering. It's the noise a horse makes. Never heard the word before. Just shows how ignorant I am about horses. "},{"Title":"not just a chick flick but a great movie as well","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  To put into words how beautiful this movie is would be almost impossible but i'll try.  I  watched this movie several years ago and just the other night and both times I was  amazed at how touching the story is.  Yes I am a guy but one who realizes that a movie  doesnt necessarily have to be violent to be good.  This movie has what action movies  dont have . . . heart.  The story of a horse and a girl who's injuries cause them pain  because the other's injuries cause them pain.  Their souls and love for each other  intertwine which is what gives this movie heart.  Kudos to Scarlett Johanson who should  have been nominated for an oscar.  She makes this movie believable by wearing her  characters pain on her sleeve.  You feel for her and wince everytime she falls or cries.   The love story is more of just a subplot.  The soul of the movie is the horse and the girl.   This movie deserves a definate 10!!!! "},{"Title":"An absolutely beautiful film!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Done with grace and grit.......my husband and I have two films two nights in a row,  that in itself is unusual, but the  icing on the cake was this movie,THE HORSE WHISPERER     it is deeply moving, the scenery of Montana was beautiful....the story lines were well-acted. and if you are a R. Redford fan, it is one of his best.    If you don't like it, I think you missed the point.  It has no bad language       the violence though, is very unnerving (the accident scene),and no gratuitous sex!..Wow, who would have believed it???? I'm still trying to figure out how they did some of the horse scenes,especially  the gentling of Pilgrim..... "},{"Title":"What a love story ! Better than Romeo and Juliet..","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is my current favorite love story. I have always known of Robert Redford, but now I know what the fuss is all about. What an actor! His face can tell a story. This story is so exciting I watch it every week. Of course the ending is still the same and becomes more meaningful each time I watch it. The actress who played Grace is quite believable. It was my first time to see Kristin Scott Thomas. When Robert Redford and Kristin Scott Thomas were dancing, I thought I would melt. I think we all have lived that moment. Thank you for listening. Florence Forrester Stockton  "},{"Title":"Who dared to say it was too long?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Warningpossible spoilersIt wasn`t too long for me the first time...the second time...the third time...and still isn`t...I`ll never forget the first time I watched this movie.I was abroad for the first time,in Oxford,and as a huge fan of Kristin Scott Thomas I just had to go to see this movie.I was some ten minutes late so I didn`t catch the accident scene,I gave a fortune for the ticket and the showing was shortly interrupted a few minutes before the end because the tape was too long - but none of those things managed to break the spell.Liking or disliking movies is a very personal thing.It depends of what kind of person you are,what has recently happened in your life,how vulnerable you are to certain things.Mistake number 1don`t equal slow with boring.Anyway,I liked the movie.I put it among my favorites.KST delivers a terrific performance I adored her in English Patient but that blonde bombshell had nothing to do with this boyish-looking over-ambitious mother of 13-year-old (differs so much that I almost couldn`t recognize her!).This was a totally different personality,which means she`s a hell of an actress.And so is the girl (Scarlett Johansson).Robert Redford did a good job,but that doesn`t change the fact that he`s way too old for that role.Come on,thinkif you were 38 (approximatively KST`s age),could you fall in love with someone more than 20 years older than you,no matter how handsome and impressive he seems?I couldn`t,sorry.Though I consider RR a very goodlooking man,when I saw him on screen,with camera focused on his wrinkled (far beyond acceptance)face,I was shocked and nothing could convince me to accept him in a role written for someone who should be at least under 50.Maybe it`s just me being 20,but I can`t help it...Good story (more complex that some people think - it is about healing,physically and mentally),good actors,great scenery.What`s not to love?I was personally touched by the dancing scene (Soft Place To Fall).And I don`t think the movie was too long - the story is unfolding slowly,so it takes some time.I don`t even notice how much time.I give it 9 out of 10 only because I prefer the age difference between love interests to stay within 10-12 years (so I could believe it).  "}{"Title":"Talk about mixed feelings","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I believe the story is way too bloated for its own good. It could have been cut down by at least 20-40 minutes for a tighter, more intimate movie. The romance between Robert Redford and Kristin Scott Thomas' characters was unconvincing and a major waste of time and almost ruined the main story of the tragic accident and recovery of Scarlett Johansson's character and her horse which I thought was very well done part of the film.Sam Neill almost got lost in the shuffle until his final scenes when he admitted that the relationship between him and his wife was not as good now as it was in their earlier years. It was from the character's heart and mind and it was not a wasted moment. It was nice to see Chris Cooper as Redford's brother. He always puts me on notice every time he appears in a movie. Also, Scarlett Johansson in her first major role. Visually it was a beautiful-looking movie thanks to Oliver Stone's regular cinematographer Robert Richardson. I only saw the movie after buying Thomas Newman's musical score. His music cuts appear on many movie trailers in the past few years.Bottom line, I have very mixed feelings. It did not deserve the epic-size scope for an intimate, simple storyline. In this movie, Redford the director is better than Redford the actor. Compared to his other movies, this ranks much lower than Ordinary People, Quiz Show and even The Milagro Beanfield War. As of now, I have not seen A River Runs Through It or The Legend of Bagger Vance. At the same time, because of some very good performances, I did not feel it was a total waste of time. "},{"Title":"Tremendous film if you are not in a hurry.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I think it says a lot that the lower scores for this film come from the younger voters. Is it the impatience of youth? Is it the shortening attention span that seems to be permeating our society? I will admit to being 45+ in age, but I can tend to be impatient myself and I can have trouble sitting still -- much like the Annie McLean character in this story. Knowing myself, it says a lot that I was captivated for the nearly 3 hours it takes for this film to tell the story. I can't think of where cuts would be made, for all of the various ingredients were important to the story. A telling quote from Robert Redford's character to Annie -- As long as you are here (Montana) I thought maybe you could relax into it. If you want a beautiful story, acted and photographed beautifully, and are willing to relax into it you will enjoy this experience. "},{"Title":"Turkey Whisperer","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Three questions for this turkey1) Why does a horse-lover ride her horse on a freezing winter-day   morning?2) Why does a truck run so fast on the snowy road and cause the   accident?3) Why does the horse whisperer have to fall in love with the young   girl's mother? Can't he concentrate on their horse?The most unbearable moment is when Redford and Thomas dance, which reminds us what Douglas and Stone did in BASIC INSTINCT. Apparently Redford doesn't want to lose the charm he once had for women. "},{"Title":"Redford Whispers.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer (1998) Dir Robert Redford / Cast Robert Redford, Kirsten Scott Thomas, Scarlett Johansson, Sam Neill, Dianne Wiest A rarity among romances because it doesn't support the idea of adultery. The title suggests encouragement or good will. It opens with two girls horseback riding when an accident renders one dead, one legless and a horse turned wildly savage. Kirsten Scott Thomas plays an editor who doesn't want the horse to be put down so she convinces a rancher, played by Robert Redford to tame it. Beautiful photography throughout with director Redford applying his usual theme of loss and recuperation that worked well in Ordinary People. Redford's challenge is not the horse but the rider. Thomas is persistent and torn between feelings of confusion. We know that potential romance blooms but what really excels is Redford's view of Sam Neill who plays her workaholic husband seen as an honest man. Scarlett Johansson is terrific as the emotionally wounded daughter who must face her fear. Dianne Wiest is also good casting playing Redford's mother who observes but comes off as offering advice only when needed. It is not everyday that we are met with a film that respects the act of marriage and goes low for forbidden fruit. Redford's film captures that with a strong theme regarding healing and returning to where one's passion began. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A veritable spiritual experience","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer (1998) is a drama with Western elements starring Kristin Scott Thomas as Annie, a workaholic magazine editor from the Big Apple, who takes her troubled daughter (Scarlett Johansson) and horse across the country for succor after a horrible tragedy. Can Montanan horse expert Tom Booker (Robert Redford) help them? Sam Neill is on hand as Annie's husband in an aloof marriage.This is an outstanding drama that proves that ordinary life conveyed effectively is more engaging than the most overblown CGI-laden blockbuster with constant exciting things going on. Those types of movies have their place, of course, but they're usually only good when they include elements of ordinary life in which the viewer can relate (2009's Star Trek and 2013's Star Trek Into Darkness are good examples). As my title blurb points out, The Horse Whisperer is so potent it's a veritable spiritual experience (which I'll explain momentarily); you just have to be in the right mode for a long drama.One critic said Annie (Scott Thomans) and Tom (Redford) lack chemistry. Poppycock. Do you think director Redford would even do the film without the right actress in the starring role, an actress he had great chemistry with? Besides, the film itself proves this criticism wrong There's a barn dance sequence late in the film that builds-up to a dance scene. Tom and Annie look deeply at each other from across the room until they ultimately come together, while still looking into each other's eyes. This is EXACTLY how a man and woman look at one another when they love each other. The film expertly captures this intangible element.Despite the above scene, The Horse Whisperer doesn't play like a steamy romance novel at all (not that I've ever read one, lol). Redford was 61 during filming and looks it, even though he definitely looked good for his age (Scott Thomas was 36-37, by the way). As such, the love elements are decidedly low-key &#x96; a look, a touch, a word &#x96; elements that slowly build over the course of the story. I'm not going to say any more or give away the ending, but it concludes the way it had to &#x96; excellent job on this front.Johansson does a great job, particularly considering she was only 12 during filming. It goes without saying, don't expect the voluptuous young woman she would soon blossom into for 2002's Eight Legged Freaks or 2003's awesome Lost in Translation. Why do I call The Horse Whisperer a veritable spiritual experience? Because everything about it works to produce this effect &#x96; the story, the music, the cinematography, the locations &#x96; and maybe especially because it's a film about healing. Both Grace (Scarlett) and the horse desperately need healing, but so do Annie and her marriage; and I think maybe even Tom Booker.I don't know how else to describe The Horse Whisperer except to say that it's just a beautiful film and easily one of the greatest dramas ever made. If you love great films like Grand Canyon (1991), The Green Mile (1999), Whale Rider (2002) and Dances With Wolves (1990) you will also love this one. The Horse Whisperer shares qualities of these excellent movies, but is unique.To close, I'd like to share a powerful scene from late in the film (you might not want to read further if you haven't seen the movie, but it's only a mild spoiler at best) Booker tells Grace about this Blackfoot boy whom he was friends with and who became a paraplegic after an accident. Tom would visit him now and then, but the spirited boy he once knew was gone. It was as if he just went somewhere else. Grace responds, I know where he goes. The film runs 2 hours and 49 minutes and was shot on location in New York and Montana.GRADE A "},{"Title":"Very nice movie","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had always dodged this movie, I think I still associated Robert Redford with what I thought were self-indulgent movies in the late 70s -80s. He never entirely gets away from being smug, but if you can deal with that this movie has a lot going for it. Scarlett J and her horse are involved in horrific accident which leaves both of them physically and psychologically scarred. Her mom Kristen Scott Thomas (always fine) tracks down horse whisperer Redford in Montana or thereabouts, and when he refuses to see them in NY she travels to his turf, Scarlett, damaged horse and all. Redford's family are nicely played, and there are tons of beautiful scenery where Robert calls home. What I liked best about this movie was the slow but persistent pace, along with the scenery and beautiful music. I would have played out the potential love interest between Redford and Thomas differently, but I really think the story is in the Redford-horse-Scarlett angle anyway. Much better than I anticipated. "},{"Title":"the story of many 'comebacks'","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A good movie, however the real story here is about the comeback of the characters, such as Grace (Scarlett Johansson). There are great moments in the film such as where Grace has again ridden a horse (sort of in secret for the first time since the accident). And Grace later tells her mother 'nobody's ever gonna love me like this' - never fails to tear me up. It's because she referring to ALL her injuries inclusive of her physical, mental, and emotional state - which may be finally beginning to heal with the help of 'life' on this wonderfully beautiful cattle ranch. Another one is where a few minutes later Grace tells Redford the story of exactly how the accident happened (what an amazing, heart- wrenching scene she gives us). And Redford gives her some great fatherly advice and emotional 'relief' - we can feel her healing. Another is in the barn where Grace's mother / Redford finally talk about their feelings... an emotionally vulnerable woman, and a complete gentleman with enough character to know what is right for all of them.Finally, the emotional climax is where Grace enters the corral and confronts her fears about the horse. It's her chance, and all the supporting characters are there for her, standing up for her. In the end both her, the horse, and all 'the comebacks' come to total fruition and complete triumph. There are so many parallels between the injured horse and the flawed people that are emotionally involved in the story...All in all, this is really a 'comeback' movie - for Grace, the horse, for Redford's character, Grace's mother - all of them are in movie magic 'reality' learning to love again. THIS narrative is the real focus of the film... if you watch it again from this perspective, you'll see a very young and an incredibly gorgeous (quite visible even at such a young age) Scarlett to shine - better than in just the few glimpses of good acting that we manage to otherwise catch. "},{"Title":"needs to be about the kid","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Annie MacLean (Kristin Scott Thomas) is a bossy editor at a magazine and facing accusation of misconduct in her job. Her daughter Grace (Scarlett Johansson) goes riding her horse Pilgrim with her friend Judith (Kate Bosworth). An accident leaves them run over by a truck. Judith is killed while Grace loses a leg and Pilgrim suffers traumatic injuries. Annie is stubborn and dismayed at Grace's depression. She tracks down Montana rancher Tom Booker (Robert Redford) or the Horse Whisperer to help. She drags Grace and Pilgrim to Montana despite her husband Robert (Sam Neill), Grace and Tom's objection. She surprises Tom at his range where he lives with his brother Frank (Chris Cooper), Frank's wife Diane (Dianne Wiest) and family.It's a very interesting start. It's a nice family drama for almost an hour. There is a lot of good family relation dysfunction set up. Then they get to Montana and Redford slows everything down. I don't ride and the horse whispering doesn't appeal to me. There is some beautiful slow whispering but the mother takes away too much of the focus. The mother's development goes into an unnecessary place. It only takes the story away from the daughter. The family dysfunction is still good but it just devolves into something less compelling. It spends too much time on unnecessary and distracting issues. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and moving with wonderful acting and cinematography","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer is that rare magical film that will lift your spirits while making you sad at the same time by giving you a dose of harsh reality. Beautifully filmed with the wide-open vistas of Montana contrasting against the big-city enclosed feeling of New York, this film brings deep contrasts across so many levels of landscapes, emotions, and characters.The plot involves a well-to-do family in the New York area composed of mother Annie (Kristen S. Thomas) who is a bossy editor of Cover fashion magazine, father Sam Neill (subdued lawyerly type), and their young teenage daughter Grace, wonderfully played by a burgeoning actress named Scarlett Johannson &#x96; ever hear of her? Grace loves to ride her favorite horse, Pilgrim, which forms one of the central themes.Emotions run deep and strong in undercurrents of relations. Does mom love her husband? Does mom love her job? Does mom love her daughter, or want to control her life. Does dad protect their daughter too much? It's clear that Grace loves dad, but less clear is how she feels about mom. These themes are prevalent undercurrents throughout the film. You can really see the ability in Scarlett Johannson who was only 14 when she made this film. You really feel her mental and physical pain struggling with teenage angst, while fighting a new battle against mental and physical angst. Powerful performance for someone so young.Cut to Montana, where Robert Redford delivers a spectacular performance as Tom Booker, horse whisperer whose special gift with horses is sought out by Annie. Or is Annie seeking more? You decide. In some ways, this reminds me of Crocodile Dundee in reverse, where Annie goes to the wilds of Montana seeking help with a suffering Pilgrim whom everyone wanted to put down, but maybe she also seeks help with healing her daughter, and even deeper, perhaps she seeks help with her own life choices. Redford skillfully directs, produces, and acts in this flick, and no one has ever done it better. He slowly reveals small bits of his life to Annie, and other layers get peeled back like an onion, with the same sad effect. Yet, he seems to be totally at peace with where he is, and Annie starts to seek that peace.Kristen S. Thomas is superb, but sometimes a bit unbelievably nervous. She has trouble adjusting from the New York minute lifestyle to the slow-down-pardner lifestyle of Montana. Sam Neill plays his typical role of a quiet, fatherly type who knows something is going on, and knows there's not much he can do except help pick up the pieces wherever they may fall. Excellent supporting roles add flavor as needed from Tom's family, in the form of young kids, his brother, and sister-in-law.You may laugh a little, but you will certainly have your heart strings pulled in multiple directions in this complex, moving film. The dance scene choreography between Annie and Tom is electric, stunning, and moving in its simple complexity of subtleties. I don't think I've seen a better dance scene ever.My only critique is that, at almost 3 hours, the film gets a little long. There were many scenes of running the cows in, and all involved with that, and other farm activities that really, after one or two, you get the point. There's no electronics here, so people do other things. I think 20 to 30 minutes could have been shaved off to bring this closer to 2 ½ hours.Excellent plot, terrific acting, breathtaking cinematography, fine editing, and skillfully detailed directing. This is a film you will remember for a long time. Do yourself a favor and watch The Horse Whisperer. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A True Heart of Simplicity","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie excels on many levels, but its unique quality is that it shows very clearly the healing of heart and body that takes place when we focus only on those things that really matter. The perfect place and way to portray this was through a lifestyle intimately connected with the earth (ranching) and a family steeped in traditional manners of simple honesty and courtesy.One scene which exemplified this focus-on-manners was when young Joe Booker (played by Ty Hillman) was talking with Grace. He asked her what it was like riding Pilgrim. She wasn't able to answer. He excused himself, politely.Joe Booker's manners and persona are always respectful, and this aspect of the movie, alone, tells us that we are in a far-different place, ethically, than modern-day U.S.A. Chris Cooper (as Frank Booker) does a magical job of showing this deep but practical respect for people and the land, as well. This deeply traditional and reverent family ranch was adeptly juxtaposed to the frenetic, distraught and disconnected life lived by the horse's owner's family.The sparse, direct and vital dialogue between Redford (as Tom) and Johanssen (as Grace) was the interface between those two worlds, and Tom's silence was just as significant as his succinct words. One lesson I got from this movie is the (sometimes graceful) acceptance of reality, including the changes that it brings.The scenes with Tom and Pilgrim are particularly insightful and intuitive, especially for Hollywood. We are compelled to wonder whether Tom had learned some kind of Native American energy (aura) assessment of the horse and had learned to communicate by controlled vibration or projected visualization. In The Horse Whisperer, Tom Booker healed two hearts, those of Grace and Pilgrim, while exposing his own to injury.The end result for the relationship between Annie and Tom, though, is not a formulaic tragedy or victory The wounds must be realistically and gracefully accepted along with the pleasures enjoyed A state of mind and soul that leads to an even disposition.One critical and beautiful part of the movie made me cry Cherry Cooper (as veterinarian Liz Hammond) asked Annie for permission to put down Pilgrim. Hard-bitten executive Annie looked in Pilgrim's eyes.., and replied, No.From this one word alone, we can see what Tom saw in her.I could have done without the branding/roping scenes, but that is perhaps my own denial of reality, and will not give this movie any fewer than ten stars. "}{"Title":"Small Problems","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I think the film is great but it has odd changes from the book. Pilgrim and Gulliver should have been switched due to color. and Henry Logan should have been in the book. And how the focus the story should change a little, otherwise it is a brilliant film, I enjoy it. The way they portray the story really gives a feel on how the character feels. Redford did a great job making sure that you could really feel the emotions the book had displayed almost to a point. Evans, the writer, wrote a really moving piece and sold the rights to the right director, all and all as said above loved, i only wrote so much because it said I have to "},{"Title":"It's all about getting back on the horse.","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie put on airs that I feel it was unable to live up to.I wasn't sure if it was supposed to be a movie for youth or adults, but if you have a horse-loving kid, you might want to know it's not exactly a wholesome family movie. A large part of the story involves the mother's lust for another man. The husband was not shown as insensitive, uncaring, unsupportive or uncommunicative, so evidently we were not supposed to sympathize with this woman.It didn't sit well with me the way they seemed to be pushing the girl to get better before she was ready, treating her as though there were something wrong with her and she should just snap out of it. To me it didn't seem like it had been very long, and rushing her doesn't seem like a good idea when everyone does things at a different pace.The movie overall seemed to drag; I think they could have taken out the whole affair part because it didn't really seem to have any purpose anyway, and that would have gotten it down to a normal length. The recovery of the horse was painfully slow, with many failures, just like in life. Trouble is though, this is a movie, so we need things to move along a little faster to maintain our interest. Not only was there not much whispering, but the man didn't even seem to have any special technique. It just didn't seem to make sense why this woman would want to spend so much money to fix this particular horse, when the process was so iffy, and the safety of her daughter was at stake.The accident scene was very well done. The trip to the ranch was a little ridiculous, driving cross-country with an unmanageable horse. (How did they feed it all this time, when they couldn't even get near it?) The scene at the hoedown was pretty intense. The final scene with the horse is kind of disturbing since he really didn't seem ready, though it's awesome when that horse gets up.Nobody really wowed me here with their performances. Scarlett was pretty good, as long as she didn't have to cry.Was it inspiring? I'm not sure. I want to give it a higher score since I feel like it is some kind of classic, but I just did not have that feeling of being charged up for the next day or so like I do when I see a good movie, or thinking about it all the next day. The affair and the rushing of the girl's progress left a bad aftertaste, if anything. It was a kind of low-key movie. I guess I was just expecting more magic or miracles, because that's what the movie set me up to expect. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Maybe it's just me being sentimental about another film accompanied by a Thomas Newman soundtrack, but I thought this motion picture was outstanding. The aforementioned score by the great Tom Newman was the perfect accompaniment for this chilling, yet heartwarming tale; just one of the 11 injustices by the academy. I'm not familiar with most of Redford's work, and I was yet to be convinced by his acting; however, he played the role of Tom so fantastically, that's it's just one of those roles you know the actor was born to play. A couple of drawbacks were that I felt Scarlett Johansson's acting at times a little dry, albeit she was only 13 at the time.Cinematoraphy was excellent, most notably the scenes of rural Montana, as well as the opening and final scenes of Pilgrim (the horse) prancing around - unrelated to the plot.All in all, I would definitely recommend a watch. Solid 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Based on the novel of 1995 The Horse Whisperer by Nicholas Evans, a drama directed and starred by Robert Redford. The Horse Whisperer tells the story of Grace Mc Lean (Scarlett Johansson) a teenager whose passion is horseback riding. In a particular morning she gathers with her best friend Judith (Kate Botsworth), to ride their hoses (Pilgrim and Gulliver). A very unfortunate accident leaves Grace, and Pilgrim in a very painful situation. Grace's mother, who happens to be a workaholic magazine editor (Kristin Scott Thomas), feels that Pilgrim's healing is related to her daughter's recovery. In a desperate way to save her daughter she drives all the way to Montana to find one of those special men called Horse Whisperers (Robert Redford). A little bit long, but filled with emotions, love, and hope. "},{"Title":"I loved my horse with no remorse","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A movie is not bad or good. It is often about how we relate and what moves us. This movie reminds me of a love I had in my life. The horse reminded me of my partner. He was beautiful but spoke his own language, one I could not understand. The alliance was too fragile to know the wealth of secrets he had in his heart. There was too much fear to get past. The emotional highs and lows of the movie equalled the depth that I did not know I was capable of. It's a movie about coming to the realization that there are some things we can never understand. Ultimately, there are events that happen when we least expect that will forever change our perspective in life. I disagree with Tom Booker's philosophy when he says, I never ask why it happens. When the mind does not have an answer, it will always look to fill the void. If there is no answer provided, something needs to be put into that void. Who was it that said, Hope is greater than fear? Out of the ashes, there is always a hope for healing and transformation. I have been moving to discover my own empowerment and ability to transform what has felt like devastation. The movie is about love, guilt, trust, fear, what cannot be seen and the hope for understanding. It's about the sacrifices we make for love. "},{"Title":"A Master's Masterpiece","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford has directed a Masterpiece. The Horse Whisperer is a Classic film. There are comments posted here saying It's good, but the book was so, so much better. Perhaps, but overall, the shear logistics of assembling such an effort- actors, casting, crew, set design, costumes, sound, lighting, editing, and too many others to mention- simply boggles the mind; purely directorial genius in motion. The talent, gifts, trademark modesty and class of this man are reflected in every movie he takes on...whether in front of or behind the cameras. Thank you, Mr. Redford, for sharing this beautiful film with us. It is indeed a Classic. "},{"Title":"A Multi layered and emotional movie","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Horse, teen, mother and gentleman all with broken past, all with something to heal.While the main theme is about an excellent horse trainer and his work with a horse that needs help, the movie deftly intertwines all four main characters into a movie of redemption, love and renewed life.Solid performances by all cast members combined with outstanding outdoor settings, this movie has the ability to sweep you along in its story. You'll cringe, laugh, cry, worry and smile right along with the people and animals you're watching.8 out of 10 for me; they just don't make 'em like this much anymore.Worth the watch, trust me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, great scenery","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Though the movie and the book differ quite a lot, this movie had some wonderful and beautiful scenery, scenes and places i would love to see myself one day. The love story should have evolved more in the movie to create a better reflection of the movie. If i had to choose, i would say, the book was wonderful until the very end, but the movie was just as great, if only the love story had continued with the family leaving and giving them those few days. Ending in the book is predictable. Though, i still believe that Robert Redford is the most beautiful man ever and in this movie, he proves being a charming man and Kristin Scott Thomas is just great as Annie A lovely movie. One i have seen many times. "},{"Title":"Well the truth is, I help horses with people problems.","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film came out in 1998, however I've never been compelled to watch it before until I came across the documentary Buck at my local library. It's the story of Buck Brannaman, listed in the closing credits of The Horse Whisperer as an 'equine technical adviser'. In real life, one might call Brannaman a horse whisperer, someone who's made working with horses his life's endeavor and has an unusual, almost spiritual connection to the animals he trains and works with. There's a scene in The Horse Whisperer that takes place at the Booker home where a montage of old family photos is shown. One includes a couple of young boys with Santa Claus; they are Buck and Smokie Brannaman as kids. Buck is the one on the left.Regarding this film, I was stunned when I pulled it up on the IMDb and saw that it's user rating is 6.4 as I write this. I usually don't comment on such things, but in this case I have to urge potential viewers to disregard that score. I can't think of a more compelling film to watch that deals with the trauma of personal loss, injury and failed family relationships. Though the story may be built around a horse called Pilgrim, it has more to do with the way Tom Booker (Robert Redford) uses his own unique ability with horses to role model such personal attributes as patience, honor and integrity when dealing with family and the circle of friends and neighbors that show up in the story.The one thing I would caution potential viewers about is the way the picture initially unfolds. The accident that sets up the story is one of the most horrifying scenes you'll ever witness in what's nominally a family movie. I'm practically a senior citizen myself and I winced more than once while watching Grace (Scarlet Johansson) and her friend Judith (Kate Bosworth) get in trouble on the icy hillside with their horses. For me, that scene stayed with me the entire story, casting it's shadow over young Grace's rehabilitation and recovery, even as she comes to a personal reconciliation with herself and her mom (Kristin Scott Thomas) at the Booker ranch.Otherwise, the movie gets my welcome recommendation. Actor and director Redford does a fine job on both sides of the camera, along with co-stars Thomas and Johansson. The story moves slowly at times, primarily in those scenes used to demonstrate Booker's technique in getting to know and understand his patient. The picture's defining moment is realized when he completely wins over both Pilgrim and Grace in the scene when she gets to ride him for the first time since the accident. With the same calm self assurance that he exhibits throughout the picture, Tom Booker says to Grace - Trust me just one more time. "},{"Title":"Very heartfelt and poignant drama with a good cast and strong performances","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Even though I haven't read the book, THE HORSE WHISPERER, in my opinion, is a very heartfelt and poignant drama with a good cast and strong performances. At first, I really didn't like Grace's (Scarlett Johnansson) attitude after the accident. However, as the film went on, I got to like her more. Also, I felt really sad when Judith (Kate Bosworth) didn't survive the accident. Everything else about the film was good. That especially includes the production design and performances. Now, in conclusion, if you enjoyed the title novel of the same name, I strongly recommend very heartfelt and poignant drama with a good cast and strong performances. "}{"Title":"Horse Whisperer","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I watched this movie last evening and when it was over, I thought it was alright, but today the movie haunts me. I feel for the characters in the movie as though they were friends. When a movie can make you feel this way, I consider it a great feat! The scenery was wonderful and if you like horses there are enough scenes with horses to keep you happy. I never like movies where a spouse cheats in their marriage, and this movie is no exception. I thought most characters where well developed and well acted, but feel someone else in the female lead may have been able to do a better job. I loved Robert Redford, he is so handsome, and seems to say all the right things at the right time, to bad there aren't any real men like that! "},{"Title":"Emotional , dramatic adapted movie","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Oh God, there are very, very few movies that touch me. and that one sure did!! The Direction was so excellent, and well performed.The cast did very good too, especially Kristin Scott Thomas, and Robert Redford of chores.The story was so original, i haven't seen any movie with a similar story before.The make-up was well done. Especially the horse's.The movie is so captivating, even though its a bit long, but you still wouldn't be bored.its so emotional & touching. Makes you wonder what really goes inside your animals' heads!It has a clear purpose in letting people know about injury trauma. Especially horse injury trauma.It also reminds us of the importance of being married and having kids. And the importance of having a family. Also it advices us to take a break and search our souls to find the real things that makes us happy.If you're an animal lover, and most of all a horse lover, and love the life at the ranch, you'll gonna enjoy this movie very much. "},{"Title":"Really Good, Made me cry","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I'm not an emotional person but its sad to see the bond with the horse and Grace so good at the end. I would definitely Recommend it. At the beginning its a grace with her friend on a ride on their horses. When they come across a steep hill, they both try to tackle it but fall into a main road suddenly the driver of the 6 wheeler beaps scaring the horses and knocking grace off. Her friend by now has disappeared under the wheels. Shes Dead. Grace however falls and is unconscious just as its about to hit grace her horse jumps in front of the 6 wheeler and is majerly injured. Luckily they make a choice to not put down the horse. Grace has her leg cut off and her horse just pulls threw but can they repair the bond between her horse and grace. Her mum arranges a trip to the horse whisperer "},{"Title":"No whips were used.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" In the training of these horses, the tool that is the same as a lung whip is used as though it were another horses tail (they communicate affection with their tails) not to strike or even startle the horse. To advise a whip was used is very misleading, it takes great love, patience and dedication to train these horses so well. My sister is a horse whisperer of the Perelli method and I have watched her and there is no hint of violence. I am concerned that a person who does not know this would think the horse was rearing in fear rather than as a trained response to the trainers coaxing to rear. It is an awesome thing to stand near a horse who is carefully waving his hoofs in the air. I'm sure the film makers did not intend the tool be visible, so it is a gaff, but viewers should be aware that it may be called a whip, but it is not used as one. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie, it is very good. Robert R, Kristin. Scott. T and Scarlett J played awesome characters, and they also played there roles very well. I must have cried about four or five times because it was so sad yet so happy. My favorite scenes are the accident at the start, all the horse scenes (after the accident and when Tom is healing the horse), and the love scenes between Tom and Annie (Robert & Kristin). He he I am a sucker for romance, I loved the dancing scene and the kissing scene and just the way they looked at each other. This is a very well thought out movie and I don't think I disliked much at all, apart from the ending, I wanted Tom and Annie to stay together, nevertheless great movie, make more movies like this one and I shall be very happy! "},{"Title":"Just read the book; interested in comparisons to film","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The book is so close until fewer than the last 100 pages!  Then the difference in ending is traumatic to one who loved the film.  The film left one wondering and asking questions.  I found Tom Booker's capitulation to the white stallion difficult to swallow.  He should have looked after Grace. Annie had to go home; after all, she finally discovered her selfishness in the decision to go west but it had saved her daughter.  Grace is barely 15. No way to abandon a 15 year old; I don't care how incredible the love! "},{"Title":"Great Epic","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1998 and found it quite enjoyable.I have found that epic movies tend to be more enjoyable because there is more time to make the story flow easier.Scarlett Johansson shined in this movie. "},{"Title":"One of Redford best films.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is a beautiful movie to watch. The characters are well acted through out the whole film. Scarett Johansson plays a girl wounded in horse riding accident and Kristin Scott Thomas plays her mother. The mother hires a horse whisperer played by Robert Redford, who try to heal daughter and horse. The healing on the outside is easy, but the inside will take some time. Redford does both act and direct this film, which was the first time he did this in a motion picture. I highly recommend this movie, because it is a good study understanding the moods of people in the plot.   "},{"Title":"You were robbed Mr Redford","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Not one sign of sex, or violence, or profanity. This film is refreshing in today's cinema due to it having a beginning, a middle and an end. All in the right place at the right time. I cannot believe that the Horse Whisperer did not win an Oscar, and only won an award in Germany and a Young newcomer award (although very well deserved). The balance of nature, humanity, pain and love that Mr Redford created in this movie is superb. You have been robbed Mr Redford. All the actors play their part in creating a beautiful movie for all the family. 9/10 "},{"Title":"It's not as sentimental as you expect","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Having not read the novel, I know there's a dramatic twist at the end of the film. But my intuition tells me that I will feel much more comfortable with the film's current ending than the novel's. I hate sentimentality so much that it only makes you to cry pathetically for yourself but nothing else.Although the film has a very moving solid love story, it's actually very symbolic and poetic about the relationship between people and nature. Everything happens in beautiful Montana seems so romantic that allows you to forget anything else. It's the ending that brings you back to the reality that everyone living in the world has to face for. I'm glad to see, between reason and passion, both Tom and Annie choose the reason because that's what life is about. It's quite adult, not like romantic novels that always trap you into their fantasies.  "}{"Title":"Not the Book","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I read The Horse Whisperer when it first came out in paperback.  That was far before the movie was made and far before I had to enjoy a film that was so different from the book I so loved.  That said, I didn't enjoy the movie the first time I watched it.  I was disgusted, disappointed, and very upset with Redford for destroying the heart of the book.The premise is the same  Girl gets in gory accident on horse.  Friend dies. Girl loses leg.  Horse loses spirit.  Mom calls a loner in Montana (home of the big-sky country).  So in these respect, Redford allowed we readers to get sucked back into the book all over again.  He did an excellent job with the huge expanses and the scenes with the horses and him are very peaceful. He encompasses and inner-strength that comes across on the screen immediately.Then come the differences  Tom should be a youger man!  Redford wouldn't do a sex scene (which would give this story justice) because of his aging body. There should be a baby in the movie, but since there is no sex because of aforementioned body issues, there is no baby.  There is no death at the end (I won't mention whose, but you readers will know).  The climax of the movie is, frankly, anti-climactic.  Instead of focusing on the love between two very strong, and very hurt characters, Redford focused on the horse.  He missed that the horse was just a metaphor for all of them.  There was no redemption!Overall, the movie should be viewed without having read the book.  As I continue to watch it, it becomes better and better.  The furter I get from reading the beloved novel, the more I can respect this film as a completely independent piece of work.  But if you love the book and are looking for the Tom and Annie that Evans wrote, read it again - don't rent Redford's version of them.  "},{"Title":"Deep feeling movie","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Warning sorta spoiler of story I gave it a 6 and my wife gave it a 8 so we voted 7.  I am a restless sort who usually likes action films, and my wife is the romantic type.  This film is a love story slash western; my wife felt sorry for the horse and little girl in the movie.  The scenery is unbelievable, and the portrayal of western life is on the mark. The horses were the true stars and this story is more then the taming of a horse and its change of heart; its much deeper with a parallel of the horses pain relating to the hurting girl and the heart of her mother.  My wife loves this movie, and would recommend this story to romantics everywhere.  "},{"Title":"Lovely Scenery/unbelievable story","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I at last managed to get all the way through this movie, it has taken several attempts to make it. If you are looking for a  Travelogue on Montana, then this is the movie for you - ditto if you like a good weep. Beyond that it is I suppose an interesting (if unbelievable) story and the acting is without exception good.  The casting is spot on (with the exception of Redford's self indulgence - only outdone by Clint Eastwood's in Bridges - don't these guys look in the mirror?). Surprisingly the ending is a tad more believable than that in the book, although I do wonder  whether anyone these days has the degree of self sacrifice in their makeup that we were led to believe that Annie had. If you have read the book and were dissatisfied with the outcome - then see the movie - all this has been changed.The action shots with the horse are marvellous and I must admit that Redford held his own in these - it was only when it got gooey that he looked uncomfortable and out of place. The scenery, as previously mentioned is magnificent and for this alone it is worth struggling through the seemingly endless story.  "},{"Title":"Wide Open Spaces","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A movie for those who like the wide open spaces.  Even if you don't particularly care for horses you'll find this movie will move you deeply.  I find the scenes of Montana to be the best feature of this movie, as well as the music.  Almost a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Touching.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is a great film. So, it is a very, very long film and they could of taken some bits out of the film, but overall I think it was great.Scarlett Johnasson is absolutely amazing. Robert Redford is an outstanding director and Kristin Scott Thomas does a very, very good acting job.You must see The Horse Whisperer now! My rating  8 and a half/10  "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Like A River Runs Through It Redford returned to Montana to shoot a film in the state's natural splendor. Unlike the aforementioned film, however, the plot is dull and the characters dumb. Bob Richardson saves this film from itself. The director of photography, better known for his Oliver Stone films  than any others, scores what may be his best yet as DP. The visuals are simply stunning and, for me, left me yearning for more nature shots and less horse listening and child whining. This may be the the most apathetic Redford character since Three Days Of The Condor and audience apathy certainly doesn't  help out Redford in any role other than like the one he had in the thrilling Condor. He needs to direct, i.e. River and Ordinary People or act. Not both at the same time. He has lost  his appeal with women under the age of 50, and should not consider himself the playboy that he once was, i.e. no more roles like the one he had in Indecent Proposal. I respect Redford and believe that he can be one of the more influential directors during the next 20 years, but I think he needs to envision himself behind the monitors instead of in front of the camera.  "},{"Title":"A good film when you want to take a break from suburbia...","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I admit I didn't want to see this film when it was in theaters.  However months later in the video rental store, I decided to take a chance, figuring I had 3 hours to kill anyways.  What a movie!  There are only 3 other movies I have seen in my lifetime that moved me as much as this film.  Excellent cinematography.  Locations shots were breathtaking.  I got lost in the film, taking in every detail.  The 3 hours went by so quickly.  Seeing it again on HBO, I am still taken in.     "},{"Title":"Powerful & Moving","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The cinematography was awesome, a beautiful film.  redford was excellent, as was Scott Thomas.  The natural beauty of Montana was an integral part of the film, actually another character, as is usual for a Redford production. hard to see this without being involved and moved... "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer has taken too much unfair criticism.  It is, in my opinion, a superior movie about relationships.  Some want to compare it to Redford's A River Runs Through It because it is set in Montana and features breathtaking scenery.  But the actual plot is very similar to Redford's first film, Ordinary People, both about a young person who has been traumatized with a perfectionist mother and a warm, giving father.  Also, there is the similarity between the impact of the down-to-earth psychologist in Ordinary with that of the down-to-earth horse whisperer.  In addition, Horse Whisperer is beautifully photographed, from start to finish.  Redford is at his peak in capturing the small beauty of simple scenes alongside the breathtaking wonder of the high Rockies.  My teenage son, who is not given to being maudlin, left the film fairly choked up.  He could not get over the eye to eye contact between the girl and the horse, and the unspoken feelings therein.  He said he could not imagine anyone seeing the film without tearing up a little.  Kudos to Redford!  He is establishing himself as one of our finest filmmakers. "},{"Title":"I like this one!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  When I learned this movie was 2 hours and 49 minutes long,...I was surprised as it seemed like only 90 minutes. I don't know if Whisperer should be considered a chic flic or not, (I'm a guy) but I enjoyed it so much that I am recommending it to everyone I see.The scene at the beginning was difficult to watch but, after that the movie got to work on the real story(s). I thought Redford was fantastic, and Kristen Thomas kept you on the edge of your seat with tension as you attempted to deal with what must have been going through her characters mind as she tried to deal with the situation. I couldn't help but put myself in the character's places and trying to figure out how I would have reacted in a similar situation(s). The love story reminded me of Bridges of Madison County, one of my favorites...and the chemistry between Redford and Thomas was wonderful as it developed. Oh, and the photography was just an added plus.I would  recommend this movie to anyone that can allow a movie to get to their sensitivity levels. If you don't like anything except shoot-em-up or kick-boxing movies, don't go here. I, for one, can't wait to watch it again.  "}{"Title":"Simple comments","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this film one year ago and I loved it.I can understand that it's not something great but I believe that someone can love it.Robert Redford is very good and Kristin Scott Thomas is great(as usual)next to him.The girl is very good,too and I believe she has a brilliant future.In my country a lot of people saw this film.(The truth is that the Greeks like Redford very much!)I have read the book and I believe that the film is better.Of course we would like Thomas to stay in Montana with Redford and leave her family but this isn't something real.We would like her to sleep with him but this isn't real too.The last thing I would like to say is that Kristin Scott Thomas is great and she worths a lot of success...   "},{"Title":"Let the horse whisperer heal you as well.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There are two levels in this wonderful movie. One is its surface, with his gorgeous landscapes, its beautiful music, the horses, the great cast, and much more. The other level is what is unseen and untold, what you can read in the silences, what you can understand if you put yourself at the same level of the communication that Tom (the horse whisperer) tries to create with Pilgrim (the horse). Silent, subtle, speechless, slow, innocent, friendly. Basically the exact opposite of what you normally find in a big city (where theaters are), and the opposite of what you can get if you see the movie looking at your watch, hoping for something spectacular happening in order not to think to your problems back at the office.I think this is not a movie anybody can enjoy in  any mood. You must be ready to go to Montana, and let the horse whisperer heal you a little bit. "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have just finished watching Horse Whisper for the second time and I can't wait to watch it again.  All of the performances were brilliant and believable.  I fell in love with Robert all over again.  A beautifully simple story of love and consequence.  As much as you wish that Annie and Tom continue their adventure together, it is painfully obvious that Annie has no other choice than to return to her life as wife and mother. Sometimes, doing what is right outweighs that which feeds our passionate souls.  And sometimes, I wish it was otherwise. "},{"Title":"Touching, warm-hearted, and emotionally fulfilling...","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There are strong performances all around in this touching, warm-hearted, and emotionally fulfilling picture.  Robert Redford magnificently portrays his horse-wrangling character with the ability to see into horses' souls. Kristin Scott Thomas also gives a stunning performance.  But I feel the best performance in the movie was that of Scarlett Johansson.  She's a bright young star who I think we'll be seeing much more of in the future. Overall, The Horse Whisperer filled up its 2 hours and 49 minutes superbly. --- 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, plot needs strengthening, good popcorn and cuddles movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a movie for the lazy rainy afternoons when you just want to snuggle up with your lover and drink hot chocolate with marshmallows. It has the right blend of beautifully shot scenes of Montana, gorgeous horses, hunky cowboys (Redford definitely still has it), romance, and a minimally complex plot.Think Black Stallion meets Bridges of Madison County. "},{"Title":"Redford knows how to make wise film-making decisions","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The author and publishers of the original novel ought have taken the manuscript to Robert Redford before going to print.  Had they done so, and had he given the same advice he seems to have given himself in making this film, the result would have been a much better novel.  Certainly, his movie is superior to the book.This is a rare accomplishment in movie-making. To be fair, though, whereas the novels on which big movies are based are often superior literature, the Horse Whisperer is a tolerable novel at best.Some viewers may find this movie too long, but I think the slow, gradual development is necessary to its themes of patience, care, and healing.  I saw it at home, on video, and that may have been an advantage.  My seat was way more comfortable than those in most movie houses. "},{"Title":"Good example of Redford being a much better director than an actor.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is an excellently directed and acted movie. Those who believe that the movie needed to be shorter are probably those who cannot sit through a Bach concert. Thing that were put into the film which were unneeded were there to establish (for the plot) the mood of the story. Scarlett Johansson should at least gotten an Academy Award nomination. The only weakness was in casting Redford. He was too old for the part and his performance wasn't up to those of the others. His performance however was the best since Jeramiah Johnson where thankfully he had even fewer lines. "},{"Title":"Bad Ending To a Good Story","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have read the book The Horse Whisperer as well as having seen the movie...I thought that the movie was very good but I think that they should have kept the ending that was presented in the book because the ending presented in the movie left too many questions unanswered. "},{"Title":"Positive response.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film was impressive not only for the success in healing the horse but giving Grace the remainder of her life to look forward to. The action of the horse was overwhelming and I for one would like to see how this action was accomplished. It's always enjoyable to see beautiful scenery.   "},{"Title":"perfect date movie","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Well, this movie was very good in my opinion.  It was a bit long, but if you're in the right mood to see it, it's awesome.  It has wonderful scenery, but over half of the real story is butchered out (granted, if it weren't the movie would be even longer).  I will say this...it's the perfect date movie. It allows you to get all mushy and cuddly and enjoy the movie.  It's one of my favorite movies.  "}{"Title":"arrrrrgh too long, but apart from that it's good","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is an acquired taste.... I can quite understand how sitting through this movie for some people could be like having a tooth pulled. But for me it wasn't. Maybe it's because I love horses....the film did seem to go on and on a bit and I think Redford could have easily trimmed it in a few places making it a bit less bum-numbing. It's beautifully shot, the scenery is fantastic, and that accident scene was frighteningly realistic. Redford wasn't too bad as the whisperer man but he looked a bit wrinkly. I think his days of using close up soft focus are numbered. Kristan Scott-Thomas was quite good as well as the cold, bitchy mother, the girl did begin to get on my nerves towards the end, I reckon Nathalie Portman, who the part was first offered to, could have done a better job. but the real star of this film has to be that horse Pilgrim, if anyone gets an Oscar out of this for acting,which no-one probably will, he should! "},{"Title":"A touching & emotional film","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film about the recovery of a horse & its owner, along with the romance between the mother & the trainer, is completely enthralling. Yes, the movie is a bit long, but the scenery & character development make the wait well worth it. Scarlett Johansen is a compelling teenaged girl who's suffered a trauma in a horse accident & now, while she is rehabilitating her horse, she manages to do some emotional recovery for herself. Kristin Scott-Thomas is a hyperkinetic mother, who is deeply involved in her controlling behavior. It takes Robert Redford to loosen her grip on everyone's life, but it happens. This movie is a gem. A MUST for you romance fanatics & for those of you who just need a good cry, don't miss THIS!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I just watched the Horse Whisperer and I thought it was a beautiful movie, the scenery, the story and the actors.  I thought that there was great chemistry between Scott-Thomas and Redford.  And, I would also like to add what a beautiful and realistic job that Scarlett Johnanson did. "},{"Title":"Touches the emotions at every turn in spite of being too drawn out.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford delivers his usual classy performance, both in his character & in the role of director. The plot is well put together but there were a few spots that I could feel the sandman trying to sneak up on me. The beauty of the land sparkles, much to the Montana Visitors Bureau joy, I'm sure. Towards the end of the movie, I didn't feel as much frustration & anger from Sam Neill's character as one would expect in that situation. I'd suggest this movie others as long as they aren't sleepy when loading into their VCR. -P.S.- Redford sure has a cute tush for being 62 yrs old! teehee!; "},{"Title":"An impressive achievement of drama and cinematography","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  ***** out of *****When I saw this movie, I knew I was going to cry, but what I did not know, was that I was going to cry during the whole film. The movie (as all Robert Redford movies) is about the life of normal people, in a dramatic predicament that changes them forever. The situation in which these characters are involved, is so shocking, that I couldn´t ignore them. I felt pain and sorrow for them, because this is something that could happen to any of us and we should be aware or at least prepared for it.I think that Redford, as always, makes us observe and analyze, what we sometimes possess and don´t want to see, only because we see it every day. We have to, sometimes, suffer to realize that there are wonderful things in our lives...When I saw Robert Redford´s directorial debut Ordinary People, I thought, this could happen to my family, to me... I felt terrified. Redford, has achieved making me feel that way every time I watch his films.In this movie, his directorial task is at its best. The cinematography is the one thing I truly admired through all the movie. I really feel he knew how to give the audience a moment of calm and relaxation after those excessively emotional scenes, in which I couldn´t do anything, but weep and feel sorry for the characters´ pain.All the actors are excellently (and I could say perfect) cast. Even the horse´s work was as realistic as I could expect. That scene in which the rescue team finds Pilgrim after the accident, was so shocking to me that I started crying because the only thing I could think of, was the animal´s confusion and sorrow.The images are as vivid as in the book. In fact, this is the second time in which the cinematographic language resembles the literary language in a strict way. Robert Redford managed to recreate Nicholas Evans´ world as Barbra Streisand did with Pat Conroy´s The Prince of Tides. And these two works even have the same structure, but each director made it their own by including the personal touch.I read that Redford edited his picture from 3 1/2 hours to 2 hours and 50 minutes. I have never criticized any film because of its length or pace, but I think this film´s length was unnecessary. I don´t think that´s an aspect of the film I could criticize, but maybe Redford fell extremely in love with this picture, that he didn´t want it to end...but he managed to create what I can consider one of his best works.  "},{"Title":"Take your time","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Despite the rather painful theme that was supposed to follow throughout the movie I, nevertheless, was having a rest while watching it.  I was having a rest and enjoying. Enjoying the actors, their gorgeous performances, magnificent scenery, measured pace of a story.  Yes, nobody was in a hurry. They were just telling the story, sitting around the fire. That reminded me Out of Africa stuff, in a way. And thanks to this unhurried pace you gain some time to think and to feel together with the characters. Unfortunately, vast majority of films never give you such a chance for they are either full with too much action turns rushing one after another in a lightning mode or are completely deprived of any thought to engage your head with.Redford is an I've-seen-it-all kind of guy as in most of his movies of late. One can rarely argue the truths his mouth is uttering but I do disagree with his I never ask why it happens philosophy.  Unless you do it you are doomed to suffer the same pains all life long which is understandably hardly welcomed by a human being with reason.And one thing more It's good to see two people require more than 15 minutes to fall in love but of no less admiration is also the way-out the producers let them find in the maze of their feelings, passions and obligations. Very nice movie.   "},{"Title":"Best Romance of The Decade","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The performances in this film are amazing. Robert Redford and Kristin Scott Thomas are superb. Sam Neill and Dianne Wiest give good support, and young Scarlett Johannson gives an Oscar caliber performance as Grace, the teenage girl at the center of the story.Although I rank Gone With The Wind as the best romance ever, and An Affair To Remember is a close second, this film is number three on my list.  "},{"Title":"It wasn't too bad....actually..very good.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I actually thought it was a pretty good movie.  I still can make the claim that I have yet to see a bad Robert Redford movie.  It was long...according to the video cover, but I didn't feel the length adversely affected the movie. It's kinda what I expected, but better in that I wasn't interested in seeing it when it was in the theaters, but once I saw it I had to finish it.  I'd recommend it, even if you don't have a date.  ;) "},{"Title":"Only for good readers, excellent!!!!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It is almost impossible to put into words, the deepest truths and methodologies this movie teaches and drives the expectator through... Only a spirit as penetrating and as clean as Redford's, combined with an excellent capacity and staff, are able to irradiate the emotional welfare the landscape supplies plus the re-birth of the girl through the recovery of the horse and her capacity to mount it, the recovery of the relationship between them, and the emotional equilibrium of the mother through the experience of love, and of facing who she is, and what she seeks in life.It is my personal opinion that Redford plays roles in movies where he feels the same again -the journalists film, and this one, as if seeking the second experience of a fullfilling love, he has yet not achieved.Besides, there is also a repetition of the contrast between external appearance and essence Ordinary People, Close up Personal.No better director or actor, ever.  "},{"Title":"Lengthy but good","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is one long movie, but the good story and heavy drama kept me from falling asleep.  Personally, I'm very fond of horses, and I was intrigued at the way Robert Redford's character went through the process of Horse Whispering.  The music in this sets the mood very well, and the country settings of meadows and hills were absolutely breathtaking.  Even the sky was beautiful to look at. Towards the end of the movie, a melancholy mood develops and you can't help but feel for all the characters.  Very good movie.  8/10 "}{"Title":"Epically slow pace, somewhat lesser story","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Although this movie is long (3 hrs.) it is the pacing of themovie that I found the most disconcerning. With much of the filmand the story dealing with the build up to the meeting ofKristen Scott Thomas' character and Robert Redford and theireventual relationship, way too much of the movie was devoted tothe horse, the daughter and the prologue. It seemed likenearly 2 hours went by before Thomas and Redford even talkedface to face, much less develop any kind of chemistry. And thismovie is supposed to be a love story! The ensuing relationshipis beautifully crafted and exceptionally directed, and thedialogue is rich in a certain kind of refreshing quaint styleand genuineness. But it seemed like it was too little too late,not giving the viewer any reason to want to watch the beginningagain.   "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  My wife and I just came back from seeing this movie which was recommended to us by one of our country line dancing friends. Our reaction to the movie  a slow starter, but it gradually develops into a fascinating story set in a contemporary western atmosphere with our favorite singer Don Edwards (as Smokey) in a guest role and beautiful sceneries of Montana. It is a real pity that Kristin Scott Thomas does not listen to her heart; it looks like she chooses for a Horse Whispering Robert Redford, but in the end she decides to save her marriage anyway and go for her daughter (what a great actress!) an her understanding husband. Well, that's life. You have to see this movie if you love cattle ranches & modern American cowboys - preferably if you have experienced a cattle drive before and already visited Montana, like we did. "},{"Title":"Loved the book AND the movie!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I am a big fan of the book and was not disappointed at all in the movie.  I had been told it was too long, that there was better chemistry between Redford and the horse than between Redford and Thomas, and that some of the gentle horse healing techniques of Tom Booker left much to be desired (but that the actress who played Grace was excellent and the scenery was great).  After seeing the movie, I would have to say that the only negative comments I agree with is regarding some of the not-so-gentle horse-healing techniques(specifically towards the end, Tom's last-ditch effort involving a rope -- very disturbing!).However, I loved most of the rest of his interactions with the horse, especially when he was gentle and let the horse come to him when it was ready -- very moving.I found the chemistry between Redford and Thomas to be very charged and romantic.  Instead of the in-your-face passion I am used to seeing in movies it was more subtle and under-played.  You could tell the feelings were there but that they were both reluctant to express or act on them because of the consequences. They said it all with glances and subtle body language -- much more realistic under the circumstances.I agree it was longer than most movies I usually like to watch, but it was so engaging that I didn't notice how long it was until after it was over. The pace was slow, but I never found it boring and I never got restless (I was probably too busy blowing my nose! ~smile~).If you are looking for a fast-paced action thriller or a steamy romance, look elsewhere.  But if you want a well-acted, beautifully filmed, emotionally realistic character study of a family (and a horse) on the road to physical, spiritual and emotional healing -- as well as drop-dead gorgeous scenery! -- then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not for everyone","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Having read the book, I expected a really toned down version. I have to say that Robert Redford did an excellent job. I disagree with someone's comments about there being no chemistry between Kristen and Robert. I was actually surprised! I have never been a big fan of Roberts, but I was pleasantly surprised by his screen presence and charm. The movie was overall very well done and interesting. I loved the ending, even though it differed from the book. I also happen to love horses, so my opinion might be biased, but I enjoyed the movie very much, even though it was painful to watch in places. "},{"Title":"What a First!!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Who can argue that this was not better than the book? This rarely ever happens. That I like a movie more than the book! And not only that, they changed the ending and I still liked the movie even more. Nick Evans was too soapy-sap-like in his book, especially regarding the ending (Easy way out as far as their relationship was concerned). Granted it may have been a little long, but it didn't drag as much as some other movies of this length have. Titanic being one to mention. Some scenes weren't handled all that well. Like when the daughter shared the events with Tom but overall highly enjoyable, and more likable than the book. One more question that someone might be able to answer for me, what exactly do the two guys see in Annie? She was selfish, at times cold, and bitchy. They BOTH deserved better. o) "},{"Title":"The scenery alone makes this one worth watching!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Not to mention it's a good story too.  A surprise ending tho'. "},{"Title":"Don't overlook this film!!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  When it comes to the Oscar Race I hope the Academy voters don't rule out this gem!!  I thought this was Robert Redford's best work since Out of Africa.  I really hope that The Horse Whisperer doesn't get overlooked especially for screenwriting and for its breathtaking cinematography. Kristin Scott Thomas was wonderful in this movie but Scarlett Johnson was exceptional and she could be mentioned among the Best Supporting Actress nominees.  Remember Academy voters please don't forget to recognize this movie!! "},{"Title":"Better grab some tissue -- you're going to cry!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Absolutely sumptuous film!  The scenery in itself is worth watching it.  It is definitely better than the book -- Redford makes all the right changes. The story is great and extremely well-acted.  Most people I've talked to focus on the relationship that develops between Annie and Tom, but I think the main story here is the relationship between Annie and her daughter, Grace.  There isn't much chemistry between Kristin Scott Thomas and Robert Redford, but there is plenty between Scott Thomas and Scarlet Johannson -- a brilliant veteran actress and a promising newcomer.  I'd definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"One very powerful and unhappy woman, a control freak and a perfectionist is forced to re-examine her life.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Horse Whisperer is good because it gives no answers. It does not solve Annie's problem of perhaps leading the wrong life, but it shows life's opportunities and abundancy. It should appeal to anyone facing midlife crisis, it makes you step back and think about life and what it is about. I loved the beautiful landscape of Montana, the horses and of course Robert Redford who is always good at portraying this  type of character strong and gentle, independent and loving, committed but always free  (Out of Africa, Havana).  "},{"Title":"My viewing of the movie.","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I watched this movie and immensely enjoyed it.  It was a wonderful movie. The  accident scene was very powerful, it  was kinda  like a slap in the face.  The reason  I am mailing this was in the scene where Mr. Booker  was going to let Grace drive the truck, I found an error,.  If you notice in one scene there is a  gun in the back window of the truck before she gets in, when  she gets in to drive  it is gone.  I just thought I would let you know I noticed  this.  It isn't a big deal, I just noticed  that.  But that aside , I have recommended the movie to all my girl friends as I know they will enjoy it as much as I have.  I applaud Mr. Redford a great deal as he did an excellent job in  directing this movie.  Thank you for letting me have to opportunity to respond to you..   Have a very nice day! "}{"Title":"Long w/ some objectionable content","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The story about a special horse trainer that heals souls of horses and people related to the horse is really good.  But the part about a mother considering abandoning her husband and daughter for the horse therapist is bad.  "},{"Title":"Made my TOP FIVE of ALL TIME list!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have been an avid film fan for almost 40 years!  So, a large database from which to make comparisons -- in terms of quality. This film swept me away!  It has magic in it!  The young actress, Scarlett Johansson (as Grace) was incredible!  The Redford character (Tom) was/is a model to follow.  What calm and equanimity!  A modern-day sage.  The qualities obvious within him are little different from that of any Zen or martial arts master.  The love story aspect, for me, although well-done, is not what this movie was about.  This is a film OF, ABOUT, and FOR -- the spirit.  It is a spiritual movie.  Redford has tapped into the eternal within him, and offers us a film of incredible richness and beauty -- an almost-perfect work of art.   "},{"Title":"a spiritual, healing, beautiful story...redford is amazing!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  it is a story about healing the human spirit and spirit that lives in all god's creatures.  very moving, real acting, spectacular cinematography and the music from thomas newman is spellbinding. it stays with you. the scenes from the film will stay in your mind and the message in your heart. the ending is very clever. kristin scott thomas is very good and scarlett johanson is dearing. robert redford is simply amazing. his talents, creativity, vision and spirituality are unique. he is amazing. thank you for sharing your creativity with all of us.  he is the reason why i became an actor and he is the reason why i am a producer. thank you. "},{"Title":"Breath taking!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Fortunately I had yet to read the book before seeing this film.  I heard many reviews on it and decided to wait for the video release.  I prefer to watch and use Kleenex and boohoo in private if I must.  I loved it from beginning to end.  The scenery (which I am a sucker for) was the best I have seen in any film, including another of my favorites A River Runs Through It. The acting was exceptional.  Redford was at his best, as was Johannson and Wiest.  It was great to see her stray a bit from her usual soft and terribly sweet characters.  The musical score was phenomenal.Although I do like Kristin Scott Thomas, I thought the chemistry between her and Redford left a bit  to be desired, but my heart did pound a little faster during the dance scene, so all was not lost.This is definitely a must see if you enjoy good music and breath taking vistas.  I just may be writing my next review from Montana. "},{"Title":"Better than the book","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Wow, do I ever disagree with 'Anonymous,' who thought the book was better. Yes, I agree the book was well written and the opening scene is one of the most powerful I have ever read. BUT-- one of the marks of a great book is that the author creates believable characters and then lets them create the story.  (A great author NEVER imposes a plot development or, especially, an ending, on his or her characters.)  The ending of the book version is powerful, but contrived. There are many other ways out of the dilemma than the one Booker consciously or unconsciously takes.  The ending of the MOVIE on the other hand grows directly out of the characters and is not imposed at all.  And changing the ending allows the writers to take out the other contrived scene-- the one at the outbuilding during the dance. The ONLY criticism I have of the movie is that the events in the first third or so are too rushed-- more like a summary than a story.  Of course I realize that nobody is going to go see a four hour movie, but that's how long it needed to be. The acting is great-- ALL of it, even Redford, who usually plays the same character over and over again, but not this time. Newman did a fabulous job on the music.  And the cinematography has GOT to win an Oscar-- if not, there's no fairness in the world. "},{"Title":"Another excellent Redford film","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Excellent film and interesting story line. I enjoyed Redford in the movie and think he was more convincing then in Indecent Proposal which I didn't enjoy. Here he plays a good character who will surprise you in the beginning and end.Nice movie and I will buy this once it comes to DVD! "},{"Title":"Book was better","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw the movie after I had already read the book.  I was VERY disappointed. The book was incredible!  It is my favorite book ever!  The movie was nothing like the book.  Tom doesn't even die in the end and nothing is ever mentioned about a baby.  I think since the movie was so long (over 3 hours), the movie could have been made to be more like the book.  "},{"Title":"Good work Robert Redford!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It is fascinating to see how a film of almost 3 hours, without violence, action or sex can still be so very good. Redford has really succeeded in making a beautiful film, full of sensitivity and emotions. Such films on human relations (and relations to animals for that matter) add something to your own emotions. I would not have wanted to be without it.Kristin Scott Thomas does an excellent work (as usual). Her expressive face is an experience in itself. "},{"Title":"A whisper that never seems to end","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  As I looked around the theater before this film started to roll, I realized I had walked into the wrong room. I was surrounded by a huge crowd of giggling, middle-aged women who had gathered in swarms in selected parts of the theater. Probably the exact same crowd who collectively sobbed away during Bridges of Madison County and Legends of the Fall a couple of years back.Robert Redford is a competent director, no doubt about it. He's got a great cast here, a beautiful countryside to show off and some potentially interesting psychological territory to exploit. There is a dysfunctioning family, a tragic accident and some moral dos and don'ts, but not much more. The film is well made, but never interesting. I found myself waiting for some sort of climax that never happened. There's no chemistry between the characters and it's simply too long and slow-paced for my taste. I fail to get emotionally involved in a film about the mental recovery-process of a horse and a bunch of depressed people who constantly cry, scream or ride around in slow-motion in search of themselves and a better life.A few questions came to mind during the course of the film Who in their right mind would travel thousands of miles across the american continent with an injured horse, when the most simple and affordable thing would be to shoot it and simply buy a new one? And if you take away the beautiful scenery, the romantic dinners and sentimental background-music, isn't a married woman who fools around with another man still a hussy?If you're not a fanatic horse-lover or someone who enjoys a good summer -flirt, you might as well pass on this film. My girlfriend is happy she didn't, and judging from the tears in the eyes of most of the other female members of the audience, so are they. I guess Redford managed to whisper something right into the ears of these women after all, and I'm pretty sure that riding HORSES had nothing to do with it... "},{"Title":"For once a movie that does the book justice","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Having read the novel last year on holiday I was eager to see the film. To be honest I doubted if Redford could pull it off playing Tom Booker as the character is much younger than he is. Having seen the film now I realise that it really didn't make that much difference. All performances are good, especially Scott-Thomas and the new ending is actually better than the book. Don't worry I won't tell you either...........  "}{"Title":"Redford at his best","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford's direction of the Horse Whisperer was exceptional.  In my opinion, he took an average novel and turned it into a first rate film. Both as director and actor, this movie is Redford at his best.  Hope he gets an Oscar for directing. "},{"Title":"nice story, spectacular visuals (without special effects)","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford is one of the safest bets in the film industry -- he may be incapable of making a bad movie.  His integrity is demonstrated in refusing to cater to the short attention span of today's typical viewer.  The audience must adjust to the tempo of this film, just as the main characters from New York must adjust to the slower pace of life on the ranch (and both are rewarded).  But if you're in the mood for an action-adventure flick, this isn't the one to see.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was definitely the best movie I have seen so far this year. The mixture of drama and romance was just right and you just have to love the work done by the Cinematographer, respectively the camera-men. The pictures in this movie have a beauty that I dare to say will not be beaten by any other movie in the near future. If you like breathtaking scenery THAT is the movie for you. But also if you prefer movies with a plot that take you in a world apart from reality THIS is it!Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"The Montana Tourist board sure are proud -)","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I must say I enjoyed this movie, even after the jokes about it being a 3hr  advert from the Montana Tourist Board.  The acting is all excellent and  reasonably consistent, at least it didn't try to be sugar coated.Its also nice to see a Range Rover somewhere other than on a school run in a  movie.... "},{"Title":"Okay movie about horses","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The Horse Whisperer is a reasonable movie dedicated to the horses. It is an emotional and touching movie.The highest points, in my opinion, are the wonderful soundtrack by Thomas Newman, the fabulous and colorful sceneries which appear often (giving it a somewhat magical touch), the dedication to the horses and Robert Redford's direction and acting. By the way, the gift of the character Tom Booker (played by Robert Redford) towards horses is amazing.My major criticism goes to the very long runtime of the movie (more than 2 hours and a half, which is too much) and to the brief romance between Tom Booker and Annie MacLean. Not that I'm against romance, but because these characters's romance is a romance without a future. Besides, this movie is slow and tends to be a bit boring, becoming literally tiring. I like the performances by Robert Redford, Kristin Scott Thomas, Sam Neill and Scarlett Johansson (this is one of her earliest roles).Despite being mostly a dramatic story, this movie has also some humor. Even dramas usually have their comical side, also called a comic relief. "},{"Title":"Horse Speak","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I can not watch the first 15 minutes of the film which sets up the story of Annie, Grace and Pilgrim, the injured horse on which the premise is set. I realize this is film, the truck is nowhere near the horse, but it is impossible to watch an animal become injured by the stupid thoughtless actions of a silly spoiled little girl. That she looses her leg, her best friend, and ruins her valuable horse as a consequence is supposed to cause sympathy for her character, but it does not. Enter Annie (Kirstin Scott Thomas), Grace's power-suited, NYC magazine editor mother who realizes that the injury to her daughter is more than just a physical problem, and to the severely traumatized horse, the decision to put the animal down would be the most humane. Annie understands that she must take the initiative with her depressed and petulant daughter to keep the girl from becoming like the angry animal that Pilgrim has become. In desperation, she contacts a Montana rancher who specializes in the rehabilitation of problem people through their misunderstood horses. Tom Booker (Redford) is a laconic character of few words but great patience when it comes to healing animals and their human caretakers. In the process, he comes to heal both Pilgrim and Grace, but also, he and Annie begin to fall in love.Robert Redford directs films which are visual love affairs with the great western landscape as in A River Runs Through It. This film is equal to the cinematic beauty of that film and in some cases, surpasses it. Although horses are flight or fright creatures, the film tries to sell the notion of the animal protecting the young rider at the risk to its own life. This is simply stupid. Horses will run over a human without a second thought if given the opportunity much less rear against an 18 wheel Peterbilt truck, so this aspect of the film is fantasy. However, as Pilgrim comes to trust the human touch again through the alternative techniques of Booker, so too do Grace and Annie heal their relationship as mother-daughter and later between Annie and her husband (Sam Neill).Teaching that healing the spirit of broken creatures whether animal or human come through acts of kindness and patience, the Horse Whisperer is a slowly evolving story of love in its several forms, e.g., love of man for animals, human love, love of the land, and love of those whose injuries are slow to heal. It is an almost zen-like meditation deftly painted on film. Redford directs a secondary cast of dream character actors led by Diane Wiest and Chris Cooper, and wonderful youngsters who portray the rambunctious sons of Cooper and Wiest. All actors are thoroughly credible and true to their characters, esp. the very young Scarlett Johansson. Once away from the ineffectual setting of urban savagery, the Montana ranch life heals everyone although loss is inevitable. "},{"Title":"Outstanding story and leads","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Along with Diane Keaton , Michael Douglas and Jack Nicholson - Robert Redford and Kristin Scott Thomas added comprise, in my opinion, the most appealing five stars in film today. Two in the same film is a real bonus. Redford is a phenomenon. In real life, nearly 2-1/2 decades senior to Thomas, he is wholly-believable here as a contemporary, age-wise. This is a tender, engaging story, and every actor/character, in addition to these two leads, is genuine, realistic and likable - a rarity even in the best films. Usually, if one enjoys seeing a motion picture more than once or twice, it is because of the story/plot, a particular star or the overall cast, or because of the scenery and/or locale. In the case of this movie, it is all of the above. "},{"Title":"Coull have been a good movie it it had the right morales","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This ultimately could have been a good movie had it not been for the wrong choices the people made. The story starts with a little girl and her friend if I remember correctly who are riding their horses when they get in an accident. Somehow the parents want her to start riding again, so they take her to this ranch. At first the girl is hesitant but eventually she starts to like. While the mother, choosing some wrong choices starts to fall for the horse whisperer as well as he falls for her. The father who didn't go with them comes up for a visit and to watch his daughter ride. The girl is happy now that he is there she is unaware of the her mom's actions. The father played by Sam Neill notices her the mother's distance between the and the fact that she felt uncomftorable with him. The movie has a sad ending, yet the director seemed to want that ending to support the mother's actions. It could have been much better had he ending been more disapproving of the mother. My rate is 7/10PG-13- an accident scene- it also includes muture themes and mild sensuality "},{"Title":"A very touching film","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I was very much looking forward to seeing this movie - I have been interested in seeing it for a number of years before actually getting round to renting it.Now I personally think that the book was superb and was aware that the movie would not compare to the book. After all not many do.The movie is one that needs patience. It is very long and at times I was slightly antsy for it to move along. If you are looking for an action packed, plot twist a minute this is not for you. It is a very honest, touching story that makes you feel compassion for all of the characters during the movie.I thought that Kristin Scott Thomas was excellent at the working mother who finds it hard to open up and deal with tragedy. She is very believable. Also Robert Redford is a very likable character, who you feel great pity for at the end of the movie. However there was not much development leading up to their relationship. The characters are so different and it is hard to believe that they would fall in love like that without some explanation of how such different characters fell for each other.Scarlett was brilliant as the lost little girl and she played the part with the right amount of attitude and confusion that I imagine a young teenage girl would if they were involved in such a dreadful accident.The ending was well done but not your typical climax - I was a little bit disappointed with it, but it did fit in with the pace of the film ( I was expecting a death at the end - this is what happens in the book!)All in all worth seeing for the amazing settings, the great acting and actors and the unusual, gentle pace of the film. 7 1/2 out of ten "},{"Title":"A pale shadow of the book","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" May contain spoilers! The Horse Whisperer is a favourite book which I have read many times, so I was excited about seeing the film. I read the reviews on IMDb first and was surprised to see many people saying that the love affair between Tom and Annie was irrelevant, but having now seen the film I can see what they mean. In the book their affair is beautiful and passionate, a true meeting of souls that they just couldn't help, and it was intrinsic to the plot and the healing of the whole family - if this seems unlikely read the book for yourself! The ending of the book (I won't spoil it for you here) has been called melodramatic by some but brings the whole thing to an end and a new beginning. However in the film their affair did appear irrelevant, a kind of add-on which did nothing for the story. I'm not usually a fan of Kristen Scott Thomas who is about as passionate as an iceberg (see The English Patient), but although I thought she was very good here the way the Annie's character grows and develops in the book was not shown in the film. The ending (of the film) was frankly bizarre - to just drive away without a glance seemed to show that Annie too thought the affair was not that important and betrayed the passion they felt for each other. Shame. Otherwise the film had a lot of good points - beautifully shot and acted (though Robert Redford would have been better for the part if he had been 20 years younger), with Grace especially being played very well indeed. "}{"Title":"No Chemistry","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I agree w/the person who stated that there was no chemistry between Redford and Thomas. I too failed to see why Redford's character would be drawn to Thomas' character. I found myself wondering which actress I would have selected to play Annie. I just don't find Kristin Scott Thomas believable as an object of passionate desire. She's a nice woman and she is attractive, but I just don't see why Redford's character would be drawn to her character. When they kiss, there is no passion at all.I loved the film though and have been enchanted w/it. I love Redford and he was perfect as Tom Booker. I loved all the characters actually, but I do agree that there is no chemistry between Kristin and Redford.One of my favorite characters was the grumpy old man outside the hotel where Annie and Grace were staying. Redford's character is on his way to see the horse for the first time and the grumpy guy says goin to see that horse I hope you got insurance.Chris Cooper was great as Tom's brother too. Sam Neill was perfect as Robert MacLean. I found myself wondering which man I would select if I had to choose between Redford and Neill. They are both such handsome men. But there is no choice. If I were already married to one of them, I'd remain faithful to my husband. If I were single, I'd have a tough time choosing. The deciding factor would be which man treated me best. Which one made me feel most comfortable. Since I would also want to make him happy, I'd select the one who felt that I was a good partner for him. "},{"Title":"Review from a blue state","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is one of my favorite red state flicks (chuckling). No really, this is a very good film. My only complaints are that the romance between Redford and Thomas's characters isn't very believable, and the film's about 45 minutes too long. Other than that, I think this film is excellent (recently bought it on DVD). For the guys -- it's not really a 'chick flick', definitely a worthy watch for sensitive guys as well. The acting and story are very well done, and the gorgeous Montana vistas are really something to see. Makes me wish there was a bit less born-again republican looniness out yonder on them prairies, maybe I'd visit. If someone could reassure me there was something other than Rush Limbaugh and country music on the radio, I might even think about it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Out of Montana","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Technically 'The Horse Whisperer' is a good movie competent performances, outstanding cinematography, decent character development, an emotionally charged depiction of an horrific accident without graphic details, an interesting coming of age under uncommon adversity. The best part of the movie tell us how Grace (Scarlet Johannson) gets rid of at least part of he anger and finds the strength to overcome the consequences of an accident that cost her a mutilation and her best friend life. All this takes places in the natural beauty of Montana, that certainly doesn't need corn-dripping additions such as handsome cow-boys singing songs of love under the starry sky. Things get dicey when Tom (Robert Redford), the handsome but long-in-the-tooth cow-boy who is treating Grace's horse and Annie, the strong-willed but way too uptight mother fall in love. With all due respect for Robert Redford, I think he's a little over the hill to play rolls in the hay with Kristin Scott-Thomas, who does a great job in portraying an icy career woman who slowly warms up to the apparently uncomplicated fellow. But, will it last, could it last? Not really.  "},{"Title":"A SPECTACULAR SENSITIVE MOVIE","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is undoubtedly one of the fineset movies I have had the privilege to enjoy.The cinema photography is quite stunning and the skill that must have been involved to make the dazzling scenery come to life with such realism is nothing short of photograhic  genuis.The acting particularly by  the little girl ,is touching and sincere.Kirsten Scott Thomas's performance is Oscar worthy.Robert Redford sensitive display of true human emotion is also Oscar worthy to my mind.The story is gripping with it's emotional  twists and turns and is delightfully portrayed  by all in this movie.Anyone who is not moved by this cinematic gem must surely be spiritually devoid of feeling. Well worth watching James  A Robson Scotland  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer i think is a fantastic movie to watch. I give this movie 10 out of 10 because the actors and the actresses played good parts in this movie. This movie was made in 1998, based on a true story. Robert Redford is a fantastic actor.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful drama, much better than the book","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In my opinion, this film is much better than the book it has been adapted from (although this might have something to do with the fact that I read the book after I saw the film).The book is, above all, a love story. The film leaves out a great deal of its details. However, I don't regard this as a failure. The romance of the book is indeed both beautiful and touching, but it is also in some parts (the ending, in particular) melodramatic and somewhat shallow. Redford didn't make a mistake when choosing to focus a little more on the other aspects of the story. In his hands, the film has become a beautiful drama, with a subtle but perfectly heart-gripping romance to it. If the adaption had been more faithful to the novel, it might very well have turned out to be nothing more than another Hollywood turkey!All in all, the film is an overwhelming experience, highly recommended. The love for the nature seems to be something that Redford and Evans share between them. "},{"Title":"Redford on horses.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A movie ten times better than the mushy book that has a silly Hollywood ending. Redford treats the story and characters with respect, taking his time in telling a tale about Tom Booker and his mysterious relationship with horses. There is human interest stuff in there like a romance but I was more keen on the spiritual relationship between Human and Horse that was captured perfectly in the stunning locations.  "},{"Title":"One of Redford's best","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is such a good movie. I loved every part of this movie. The scenery was just beautiful. The acting was really good. The music was good too. If your a horse or country lover than this is the movie for you. I recommend this movie to anyone and everyone who loves movies. If you love horses, or the country this is a movie for you. I you love, well just go see the movie. You'll love it, I did.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Pretty but sappy melodrama, with extremely stereotypical characters & settings (not EVERYONE on a Montana ranch wears a hat all the time...). Waited a long time before seeing this one - should have waited longer. "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was an awful movie .... Bad acting, Bad story, good scenery.... good for the family if your kids have trouble falling asleep. There was no chemistry to be found between any of the actors, a bad plot, erratic characterizations, boring draggy shots, no steamy sex scenes, alas .... a real bomb in today's movies. Among the many drawbacks -- it was way too long, the mother's attitude toward everything was way neurotic through out the movie, and Robert Redford's character, when looked at objectively, was a weirdo. People who actually thought this was a good movie, give me pause. "}{"Title":"Wonderful use of silence, a positive film about good people","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The film starts with several minutes without dialog that is done beautifully.  Then later, the film is filled with many quiet people, especially, the people from Montana.  Redford seems to have learned a lot from living out there. "},{"Title":" A beautifully photographed film.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have read a lot of reviews that said that this film was too long. But, unless you have read the book, you would understand why it had to be so. I call this one of Robert Redfords' finest films. The photography is stunning. Even though it is long, I think it is a wonderful love story about the healing of lost souls. I liked the ending in the film even though it wasn't the same as in the book. What choice did Kristin Scott Thomas have? I will put this down on my list of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, moving, stunning work of Art","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is an amazing work of art that was obviously overlooked by the members of the academy in the last Oscar race.  I was moved to tears several times in this beautiful production spear-headed by the talented Robert Redford.  Again he has created Art at its finest.  An amazing cast - Indelible performances that will stay with me for years to come.  Thank You Robert Redford...I now remember why I love the medium of Film and Film making. "},{"Title":"With a smile and tears in the face","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Because I heard so many controversial opinions about the movie I had to see it. I loved the book, even though the ending was actually too much for me. Go and watch the movie if you are fascinated by horses and great landscapes, that kind of remind you of Marlboro country. Surgeon warning. Smoking is hazardous to your health;-)) For the rest of it I can only say, that I was disappointed. There is no chemistry between Robert Redford and her (what was that name again?). What makes the book fascinating is only secondary in the film, which does not make it better or worse. It is actually a completely different story, because the emphasis lies on a different aspect of it. Is the book one great lovestory lacks the movie any sexual fire, that should exist between the leading roles. The movie is great, as it is, but you cannot compare it to the book. Two great works, that have the same storyline but are completely different. Go and see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good, until...","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I was actually enjoying the movie for a bit. It had a good story line in the beginning and you got emotionally into it during and after the tragic accident with Grace and Judith. Being a horse person, I knew the behavior of the horse afterwords was a little far fetched, but thats what happens with most movies. From the get go, I noticed the training methods of The Horse Whisperer were based on fear. This is definitely never the way to go while training horses, so I was skeptical. But I continued t watch, assuming I was mistaken. And for a bit, I believed I was! But the thing that really set me off was in the scene near the end where Tom got Pilgrim saddled. He tied the horse's leg to the saddle horn and made him run around and buck! This is extremely dangerous and could've resulted in a broken leg, snapped neck, even death for the horse. And I know what you're saying, its just a movie. But they had to get the shot somehow, didn't they? This training method could be considered abuse, using fear and force to get the horse to lay down. On top of this, the wife is cheating on her husband with Tom! This is downright unnecessary to the story and wrong. Her husband isn't a bad guy or anything, she just wants to be in the country. Overall, the 3 stars I gave the movie were for the beginning. I consider it animal abuse what he did to the horse. I have been riding for most of my life, I know what I'm talking about. Also, it is just wrong how they had the wife cheating. I, personally as a horse lover, do NOT recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Hollywood hocum","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Bitter, angry girl, iconicly laid back cowboy and city woman too wrapped up in her job interact with a few minor characters in this unoriginal but pleasant bit of puffery.  Redford makes a good cowboy; I liked him as well in this as in Electric Cowboy, although even with the soft-focus lens the fact that he's a million years old makes him a dodgy romantic figure.  The uptight business woman has never done much for me, especially after reading Susan Faludi's book Backlash in which she convincingly portrays these characters as veiled attacks on intelligent, independent women (the character arc of Annie follows pretty exactly the pattern of these characters, becoming warmer as she is moved away from her job).The best thing in the movie is the part involving the horse.  It is fascinating to see this poor injured beast go through a transformation, and to see the girl go through a similar one.  Toss out the romance and focus this movie entirely on that (which wouldn't be hard, just cut an hour out and you could have that very movie) and you would have had something really special.  As is, the movie is well done and I quite enjoyed it, but compared to Redford's best films, Ordinary People and the Milagro Beanfield War (Whisperer kind of aims for a middle ground between these two very different movies) it's really pretty dumb. "},{"Title":"this movie feeds your soul!","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" i enjoyed this movie because i think it's a life lesson. i've seen all kinds of country-romantic movies, but until now, this is the only one that got through my soul. all Robert Redford's movies are beautiful, but the horse whisperer has the most touching message. the story is very simple but, although it's like a drama, it gives you many reasons to love it. for example, from this movie you get the secret to a faster and safer horse training. everyone knows that horses are born to be wild and free, so if you have to train a horse you must be patient and most of all, you must have a gift from god (like tom, in the movie). i recommend it to everybody who has enough patience to see, to understand the nature, the animals and the relation between people and animals. "},{"Title":"Plot holes with scenery","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was the worst movie I've seen in a long while. It was long, and  unnecessarily so. The romance was unbelievable and gave me the creeps  because there was no reason for it to develop in the plot except because two  good looking people were near each other. The horse whisperer's moves seemed contrived, especially after seeing a documentary about a real horse  whisperer. The scenery was pretty, but also contrived. In one shot two kids are positioned just right so that you can see a rainbow in between them. By the  way, it hasn't been raining. In another scene a character just gawks at the  scenery... no other content to this scene. And the plot holes. 1) HW claims in phone conversation that he is too busy with clinics and that he doesn't work one on one. Then he gives months of his seemingly uninterrupted  ranching life now up to work with her horse. 2) The kids are out of school the whole time. One claims he is let out early to work the ranch and then we have a scene where it is supposed to be Spring.That's mighty early. 3) There is no motivation for marital tensions, yet the husband seldom calls while his beloved daughter is away. Who is the one that is too busy with work? 4) Usually when there is a scene involving the recollection and retelling of a tragic event its purpose is to fill in the mysterious blanks that the viewer is wondering about. But when the little girl finally breaks down and tells her story, there are no surprises. We have seen already in detail what happens. The only purpose of the scene then is to aggrandize the HW and his wise ways. Well, if he is so wise, why does he make the mistake that juvenile mistake he makes  in the movie?All in all, I hated this film. The main characters came off as morally sleezy instead of romantic. The scenery was pretty, but not movie-making. The  characters were questionably inauthentic, except for the HWs family. My  recommendation is that you save your time.  "},{"Title":"It goes on a bit","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford's three-hour patience tester is pretty to look at but boring as hell. Thomas Newman's very Thomas Newman score has some beautiful moments and there are bits and pieces to admire here and there, but cutting several thousand minutes may have helped render the film slightly more bearable.It's over-directed and overlong, taking an age to spin out its simple, clichéd story with its cardboard characters and cheesy scenes of family life. Scarlett Johanssen's irritating, while Kristin Scott Thomas goes into facial acting overdrive and battles with Sam Neill in a contest to produce the least locatable accent. All this congeals at a sadistically slow pace. It's a trial. "},{"Title":"..lovely scenery, not enough story..","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Few of the users who extol the gorgeous cinematography in The Horse Whisperer don't take into consideration that most of this type of film is shot in CANADA. If The US is still that beautiful, then I guess the folk in Montana have been doing something right to keep it so pristine, or the land is so valuable, condominium-builders just can't afford to gobble it up. Flying and driving to get there (as shown in the film), today, is almost out of the question. There is no time-frame to give viewers how long all this action took. Besides,You'd have to live on the land and provide everything life requires, as the Bookers did.....not many people are willing to do that, today. All that tranquility is the fruit of life, if we use it.I was not familiar with the plot directed by Robert Redford. I was imagining some Indian character to do the whispering; I suppose the purpose was to show that ordinary people don't have that capability. Although I thought Redford (Tom Booker) was excellent in his role, I was waiting for something to happen. That's not usual for me - I like long movies. However, I thought the coolest of directors and actors took just a trifle too long in that department. I wasn't convinced he was saying healing things to the horse (Pilgrim). I thought the horse was better than the whisperer.In other words, I thought it took too long for Booker to tell his client he was trying to protect you, at the scene of the accident. It was apparent to me.I liked Booker's family much better - down-to-earth people. Annie MacLean (Krist Scott Thomas) was very appropriate for the overly-sophisticated editor-role - Robert MacLean (Tom Neil) was excellent in his role.I suppose I must watch this again, as advised by some other users. Now that I'm informed I'm not going to see magical things between horse and Indian, I may view it in a completely different light. At any rate, this IS a very good movie for a whole family to watch, together. "}{"Title":"not mindless entertainment","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This movie left an imprint on my soul. I saw this movie as a high-school aged girl, and I couldn't help but feel that the meaning and beauty of this movie were lost on my same-age counterparts.The relationships explored in this movie seem so complex, but are simple, as simple and true as are the words,  I loved her not because it was right, I just loved her,.The scenery, soundtrack are beautiful. The way that the character's lives become so unlikely entangled, the yearning of the heart, lust, innocence, innocence lost, strong family values, family dynamics, these are concepts that are treated with the utmost respect in this film.I would not recommend this movie to someone who doesn't like to do some of their own thinking in order to fully appreciate a movie. If you like movies because you enjoy mindless entertainment, you will think this movie is boring. "},{"Title":"name of the song please","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I would like to know the name of the song and the singer when tom and grace 's mother are dancing in t he farm fair.thank you I enjoy the movie. I really would like to know the name of the song. I like Robert Reford , his a great actor. it is a educated movie. it is kink of silly that i have to write 10 lines in order to write something. i like the movie i don ;t know what to say. i think by now i have almost 10 lines. i think by now i have almost 10 lines.I enjoy the movie. I really would like to know the name of the song. I like Robert Reford , his a great actor. it is a educated movie. it is kink of silly that i have to write 10 lines in order to write something. i like the movie i don ;t know what to say. i think by now i have almost 10 lines. i think by now i have almost 10 lines. "},{"Title":"Excellent Horse Opera","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Let me make it perfectly clear that I had major reservations before watching 'The Horse Whisperer' for several reasons. Probably the biggest reason was I wasn't so enthusiastic about the other horse drama that came out a little bit earlier, All The Pretty Horses. The other thing is another 3 hour Robert Redford movie. So, yeah, I had prejudices coming in.Happily, those misconceptions were quickly wiped away when, for some odd reason, I became totally engrossed in this drama about a Mother (Kirsten Scott-Thomas) who takes her daughter (Scarlet Johannsen) and her horse, both that were injured, physically and emotionally after a horrifying accident to a so-called 'Horse Whisperer' (played by Robert Redford). Soon, of course, The horse whisperer is healing more than the horse.Although the plot is predictable from the get-go, the winning cast (which also includes Sam Neill, Dianne Wiest, and Chris Cooper (who ironically would play somewhat of a horse whisperer in a later movie, the excellent 'Seabiscuit') just makes this so watchable. The cinematography is often breathtaking, and the horses are also great actors in this as well. Watch when the problematic horse gets a saddle put on him since the accident. The eyes dart, the ears twitch, the feet pace nervously. I mean, does this horse have a mind or what? The only problem I had with this movie was it's length, which is somewhat lazily edited, and runs 2 hours and 45 minutes. During the running time, I was (and I sure you would too) figure what could have been edited out.Other then that, a great film! "},{"Title":"didn't love the cinematography","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Some of it was wonderful -- especially the overly close shots of the riding in the beginning, which really lent suspense to an event that otherwise would not have seemed as though it was leading to anything special. And the jump cuts and scene changes were great, too. The overhead highway shots really gave a great sense of scale, which seems to be the challenge about shooting the landscape of this continent...But how many times can we see the sweeping helicopter shots of the American West without somehow hearing the Marlboro Country or the Bonanza theme in our heads...? Have they never seen another movie about the American West...sweeping circular panoramic shots of a dude on a horse in the middle of bloody nowhere on the planes? I found that disappointing. "},{"Title":"Masterfully made movie with a good story.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford has been one of our more accomplished actors, but I really believe his work as a director is even better. Here he tells a story of a young girl and her horse, both of them badly injured, perhaps more emotionally than physically, and their road back to normalcy. Appropriately slow, with good character development, it features what, in retrospect, was an all-star cast of young talent. It is a movie I could watch every month and never get tired of it.SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW. Robert Redford plays Tom Booker, living on a ranch in Montana, and who we come to know as the horse whisperer, one who can calm horses by what he says to them in a low voice. Rising star Scarlett Johansson plays Grace who, while on a morning ride in rural New York in the snow, has an accident which kills her friend Judith (rising star Kate Bosworth), cases Grace to lose a leg, and severely injures her horse. Grace's mother is Annie (Kristen Scott Thomas), a very busy New York executive who takes time off to hunt up Tom Booker, and convince him to work with the horse, and more importantly, with Grace.Most of the movie is filmed on the ranch in Montana, the healing process is gradual and difficult, but eventually succeeds. Annie and Grace's dad, Robert (Sam Neill), have become 'cool' to each other, and Annie develops a romance with Tom. In a nice bit of writing, in the end Annie and Robert appear to be making strides to improve their relationship, instead of Annie ending up with Tom.Other notables in this movie are Dianne Wiest, Chris Cooper (one of our better actors working today), and Cherry Jones (another fine but under-appreciated actress).The movie has special meaning to me because I first saw it in the theater in 1998 in Kalispell, Montana, during my month-long vacation there. "},{"Title":"Redford's misstep.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford whispers to horses. For about three hours he whispers to them, which really isn't so much whispering as it is looking them in the eye like he's trying to seduce and bed them down. It's a silly plot about a horse healer or some such thing and a mother and a child who moved from New York to Montana to see him. The child (Scarlett Johansson) and the mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) are facing a difficult time. Johansson was in an accident during a horse riding adventure and hit by a semitruck. Johansson ends up losing her leg, while the horse losses its sanity and has an apparent mental breakdown. Yeah that's right. It's a movie about a horse with mental problems. About that and the deeper meaning of a mother reconciling with her daughter. Yay! Luckily Robert Redford who plays the down home, living the simple life on a ranch guro comes to their rescue after they seek him out. The movie has some great scenery and photography but so do all them commercials that advertise that you should go to Montana on vacation. Lots of mountains, grass, and cloudy sky seen time and time again with panoramic shots let us know what a great place Montana truly is. As I write this now, I'm tempted to say to hell with all this technology rubbish, toss out the computer and head out to Montana to find myself by working on a ranch, talking to disturbed horses, riding in slow motion on the prairie, and shoveling horse s**t, not worry about getting too smelly cause I can always go bathe in the crystal clear steam which conveniently runs through the backyard which happens to consist of about 1,000,000 acres. Yes the city and even the rural areas are great. But living in a town you can't shovel horse s**t or talk to them. The Horse Whisperer is 3 hours long but it really should only be about 80 minutes. Since much of the movie is landscape shots, horses running around in slow motion, and just about everything else in slow motion... I figure there's only about a little more than an hours worth of actual movie. It reminded me of another Redford film, A River Runs Through It, but unlike that movie this one really doesn't have a set course. And naturally we have a love story. Robert Redford is in this thing ya know. Kristen Scott Thomas falls in love with him even though she's married to Sam Neill's character. You remember Sam Neill right? He's that actor doomed to the Jurassic Park franchise, three equally as boring films. The Horse Whisperer manages to be about the most melodramatic and soap operaish thing you've ever seen and does so without any Quite frankly my dear scenes. Instead it follows the pathetic formula of the worst lifetime movie falling in love story. We get the looks across the room, we get the slow dance set to a sad country music song, just about anything that applies to the word sappy. So I don't know what's worse the horse story, the little girl/mother story or the married woman falling in love with Robert Redford story. Pick any of em' and they're equally clichéd to hell. This is one movie that just goes on, and on, and on and nothing really moves forward. Just lots of uninteresting sentimentality, slow motion, closeups, and mountains. I'd rather shovel horse s**t. That'd be less boring. Grade D - "},{"Title":"The missing car","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" My wife and I have viewed this movie several times. Tonight something jumped out at me. Annie's husband came out to Montana (finally) and was there when the whole gang arrived back from a camping trip. He obviously drove out to the ranch as his recollections on the porch that evening included how bad some of those directions were. At the end of the show he goes to the airport with his daughter and they are taken via Tom's brother's family station wagon. You knew all this, right? Well have you ever asked where in the world is the car he came to the ranch in. I sure did not see a taxi out there when he arrived. He is going to have a huge rental bill. Just a trivial loose end in a great movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful scenery, good acting","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have not read the book, but as a movie I found this to be quite enjoyable.  Having lived in Idaho, I loved seeing the big Montana sky and the colors of the west.  The story of the injured girl (Scarlett Johansson) and the horse is touching and it should have been the primary focus of the movie. Unfortunately the romance between the girl's mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) and the horse whisperer (Robert Redford) is often distracting from the main story.  The detailed scenes about life in the west drag at times, and once again detract from the main story.  Scarlett Johansson is fantastic in the role of the angry kid. Kristin Scott Thomas, Chris Cooper, and Sam Neil are wonderful in their respective roles. I found Robert Redford a bit unconvincing as a horse whisperer/western cowboy.  This movie would have had a much greater impact had it focused better on the main story. "},{"Title":"Long but very emotional","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is a film that is very heart touching. The idea is quite unique and the trauma is shown well in the actors. It is a simple plot line, but manages to last a whopping three hours and you did sometimes feel weary of watching. However, the acting was superb. The weakest link was probably the director Robert Redford himself, who did not manage to show his love for the mum well in his acting. The girl acted well (I'm sure that I've seen her in another film before!). The long and short of it is- a long film, with superb acting and a heartfelt message- DON'T FALL IN LOVE WITH SOMEBODY'S HUSBAND!!!!!! IT WILL ONLY CREATE DEVASTATION IN YOUR LIFE!! IT's NOT WORTH IT!!!  "},{"Title":"Not easily appreciated if you haven't experienced trauma...","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ...but for those of us who have, there is no story more evocative of the experience. I was dubious going in, because I'm not a big fan of Redford as an actor (although I like some of his directing efforts, including this one), nor a fan of Kristen Scott Thomas.  But I found that both acquit themselves well here, and all the more so by some outstanding support by the likes of Sam Neill, Cherry Jones, Dianne Wiest, and Chris Cooper.Also a standout is Scarlett Johannson in one of her early leading roles (as well as a nice cameo in an early role by Kate Bosworth). A bit of a spoiler  DO NOT let young children see this movie until after the accident scene.  While the scene in the book is even more graphic, this is one of the most horrifying accident scenes in modern movies.  Even as an adult, I have to mute the sound and turn away at a key moment. After that scene, the story of caring parents trying to find a way to guide their daughter and her horse to healing is nothing short of redemptive, because as each heals, they each help the other to heal.  And Redford's role as the titular Horse Whisperer provides the key link to the process.The subplot of a love story is, IMO, unnecessary and detracts from the plot.  But in all other respects, this is a fine film, one that gives hope to those who have experienced trauma, and helps those who haven't understand it a bit better.  "}{"Title":"A story of trauma, romance, and healing","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is adapted from the bestselling novel by Nicholas Evans (which I have read).  It's about a young girl, Grace, who survives a terrible accident with her horse and looses part of her leg.  Her mother, Annie, is determined to get them healed again.  She turns to a horse whisperer named Tom Booker who is known with his great work with horses.  She puts her total faith in him in hopes that Grace, her horse, and her own broken heart will be mended.The differences between the film and the book are big.  In the book, Tom dies when a wild horse rears up and crushes his skull.  Here, his goodbye to Annie is uncerimoniously ended when she sends him to saddle up the horses and she just drives away.  I have to say I was really dissapointed with some of the changes.   The movie is beautifully shot and I really enjoyed the film but the film was crawling along at a very slow pace.  I recommend this film but because of the pace, I have to take some points away.6.5/10      "},{"Title":"A bit too long...","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The perceived length of a movie has little to do with its length as measured by the clock.  Most of us have seen 1 1/2 hour films that dragged on interminably, and 3 hour movies that seem to fly by.  I think it has to do with pace and timing, as well as our level of involvement in the film.  In that regard, I'd say that The Horse Whisperer is definitely a bit too long, although I tend to enjoy longer movies that take time to tell their story (like The Green Mile for instance).  This one doesn't seem to use the time as wisely as it could.  Yet it's thoroughly enjoyable, and quite a good watch if you like films with this sort of plot.  It definitely has an Out of Africa sort of scope and feel to it, but a chick flick it is not (for a consummate example of a chick flick, see You've Got Mail).  This one is for anybody who can enjoy a romance (nope, didn't think it was too melodramatic) and a story about healing in general -- not for those who need a constant undercurrent of tension driving the plot, however -- and of course, it's not for someone looking for a special-effects extravaganza.  The cinematography is glorious however, and it should be seen on DVD, preferably on a big wide-screen TV for best effect.Overall, a worthwhile way to spend a slow Monday (Memorial Day) afternoon -- 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Comes a horseman","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  THE HORSE WHISPERER (1998) ***  Robert Redford, Kristin Scott Thomas, Scarlett Johansson, Sam Neill, Dianne Wiest, Chris Cooper, Cherry Jones.  Filmmaker Redford (in his first self-directed role) makes a better than expected transition of Nicholas Evans' bestseller without too much weepy sentiment thanks largely to the screenplay by Eric Roth and Richard La Gravenese about a young girl's freak accident involving her beloved horse and the lengths her demanding career-oriented mother (Scott Thomas) will go to let the healing begin by enlisting a well known `horse whisperer' (that's right, Golden Boy himself) to mend all involved.  Ably acted and genuinely romantic in spirit as well as exquisitely beautiful cinematography by Robert Richardson. "},{"Title":"The film was OK but the book was much better!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If anyone has not read the book you definitely should, the book is definitely much better, the film shows not much chemistry between Annie & Tom, yet in the book there definitely is. A bit too much detail was either omitted or changed (e.g time wise) for the film. For example - Robert (Annie's husband) was not present for the barn dance he turns up much later than that in the book & Annie wasn't fired from her job, she resigned from it in the book.  The end is completely different in the book. "},{"Title":"If you are a cowboy, cowgirl or cowboy wanna be you will like this movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I don't usually watch Robert Redford movies because they make me cry. This movie was no exception. I read the Nicholas Evans novel in a single sitting but it took me nearly a year and several boxes of kleenex before I got through the movie. My people are ranchers from Northern Idaho, near Montana where this film was shot.  Redford managed to capture the true essence of a lifestyle almost wiped by progress.  All of the details of the family could have been lifted from my family photo album. The premise of a neurotic New Yorker bringing her injured horse and equally injured daughter out west to find the renowned horse whisperer to save her world is completely believable.  Redford plays the character of Tom Booker perfectly, his technical aptitude with the horses was just right.  Dianne Weist provides a stellar performance as the matriarch of the ranching family.The book was a bit brutal for my taste, I favored the gentler ending of the movie. Otherwise, the film was true to the book.  I would recommend this move as a must see, must buy. If nothing else, it is a true logbook of what was once the real west and shows some fine horsemanship **except Kristin Scott Thomas rode a little far forward in the saddle--I thought she was going to fall off the horse.** "},{"Title":"nice start...BUT","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  i did not like the love interest at all! kirsten? she was too cold and the romance was mechanical and not believable.from a man who hosts an indie film festival-well this is not a good film.i do appreciate rredford's interest in nature and animals-it is admirable and rare. "},{"Title":"nice start...BUT","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  i did not like the love interest at all! kirsten? she was too cold and the romance was mechanical and not believable.from a man who hosts an indie film festival-well this is not a good film.i do appreciate rredford's interest in nature and animals-it is admirable and rare. "},{"Title":"A movie about feelings and living life","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I will not comment the mistakes in the movie (which sure are there), because this is not a movie where you should be looking for mistakes. If you love life, and love people, you should enjoy this as a expression of life. And life is not perfect. Some try to be, but life is sure not. If you work with machines or computers, you use a lot of energy on technical issues. At a time in life, you will realize, that there are things in life you can not fix with a receipe.. Things that really matter..This movie is not a perfect movie, because it is a movie about feelings. About love. About hate. About trust. About not trusting. About life and what you can not see. About giving up everything for love, or holding back because you are afraid. I believe if everyone did search inside, they would find that love is what they really are looking for.I have not mentioned horses, because I don't think this movie is about horses. It is about the Relationship we have to animals and people. And the Relationship they have to us. What you give from your heart, is what you get in return..It is a movie for your heart. Not for your mind. If you start thinking to much on everything around the movie, like the way the people are dressed and the technical apsect of the movie, you are missing the point. And I do not blame you. You can Always change that. If you want to..Enjoy the day  "},{"Title":"Long horse story","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Filmed in the gorgeous outdoors of Montana, it is marvelous to stroll among this magnificent region. Robert Redford is excellent, which is not the case of Kristin Scott Thomas (I prefer her performance in the English patient). But the film in itself is too long, I don't like horse enough to appreciate the story. Nevertheless is a good idea the make a parallel between the recovery of the little girl and that of the horse. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful film","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is a truly touching story about a girl and her horse. Before I watched the film I read the book and at some points I didnt want the book to end. The is about as girl and a horse who are involved in a terrible accident. Although they both survive they are both emotionally.  So the mother of the girl does some research and tracks down a man who has a gift for healing horses. His name is Tom Booker.  As the story progresses the events that happen will change their life forever. "}{"Title":"interesting soap opera","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I watched it three years ago, and thought it was very interesting as soap opera. The story was touching and it reminds me of Grace when she got hit by a truck, it was sad. It made think the way an accident could change one's life forever, and it was what happened in this movie. I like animals a lot, especially horses, so it made me follow it without getting bored. I think this movie was pretty good, and it is based on a book, so it makes it more interesting. The scenery was great. I always wanted to see Montana, and I at least could see it on TV. Watch it, it depends on you whether you get bored or not, just think this is like reading a book, and of course it takes much longer to read it instead of watching the movie. it'll take just a few hours to understand it completely, of course it's much better to read it. it's very well told and acted. Kristin Scott is fascinating as Annie. The story tells about a girl who had a horse, she and her horse got hit by a truck, so she and her horse got very injured, her mother Annie (Kristin Scott) went with her to Montana to heal them, and there Annie will find her true love who is the horse whisperer. it'll become a trouble with her daughter and her husband in Montana. "},{"Title":"I loved this film!!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I cannot believe anyone would not just love this film. I read all the opinions of some of the people who watched it. Seems as if men don't like love stories. I can't believe it, unless it is a macho thing. This was a great love story. The horses I loved and the Montana scenery. I now love Robert Redford. I really hadn't noticed him before. I have now seen The Way We Were in a totally different perspective. What a story. Chris Cooper is fascinating. That Diane Weist is so special. I even love her voice. Anyway, watch this movie. It is not too long. I wish there could be a sequel.  "},{"Title":"This is a good old fashioned romantic drama","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  When her daughter Grace is involved in a riding accident that kills her friend and nearly kills Grace Annie's life begins to unravel.  To try to treat her daughter she takes Grace and her horse to Tom Booker, a Horse Whisperer.  Over the weeks that follow Annie changes and so does her daughter who eventually gets over the trauma of her accident.This film has all the hallmarks of a classic Redford film.  There is some superb scenery and some wonderful cinematography to go with it.This is a great traditional film to sit at home and share with a loved one.  Have the Kleenex to hand though. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  It seems that Redford is much better director than actor. Each scene is perfectly planned and picturesque. Kristin Scott-Thomas is marvellous in unhappy love as usual (4 Weddings, English Patient). I love her sad&passion glance. "},{"Title":"A very slow, but touching drama.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford directs this  visual rendition of Nick Evans' novel. I'm certain this story made for good reading, but the movie is a little long in the tooth. A young girl, played by Scarlett Johansson, survives a horrible accident in which her horse is severely injured and her best friend is killed. The girl's mother (Kristin Scott Thomas) decides to the take her daughter and the horse from New York to Montana in search of therapy for the horse. Redford plays Tom Booker, a horse whisperer. He supposedly can help the recovery of the horse by understanding its thoughts. And meanwhile, mama falls in love with the horse doctor.The views of Montana are awesome. Redford shows a glimmer from his matinee idol days. The female parts could have been cast better. Not a total failure, an hour shaved off the length would not have been noticed.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Film","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer has taken too much unfair criticism.  It is, in my opinion, a superior movie about relationships.  Some want to compare it to Redford's A River Runs Through It because it is set in Montana and features breathtaking scenery.  But the actual plot is very similar to Redford's first film, Ordinary People, both about a young person who has been traumatized with a perfectionist mother and a warm, giving father.  Also, there is the similarity between the impact of the down-to-earth psychologist in Ordinary with that of the down-to-earth horse whisperer.  In addition, Horse Whisperer is beautifully photographed, from start to finish.  Redford is at his peak in capturing the small beauty of simple scenes alongside the breathtaking wonder of the high Rockies.  My teenage son, who is not given to being maudlin, left the film fairly choked up.  He could not get over the eye to eye contact between the girl and the horse, and the unspoken feelings therein.  He said he could not imagine anyone seeing the film without tearing up a little.  Kudos to Redford!  He is establishing himself as one of our finest filmmakers. "},{"Title":"There Are Plenty Of Signs, But Not Many Of Them Are Printed","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"      Annie is a successful New York magazine editor, a stylish figure of authority.  However, beneath the glamorous carapace, her life is riddled with the modern malaise.  Unable to spend time with her 13-year-old daughter Grace, Annie 'bribes' the girl with material goods, lazily assuming that these will replace emotional commitment.        One of Grace's material possessions is her fine stallion, Pilgrim.  She and her friend Judith go riding in the early morning, the gorgeous snowy dawn and the carefree laughter of the two friends contrasting markedly with Annie's high-stress urban environment.       Then a terrible accident happens.  Pilgrim is so badly hurt that the vet recommends putting him down.  Equally tragically, the horse's trust in humans is destroyed.  In the aftermath, Annie does not manage at all well to care for Grace.  The emotional chasm is symbolised by the hospital blinds, separating mother and daughter like a barrier.       Annie decides to heal Pilgrim, and to heal the rift with Grace at the same time.  This is Annie at her best, being resolute and resourceful, employing her research skills to learn about equine psychology.  She finds a 'horse whisperer' in Montana, one of those rare gifted humans who can win the trust of unhappy horses.       Enter Tom Hooker.  Everything that Annie is not (patient, wise, sure of his place in life), Tom is at peace with himself.  I help horses with people problems, he explains as he sets to work on the rehabilitation of Pilgrim - and of Annie and Grace, too.  It is painful for Annie to relinquish the false values which have formed her world for so long, but she slowly learns that an important talk with her daughter does NOT have to be interrupted by the arrival of a fax, and that NO cellphone call is so vital that it can disturb Tom's nurturing of Pilgrim.    At times, the horse cure seems to have been a mistake.  Annie is often beset by self-doubt, wondering why she is putting herself, her daughter and the horse through this ordeal.  Is she motivated by her own guilt at not having been a better mother?  Or is it as Grace thinks, that Annie simply can't resist organising other people and issuing orders?     Annie, Grace and Pilgrim journey westwards together into America's wilderness on a voyage of self-discovery.  It's an unhappy time for both mother and daughter.  Grace is sullen and resentful, and by the time they reach the Little Bighorn, Annie knows that, literally and figuratively, she has lost her way.  The passing trucks make an ugly, intrusive sound, just as the truck accident keeps keeps irrupting into the lives of horse and humans.  Annie's car is shot aerially as it progresses across America, the terrain lovingly photographed state by state, through the flat farmland of Illinois and up into the northern Rockies, the transition chronicled by the different FM stations playing on the car radio.       Where do you call home? somebody asks Annie at a community gathering, and the question is an apposite one.  What Grace and Annie lack, and what these people have in abundance, is a sense of belonging, a living relationship with the soil, a sense of their place in a tradition.  Here, there are folk songs and games of pitching horseshoes.  The instincts of the Montana folks are inclusive, and Annie's aggressive question-answer style of dialogue doesn't fit in here.  She has to 'unlearn'it.  She is all jittery edginess because she has no inner peace.  Do you ever sit still for just a minute? Tom asks her as he enjoys a mellow evening on the porch.       It is an education for Grace and Annie to sit at a family table for a meal preceded by prayers.  These good people live in the old way, and ask God to bless folks less fortunate than themselves.  This is not Annie's world of instant gratification, but a natural way of life which has wisely fitted its rhythms to those of the land.  Children are valued here.  They contribute to the work, and are rewarded with respect, not fobbed off with money.  Grace is taught to drive by being encouraged to show what she can do - and gradually, this method also teaches her how to live.      The two eastern visitors learn to relax into the place as the healing power of nature gets to work on Pilgrim, and on them.  Until now, Annie has known beef only as disembodied restaurant dishes, rather than as the living, breathing wealth of rural society.  At the cattle-branding, mother and daughter are drawn into the life of the ranch, and they derive very pleasure from having made their contribution.      Robert Redford is an intelligent film-maker who gathers talented people around him.  Attention to detail is apparent throughout.  Watch for the excellent swivel-and-zoom on Tom in the corral.  The scenes of the angry horse are convincingly done, and the incidental music is nicely evocative of America's rural art forms, with discordant fiddle and bottleneck guitar.  The child actors are marvellous - Scarlett Johansson as Grace is the equal of any adult, and Ty Hillman as Joe bubbles over with charm and intelligence.  Even the country song to which Tom and Annie have their slow dance is carefully chosen as a comment on Annie's emotional condition - 'Looking Fot A Soft Place To Fall'.  The aerial photography is delicious, and the rugged scenery of Redford's beloved Rockies a sheer delight ... and a river runs through it!        "},{"Title":"Tearjerker","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Beautiful scenery and a touching story made this drama well worth watching. Horse fanciers, especially, should go for this one, however they must be able to sit through the opening sequence involving the ugly accident. I admit that one made me cringe. Very good film which follows the book chapter and verse.  "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was an excellent movie ....  Great acting, great story, great scenery....  good for the family.  There was no foul language, no shooting, nothing blew up, no fast and furious shots, no steamy sex scenes .... a real treat in today's movies.The only drawbacks -- it was a little long, the young girl's attitude toward everything carried on a little long at the beginning, and I never quite understood her relationship with her husband. "},{"Title":"not a good ending","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I was really disappointed that they decided to change the ending of this film...the book was so riveting that I read it in two days and I work full-time!!  I was hoping that Robert Redford would have cast Nick Nolte as Tom..he would have been perfect!! "}{"Title":"One Of Redford's Finest Films. A Story Of Love That Works!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer has been given mixed reviews by the users of this site. I would strongly recommend that everyone see this beautifully written, directed and acted film. It has been called too long but I felt the pace was perfect for the subject matter. The movie is so well done that you won't mind a few extra scenes. Redford assembled an excellent cast which includes Kristin Scott Thomas, Sam Neill, Diane Wiest,Chris Cooper and Scarlett Johanson, one of our finest child actors. Here is a movie that will touch your heart and have you rooting for a young girl and her horse after a devastating accident. It seems to me that we can always count on Robert Redford to deliver great films. This is one of his finest efforts to date.  "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford transforms the huge bestseller into a visually stunning screen epic...Unfortunately, that's all the film has to offer. No chemistry between Redford and Thomas. Neil and Wiest seem bored. Redford the director shines better than Redford the actor.  "},{"Title":"Overlong and love story is weak, but better than terrible novel","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Like the novel of THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, this was a terrible novel (and this is about three times as long!).  Where the movie of BRIDGES was a complete rescue job, this isn't quite up to that level.  It's too long, and the love story between Redford and Scott Thomas(which, admittedly, was the part of the book which most made me want to gag), was cut down, which was nice, but the result was there weren't many sparks between them, except perhaps when they dance together.Still, it's a good film.  The rest of the cast is very good, particularly Chris Cooper and Dianne Wiest as Redford's brother and sister-in-law, respectively, and especially Scarlet Johanson as Scott Thomas' daughter. She took her character through the whole journey being convincing every step of the way.  Three of Redford's previous movies as director(ORDINARY PEOPLE, A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT, QUIZ SHOW) dealt with father/son relationships. This is his first mother/daughter one, and I found it better handled than the love story.  Redford and writers Richard LaGravanese(who rescued BRIDGES) and Eric Roth were smart enough to infer, rather than state, that Johanson's getting better was tied in with the horse getting better.The other thing I liked is, like in A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT, Redford evokes the West and at the same time demystifies it.  This is no cityfolk tamed by the country movie, but rather rediscovering harmony with nature.  "},{"Title":"The horse whisperer works his true magic behind the camera","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is an outstanding picture.  Robert Redford creates such sympathetic characters to watch and portrays them amongst the beautiful montana scenery.  Much to advantage, he takes time to develop his characters and supplies them with an old-fashioned love story.  The main actress here, Kristin Scott Thomas, does a wonderful job in portraying a mother who's 14 year old daughter was severely injured in a horrible accident when riding a horse named Pilgrim.  Thomas seeks the help of a horse whisperer (robert redford) to soothe Pilgrim and to help her tormented daughter.  Thomas soon develops a thing for Redford but is subdued due to the fact that she is married to Sam Neill.  This movie deserves to be recognized for the upcoming 98 oscars.  The cinematography is exquisite; there are no flaws in any of the dialogue or the character's reasoning; just a lovely film to look at. It is so great to see a romance grow like this without exploiting any of it's central characters.   A heartfelt drama worth commending. "},{"Title":"Bring your kleenex-- and throw 'em at the screen.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If you like gut-wrenching emotional drama, get this movie-- unless you're a horsey person. Anyone who knows anything about horses will be driven out of her skull by the little bloopers and inaccuracies related to horse-handling and horse management that crop up throughout. Most of the mistakes, however, need to be there for the story to work and for the mood and the atmosphere to be maintained, which just says to me that this story could never have happened in real life.Otherwise, there are a lot of good things about this film. There really are horse trainers who use methods similar to Tom Booker's; one such person is Monty Roberts, who was seen in a TV documentary catching, gentling, and riding a wild mustang in the space of three days.The cinematography is fabulous-- huge wide panoramic (and sometimes aerial) shots of plains and mountains, and eerie dark shadowy horse scenes. I almost wish I'd seen this on the big screen.As for the plot, inaccuracies aside, it held my interest. I was relieved to see that the romance aspect did not take priority over the rest of the plot. The characters were generally believable, although Booker was a stereotypical cowboy hero-- stoic, standoffish, and chivalrous-- and altogether godlike. From this standpoint, the film was a bit of an ego trip for Redford-- much the same as Kevin Costner in Waterworld and Dances With Wolves, he created his own fantasy world which he directed and in which he was the ultimate hero.This film had its share of shining moments, but all in all, I found The Horse Whisperer to be more annoying and infuriating than enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"A plodding, gentle western but definitely one for the ladies - 71%","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" And thus the unholy trinity of chick-flicks I would never watch is complete. I once considered this film, alongside Grease and Hope Floats, to be among the most girlie films imaginable and I wouldn't watch them if you paid me. Then my Better Half strolls into my life and has all three in her DVD collection which is why I've been forced to eat my words, much to her delight. I still maintain that this movie would definitely appeal more to those with a womb than those without but even without the cheesy love story, this is a film that is magnificent to watch and especially on a brand new widescreen TV like the one I've just received.Kristin Scott Thomas stars as fashion magazine editor Annie, wife of hot-shot lawyer Robert (Sam Neill) and mother of riding-obsessed daughter Grace (a young Scarlett Johansson). After a tragic riding accident in which Grace and her horse Pilgrim are seriously injured, Annie takes the pair of them off to Montana in search of a legendary cowboy known as the horse whisperer. Despite his initial reluctance to get involved, Tom Booker (director Robert Redford) begins to give Pilgrim his full attention and before long, Tom's gifts begin to affect Grace and Annie in ways neither of them expected.Feeling like a cowboy version of Phenomenom, this is a much better film than John Travolta's nauseating whimsy. While the story feels as predictable and interesting as the current race for the Republican nomination for President, the films plods along so slowly that you'll begin to wonder if it ever ends. This is one film that feels like it does go on for too long, despite the heavyweight gravitas all the actors bring. Redford offers us a reminder of his glory days, as you'd expect seeing as he's director as well, but credit must also go to Chris Cooper as his brother and Johansson's performance as the moody teen struggling with the loss of her dreams. Neill is underused, however, and I personally felt that both Johansson and Thomas were just too unlikeable as characters to evoke any sympathy for. The film's real strength is the cinematography - it's full of sweeping landscapes, towering snow-capped mountains and skies bursting with colour. Basically, it looks the business. But the real stars are the horses themselves, looking every inch like the awe-inspiring creatures they actually are.It may be painfully slow and not my cup of tea at all but The Horse Whisperer is still one film I just about could recommend. It's a joy to watch - not because the story is anything different or unusual but because in spite of its flaws, you still stick with it despite its over-long running time. Redford is having the time of his life as the ageing but still ruggedly handsome cow-poke and the rest of the cast try to match him and the horses. And in case you still haven't got the message, this is definitely one for the ladies as most guys I know will be asleep within minutes. But if they stay awake long enough, they'll be treated to a glimpse of a lifestyle that is fast disappearing in the American West, a lifestyle that surely appeals to those city-slickers desperate for a change - where you commute by horse instead of train and where the only planes they'll see are the ones where their cattle are grazing. Like homemade apple pie, there's something warm and comforting about this film even though it may be far too sickly and sweet for some. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie might be the true answer to insomnia. I consider myself an average movie buff - 1 or 2 movies a weekend - and I can usually tolerate even the most poorly-made features to the end. This film, however, is the first that has ever earned the distinction of having me sit through the first two-and-a-half hours and not wait for the ending before turning it off. UGGGHHH! Watching this movie was like having the worst constipation of my life. It took forever to develop what was a pretty simple story. On top of that, the story was very contrived and the plot was tired. (Yeah, like it's possible he's NOT going to rehabilitate the horse. I didn't even see the ending and I KNEW that was coming.) The characters were not at all believable. E.g., very hard to believe the girl would have gone from being so nice to being such an incredible twerp - not to mention how unbelievable it was that her mother would have tolerated her behavior. And is it any surprise that Redford has cast himself in the role of Romantic Savior of Everyone - horse, daughter, and mother - a la The Natural and The Electric Horseman? Further, Redford filmed himself through so many camera filters (ostensibly to hide the wrinkles) that I was driven to distraction. I thought my childhood astigmatism had come back. If you are determined to see this movie, just be sure to have some bran cereal handy. "},{"Title":"Uh huh","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I must say, I've never really like any of Robert Redford's films (except for his 1980 masterpiece Ordinary People) and this one I'm not too fond of either.  Redford tries to pitch this film to mainly ladies or to people who have read the book (which was better).  The only thing I remotely liked in this movie are the performances by It's supporting cast including Sam Neil and Chris Cooper, but THATS IT.  Not good, not watchable (except for 2 good performances) and not reccomended, unless you are Robert Redford.  C- "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is the most boring movie I have ever seen in my life. Nothing happens. The story is dull, not to mention depressing. Consider this as a better alternative to a sleeping pill. If you mix alcohol and a sleeping pill, you die. If you mix alcohol and this film, you might like it a little bit.  "},{"Title":"The movie never gets started. By its end, we don't care.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I felt the cotton battens being wrapped about my mind so I would not feel the effect of any conflict. It is still (4 months later) astonishing to me that R.R. of Ordinary People and The Quiz Show, let this one get away from him. I have to lay a great deal of the blame at the feet of Mssrs. Roth and LaGravenese who took their prior triumphs too seriously. All three owe an apology to Mr. Evans and us. "}{"Title":"Good, but not good enough to warrant the hype surrounding it","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Beware the movie that touts itself to be a sweeping epic love story. It sets up expectations of something moving, grand, and thrilling. While The Horse Whisperer was at times moving, the only thing grand about it was the Montana scenery. The love story itself was quite banal at times, and on the whole the film was a disappointment.The story starts one snowy, winter morning, when Grace MacLean (Scarlett Johansson) and her best friend, Judith (Kate Bosworth) decide to go horseback riding. The horses slip in the snow, and slide down a hillside, landing with their riders in the path of an oncoming truck. Judith and her horse are killed, Grace loses her leg below the knee, and her horse, Pilgrim, regresses to a savage state. Grace's parents, Annie (Kristin Scott Thomas) and Robert (Sam Neill) refuse to have Pilgrim put down. Once Grace comes home from the hospital, it is clear that she is retreating, and Annie decides that the only thing to do is to retrain Pilgrim in the hopes that Grace will ride him again. She learns of a Horse Whisperer, by the name of Tom Booker, who is known for being able to tame the most difficult of horses. Despite his unwillingness to take on Pilgrim, Annie loads Pilgrim into a trailer, and heads cross country with Grace to see Tom Booker, who is understandably less than thrilled to see them. Annie is persistent to the point of peskiness, and eventually Booker relents. As the healing process begins for both Grace and Pilgrim, Annie finds herself drawn to Booker and to the simpler life in Montana, becoming less and less interested in returning to her job as an editor in New York. And then Robert arrives to escort his wife and daughter home...It's a promising setup, but the execution is disappointing. The story telling is very heavy handed. The pacing is slow to the point of being dull, and there is little suspense due to those two factors. The viewer has more than enough time to figure out what is going to happen, and is given a shove rather than a nudge in that direction. The ending is surprising, but only because it makes absolutely no sense.The acting is a mixed bag. Thomas generates all the warmth of a glacier, and leaves me wondering, yet again, why any director would cast her in any role that is supposed to be likable. Redford is surprisingly stiff, and understated enough that the viewer is left wondering exactly what attracts Annie to Tom Booker, especially given Sam Neill's excellent performance as her husband. Together, Redford and Thomas generate no chemistry at all. Dianne Wiest is wonderful as always as Booker's sister-in-law Diane. And Scarlett Johansson gives a beautiful performance of a girl too young to cope with the tragedy that has befallen her. Her eventual healing is one of the few truly satisfying moments of this film.While this is a beautifully filmed, and ultimately enjoyable movie, it certainly didn't deserve the fuss made over it. Watch it. Enjoy it. Just don't expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"Great horse drama or sappy romance?","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Both seem to appear in Redford's The Horse Whisperer.  I watched the movie yesterday expecting to see the horse, Pilgrim, as he recovered slowly with the aid of the horse whisperer, Tom Booker.  I thought the movie was going to be centered around the horse.  I thought the people would not play as big a role as Booker and Pilgrim would.I was completely wrong.First off, the movie starts out like it should.  Nice introduction to the characters, very realistic (and quite frightening) accident scene.  The horse, Pilgrim, and his rider Grace are shown riding within the first five minutes.  What you'd expect, right?Spoilers are coming.Everything slowly goes downhill after that.  Grace's mother, after the accident, tries to get Mr. Booker to come up to New York and, after failing, takes a road trip with Grace and Pilgrim to Montana.  The road trip sucks up a lot of time in the movie, where we hardly see the horse.  The introduction of Booker is even longer, and when he finally began helping Pilgrim, I breathed a sigh of relief.  Maybe the movie would take a turn for the better.Wrong again!  It goes even slower after that, with scene after scene involving only the ranchers and Grace and her mother.  Soon we can see something evolving between Grace's mother and Booker.  I began to realize that I was cheated, that The Horse Whisperer was nothing but a romance with some horses thrown in.It takes even longer to finally get to the final training session of Pilgrim, which by that time the movie has gone on for two and a half hours.  I sit and watch and wait and find that the climax does not really involve Pilgrim and Grace, but Grace's mother who must make a final decision about her family.  Although I applaud her final decision, I cannot applaud the charming, misleading appearance of this movie.It may have been a good romance, it may have not.  I'm not much into that genre, so I really couldn't tell you.Sam Neill greatly lifts up the movie.  Although he is hardly in it, he is probably the best actor that was casted for this movie, and puts on an excellent performance.  We could expect no less from Neill.The music, by Thomas Newman, is not disappointing, but I wouldn't go out and get a soundtrack to The Horse Whisperer.  The music fits perfectly, with a nice, calm, sometimes mysterious atmosphere, that seems to blend in perfectly with the mood, setting, and characters.But the movie is so utterly boring and misleading that I would not recommend it to even the greatest of horse lovers. "},{"Title":"Old romantics never die - unfortunately","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Whether Robert Redford is a good actor or not is open to debate from all sides; perhaps his best roles have been in `Jeremiah Johnson' (1972)(qv) and `Out of Africa' (1985), and his more recent films such as `Sneakers' (1992) and `Up Close and Personal' (1996) as well as `The Horse Whisperer' tend to show that the supposed legend is definitely in decline. However he has shown he can be a good director, perhaps the best example of this being `Ordinary People' which at least puts to shame that farce called `American Beauty' (qv) and can be ranked up alongside such excellent dramatical pieces such as `Peter's Friends'. In `The Horse Whisperer' a sleaked out Robert Redford is supposedly a rancher; I am afraid that does not come off too well. Nor practically anything else in respect to the actors, including Kristin Scott Thomas. Perhaps the little girl was not so bad, Dianne Wiest was more authentic, and it was sad to see Sam Neill in such a role.What certainly pays off is the excellent photography; indeed it is thanks largely to Robert Redford that my appetite is whetted for making a trip to Montana, Nevada, etc, to see the Rockies. But above all, the best of the film are the horse-trainers or `wranglers' who did an excellent job. Brilliant expertise, which helped more than anybody else to keep this film on its feet superb work; such that the best moments of the film are precisely the opening scenes with the accident. Which leaves me with a `poor Judith' taste in my mouth for the rest of the film. I just cannot grasp the characterization of Tom Booker, and even less of Annie MacLean.  "},{"Title":"If Only Redford Waited a Coupla Years....","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" ...he coulda snagged Scarlet for his harlot!! Perfect amalgamation of Montana wilderness, horse training, and healin' at a squealin' fast pace! I have some experience with horses, primarily in Virginia, Main Line Philadelphia, etc., but this film is an extreme misrepresentation of their interaction, characteristics and personality. They Shoot Horses Don't They? more aptly aspires to a realistic film concept of humane treatment. I expected more from the man of western lore, who truly is a major bore.Animals are amazing creatures that elevate the human experience and those who interact with them at any level could not possibly sit through this movie unless at gun point.Thank you for Sundance, Butch, and most especially Paul in Park, but call it a day my friend, stick with your day job...sigh. "},{"Title":"Not Much Whispering","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Grace has an accident with her horse Pilgrim. Grace's mother Annie decides to consult a 'horse whisperer' to see if there is some way to bring the horse back. The horse whisperer is of course Robert Redford who also produced and directed this piece, and he lives together with Dianne Wiest and Chris Cooper, who round out a sympathetic cast if there ever was one.The trouble is there is no horse whispering - ever. Not once do you see Redford whispering to the horse. And you have to look hard and long to discover there are further subplots in this story, and they don't come out all that easily.Annie's husband Robert disappears for almost the entire movie and you begin to wonder if he isn't trying to contact her or she him. He's just gone. And there are several scenes which just don't hang together. At least one segue will stand out like a sore thumb. And Newman's music sticks out like a sore thumb as well, overpowering as it is with typical themes evoking the glory of the pastoral. Too much and not again, thank you very much.This is an excellent opportunity to witness the unearthly talent of a then fourteen year old Scarlett Johansson who is simply brilliant. Prior to this the outstanding performance for someone in her age bracket was the first choice for this role, Natalie Portman, but Scarlett matches and possibly surpasses the promise Portman showed in Leon.There's a lot of drama here and kudos have rained over the cinematographer but it all comes off as a bit pale and the drama is more melodrama than drama. And yes there is a resolution, but in the last ten minutes you the viewer start to panic, wondering if the writers were in a panic too trying to figure out how to end the thing. And yes they end it, but is it a resolution? Does it all come full circle? It seems more like you wait for your cue, for the fade-out, and then turn to whomever is sitting next to you and say 'oh well I guess that's the ending'.Was it poor writing? Or was it an impossible task to transfer this theme to celluloid? Whatever they could have put in a bit more horse whispering. And while you're sure to enjoy this movie on some level, you're likely to feel it lacked focus. "},{"Title":"A firm yes and no.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  SPOILERS.It's hard to know what to make of this. On the one hand it's a kind of neat story of a damaged uptight neurotic New York working woman, her daughter, and her horse, who find themselves in Big Sky country under the patient tutelage of a handsome, sensitive, intelligent, soft-spoken cowboy. People find themselves. Even the horse wises up. It leaves you with a nice feeling. Pretty neat.On the other hand, it's a story of a damaged uptight neurotic New York working woman, her daughter, and her horse, who find themselves in Big Sky country under the patient tutelage of a handsome, sensitive, intelligent, soft-spoken cowboy. People find themselves. Even the horse wises up. It leaves you with a nice feeling. Pretty corny.It's a long movie. People sit around the campfire under the stars and sing Western songs in beautiful voices. Redford does a pretty good job. The part doesn't call for high drama, just a laid-back generosity. Scott-Thomas does a good job of looking and acting uptight. And Scarlett Johannson is great as an angry kid (maybe the script makes her too obvious at the beginning) who is like a boil waiting to pop. By Bog, she's a good little actress. She's not quite beautiful, not like, say Brooke Shields or Phoebe Cates, but she's already an accomplished performer. And her nose, which looks like Ingrid Bergman's in profile, is delightful, swooping upward and outward and ending in two oversize nostrils. Any normal human being would want to leap on her and bite it. How could the movie have gone wrong? Easily. Turn Redford and his family into PETA people, make them vegetarians, and don't show them branding cattle. Phew. When cattle are branded it is no fun for the cattle. I spent a summer in Montana cattle country and, although no PETA person, I felt sorry for the muddled creatures stumbling across the field with some brands burned through several layers of skin down to the muscular membranes beneath. It's treated as a rite of intensification here. Second, it could have gone wrong if it had endowed Redford with more than just an ability to quiet a traumatized horse over time. We could have seen him -- sihouetted on a hill communing with a hawk, growing tiny chickens for pets, standing silently in the garden with birds perched on his arms like St. Francis. Pardonnez mois pendant que je vomis. The Hallmark Hall of Fame. Third, the ending is what it should be. It would have been insulting to make Sam Neill, playing his usual well-meant but practically helpless role, into, say, an alcoholic wife abuser, although the temptation must have been there. That would have made it a cheap story instead of one aimed at grownups. Choosing between good and evil is not dramatic at all. It's choosing between things of almost equal value that challenges us. If it were otherwise we wouldn't be always in such trouble.  "},{"Title":"Rich folks afford treatment of child & animal because they can.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Rich folks afford the treatment of child & animal from the Natural. Bottom line - wealth gets help that 98% of Amerika can not afford, and live happily ever after!  Nice story - and validates the greed of the upper class to exploit others so that they may have the advantages of MORE to care for their small circle of concern. "},{"Title":"Like two different movies in one....","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The first movie wrapped up in Horse Whisperer is wonderful. An emotional, gut-wrenching story about an injured girl and injured horse, and how they make their recovery. Beautiful. I wanted to see much more of this story. And Scarlett Johansson is just terrific. Robert Redford is good in this part of the movie, too. He plays the role very well, and genuinely connects with Johansson in a grandfatherly way.The second movie contained herein is a wretched abomination about a self-obsessed woman whose daughter has lost a leg and is trying to recover, but this mother -- married, BTW -- falls in love with an older rancher. I say in love in quotes because you never really see the chemistry developing between Kristin Scott Thomas and Robert Redford. One second, she's bothering him with her ringing cell phone, the next, they're in love. Whatever. Redford was terrible in this part of the movie. No connection with Scott Thomas. And her character is just yucky.Too bad Redford the director hijacked the movie away from the true star, who should have been Scarlett Johansson. Instead, he gave himself yet another chance to play romantic lead. It absolutely didn't work this time, though. And it's really too bad, given that he had such terrific material if he'd shifted the focus to the girl and the horse and their recoveries. That's the interesting story here, not some hackneyed love story with a woman 20 years younger. And as somebody else here pointed out, absolutely no chemistry between those two. Zero. It was completely implausible that those two would be in love. Redford should just settle into Grandpa roles. As he proved in Horse Whisperer, he's very good at those. But this cowboy leading man full of homespun folksy wisdom -- enough already, Bob. And jeez, could that Kristin Scott Thomas character have been any less likable?  "},{"Title":"Chick Flick Alert!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"   Robert Redford both stars in and directs The Horse Whisperer, one of the most emotionally controlling films of 1998. Look up the definition of chick flick, and you'll see the poster for The Horse Whisperer. Instead of making a clever film, Robert Redford creates a very dull, boring, and slow-paced film at nearly three hours. There's just something lacking in this film. Unfortunately, this void was filled with slobering romance and dull performances. But, don't worry, women'll love it.2/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"No cigar, and not even close.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The return to nature has always been one of Robert Redford's main topics.As an actor,he played memorable parts,notably in Jeremiah Johnson and Electric horseman.His movies as a director took a divergent way,but,in his lovely a river runs through it,the marvelous landscapes showed his roots again.Much to most of the spectators'surprise,RR takes his best shot with a cartridge full of clichés.Boiiing!No cigar and not even close!These characters ,we' ve seen them a thousand times or more,in old forties,fifties or sixties melodramasthe  traumatized girlie,her bold mother,the I-know-you-deserve-better hubby (it's Sam Neil who deserves better actually),and to top it all the superhero,who got a raw deal but who survived magnificently .With all these elements ,it's easy to guess what will happen .Only the cinematography redeems this overlooooong bore.Forget Horse whisperer (I would trade you RR's melo for one  of little house in the prairie episode) and do enjoy ordinary people , a river runs through it ,and even the militant milagro instead. "}{"Title":"The Cliche Shouter","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I registered on IMDb specifically so I could dissuade anyone considering seeing this film from wasting their time. Rarely have I seen such a comprehensive collection of movie cliches and stereotypes. However, I am in admiration of the writers' knowledge of horses, because only so complete a knowledge would allow them to form the fabrications that often are the opposite of reality. False though they may be, they play wonderfully to the ignorant viewers' misconceptions about horses and training them, simultaneously insulting our ability to understand. Perhaps if the writers and director of this film had given their audience some credit and created a movie that taught the viewer a few of the characteristics and instincts of horses, and then shown the sharp contrast of Pilgrim's affliction, we would have something valuable. There wasn't even a unique character who stuck out and grabbed our attention. "},{"Title":"A failed movie, despite many good moments","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Despite some moving moments, high production values, and a fine cast, I judge The Horse Whisperer a disappointment.  It seems to me that the story that director Robert Redford took nearly three hours to tell could have been told just as well in two.  Too bad.  This was a beautiful film and some of its scenes were outstanding but it was far too long. "},{"Title":"Kristin Scott Thomas is brilliant, but the film fails on a number of fronts","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have NOT read the book, although I did ask someone about it after I had seen the film because it was obvious that a number of important elements have been 'lost' in the celluloid version. I list these as follows 1.The concept of a 'communication' (the whispering) between Booker and the horse is lost. This is such a shame - why o why did the director (Redford himself) use a background voice to 'speak' the thoughts of the communication? This is poor. 2. The love affair never happens when it obvious it is integral to the story. I am told the book is much more raunchy. 3. 'Judith' (the dead friend) never really gets mentioned. The whole drama of the accident is skated over. 4. We have a girl who has just lost half her leg but apparently has no need of medical after-care and can sit on a ranch miles from anywhere. Again - in the book she has to be driven each day for that.  5. Sadly Robert Redford does not work as the whisperer. I am not sure why - but it is a 'flat' performance.The film is beautifully shot though, and Kristin Scott Thomas shows what a superb actor she is with a brilliant performance. But the film fails on a number of fronts I am afraid. "},{"Title":"Eye candy; shallow characters.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Very pretty to look at.  Protagonist not interesting unless you read Vogue. Redford also about 10 years too old for role he plays, alas. "},{"Title":"Pleasant but too predictable","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is very pretty, very nice and unfortunately totally predictable.  You know exactly what's going to happen by the story's end. It's a nice way to pass the time, but don't expect any surprises.  Though I chafe at today's audiences and their attention deficit problems, I'd have to say that this film wouldn't have lost anything by cutting 20 more minutes out, but in some ways the leisurely pace was pleasant and justified. Redford's movies are nothing if not professional, and he certainly does a credible if not exactly inspired job here, as director and actor.  I wish he'd take some quirkier roles that tested his acting skills a bit more, though.  Kristin Scott Thomas is limited by her stereotypical Big City Career Woman role, but her thawing out is nicely done.  Redford should get credit for casting Dianne Wiest in a role you wouldn't expect to see her in, but not for giving her so little to do.   But hey, the horse is awesome, and so's Montana, so you could do worse than spend an evening watching this! "},{"Title":"Needs a plot whisperer","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie has promise but never achieves much. The plot developments are uneven, the acting so-so and the chemistry between Redford and Kristin Scott Thomas non-existent. The director should have decided before making the movie whether it was about the love story or about rehabilitating the girl. I was never comfortable with the love story aspect, largely because  it was based on an unexplored resistance by the woman to her loving husband.I am not a horse person, but I have seen first-hand a true horse whisperer working with an animal and it was fascinating. I was disappointed that that part of the plot was shoved to the background. "},{"Title":"confusing and too long","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie really needed some serious editing.  It also needed to supply far more information about what goes on in treating this type of traumatized horse.  At times the way the horse is treated seems almost inhumane -- it would have been far far better had Redford's character explained what he was doing and, more importantly, why.  This is a serious lapse in judgment on behalf the the movie's writers, producers and director.  "},{"Title":"Less story for plenty film","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Nothing is more boring than a film which is way too long. In fact, there is almost no story but they still were able to make almost three hours of it. On the other hand, great landscapes! I could watch that for hours, so a dead moment in the story is compromised with that, but after all this deserves nothing more than 5/10 "},{"Title":"Unredeemed and very long","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A beautiful story yet unredeemed. Robert Redford tries too much to show the wonderful sceneries of rural America but stretches the tolerance of the white (and wide) screen of the cinema beyond its limits. It ultimately becomes a boring mix of disparate stories none of which are completely resolved. By the end it almost reaches for the young girls' sentimental equien follies. Acting is sporadically brilliant, particularly that of Chris Cooper as Frank Booker and Ty Hillman as his son. They appear real. "},{"Title":"Can't put my finger on what's wrong...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I'm not completely sure what's wrong with this picture. Obviously it is too long, but I'm not sure exactly what I would cut if I were editing it. The acting was all pretty darn good, including the child actors. Special kudos to Dianne Wiest and Chris Cooper in supporting roles. I think maybe Kristin Scott Thomas was miscast here, though I'm not sure who I would put in that role, either. Redford was still into his cutesy Western mysticism. His character's work with the horse consisted mainly of staring at it. The chemistry between Redford and Thomas was lacking, and their love for each other was unconvincing. Beautiful scenery and photography, but hey, it's Montana. Redford's direction was unremarkable, which is a high compliment. Overall this film utterly failed to move me. I can't recommend this one. Grade D+ "}{"Title":"Overdrawn and Predictable","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer, although set on a Montana cattle ranch, has a New Age feel to it more at home in Malibu than on the range.  Robert Redford plays Tom Booker, rancher and mystic, who heals the bodies and souls of horses, little girls, and their workaholic Moms.Victims of a terrifying accident that opens the movie, a 13-year old and her horse are both seriously injured in body and soul.  Beautiful Mom (Scott-Thomas) leaves lawyer Dad (Neill) in Manhatten and drives daughter, horse and herself to the Booker family range for fresh air and healing.Well-made, but but also predictable, ego-istic, and manipulative, The Horse Whisperer almost succeeds.  It's undoing is Redford, and his character Tom Booker.  Booker is a mystic but there is no real spiritial connection between him and the horse or the little girl.  He becomes the mother's lover, yet there is no sizzle, it's soulless and unphysical.Those who love the Harlequin romance genre will probably enjoy The Horse Whisperer.  Although I felt I had viewed a very well crafted and acted movie, I came away unsatisfied.  "},{"Title":"Trite Drivel","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a very hackneyed story pretending to be deep. Virtually, every move is predictable. Why would this woman give up her life and family for this guy? Her infatuations are those of a teenager, not an adult. Oh well, I guess this is what passes for a powerful story these days. On the plus side, very beautifully photographed (really). Kristen Scott-Tomas is a very good actor. I would like to see her in a better story. Sam Neil is under utilized. He is in too many movies where his talents are not allowed to shine. Robert Redford, how do you comment on this icon? He has been in so many interesting movies and been so involved with the Sundance film festival, it's hard to complain. How to you criticize him? Well the test of good acting is if you forget the actor playing the part and just see the character. He is much better in this movie than in some that he has been in, however, its hard to forget for more than just a few seconds that you are watching Redford  "},{"Title":"What a terrible movie","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I disliked this movie almost from the start.  It seemed to move very slowly towards the conclusion.  What Annie seemed to forget through the entire movie was that she was a married woman, separated or not.  This character was not very likeable even at the beginning.   I would not watch this movie again, and would discourage those who haven't yet seen it from watching!  "},{"Title":"An overly-romanticized film about loss, gain, & miracles","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" 'The Horse Whisperer' is a sad but uplifting tale about loss and gain. A terrible accident unites the main characters in this story horse and horse whisperer and daughter and mother. It is a highly emotional film and a pretty good story; it's all about loss and miracles. People are brought together under terrible circumstances, but if it had not been for these circumstances, they would have lost the chance to ever meet. (It's a little bit ironic.) I personally did not think much of the film, despite its ability to be emotional and slightly moving. It was more of a love story than I cared it to be, and some of the scenes seemed a little irrelevant. It's slow-paced and emotional, and if that is the type of film you enjoy, then you can't go wrong here. It's also one for horse lovers. To me, it was just overly-sappy and romantic. "},{"Title":"Is It Over YET?","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Oh, when is Hollywood going to stop with these LOONG BOORING meaningful heartfelt movies about the human condition? I can only blame the situation on PBS and Siskel & Ebert who told people they were supposed to like movies like this. My wife, who does like movies like this, made it through to the end, but, I had to nudge her a few times to make sure she was awake. BOooooOOOring! Whatever happened to the Robert Redford that was in Butch and Sundance? Way too much time at the Ranch I guess.  "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Film","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This starts out as a very promising story, but turns into a very weak film. The storyline was very weak and poorly written. The plot should have focused on the conflicts between the injured girl vs her injured horse, the girl vs an overbearing mom, the overbearing mom vs the unfeeling dad, and The Horse Whisperer vs the horse in his attempts to rehabilitate the horse. Instead, this absurb subplot of the married woman and the Horse Whisperer falling in love with each other is inserted. For about 40 minutes, this subplot is developed. It is very contrived and forced on the audience. I guess it was inserted to get the bored housewives excited about the film. But, it just is not very believable and absolutely ruins the film. The injured horse suddenly becomes a passing thought in the movie. Very little interaction is shown between the injured and the Horse Whisperer.Other than some very beautiful scenes of Montana, this film is a waste of time. Don't rent it or waste your time watching it on cable.  "},{"Title":"Give me horse feathers anyday!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Ham fisted and beautifully boring were the first words that came to mind when I saw this film. One could have told the same story in half the time without the horses, in fact the horses were much maligned and probably could have asked for a bigger cut of the film rights as they were the more honest in their trade. At the end of the movie I said to myself Big Deal, Marlboro man meets career women and the audience is sandwiched somewhere in between. Who was trying to save whom and who was going to find redemption was beyond me. Like the kid who snapped his neck after the accident (lucky or not) at least had an easy demise where the rest of us had to merrily chew on our film programmes and watch the fun and frolics of 'old folk n'joyin a bit of country life at the expense of us old ignorant city folk. The scenery at least was beautiful and should be adopted by tourism America. Please please, we are not unintelligent viewers and deserve better. "},{"Title":"Any horse person would be very upset by this fairy tale","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" From the first scenes I was ready to leave. Had I not been with a group I would have. I have had horses my entire life and have yet to find one that would protect me or anyone from a large truck. What a farce! The girl is stupid and should never have been allowed on a horse. Then her stupidity doubles as she attempts to reconnect with the horse SHE ruined! The mother is just as dumb. I have never been so disappointed in a film with Robert Redford. The characters in this film are just plain stupid. That's the only word I can find to describe them. From beginning to end the movie was awful! I almost asked for my money back. I found I had no sympathy for any of the characters and didn't care what happens to them. What ever bad happens to them they deserve. My only concern would be for the horses and I would have had the girl and her entire stupid family arrested for abuse and endangerment. I guess you can see I didn't find anything good about this film. I have never felt so strongly about just a movie! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the 90's","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie was, in my opinion, the best movie to come out of the 90's decade. Competing against high-tech and costly visual effects movies during this period showed that a movie with a great story line can create a more pleasurable viewing experience for all. This movie, based on a true story, was a refreshing change from the high special effects movies created during the period. Further, with myself in my 30's it was nice to see a movie that could captivate me for the entirety of the film that implemented no real so-called special effects. Finally, this movie was also a GREAT change from those made for teenager movies cropping up and out by the hundreds. I felt not only did Robert Redford act well within this movie but his credibility as a director is under no scrutiny these days.This is the only movie i will comment on in reference to movies created during the 90's. I have rated this movie a ten out of ten only because that rating was the maximum for me to vote within. I am hoping Robert Redford continues this trend of full entertainment by creating movies that are less costly and yet provide maximum entertainment value. Ted Jewell  "},{"Title":"Well shot, but overlong and slow.","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Robert Redford once again as director has put together some striking images and a good story of healing. However, the story drags a lot during about the middle 2 quarters of the length. (spoiler) The Horse Whisperer opens furiously with the finale or major climax during the beginning of the story. This poses a challenge that some movies employing finale-first cant quite get over - keeping a movie interesting with the fireworks scenes up front in the runtime. I thought the romance between Redford and Thomas characters was kind of far-fetched as was both the daughter and mother just uprooting and leaving the husband for months at a time with not much contact. There were numerous beautiful skies and mountainous backdrops with puffy expansive clouds and a lot of panoramic views, but the meandering shot my attention span. Acting is fair with Redford doling out his usual boyish charm. Horse Whisperer is worth a look especially if you like horses; it's well shot, maybe about average considering the length and pace. "}{"Title":"A four -legged friend,a four - legged friend,he'll never let you down","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I suspect Tom wishes he'd stuck to healin' horses,durned if he don't. Enduring mythological figure Mr R Redford is hired by great English actress Miss K.Scott - Thomas to rehabilitate horse and daughter after traumatic accident.He succeeds and in the course of his task falls in love with aforesaid great English actress.There is some elegaic photography,cute moppet Miss S.Johanssen is very impressive and Jilly Cooper fans will have a fine old time. Mr Redford radiates integrity,Mr S.Neill as Miss Scott - Thomas's husband has quiet dignity,but I'm afraid,susceptible as I am to a well - crafted tear - jerker,I didn't fall for The Horse Whisperer. It's all so very professionally done,a slick well - produced package,that I almost feel guilty for resisting it,but it's so blatantly manipulative that even in a business that thrives on audience manipulation it is entirely shameless. Mr Redford makes a lot of little actorly facial gestures,Miss Scott -Thomas gazes at him adoringly but I felt I was watching two tennis stars playing one long rally for nearly three hours.Sorry guys,clever,yes,but not involving.I yearned for someone to slip on the baseline or hit the net,give some sign that they weren't beautifully ehgineered automata - but it never happened. Definitely a superior product,the same way a Mercedes - Benz is,but lacking the slight imperfection that might indicate that,somewhere along the line,human beings were involved in its production. "},{"Title":"The Horse Whisperer","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Directed by and starring Robert Redford, this is a really nice story about a man with a gift to kind of whisper to horses. Young Grace MacLean (Scarlett Johansson) one day had a terrible accident along with her best friend (on another horse) and her horse. She loses one or two of her arms or legs (I can't remember which) and Pilgrim is only injured. Anyway, to save the horse from being put down Grace and her mother Annie (Kristin Scott Thomas) to The Horse Whisperer (Redford). Along the way Grace, Annie and Tom become really good friends while at the same time helping Pilgrim the horse. Also starring Sam Neill as Robert MacLean, Edward Scissorhands' Dianne Wiest as Diane Booker and Chris Cooper as Frank Booker. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for A Soft Place To Fall, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director and Best Motion Picture - Drama. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Disappointment thru cast choice!!","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The story was absolutely powerful and gripping. But choice of cast?? Duh! I'd have preferred Sam very sexy for his age Neill for the lead any time over Robert I just swallowed a turd while wearing lipstick and too much jewelery Redford. But maybe that's just me!! The chemistry between the two leads doesn't really work the way it could have, if casting had been considered in a more original way. You don't see any sparks flying between Scott-Thomas and Redford and therefore two hours hours plus makes for a very long movie!!! So you'll need quite a lot of popcorn and gin-tonics to sit this one out but the -though subdued- character of Neill makes up for a lot of lost (screen-)time. "},{"Title":"A Horse Whisperer ... what an intriguing concept.  And it was ... in the BOOK!!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I usually try to judge a movie as an independent art form rather than a visual form of the book from which it was taken. That said ... I cannot separate this movie from its source. The book is WONDERFUL ... the movie is mediocre.When I first read the book I called my son who was living in London with the theater/acting crowd. I felt the young woman he was living with should play the lead ... in fact, I saw her in my mind's eye as I read the book. It was then he informed me that Robert Redford had purchased the movie rights. I felt it was in good hands although my son's friend was not Kristen, I looked forward to the release.I was so disappointed! Usually the screenwriter tries to keep to the spirit of the story. In the movie they changed the ending to the point that it became a different story ... the book's ending is so much more touching and giving. I would never suggest anyone see this movie. But I sure would recommend the book! "},{"Title":"Did they not read the book?","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I loved the movie, until it ended. They finished the film in like the middle of the book! What was that supposed to be?! They did follow the book precisely which was shocking. But the ending was more shocking. I am very disappointed. I read the book before I saw the film and I am very angry. The book was so good. There was so much more that was supposed to happen and it didn't. Oh well. Film makers can never satisfy viewers by being true to the book. But overall, music, cinematography, the art, everything was beautiful. Robert Redford did an amazing job. He is able to be sexy even at his age! Scarlet Johansen did a great job too. After all, she was so young when she made the film.  "},{"Title":"Read the book instead!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Robert Redford is just plain silly! The focus is all wrong.This movie reminds me of a Danielle Steele-novel... The story deserves a better destiny, so I suggest you read the book instead, it's much much better. "},{"Title":"Equus with a love story","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Soporific and pretensious bittersweet drama about a girl who lost a leg in an accident with his horse and is helped by a country man who is considered a horse whisperer, a kind of shaman with a special sense to recover traumatized horses. In this way, this man (Redford) will help the poor girl and falls in love with her beautiful mother (Thomas). Overlong and boring, the movie is a innept attempt to tell a diferent love story with some touches of natural scenes and animal caretaking. Good photography is the great hit in this one. I give this a 04 (four).  "},{"Title":"How could they do it?","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  What a huge disappointment. The book The Horse Whisperer by Nicholas Evans is about the best book I've ever read, and I just can't understand how professionals were able to make a movie *this* bad out of it. Somehow they managed to lose everything that the book has - the feelings, the healing stories of both the horse and the people. The whole story felt so much more real when reading the book. But in the movie... nothing felt real, and it made me feel nothing. Yeah, it's hard to make a movie out of a book that would meet the readers' expectations... but I have never seen a failure of this class. Very essential scenes had been left away and especially the ending was a total flop. Really, in my opinion, the only thing that's good about The Horse Whisperer - the movie - is that it ends. So sad they managed to ruin such a great story.This is not a chick flick any more than it's a guy flick, it's just a plain bad flick. If you have read the book, but not seen the movie, don't waste your time on it.  "},{"Title":"Really boring...","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The Horse Whisperer is not a good movie. The scenery and the cinematography are great, but the rest... The story starts with an accident that change an adolescent girl's life. But the horse which was also involved in the accident is traumatized and needs a psychologist ... Robert Redford. Kristin Scott Thomas, the girl's mother, takes the horse to Redford's farm and they fall in love. Well, I think that the main character of the movie is the horse, and that makes it really unsatisfying.Kristin Scott Thomas had a great performance in The English Patient (one of my favorite movies), but here she plays an irritating woman and she doesn't convince the audience. I can say the same about Redford, but it's not the first time he doesn't convince. It happened the same thing in Up Close and Personal (not even the wonderful Michelle Pfeiffer - my favorite actress - plays her character well).The Horse Whisperer is very long and slow, and the romance between Kristin and Redford doesn't have a good chemistry. The music is quite good but, in general, the movie is uninteresting. It surprised me a lot its nominee for best dramatic movie in this year's Golden Globe. Why? Did the American people like it?--------------------4 "},{"Title":"The kiss of the horse","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In this film a horse kissed Kristin Scott Thomas. Then a very old man who needs to looks younger than his real age, shows his back. He seems a cowboy (or a cowoldman). Suddenly you find yourself in a landscapes jungle (you better close your eyes to avoid vomit). There is an accident too or something. Maybe you can see the face of Diane West and think What is she doing here and why is so fat?. But you can never answer your own question 'cause you fall asleep.  "}{"Title":"I was never so bored in my life.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie was way too long and way too boring. The opening scene with the accident was good and caught my interest. It went downhill shortly afterwards. I couldn't wait for it to end and I got to the point where I didn't care what happened to any of the characters.  "},{"Title":"No sir, I didn't like it","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If this movie gets any other Academy Award nominations than for its photography (which is exquisite, I'll give you), then it's only greater evidence that there is absolutely no artistic sense in the industry.The Horse Whisperer was too long, and none of the characters were likable. I'll give you a dime if you can even identify any real, honest-to-God, human beings in the whole God-forsaken enterprise.  By the end, I was crying out for mercy, GOD, LET IT END!  PLEASE!  SOON!Anyhow, that's my two cents. "},{"Title":"Self Important Twaddle!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Now I am bound to get berated by the horsie brigade, but I am afraid that as a movie buff I have to say that this is the film that I have hated sitting for three hours in the cinema more than any other film. Oh yes, Freddie Got Fingered was worse but I had the sense to get up and walk out of that.I like Robert Redford as both an actor and a director. I loved Quiz Show and, well, The Sting was his acting peak. but I still can't get over the fact that he was 62 when this was released, and the lovely KST was 38... I just don't see any natural chemistry between the two. Of course I have not read the book, so I don't know if the age gap is there...I also found that I disliked KST's character far too much to care for her, and found I really could not empathise at all.Yes the movie looked great - the cinematography isn't as good as it is hyped up to be. The land scape is amazing, the CT is just average.Maybe I need to be a horse lover to enjoy this, or a 14 year old girl. I am neither and can only recommend better, shorter movies! Want a film on horses, rent the Liz Taylor version of National Velvet (1944). Want a film with nice countryside shots - rent The Bridges of Madison County. Want a decent reason to sit still for three hours? Rent any LOTR movie. Finally, if you love Robert Redford, rent The Sting or Out of Africa. "},{"Title":"Hoarse Whispers","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is the type of film I tend to avoid in the hype of initial release and I haven't felt particularly deprived to miss out on it. It's now been shown on English television and I didn't find it sufficiently mediocre to switch off. Most of the elements are in place, stunning visuals, sentiment, dime-store philosophy plus the obligatory change of attitude in a principal character. Robert Redford - who also helmed - and Kristin Scott Thomas are more or less believable as the mis-matched couple thrown together for a short time in what could be construed as a romantic setting. Dianne Wiest and Chris Cooper weigh in with strong support but Scarlett Johannson was no better as a child than she is as an adult. Interesting rather than memorable. "},{"Title":"Very silly, but beautiful scenery.","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film could have been much better. Professional horsemen such as myself find lots of goofs in the continuity and the story. However, it was entertaining and visually beautiful.This film and the book were NOT based on nor inspired by Monty Roberts! Nicholas Evans, author of the book, DENIES that Monty Roberts had anything to do with the book.Evans wrote, I spent many weeks traveling across the West and met three amazing horsemen Tom Dorrance, Ray Hunt and Buck Brannaman. Some of you may have read that someone called Monty Roberts was the model for Tom Booker, The Horse Whisperer in the book, and that he helped me with my research. It's not true. met Mr Roberts once, briefly, in England but have never seen him with a horse or seen him since. He had no involvement whatsoever.Horse training guru Buck Brannaman was the main horse trainer whom Robert Redford consulted for this film and Brannaman also doubled for Redford in some of the scenes. Rex Petersen, a Hollywood veteran and excellent horseman, was trainer of the horses that had to exhibit specific behaviors. "},{"Title":"The Whispering Movie","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  How such a soap made so many noises ???? Insipid, pretty-pretty, this movie is a lie  it does not even analyse the only real thing it is talking about the horse whispering. For the rest, the story is improbable, based on too simple way of presenting characters. I rated it 5 on 10, only because of the beauty of the picture. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Unfortunately this movie disappointed me. I have read the book (which is wonderful), and this movie just doesn't come close. I do believe that the movie was miscast, most notably Robert Redford in the role of Tom. It is such a shame, really. The book leant a lovely storyline, but for whatever reason the book didn't translate well to film. I think the movie could have been better made, but what we are left with is a movie where not many of the characters are likable, and the heart of the book seems to have been lost. Perhaps if I hadn't read the book, maybe I would have enjoyed this more. As it stands, I guess all I can say is that if you have read the book be forewarned to be disappointed, and if you haven't, I truly hope you enjoy the film more than I did. Sadly, this isn't a film I am likely to recommend to friends. "},{"Title":"Too long and  overacted","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I found the DVD on the Shelf so I thought I would check it out, OK some nice scenes of some American state but it went on and on, the Scenes with Kristan and Redford were embarrassing, he can show emotions without trying but the woman was putting in so much effort which I consider overacting. I fast forwarded through the horse wrangling and other scenes and kept wondering when they would get to the point. Johanson was very good and the husband of Weiss was a stand up (he is usually the bad guy (American beauty). I was so hoping that she would get back with Sam Neill. I was watching Easter Parade (with Judy Garland) at the same time on TV and the contrast was amazing. They really knew how to entertain in those days. This was just too long and probably nice viewing if you are a horse lover. My decision is based upon if I would watch it again and in this case - no. Being a sensitive male who cries at almost anything even reruns of MASH. I almost felt a tear rising at the end but not quite. it looked expensive to make but I only felt relief when it was finally over. "},{"Title":"Misleading Title","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The horse whisperer has little -almost nothing- to do with that gentle method of horse training known as horse whispering.  Redford's character is the Marlboro man after he gives up cigarettes.  The female lead is a stereotype of a career woman obsessed with work.  We get geographic stereotypes as well, with the New Yorkers being rude, demanding, short-tempered, bossy, and too busy to be nice to people.  Redford's character, and the others at the ranch, are decent god-fearing folks, such as you'll only find west of the Mississippi.  They possess a wisdom that comes only to those who live in the middle of nowhere, and spend their days talking to horses.  The story develops very slowly.  The movie is really about relationships - between the lead characters, and between mother and daughter.  A chick flick.  Not one to horse around with.   "},{"Title":"A weepy ball of corn","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Maimed youngster and her psychologically distraught horse live through a horrific accident to become patients of cowboy vet Tom Booker (Robert Redford); he works his backwater magic on the kid and her horse--and on the girl's mother as well! Old-fashioned nonsense with the usual soapy plot turns (the wife's husband shows up for a Montana visit just after the woman and the cowboy finally plant a kiss on each other; the wife is told by the cowboy's sister-in-law, Stay away from him!). It certainly looks good, with a low-keyed scenario perfectly attuned to Redford's persona. Young Scarlett Johansson has an inner-beauty that radiates with charm, but I kind of doubted Redford would fall for cool Kristin Scott Thomas; she's imposing, like an iceberg, and yet it's another cliché that a woman like this could be toppled by a nice guy and some gauzy sunsets. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Stupefying","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Does Robert Redford pop a few 'ludes sometimes before beginning filming of a movie? His directorial style is laid back anyway, but every so often he comes out with a film so woefully paced that I'm half afraid it's going to start moving backwards.The Horse Whisperer is one of those. So slow and so long as to be stupefying. Though to be honest, I've only actually seen maybe three quarters of it, because my wife got sick and had to leave the theatre. But by then, I'd seen enough to know that I didn't care how the damn thing ended, just so long as it ended.Grade D "},{"Title":"great book, shame about the film","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  i read the book and it is one of my all time favourites, and was really excited to hear that it was being made into a film.  what i saw though, was quite a different tale.  i cried my way through the book, but the film did not affect me at all.  i hated the way they totally changed the whole film, particularly the ending.take my advice, read the book.  it'll be one of the most moving books of your life, stuff the film!!!   "},{"Title":"Slow and Boring","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This was epically filmed, something which usually helps set the mood for me, but when the story drags at an unbelievably corpse-like pace, and even the stunning vistas fail to inspire, something's wrong at the core of a work.The performances are ... okay, but was it really necessary to use 30 minutes' of screen time to show the woman bouncing on the horse, trying to smile, in slow motion (notice I said trying to smile)?! Some may have been enchanted by this work, but frankly, I found it anything but. I was bored, and checking my watch less than halfway through this one, which is unusual for me.Redford was good, but not riveting. He's still a God, but this was the wrong vehicle, character, and director for him, which is sad, since he was the director.It was okay, but only mildly so. I can't say I was entertained.It rates a 3.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Who Edits These Things?","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie joins a long list where the director should never be allowed near the editing room (Titanic,Ice Storm, Anything buy Costner,Scorcese,etc.). Is there some rule in Hollywood that a good movie now must be excruciatingly long?  This one could have been wrapped up in under 2 hours, but Redford treats us to an additional 45 minutes of slow paced plot that adds little to the story (what was left of it from the book) and an all too unremarkable spark between the main characters.Nice scenery though.     "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was one bad movie.  It was 2.5 hours of watching Robert Redford shake a rope at some dumb horse and break up a perfectly good marriage.  The only good thing about this movie is the beautiful scenery, but if its scenery you want, go to see an IMAX movie and don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Way too long","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If this had been about 1/2 hour shorter, it would have been tolerable.  No  chemistry exists between Kristen Scott Thomas and Redford.  Beautiful  scenery, not much else.   "},{"Title":"The Horse S***","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Normally, dramas like this don't bug me. If they are good. And there are plenty dramas that I love. But this one was as if someone sat down and said, Hmm, this book was boring, lets see if we can write a movie that is even more boring.  Don't get me wrong, I love Sam Neil, he is a fine actor, as well as is Robert Redford...but they couldn't begin to save this one. Though gorgeously filmed, an Redford can direct very well (EX The Legend of Bagger Vance ) This was one of those movies that must of been painful to  sit through in the theater. I am glad my time was wasted only on video on my own couch and if I wanted to get up and leave for an hour, I would be able to come back and hear more about the geneology of the horse. So, I could have done anything, but I stayed for the whole three hours. Three hours that I will never get back. One of the worst movies of the 90's. It was like Random Hearts. Movies that someone tried to make boring, or at least thats how it seemed. "},{"Title":"major loser","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie stars a man who identifies himself as a patron of progress in film making, can you believe he would be involved in this turkey? It fails on all levels. The beautiful scenery is totally obscured by tight close-ups of a wrinkled face. The romance is fractured by a 30 year age difference, and the fact that a female lead who was a bombshell in English Patient now has the sexual appeal of an 11yr. old. Then there is the subject of horse training, the garbage that we see in the film has nothing to do with the horse whispering technique.Mr. Redford, I have been your fan in the past, shame on you. "},{"Title":"Should have been called The Horse Lecturer.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I have never been one to complain that movies are too boring, but, my GOD, this movie could put crickets to sleep.  It was just so self-important and slow, not to mention the unquenchably pasty characters, that it was literally unbearable to watch.  Even in a year that featured Patch Adams, this movie was still the worst of 1998. "},{"Title":"Oy...","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever been forced to watch. My mother has been in love with Redford since Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, and insisted that I see this movie with her because she refuses to go to the cinemas alone.  I cannot disparage the acting, however, the story and the directing left much to be desired.  The scenes that were entirely worthless to the story made up at least half of the movie.  The most painful scene for me was the one where Redford is in the field just squatting and staring at the horse for what must have been three minutes but seemed more like thirty.  Around the two hour, 15 minute mark, I was expecting the movie to end, little suspecting I had another 45 minutes to go, which really didn't add to the story at all, with the possible exception of the final scene. As for the story itself -- it's a rather poor one.  The attention placed on the horse and away from the scars of the people in the movie (particularly, of course Johansson's character, whose dead best friend is barely mentioned past her final scene, who also I had forgotten existed at all by the end of the movie) in the movie itself, as well as in this board, shows a certain degradation of values of a lot of people. The movie completely ruined equestrian animals for me forever. Grade F-- "}{"Title":"Weepy soap opera with scenery","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Montana is spectacular. So is the emotional overkill of this weepy yuppie tearjerker. It might have been endurable if the editors had snipped thirty minutes from it, concentrating on all the close ups of teary eyes --- equine and human --- and the endless hugs and embraces. And of course we all knew, right from the start of the ten hour epic (well, it seemed that long) that they would all live happily ever after, including the stupid horse who should have been shot at the outset, sparing both him and the movie's audience the ordeal.  "},{"Title":"Should've been titled Flogging a Dead Horse Whisperer","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  What was the point of this movie?  If you haven't seen it, you may want to save the 170 precious minutes of you life for doing something more entertaining - like picking ticks off of a dead horse's corpse.Robert Redford's character - Looser (with his finger and thumb in the shape of an `L' on his forehead).  Nobody buys the deep soulful cowboy routine anymore.  Give it a freakin' rest.Kristin Scott Thomas's Character - Should have been shot and put out of everyone's misery withing the first few scenes.  Sam Neill's character should have kicked her to the curb with extreme prejudice.Sam Neill's character - Pitiful!  Use two hands when making the `L'.  This is the only character in the movie that was deserving of any degree of sympathy (but don't give it to him because of his double-looser status)Don't get me wrong - I don't have to have a `likable' character in a film in order to enjoy it.  Hell, I hated everyone in `Internal Affairs' (but they were believable, and I felt sorry for some of them as well - even the a**holes).  This movie just doesn't provide a single character that is even worth watching (let alone developing any sort of emotion over other than disgust).I gave it a `1' (but only because `0' wasn't offered).  I feel that I have been cheated out of 170 minutes of my life). "},{"Title":"It was still a bad movie","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie six years ago. After the first 15 minutes, I was doze off. If I were going alone, I'd been out and ask for refund! The director was trying to tell some story, but avoid telling it, or afraid of telling with 'romantic way'?!The only good part is the scene of Montana.What I'd remember is the green mountain and the cloud while the trailer was driving inside those. After that, the director (while, he is also the actor) did something magic to make me sleep. When I woke up sometime later, the big horse is still wounded, and the two are still not close to bed at all!Come on! If you were aftering the Bridge movie, just follow it. No, the director avoid going that route, though it surely says like that in the whole 2 hours. "}]