[{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  For a comedy that got trashed in reviews and rediculed by movie-goers, I find this movie to be incredibly funny. The first time I saw the movie was in the theater at which time I laughed at the obvious laugh-parts, but it was not until I had seen it another two or three times before I picked up on the absolutely hysterical dialogue, terriffic comedy styles of the various supporting characters, and the sheer brilliance and irony the script presents. If you know anything about history, this movie becomes instantly funny. If you are a fan of almost Simpsons-style random humor, this film is instantly funny. Never be turned off by the first glance of this film. If you dismiss it as poor comedy you will be missing out. "},{"Title":"TASTELESS AND UNRELENTING IN ITS STUPIDITY, BUT HILARIOUS","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Almost Heroes is a deliberately idiotic movie, and much of itshumor relies on the audience being aware of this. If you don't buythat the movie is SUPPOSED to be ridiculous and nonsensical,then you're not going to like it. Otherwise, it is a great ChrisFarley/Christopher Guest vehicle with abundant laughs, often atthe absurd crudity of its humor.  There are scenes and dialoguethat come off as cheap attempts at lowbrow humor, when in factthe real punchline is that you, the viewer, even acknowleged thehumor when it is so utterly tasteless. I, for one, laughed my @$$off and got overdue fees at my video store because I couldn't stopwatching it. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I'm from Montana and had to study Lewis and Clark. Almost Heroes is great it makes fun of all the details from their journey. Down to Sacajawea and the waterfall passage. My favorite quote is at the start of the movie when Hunt says If you wanted a tracker why didn't you choose William Clark? and Edwards responds Don't you think I tried that. If anyone likes Chris Farley they will enjoy this film. Some people says his comedy wasn't a physical as before. Did those people watch this movie. How about the eagle scene or at the party. Or how about the bar scene or the dentist. At the start of the movie his is dragged on stage to be hung. Some people on this board probably don't like Chris Farley. Or maybe they don't like Matthew Perry. That however shouldn't mean they should hate every movie with them.9/10  "},{"Title":"'Almost' Perfect!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  ALMOST HEROES was without a doubt one of the funniest movies of 1998. It was also one of those rare comedies that are almost perfect. After seeing it several times now, I still feel it could have been perfect if not for two things. The first being that despite the movie being very well edited, there are times when it seems that there was some serious cutting down for a PG-13 rating.  The second thing keeping this movie from being perfect is just like with OLD SCHOOL, there are some attempts at humor in the movie that seem out of place in a movie like this. Sadly, this was Chris Farley's last movie. Nearly seven years after his death, it is still hard to believe he's gone. He was in my opinion, the funniest guy ever!  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I love this movie. I love movies with stupid humor in them, and this movie just cracks me up. How can you not laugh? Chris Farley's one of the greats. Him, Matthew Perry and especially the rest of the cast keep you laughing from beginning to end. It's hard for me to pick a favorite character. I really like Bidwell, his misadventures had me rolling on the floor in laughter, but the comedic genius of Farley had me going too. One of my most favorite parts had to be when they bring the boat ashore and meet the Native Americans, and they think the really tall one's the Chief, but it turns out he's not, his real name's Bent Twig and he's really mentally retarded. I laughed for almost 5 minutes straight on that part. This movie's definitely in my top 10. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Farley's best.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I know that a lot of people hated this movie, but I'm commenting in defense of it. This movie may not have been Chris Farley's nor Matthew Perry's best work, but it is funny. I laughed a few times when I watched it the first time, in fact overall I like the darn movie, even though it's not as good as Farley's other funny works like Tommy Boy, and Black Sheep.Please give this movie a chance. You might like it. "},{"Title":"Very funny if a bit too episodic","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This one is deliciously high concept--What if famed explorers Louis and Clark were plagued with a band of ridiculous, incompetent, bumbling ignoramus rivals? Leslie Edwards (Matthew Perry) is the organizer of the alternate expedition, and seems the brightest of the bunch. At least until you realize that he thinks good choices for his team include Bartholomew Hunt (Chris Farley) as their wilderness-hardened guide with experience and Guy Fontenot (Eugene Levy) as the team's translator. Hunt is basically Farley playing himself, which is both hilariously funny and profoundly tragic at the same time, and Fontenot makes it clear that he doesn't know much about other languages. At first we give Edwards kudos for deselecting him, but when Fontenot lets it be known that he'll only join the expedition if his hot Indian woman (she's not a spouse or girlfriend to him, but property), Shaquinna (Lisa Barbuscia), can also come along, Edwards figures that they probably won't need a translator's services that badly anyway, so brings him on the journey.Levy is great at playing an attractive dunderhead. But we already knew that. That's what he's been doing since his early days on Second City TV (SCTV) (1976). What's more surprising is that Perry can so effectively come across as a sophisticated halfwit. Perry's performance is so dryly funny that during his scenes it can be easy to mistake Almost Heroes for a much more serious endeavor than the Mel Brooks-styled farce that it is. Farley has no such subtle complexities in his performance, but he's none the worse for that. He just acts natural, aside from feigning idiocy, as an extremely self-indulgent, substance-abusing boor. That may not sound funny, but in the context of the film, it is--Farley was as good at this stuff as was his idol, John Belushi. It's only made tragic by the knowledge that similar behavior off-camera led to his premature death shortly after making this film. The rest of the cast tends to be just as funny, if a bit underused. For that matter, though, even Levy is a bit underused.What brought my score for Almost Heroes down slightly was the fact that it may be a bit too episodic. The episodes are all like very good to excellent skits on Saturday Night Live (1975) or SCTV, but they didn't necessarily flow together as a film. Taken separately, many of the skits are worthy of a 10--the IMDb message boards are full of threads with viewers citing their favorite moments. Reading through those after watching the film, just thinking about many of them again made me laugh out loud. But as a whole, Almost Heroes seems a bit underdeveloped from what it might have been. This may not be Christopher Guest's best work as a director, but it's worth watching and definitely deserves a DVD release. "},{"Title":"The more I watch this, the better it gets!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Farley and Perry lead a team who are racing Lewis and Clark to blaze a trail to the Pacific coast of the newly settled America. Historically speaking, the setting of the film and costumes seem surprisingly accurate and I was totally convinced that I was looking at the early 1800's.I watched it the first time and giggle a bit, I watched it the second time and laughed here and there, I watched it for the third time and laughed nearly all the way through! This film is like an acquired taste and just gets better with watching. "},{"Title":"the movie's mediocre, but Farley's performance is anything but","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  If I saw this movie with almost anyone else cast in Chris Farley's part I probably, well, would have never seen it in the first place, but if I did I would have given it a lousy review. OK, the movie itself was completely predictable and dumb (not like it was supposed to be intellectual). I think Matthew Perry had't made it to rehab yet because during certain scenes he looks too thin and pale. During others (did they toss both of the leads in rehab halfway through shooting, then continue when they were out?) he looks pretty good. In fact, if you have the hots for Perry, you should definitely see it because he was looking pretty good to me by the end of the movie, and I never thought he was all that hot before. I have a feeling the part of Edwards was originally meant for David Spade, but he pulled out.We saw it opening weekend, Saturday night, and the theater had already split up the movie (and even cut the poster in half! Jerks) with another in the same part of the theater because no-one was showing up. The audience was us and maybe a dozen other Farley fans who sat silently when he wasn't onscreen, then you'd hear us all laugh at the top of our lungs scattered from various parts of the mostly empty auditorium (the laughs were scattered, not our lungs, sorry for the bad grammar) when he did or said something funny. This is not his best movie (he was obviously and sadly on his last legs, but doing his best to give his fans their money's worth)but not his worst. If you're a Farley fan, don't be scared away by the bad reviews, rent it or buy it! The scene where he has to go find an eagle's egg in the wilderness to cure his sick friend is priceless, and so is his comment when he finally brings it back and finds out which part of the egg they needed. Every single review in the media I read said something along the lines of this is a sad legacy to be Farley's last movie, with this weak performance, blah blah but I think he could have done a lot worse.RIP big guy, your fans miss you. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  In 1804, President Thomas Jefferson commissioned Lewis and Clark to explore the newly acquired Louisiana Territory and find a route to the Pacific.  Other explorers followed Lewis and Clark but didn't become famous--if you believe this movie.Among these less well-known explorers was Leslie Edwards, who seemed too much of a spoiled rich kid to spend time in the untamed wilderness--which is why he tried at first to take all the comforts of home with him, including a slave.  He needed an expert tracker, but for some reason he had to settle for a man who was in the process of being hanged for drunk and disorderly conduct that included forcing a military officer to waltz.  Supposedly, President Jefferson had commuted that sentence, but the signature could have been forged.The rest of the crew was nothing to brag about.  In fact, a number of them, after hearing they would have to travel upstream, wanted to take the easy way out and go to New Orleans instead.  One old geezer simply wanted to see the Pacific but got out of doing any work because he was ... well, old.  Guy Fontenot claimed to know all the languages of the Indian tribes the group would encounter.  But the first time he was called on to translate, he explained that the language was one he didn't know.  He brought along the Indian maiden Shaquinna and was insanely jealous whenever anyone would even look at her. Along the way to the Pacific, our heroes encountered a number of strange Indians and even stranger villains such as Hidalgo.  They also visited a full-fledged community established by whites--highly unlikely, but then, this wasn't supposed to be historically accurate. This was a very funny movie, but whether it was quality depends on one's interpretation.  For me, this was quite entertaining.  Some examples  Bidwell loses an ear, and Pratt picks it up and speaks into it--for the rest of the movie--believing Bidwell will be able to hear him.  And Hunt climbed a tree to get an eagle's egg--three times.  I won't say why it had to be three times, or why he really regretted the second and third trips.  But it was the highlight of the whole movie. There was also a scene where an Indian kept slapping the white men because they did not respect his customs.  Or was that the real reason?  And the entire movie was filled with physical comedy such as falling off cliffs.One criticism--if Matthew Perry was supposed to have a British accent, or at least the accent of New England aristocracy, he seemed to forget in the more strenuous scenes.The objective was to get to the Pacific before Lewis and Clark.  Did they?  Of course I can't say.  I can say that from a distance in several scenes, we could see what appeared to be two men and an Indian woman, and a dog.  Whether they made it or not, the effort was certainly one to be enjoyed. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I read about half of the reviews and I think my opinion falls in line with about half of the crowd.  This movie was one of the best Chris Farley physical style comedies that I had seen in awhile.  If you don't like Chris Farley, of course you won't like the movie.  If you try to take this movie too seriously, you won't like the movie.  If you just want to sit back and get a few laughs, then you SHOULD like the movie.I still laugh the most at the eagle scenes.  That is just pure lame comedy at it's best.  That scene and the rest of the movie never get old after watching it numerous times. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Someone really should help Matthew Perry choosing better movie scripts or at least explain him that overacting and making a fool out of himself isn't exactly a guarantee for funny movies. In 'Friends' he was OK, probably only because there were enough characters to keep him out of the spotlights most of the time, but this time he's one of the main characters, so you'll see him more than is good for your (mental) health.The movie is about a bunch of people who will try to reach the coast of the pacific ocean before Lewis and Clark. Of course the entire expedition consists of lunatics, idiots and fools, but that won't keep them from trying to win the race anyway.The tag line already said everything you need to know Almost History... Almost Legends... Mostly Ridiculous. I couldn't agree more or have you ever thought to see the conquistadors fighting some 19th century colonists? Neither did I, but here they are. 'Almost legends'? True, this movie is already legendary because of its stupidity and bad taste and 'mostly ridiculous', I don't even bother to explain that one.I'm not saying that everything in the movie is bad, but it just tries to be too much and ends up being nothing at all. It is some kind of spoof, an adventure movie, a historical movie (although far from correct, but that's probably where the humor should be in),... all in one. I'm not saying that the combination has to be a guarantee for failure, but than you'll need much better direction and a better script. This time it isn't worth much. I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"A Funny Story With Some Dull Spots","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" First off, Chris Farley is hysterical in any movie and can make even the weakest material work. At some points in this movie, that is exactly what he did. However, the story wasn't a complete mess, it was actually quite good in parts. Especially when they encounter all the pitfalls throughout their journey, the script is very sharp and funny. Other parts drag quite a bit, and Eugene Levy's character was just completely unnecessary and unfunny. Matthew Perry had only a couple funny scenes, the rest of the movie he just served as straight man for Farley, who honestly didn't need him--- he could've made this movie work on his own without Perry's help. Better editing could've made the film seem less strung-out and I think it ran a little too long for a comedy. I also wish Franklin Cover's character could've been featured more extensively, I really enjoyed his scene in the film. All in all, a decent comedy adventure. 7/10. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" this is a pretty obscure movie, so it may be hard to find. i couldn't get it at blockbuster but it was at the local library. its got some language and sexual content but its not really really dirty or any thing.its about 2 explorers who are racing lewis and clark to the pacific. the main characters are supposed to be just like the people from the lewis and clark expedition. (lesie edwards is meriweather lewis, hunt is clark, etc.) its really funny and it has some chris farley getting hurt in it. i saw it on comedy central and then i rented it and forced my family to watch it. "},{"Title":"Almost good","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I enjoy watching Chris Farley and I've seen quite a few movies featuring him (no real good ones though) and also I like Matthew Perry a lot and those two combined in a film, this I had to see. This is a comedy that is typically Perry and Typically Farley. It features all the weird running and looks we know Perry for in Friends and Farley has some of the same stuff he does in Tommy Boy or Black sheep. This one also is a tag corny, sometimes because some of the supporting cast has like the IQ of a slice of bread plus we are introduced to what losers used in the 19th century instead of rubber women. Nonetheless this one has some good laughs and one or two great ones. The story isn't too good and sometimes it's corny but hey what the hell, most comedy's are (Naked Gun, Black Sheep, Scary Movie and so on). If you know and like Farley this won't disappoint you.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Farley delivers gold.","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is without a doubt, one of my all-time favorite movies. Chris Farley does not disappoint in what is his best and last, lead role ever. You will be clutching your stomach from laughter from the get-go all the way until the final minutes. There is no weak part in this movie. Almost Heroes is packed with unforgettably hilarious scenes that will keep you laughing years from now when you reminisce on them. Farley's top-notch performance is aided and enhanced by his nearly equally funny ensemble of fellow cast members. Eugene Levy and Matthew Perry keep the laughter ball rolling throughout and there are about four others who are downright hysterical. This is a must-see film that is wildly underrated and enormously under-appreciated. Watch this movie if you want chiseled, 6- pack abs from laughing so hard. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Today was the first time I actually saw this movie (I know, I'm late), but I think it was a really good movie. It was a great comedy that had me laughing all the way through. I loved the plot of it all, as I never thought I could be laughing at the setting and time this was happening. Chris Farley and Matt Perry were a great combination in this film, and it really made me see Matthew Perry for the great actor he is. The sad thing is, I never even heard of this movie until I came across it today. You'd think a great funny (very, VERY funny) comedy like this would be more noticed. I'm actually very surprised I've never heard people even mention this fantastic title. I loved everything about this film. Hilarious characters, great actors... this movie is a must see. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" As I look through the pages of comments, I see a fairly common recurrence. People either love this movie, or they hate it. I've watched this movie upwards of 10 times and it has not ceased to be hilarious. Me and other friends who have watched the film even get laughs out of references to this film, because its so classic. Let me warn you that if you try to take this movie seriously, critique its script or plot, you will most likely fall into the category that hates this film. The true comedy comes from the absurd nature of the dialogue and the overacting which makes it that much funnier. Hopefully you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"So Funny","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Not everyone likes this movie but I see why. Its very stupid but oh so funny. I laugh a lot when I watch this movie because the lines are hysterical. Farley and Perry steal the show in this uproarious movie but all the actors have funny lines to dish out. Like these for example. Higgins THERE'S AN ANIMAL NOW! everyone except Edwards and Hunt starts firing at the animal Higgins We can't kill it! We're all dead! God save us! Hunt Hold your fire! Hold your fire! everyone stops firing. Hunt looks closely and sees that the animal is just a squirrel nibbling on a acorn. Hunt It's only a squirrel. Pratt He's got something in his hand! Guy Fontenot Something in his hand! then they continue firing at the squirrel Bidwell returns to camp after a bear has bit off his leg. Bidwell Sir, I've been to hell and back. Edwards Yes, I can see that... Bidwell I suspect that you'll want to lead a hunting party to slay that terrible beast. Edwards Well, yes, that thought did cross my mind briefly. But now I have a better idea. Bidwell Yes, sir? Edwards I shall fashion for you the finest wooden leg you've ever seen. Bidwell But what about the bear? Edwards Rest assured, Bidwell, in 20 years or so, the ravages of old age will deal with the bear far more cruelly than we ever could have. Bidwell Revenge is sweet, sir.So if you like movies that are stupid yet funny this is a great one to watch. "},{"Title":"Hm...","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" It's a film about the personal adventure of discovering and pioneering a new country. It speaks of survival on one side - and the heroism and self-deprecation of the other. From opportunists, to isolationists - from patriots to disenchanted lovers - the film has everything a man or woman would enjoy (actually just a man). Bravery, courage, intrigue, romance, beauty and love., and tons of great jokes and humour! Watching this film is to step back to a world that doesn't exist any longer - yet to know it. It is to experience lives that have never been lived - but could have been real. It is to know pain and joy, pride and pity for characters that are a fiction - yet are so real that you can't help but get lost in their story.Amazing cast, memorable dialogue, unforgettable story. Through this film, Chris Farley will always live in my heart. Seeing it for the first time is truly the start of a romance with ideals that will live in you long after credits end. "}{"Title":"Classic Farley","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Seeing this movie for the 1st time almost 7 years since it's release brought me mixed emotions. I laughed hysterical at most of the scenes Chris Farley was in as I have with all of his other starring roles. On the other hand I was reminded of how sad it was of his untimely death. I must have avoided this movie because it was released after his death and I was not ready to enjoy another comedy with him at that time. I will certainly buy this movie and add it to my collection with Tommy Boy and Black Sheep. I also enjoyed the supporting cast of characters, I'm not a big fan of Friends but I thought Mathew Perry was good in this movie. "},{"Title":"An ignored classic","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I live in the UK so i have not seen any Saturday Night Live shows but i know and love the films of Chris Farley. If you want to pass an hour and a half and have a few laughs then watch any of his wonderful films (ok i admit that Beverly Hills Ninja sucked). This film seems to have been forgotten about, its like it was never made. I have read a lot of degrading reviews about this film yet its a very funny and enjoyable film.Chris was in fine form when he made this film and Matthew Perry is fantastic also. Perhaps if David Spade had played Perrys role it might have been remembered but alas its a lost classic. Basicly its a very funny film and a must for any Farley fan, and i hope that the IMDB has made this movie of the day by now. So i advise anyone to watch Almost Heroes and then tell their friends about it as it deserves so much more respect than it has ever received.7/10Rotten Addict! "},{"Title":"Great, Great Movie","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I don't know what movie these other voters saw, but it clearly wasn't the same one I did.  This movie was in no way a blockbuster, but deserves a better rating than a four something.  This movie was straight comedy all the way through and Showed us the Farley that we all know and love.  Being a big dumb idiot is what made him famous and kept him famous up untill his untimely death.  If he would have actually tried acting he would have bombed like Sandler has recently.  Matthew Perry was also funny in this movie, as well as all the other big or slightly big names in the movie.  Best Line of the Movie Pittsburgh Nelly.  The wh*re who can do things with her one good arm that would make you forget about that thing on her neck  "},{"Title":"One of Chris Farley's best pictures.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  After I got done watching Almost Heroes I immediately rewound the tape saw it again.  It is one of the funniest movies ever created.  If Chris Farley isn't a good enough reason to watch it, Matthew Perry should be.  Both men do an incredible job acting dumb and yet civalized.  If you ever get in a bad mood, I guarantee this will cheer you up as you roll on the floor with laughter. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I thought it was entertaining.  The second time I saw this movie I rolled laughing.  The third time I saw this movie I thought it was the most ingenious comedy I had ever seen.  Now, every time I watch this movie it just gets funnier and funnier.  Many people think that it is lame or cheesy.  The point of the movie is to be cheesy.  It's a satire of early American life.  As far as the historical relevance and the mentality of people in America at that point in time, it's astonishingly accurate.  Matthew Perry's character is supposed to represent bureaucratical society, while Chris Farley embodies the lower class American pioneer. In truth, it is a fantastic representation poking fun at the way things were. Cheesy as it may be, it was intended- and lives up to its intentions with comedic splendor.  A+ "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I really don't understand how anyone could give this movie a horrible rating.  Personally, I consider it Farley's best movie.  Tommy Boy was great, but this one was better.  The comedy was off-the-wall but really funny.  Matthew Perry was perfect to play off of Farley's antics, and he was arguably better than David Spade in either Tommy Boy or Black Sheep.This movie is essentially a series of events, and there is no plot except the going toward the ocean aspect of it.  Overall, if you like the type of comedy that Chris Farley embodies, or movies like Dumb & Dumber, you will no doubt love this movie.  Watch it! "},{"Title":"A great last film","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is one of my favorite Christopher Guest/ Chris Farley movies. I love the movie and love the refrences it makes to other CG movies. The music is the same music from Waiting For Guffman, the actors are from various CG movies. This movie is great despite what some may say. If you are a Farley fan, this movie is a departure of sorts cause he plays a mean person, not a nice goofy loveable person. It is a good movie.  "},{"Title":"So Ridiculous","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Almost Heroes is so ridiculous, that it is definitely one of my favorite movies. Absolutely hilarious. It seems as though when they made this movie, they had a general direction in mind, but made up the rest as they went along. It was probably why there was almost no continuity in the movie, with the characters changing personalities and attitudes repeatedly throughout. While something like that is usually seen as a bad thing, it really worked in this movie. Chris Farley's ever-changing personality in the movie was one of the most entertaining and hilariously funny parts of it. This movie is one of my two all-time favorites (the other being Spaceballs), but I could see how someone could hate it. This is a love it or hate it movie, and quite frankly, I loved it.-NufPS- The egg scene was one of the funniest things I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant - but unfairly blasted","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I don't think that this film got a release in the UK, and I don't remember even seeing it available to rent on video. I've read the reviews given and I gather it took a bit of a caning from the US critics, but from the reviews provided by the general public it seems more to be a 'love it or hate it' type movie and the fact that a fair few seem to love it, touting it as the worst movie ever made seems a bit harsh.I got to see this movie recently (on digital satellite in the UK), and I found it to be quite amusing. Its by no means a classic and is unlikely to ever be presented in a Top 100 Comedies list, but there's enough here to warrant a viewing at least. As a Brit I have absolutely no idea who Lewis and Clark were (although I can make an assumption having watched this movie) so the historical aspect is lost on me but I don't think that's particularly important or hinders the enjoyment of the film. In basic terms this film follows an expedition to be the first to reach the Pacific side of America.The characters are sufficiently different to each other and the cast play their roles as well as can be expected. Perry's style is most definitely based on visual and facial expressions and he uses it well as the foppish Leslie Edwards. Farley plays the over-the-top lout with no graces which forms the basis of most of his roles and he provides a suitable complement to Perry's character. The leading lady (Lisa Barbuscia)  is absolutely stunning although she isn't used a great deal. The rest of the supporting cast do their jobs well, providing an alternative target for the humour. The humour presented here is not particularly sophisticated, but the film has some funny moments while the rest is at least amusing enough to raise a smile and keep you watching - if you like this kind of humour that is. Its mainly slapstick and the dialogue is a poor-man's Blazing Saddles.The first 15 minutes of the film gives you a reasonable idea of what is to follow, and if you hated it up to that point you probably are not going to enjoy the rest. Its one of those films that either strikes a chord with you or falls flat - if you are in the latter camp you will hate it, but that does not necessarily make it a terrible film.  "},{"Title":"Why an amateur historian likes this movie.","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  As an amateur historian who has read extensively about the settlement of North America and The Corp of Discovery, I really liked this movie.  While decidedly a comedy and parody of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, I found it to be surprisingly accurate.  My reasons for this opinion are 1) The costumes and accoutrements were right on.  How many times since Davy Crockett have you seen a flintlock actually fire in a movie?  The lodges were from Panther Primitives and Farley's pistol is an early 1800's Harper's Ferry. 2) The crew members all had distinct personalities. The members of the Corp of Discovery varied from well educated to nearly illiterate though all were accomplished at their respective skills. 3) Anyone who has ever been on a long term encampment will remember humorous events. 4) There were other explorers and adventurers on the Missouri in 1803-1806.  5) The dialog, while humorous, is accurate to the time and circumstances.  If you read between the lines, you'll actually come away with a picture of 1804 North America that is surprisingly accurate rather than politically correct.  "}{"Title":"Some good gags, but not the height of hilarity.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The movie had a good Farley-esque premise, but the director failed to use Farley to his full comedic potential. We should have seen more of Hunt's (Farley's character's) misbehavior after upturning a bottle of whiskey; we only get to hear Perry's character's description of it. More could have been done with the crazy Indian scene. In fact, lots of semi-funny scenes COULD have been a real hoot if only they'd turned Farley loose. But I like the movie anyway. Too bad it was Farley's last. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most underrated movies of the 90's.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  And wrongfully so. This movie was absolutely hilarious. Sure you have to have a certain kind of sense of humor to enjoy it, but it's nothing more than a funny movie.It's the story of two men, Edwards(Perry)and Hunt(Farley) who travel with a group of lower class idiots on a journey to beat Lewis and Clark to the Pacific Ocean and on the way get into several misadventures.If you think about it the sense of humor is a bit old-fashioned. Two jokes that I thought were the best were the campfire story and the ear biting. And who could forget the scene were Farley fights the eagle for it's eggs. The only problem I had with it is(Spoiler alert)that it never explained how Lewis and Clark still got famous after Edwards and Hunt discovered it.Good for some solid belly laughs. 8/10  "},{"Title":"A hilarious final work!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The rest of the people on here who seem to think this is the worst movie ever must have their heads up their ass. Chris Farley did a great job in his last film and is completely hilarious throughout the movie. If you are a big fan of his work, I don't see how you can not love this movie. Like most movies with this type of humor, they get funnier every time you watch them, and this is no exception. Don't watch this movie planning to see an epic tale, if that's how they billed it, they weren't being serious. Matthew Perry's character and Guy Fontenot are great, and the chick in this movie is ridiculously hot. While watching this movie just think about how stupid it is, that is the point, and you are guaranteed to laugh.  "},{"Title":"Why does everyone say it sucks? Movie critics at work again....","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I don't understand people. Anyone who's watched Chris Farley movies has to know that they don't particularly excel at being works of art. They are meant to be funny and FUN (for the last time, people, movies are meant to be FUN and nothing else! Does the word entertainment mean anything to you?)Anyhow, I watched this in tandem with Mafia! and thank God... Mafia was funny, but I get so sick of those Jim Abrahams films... this one ruled! I'm glad Farley made this as his final movie, after the horrid Beverly Hills Ninja (now that sucks). And Matthew Perry excels... here he plays a prissy Chandler. He's kinda gay, but the snappy patter is still there. I laughed my ass off, my cousin laughed his ass off, my sister (total Farley fan even though she goes for foreign and Oscar-type cinema) laughed her ass off... this movie was great, period.Goodbye, Chris Farley. Thanks for making me laugh my ass off so many times. I salute you.  "},{"Title":"Almost the perfect send-off for Chris Farley.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"   From the opening credits, I had a smile on my face because of the graphic and introduction the film gives its viewing audience. I thought to myself what a delight it is to see a film where your mind does not have to stress over thinking of who did what to whom. This was Chris Farley's final and it was too bad that he died so suddenly because this was his best film performance ever. It showed how he dominates the film by his brand of physical, in your face comedy. The script was hokey at best, meaning it wasn't trying to be the best movie; if it did that task failed. Based upon the story of Lewis and Clark's expedition, Chris Farley and Matthew Perry embark on a journey to do the same as Lewis and Clark did, but beat him to it. Perry and Farley play Edwards and Hunt a fumbling pair of wannabe explorers that want to make a profitable discovery. Almost Heroes is a fun movie to watch and a pure delight for everyone wanting stressless viewing. "},{"Title":"Horrid final effort from Chris Farley!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie is quite possibly one of the worst films of the year.  I am a HUGE Farley fan (and I like Perry's Chandler on Friends) but this movie was simply awful.  I had heard it was bad but I wanted to see what Farley's final performance was really like.The comedy is lame and falls flat 99% of the time.  The funniest scene is where a diligent Farley battles a territorial eagle for its egg.  Other than that, nothing is memorable.  Even SCTV veteran Eugene Levy is wasted in his silly role of a French-Canadian translator.Almost Heroes reminds me of John Candy's final film, Wagons East, an equally dreadful movie that unfortunately did not capture the comedian's true legacy.  If Farley could have survived to redeem himself from this disaster with another film, it would have made a true fan like myself much happier.  "},{"Title":"Good for a few laughs","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  When I saw commercials for this movie a few months ago, I was eager to go out and see it even though I'm not a big Farley fan. But it never came out in any theaters around me. So I rented it today, and I was cracking up. I wish I could have seen it earlier. It's got nearly every kind of humor you can think of from slapstick to Seinfeld-esque. I would recommend it to anyone who has an hour and a half to kill and enjoys some cheap laughs. 8/10 "},{"Title":"underrated, non stop hilarity","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Almost Heroes (1998)5 Word SummaryExplorers race Louis and ClarkIn early American history two explorers named Louis and Clark attempt to be the first to map a route to the Pacific Ocean. However, Bartholomew Hunt and Leslie Edwards are on their tail. Hunt (Farley), Edwards (Perry) and their men race their way to beat Louis and Clarke. Even squirrels, waterfalls, bears and crazy Spaniards cant stop them. Honestly I'm at a loss of words with the rating of the film. This is probably my favorite Chris Farley film, even over Tommy Boy (though I've seen Tommy Boy tons of times, that might be why.) Now I know its not necessarily well made but its not poorly made by any means. The Performances are hilarious, at least from Farley and Levy and some of the other men, Matthew Perry wasn't at his best by far but held in there. Its just one of those adventure comedies that have been done plenty of times but this is just a new version of it. With any film like that (Vacation, Harold and Kumar, Detroit Rock City, ETC) you know its going to be ridiculous and completely unrealistic but that just adds to the humor in my opinion. It also is one of my favorite movies to quote. There is so many hilarious lines that you can pretty much quote it for as long as the film is itself. White water in the morning, Bent Twig, Pittsburg Nellie, why don't you get your own bottle these are just a few of my favorite lines/scenes, (if you haven't seen it yet these wont make sense obviously.) It is for sure a dumb comedy for the most part but sometimes that's more fun.Id recommend this film to anyone that needs an easy laugh, and of course anyone who loves Chris Farley "},{"Title":"The Best, Funniest And Greatest Overlooked History Lesson Never Told In The Books.","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I first caught this movie when it aired on CW a few months ago. It's a real thrill that's full of amusing moments. The basis of this 19th century story is that two explorers named Bartholomew Hunt (Chris Farley) and Leslie Edwards (Matthew Perry), among and along with several, other allies go on an expedition and they're in a competition of sorts against Lewis and Clark. Which make both duos counterparts and rivals to each other. This is a fun spin on what could've nearly been historically had the former duo's group beaten the latter's to the punch. The meeting between comedy and history makes for a much more engaging and compelling subject matter. It's a fine outing as the grand finale of the late, former SNL alumnus Farley's film performances. One of the highlights for me and among my favorite parts is when Bart gets carried away by the eagle before falling into the ocean (or was it the sand dune/beach? I'm not sure). Hopefully, for those who aren't very into crude humor, it's few and far between, so y'all should be able to get past those moments and check it out, if y'all haven't already. I think I've seen some or most of Farley's films and I still haven't even settled on a favorite (most and least) yet. And he did it again, having another hit with this one. I'm with those who disagree with the others who could be known as the haters of this movie, it's as great, if not better, than the other movies in one of the lead actors' filmographies. This comical adventure flick is a rollicking, grand old time y'all will neither regret nor forget. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable movie","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"   From the opening credits, I had a smile on my face because of the graphic and introduction the film gives its viewing audience. I thought to myself what a delight it is to see a film where your mind does not have to stress over thinking of who did what to whom. This was Chris Farley's final and it was too bad that he died so suddenly because this was his best film performance ever. It showed how he dominates the film by his brand of physical, in your face comedy. The script was hokey at best, meaning it wasn't trying to be the best movie; if it did that task failed.Based upon the story of Lewis and Clark's expedition, Chris Farley and Matthew Perry embark on a journey to do the same as Lewis and Clark did, but beat him to it. Perry and Farley play Edwards and Hunt a fumbling pair of wannabe explorers that want to make a profitable discovery.Almost Heroes is a fun movie to watch and a pure delight for everyone wanting stressless viewing.  "}{"Title":"An Underrated Farley Classic","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I won't say much other than this film is extremely underrated, especailly compared to other of Farley's films. Farley and Perry are hilarious together in Almost Heroes, a Monty Python-esqe comedy that is funnier than just about any Farley film save Tommy Boy. This film is definately worth a better rating than IMDB has it listed as.  "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is the kind of movie you need to watch more than once to appreciate. I'd never go so far as to say this is a good movie, on the contrary, its a very bad movie, and thats what makes it funny.  No one seems to be able to appreciate the humor in the poor writing and acting that make this movie hilarious.  Watch Farley's battle with the eagle a few times and you'll see the humor.  Watch the gauntlet with creamed corn and tell me thats not funny because of its sheer ridiculousness.   I say people need to lighten up and respect this movie for what it is, a harmless farce that allows for some cheap laughs at physical humor and absurd dialog. "},{"Title":"Easily Forgettable Film I Hope To Easily Forget","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Let me just say I am by no means a fan of Chris Farley. He's done a few good things, understood physical comedy and might have someday been the next big thing. But he's not, in retrospect, anything amazing. Everyone knows Black Sheep and Tommy Boy are the same movie, and all he really gave to this film was the same shtick of flapping his arms and grunting. Which is not my cup of tea. And Matthew Perry? Maybe he's just ingrained in my mind as Chandler Bing, but this role seemed so wrong.This is the story of two men who are trying to race Lewis and Clark to the Pacific Ocean in 1804. Although, this is only the background to a film about Perry trying to steal another man's wife and an ongoing battle against a Spaniard obsessed with his hair.The film is not really very funny (especially after you write off Farley) and seemed to me to be in a similar vein to Cannibal the Musical, except being that Cannibal was infinitely funnier and relied on no name actors and no budget. So, thank you Hollywood for blowing millions on a film that was poorly made and not very special... I'm sure Farley wanted this to be his swan song.I have nothing really great to say about this film, but I don't want to keep tearing it a new one because I already know people stand against me on this. Well, they can have this movie and watch it until their DVD player starts smoking. I hope I never see this film ever again. (Although, I guess after recently seeing The Ringer I could have done worse.) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Beverly Hills Ninja - it's got some funny parts","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This was a huge flop when it was released (if memory serves correctly, it is in the Box Office Failures Hall of Fame). Chris Farley had died five months before its release, there were bad screenings, negative sneak preview reviews, etc... and when they finally put it out, the film tanked.I've never found Farley funny but this movie is okay. It's got some funny scenes. It's original and has some clever puns on the whole Lewis and Clark adventure - it's essentially about two guys (Matthew Perry and Farley) who decide to beat Lewis and Clark by getting there first. Christopher Guest receives directorial credit, which is surprising considering this isn't a mockumentary. The direction overall isn't too great and I would never guess it was one of his films if I didn't know any better.Farley is annoying as usual, and Perry is doing his Chandler routine - could he BE any more predictable? (Wink, wink.) There's a lot of crude humor and some stupid childish gags that embarrass rather than entertain (such as Farley's fight with the eagle).To be perfectly honest this isn't a terrible film. I've seen worse, and at least it made me laugh, which is more than can be said for Farley's other film, Beverly Hills Ninja. But at the end of the day it's still just okay and not good enough to warrant a good review. "},{"Title":"Never Almost. It Sucks.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Almost Heroes (1998) Dir Christopher Guest / Cast Chris Farley, Matthew Perry, Eugene Levy, Kevin Dunn; Bokeem Woodbine Matthew Perry and Chris Farley are armature heroes that never quite pull through. Perry saves Farley from being hung and they lead a group of travelers to the Pacific. Ridiculous climax has Farley grasping eagle talons without thought by screenwriter that Farley is too big. Directed by Christopher Guest who does achieve a few good sight jokes including one where Farley quests to obtain an egg for medical purposes. Much of the humour is vulgar including one sap's shared experience regarding sheep dung. Farley's final film appearance before his untimely death. He plays his usual loud obnoxious overplay. Perry has comic prospects but his role is a prop. Drab supporting roles include Eugene Levy as the father of a woman whom Perry moves in on. Obviously she leads him on just as the director did when he signed him on. Plus Kevin Dunn appears in pursuit of the duo as these films usually go. There is a few visual sight jokes that work but much of the film just represents a poor choice in film for Farley to unfortunately conclude his career on. What is equally unfortunate is that none of his films are any good at all. Very stupid comedy stressing that Almost Heroes is almost funny, almost effective, and a complete waste of time. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Downhill for Farley I'm afraid....","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I'm not saying that Chris Farley was crap in the movie, it just concentrated too much for Matthew Perry. I honestly thought Perry wasn't the best as the leading role. Maybe for a comedy television show series like 'Friends' but definitely not a western comedy film.I didn't really like his narrative accent or his accent, it sounded really dull and boring to hear. Why couldn't they get David Spade back for just once chance to be involved with Farley again?! I thought the men joining them were a joke because they shouldn't appear thick in the head. They should appear as brave men risking for their entire lives to be at sea. Didn't the film crew ever think of this?The movie may have been the worst Farley took a big risk with, but he was still a legend as always and that he still is remained on peace on this very day. RIP "},{"Title":"Pure Comedy Gold","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Leslie Edwards (Matthew Perry) and Bartholow Hunt (Chris Farley) lead a team of rag-tag misfits on a quest to beat Lewis & Clark to the Pacific Coast. A magnificent early 1800's western environment encompasses the explorers on their journey. All awhile, an undeniably catchy score plays in the background.However, obviously, the comedy is the movie's overt strong point. Decent to commendable comedic performances are had throughout the whole cast. Despite the wonderful work done by Perry and Farley, the true comedy emanates from the supporting cast; including an outrageous performance by Eugene Levy as the Frenchman Guy Fontenot. The movie is so entertaining that an empty feeling is cast upon some when the movie reaches it's conclusion. The sorrow is even more painful due to Farley's death and it being his last major performance. Overall, huge laughs are to be had in this 'historical' comedic achievement. "},{"Title":"Likably Silly Comedy","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Despite it's bad reputation, this comedy about fancy-pants Army officer Matthew Perry and rowdy mountain man Chris Farley's attempt to upstage Lewis and Clark by beating them to the Pacific Ocean is amiable and a whole lot of fun for fans of Farley and Perry's well worn comedic alter-egos.Not all of the jokes hit their mark but enough of them do and the story is a fairly interesting one.It's sad to say that Farley's hard-living ways really shows through in his performance, especially during his blustery outbursts.Certainly this is the strangest film ever to come out of executive producer Ted Turner's fascination with American history, unless you count the Turner Home Video distributed Civil War horror tale, Ghost Brigade. "},{"Title":"Come ON, You have to be kidding.","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" OK, I'm an avid DVD watcher like probably so many of you all out there, 3 nights ago I was watching Tommy Boy, a marvelous piece of comedy film, that's both full of laughs and full of heart. After watching it I jumped on IMDb to get some info and ideas for my next movie. Looking through Chris Farley movie's I came across Almost Heroes, have seen most of Farley's (all the pre Happy Gilmore films with Sandler and Spade) I thought why not, and directed by Chris Guest, I love his mockumentary's like Spinal Tap and Mighty Wind I really thought it would be a combo that couldn't let me down. Yet sitting through this film really surprised me how you can have so many greats working on such a dull film. Perry is just shocking, and I don't know about you but is permanently type cast in my eye as Chandler from friends. I don't like him, I wont ever like him. But yet he isn't something to fear away from the movie because of. No he's just the icing on the cake to a pretty shonky movie all round. The script was dull, the jokes were slow, there was no real solid comedy timing used. Most of all I'm just shocked and amazed that Guest would allow something just so flat get made. I mean Farley is his usual standard, hes as good as the actors around him. You cant help that. But Guest has written some real clever comedy over the years. Some that has made me laugh so hard that I've had to pull my self back onto the chair and go, Hey, Wha Happened? The jokes used in this film must of been his leftovers. Its the only logical reason. The last Farley film, probably the one he could of done without. "},{"Title":"Oh my Lord...","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I am a native English speaker, but I cannot think of an English word that could describe this movie. If I had to choose one, however, I think that word would have to be painful. I've seen the comments by others, and only a few have called it right. I saw one comment that read something likehow could anyone who had dialogue in this movie not have just turned to the camera and said, 'Why am I doing this? It's not funny, its not even...can I just go home please?'...I've seen some very positive comments concerning this movie though. My only remark to that is, May God have mercy on our souls. I'm not bashing this sad waste of plastic and packaging for the sake of bitching about movies - this one is just plain horrible. Nothing could save it. Not drinking beforehand, not adding a laugh track, not even smoking massive amounts of Government THC-enhanced pot could help me enjoy it one bit. I would only recommend this tape to anyone who is seeking atonement for sins, as the Devil himself couldn't conjure up a worse penance than 'Almost Heroes'.  "}{"Title":"Easily the funniest movie I've ever seen!!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This is Chris Farley's single greatest achievement.  Farley is non stop funny and so is the cast surrounding him.  If you like any funny fat guy movies, you will love this movie as much as I do.  Especially the story around the campfire. "},{"Title":"Almost Heroes Almost Bearable","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  What were they thinking with this film?  What a way to even more tarnish the memory of a comic talent like the late Chris Farley, who died a tragic death once more with this film. Matthew Perry should thank the powers-that-be at NBC for renewing Friends for another season.  What is Perry to do with another flop on his hands? Once Friends leaves the air next year, Perry will be hard pressed to make it as a box office star if this or past films are any indication.Heros is lacking that over-the-top brand of humor Farley is so famous for.  That is what made films like Tommy Boy so successful.  This film was a wast of Farley's talent.  Maybe Saturday Night Live Alum & Almost Heroes director Christopher Guest wanted Farley that way.  People rushed to theaters everywhere to see the last work by a comic master.  This lackluster performance is definitely not the crowning achievement in an otherwise successful career. Perry, on the other hand brings us Chandler Bing in the 1800s.  Not much of a stretch here.  His character is so similar to the characteristics of his Friends counterpart.  He does well in the I'm too good to be seen with you but I need you to survive type of character.  Granted, the film makers spent a year doing research to make sure the film was historically accurate.  The thing that makes it unworkable is the lame script.What research would be needed to make a Chris Farley comedy historically accurate?  The film makers wanted the path the characters took to be historically accurate with that of Lewis & Clark and the story itself is about that trek. Rich and educated Leslie Edward, played by Perry, wants to up himself in upper society's eyes by beating Lewis & Clark to the West.  So he gets the best tracker in all the land to help him.  Bartholomew Hunt, played by Farley, is that man. My advice is to save this comedy for cable viewing.  While it was a good concept, a poor script and so so performances make it worthy of only 1.5 Stars. "},{"Title":"So Bizarrely Bad, It's Fascinating.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Almost Heroes is such a waste of talent that it took the death of Chris Farley to pull it off the shelf it sat on for 2 years. Now, Farley's other pictures were crap as well, with only his manic presence to make them bearable. BUT, even the worst of them had more story sense, structure, and laughs than this piece of crap.As with most bad movies, the problem here began with a very, very, very bad screenplay cranked out by a couple of TV hacks. There is NO story, NO characterization--basically no nothin'--to the script. Even the few funny moments in the screenplay are totally isolated from rest of the action, seeming more like outtakes instead of actual parts of the movie. Even a Cheech and Chong movie seems more cohesive than this crap!But the blame doesn't end there. The director, Christopher Guest, also has to belly up to the bar when it comes to pointing the stinky finger here. This is because he was simply the wrong man for the job. Lame as it was, the screenplay for AH at least had jokes, crude as they were. The problem is that Guest is not a joke man. His humor, so evident in brilliant films like This is Spinal Tap and Waiting For Guffman, comes from characterization and subtle oddness punctuated by the occasional, unexpected wacky outburst--not jokes with setups and punchlines. Guest and his talented cast do have fun with their characters, each in his own way, and there are quite a few moments of inspired embellishments peppered here and there. BUT these subtle comic touches are completely lost because Guest and his editor seem to have no interest in properly building the jokes they are given in the screenplay. Therefore, time after time, in a movie that is nothing BUT jokes, we are presented with setups without punchlines and punchlines without setups! It's like having all the nice icing, but no cake to support it! Hard to believe. Once you get past these facts, however, you can enjoy Almost Heroes for the icing alone. It has that fascinating aura that truly botched movies often do.  "},{"Title":"Oh please","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Is wasn't THAT bad. In fact, I found it pretty funny. I give it a 7.Matthew Perry wasn't at his best, and neither was Chris Farely, but hey, it turned out pretty damn good. I didn't expect it to be this good, like I imaged before I saw it. Like I said, I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Dedication to Chris Farley?!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I'd grade the movie a B - but only because my favorite person in all of TV and film land is Matthew Perry!  The story line leaves MUCH to be desired.  Several valiant attempts to breath life into the waning film (by not only Perry but Farley and some of the lesser-knowns also) just isn't enough to save it's life.  My largest gripe with this movie, however, was that there wasn't a dedication to Chris Farley.  I sat thru the entire list of credits waiting to see, In Memory of Chris Farley or some sort of mention of his passing.  Nothing!  Shame on all of you.  Since his passing certainly wasn't forgotten I'm assuming it was a deliberate - cruel - decision to not mention his passing.  I only hope whoever the person was who made the decision to not dedicate the film to Chris Farley's memory meets Chris at the Pearl Gates - how funny it would be if Mr. Farley held that person's pass into the hereafter! "},{"Title":"A mostly dull historical comedy adventure with SOME humorous moments","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Chris Farley had a short-lived but successful career in comedy before his premature death in 1997. He is remembered for his appearances on Saturday Night Live, as well as a bunch of comedy movies. I was eleven years old at the time of his tragic death, caused by a drug overdose after a long struggle with addiction, and first heard of him sometime within the next couple years afterwards. I first saw Beverly Hills Ninja, Tommy Boy, and Black Sheep (in that order) as a teenager, and found all of them funny, but found that Tommy Boy was the only decent one when I revisited the three films in 2007. I never saw Farley's posthumous Almost Heroes until this month. The first time, I found it funnier than I expected, and thought it might have had potential for a second viewing, but after two viewings, I think it's another average comedy overall.In 1804, during the Lewis and Clark Expedition, Bartholomew Hunt and Leslie Edwards are two dimwitted men in the still-young United States. Unbeknownst to Meriwether Lewis and William Clark, these men have decided to compete against the two famous explorers, hoping to make it through uncharted territory to the Pacific Ocean before they do! They are joined by several others for the journey, including Edwards' slave, Jonah, and a Frenchman named Guy Fontenot, who brings along his Native American mistress, Shaquinna. Fontenot threatens to kill anyone he catches looking at Shaquinna, and it will not be easy for the other men to avoid doing that! Along the way, the travellers face a number of challenges, including a bear attack and a group of Spanish conquistadors, led by the evil Hidalgo, who threaten the lives of these explorers! So, not only will it be hard for them to beat Lewis and Clark to the ocean, there's no guarantee that they will all survive this journey! As an adventure film, Almost Heroes doesn't have a lot of excitement, and doesn't have the greatest plot, either. As a comedy, it did make me laugh at times, but for the most part, the humour doesn't make up for the lack of plot. If it were really funny, then the rest wouldn't really matter, but unfortunately, it lacks humour as well. I've definitely seen worse excuses for gags, but in this film, I still did not care for the joke about eating sheep s&%$, Guy Fontenot spitting out the ear of a fellow traveller (which he had bitten off!), or the straw women. Mind you, I think this film is definitely funnier than Beverly Hills Ninja, and probably Black Sheep as well. Like I said, some parts made me laugh, and these include Bartholomew Hunt's (Chris Farley) statement on the gallows around the beginning, the slap fight, and the eagle egg scenes. There are also gags which aren't as good or memorable as those, but at least made me snicker. Still, for most of the film, I kept a straight face.Chris Farley's death was drawing near by the time this was filmed, and it was his last lead role in a film (he did have a bit part in Dirty Work, a film I haven't seen which was released shortly after Almost Heroes in 1998). The comedian's death at the age of 33 was very sad (so was all the trouble he went through leading up to it) and it doesn't help that this film, just like most of the full-length movies he starred in, isn't very good. Despite this, unlike some people, I do think he was a decent comedian, with some very funny skits on SNL! He was also sometimes funny in films, even if he never was in any comedy masterpieces. He didn't leave behind the greatest legacy in comedy history, but it could have been much worse. If you generally dislike Farley's antics, then Almost Heroes is obviously not for you. If you're a fan of the late comedian, you're bound to find some funny moments in this historical spoof, but could still be disappointed. "},{"Title":"what was this?","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I am still to this day trying to figure out why Chris Farley was in this movie, he really didn't show as much goofball brainless humor as in other films, I was disappointed he went out like that. Matthew Perry should stick to Friends he added nothing to this film, I hate to say this but this was a stinker. I really wouldn't recommend this movie to Farley fans, but if you like Matthew Perry for some reason check it out then just to see him act dumb. "},{"Title":"How history could have happened. Yeah, sure!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Billed as an adventure comedy is one thing; proving it is harder. This is a wacky portrayal of two men gathering a mix and match mess of misfits to travel the unknown west. The expedition is competing with Lewis and Clark in their trek from Missouri to the Pacific Ocean. Situational comedy mostly provided by the late Chris Farley.This historical farce also stars Matthew Perry, Hamilton Camp, Lisa Barbuscia and Eugene Levy. The most interest in this project is due to the fact that Farley died just shortly after filming. Farley IS the movie. Your side will ache from laughing at him.  "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie is awesome.  I love it when Hunt gets attacked by the eagle. And when Edwards eats the eagle egg shell medicine.  Pretty much the whole movie is one laugh after another.  This is comedy at its best.  I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"Are you kidding?","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Don't be reserved about liking this movie. I love it! It's one of my favorite movies ever. I hate how comedies can never win awards just for being really really funny. The Oscars that go to comedies are usually won by movies that just aren't hilarious and sometimes have a plot that just gets in the way. Anyway, I first saw the movie with a friend years back and whenever we get together we still can't help throwing out a who's idea was the corn?, calm yourself! you think I don't know what is a gompet, gomp-let?, or He's got something in his hands!!!. I know the story sucks but I just like comedies that make me laugh. This one does the trick. "}{"Title":"So my rating is wrong, but whatever.","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I rated this movie a 10 just for fun. I would actually give this an 8. The story is very creative and very funny. I don't know why people have rated this so low. The movie is sort of kiddish, but it is funny and everybody should like Farley. Chris Farley always gives me a smile and it is sad he died. I will say this movie is one of my favorites of him, even if he plays the same role like he does in the other movies. The isn't exactly for children either even though it looks like it. If you are looking to enjoy a movie with good laughs and a good feeling, I would watch it, but if you are very critical of these types, I would most likely recommend a different movie. But Farley fans aren't fans unless they see this. I give this an 8 out of 10/ PG-13-Crude Humor and Nudity "},{"Title":"I laughed.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I, a humorless man, laughed out loud many times.  Some times I was painfully embarrassed.  Reappearing gags highlighted.  Even knowing exactly what would happen in many scenes didn't prevent them from being funny.  So much going on that it was hard to absorb all the gags being thrown at me. "},{"Title":"Dude the movie was tight man","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I am so tired of people always looking for faults in movies, i say watch the movie and enjoy it man that's it dont't think so much about all the horrible flaws just enjoy it!  I think this movie was just hilarious especially when Chris Farley was beating the crud out that indian chief. So just enjoy one of the great classic chris farley movies and also his last and stop doggin on it if you don't like it! Nowadays you'd be lucky to find a great movie like this cause all they have now is just stupid movies like Scary Movie and The Klumps, this is one of the last great true comedies of its time and I personally don't think we'll be seeing more movies like this in the future .. . . too bad =( Peace Out DMan "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Its sad Chris Farrelly has passed on, but at least he left us with this awesome comedy. The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was alright, but it really needs to be watched again, because then you pick up all the small things tht make this film a classic. this is definetly a must see for any comedy fan, just thinking about the movie now makes me laugh! "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I may be going against the grain here, but I found Almost Heroes to be one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Granted, it's not a thinking mans comedy, but it's Chris Farley funny and that's what makes it a great movie. Full of silly humor and hijinks, this movie is laugh out loud funny the whole way through. Personally, I thrive on stupid humor and this movie is a plethora of it. If you are into movies such as Eyes Wide Shut or The Piano, I might shy from this film. However, if you can't get enough of Chris Farley and love movies such as Tommy Boy or Dirty Work, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated comedies of its time","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This sleeper comedy, which happens to be Chris Farley's last movie, is very underrated. Unlike many opinions in the past, I adore the comic interaction between Chris Farley and Matthew Perry. Eugene Levy does a nice job too, although you really have to look to realize that it's him. Hopefully people will realize how funny this movie really is in the future.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Farley Finale","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Only a true Farley fan will love this movie. A fantastic last effort. Non-fans will merely think it is ok. If you laugh when you look at him, this movie is definitely for you. If you walk out of movies halfway through, you're an idiot. Never listen to movie reviews that come from guys who walk out of Farley movies for he is not truly a comedy fan. "},{"Title":"Almost Lewis & Clark (minor spoilers below)","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The writers of this film did their research and knew their Lewis & Clark history.While much of the film is, in all honesty, an extended Saturday Night Live skit, at times it is clever and witty.  But what made it stand out for me was the accuracy to the time period.The clothing is very accurate, the modes of speech are very accurate, the philosophy of the time period is correctly portrayed.  Also, the Spanish DID send out an expedition from Mexico to try and cut off Lewis and Clark.  In this film, that expedition makes contact with the characters and mayhem results.I enjoyed the film, though it was tedious in a couple of places, but the attention to historic detail and accuracy is what encapsulated me...I'm a historian after all...and this was something welcome in a low-budget, B-grade comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies of all time","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was on Starz!. I didn't even know it came out in the theater because it lasted for about 2 days. After watching it the first time, I thought there were a couple of funny parts, but that was it. After watching it a few more times on Startz!, I started to love it so much that I taped it, and then each time I watched it, it got funnier and funnier. Chris Farley is at his best, and Matthew Perry achieves perfection, along with Director Christopher Guest's longtime friend and underrrated funnyman and actor, Eugene Levy, and the other assorted cast of characters, this is one of the funniest movies ever made. You just have to watch it a few times! "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Almost Heroes is a good comedy that features one of my favorite comedians the late Chris Farley. He is funny in this movie. Matthew Perry is decent too. My favorite part in this movie is when Farley has to climb the giant tree to get the eagle eggs to heal his friend and gets hungry on the way home, not to mention his run in with the mother eagle who later returns for revenge. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Cool","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I watched this movie for Perry and boy, did I like it! Chris was real cool too, nowhere near Tommy Boy though. Of course, the movie compares nowhere to either actor's other movies, but the theme was a refreshing change.  "},{"Title":"If Chris Farley was Alive he'd drop dead laughing!!!!!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  All my friends split their gut laughing at this movie. What some people don't understand is, Chris' style of making people laugh at him instead of with him!! It seems to work for him and he seemed to stick to it!!! And I'm glad! We must appreciate what Farley has done in order to make us laugh!!!! just a thought!!!!, D.T "},{"Title":"Die! You Spanish Bastards!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The late Chris Farley and the (certainly not well) Matthew Perry have both been in films which have generally been viewed as 'poor' so no-one is willing to give this a chance. If you don't like Matthew Perry, don't watch this. You know what he's like and you know where the humour will come from. Personally I think he's great and, at last he's made a film that isn't a b***** romantic comedy. Woo-hoo! - MP "},{"Title":"19th century roadtrip spoof","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I'd heard that this was the worst movie ever made but watched it anyway. It turned out to much better than I expected and I really enjoyed it.  Perry is the pampered, Eastern dandy who wants to beat Lewis and Clark to the Pacific to improve his social standing.  Farley is the trapper he hires to help him.  They, along with a ragtag crew, trek, face danger and do other typical road movie fare.  I thought Perry was good in his role and the way he slowly came around to bond with his scruffy crew of misfits was more convincing than I would have guessed.  The movie has a lot of sight gags and lines that also work fairly well, better than your typical slapstick movie. And for me, the best part of the movie was Lisa Barbuscia - an American singer who plays the group's Indian guide.  Her beauty and the kindness she seemed to radiate elevated her small role.  The relationship between her and Perry is more understated and sweet than I would have expected in a comedy. In short, this movie is a silly spoof and will by definition be crude and at times tiresome.  But overall the relationships in the movie - buddies Farley and Perry, and timid but attracted love interests Barbuscia and Perry - are done better than I would have thought.  I think it is too bad that this movie got such bad press.   "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, this sucked.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  You know, I love Chris Farley to death (no pun intended) and usually his antics have me rolling in under three seconds.  However, when you get to Almost Heroes--save yourself sometime and watch the preview.  All the humor is in the preview, without all the horribly slow down time.  Matthew Perry, who isn't all that funny to begin with, detracted from the overall humor--I mean, whatever happened to Mr. Spade?  But let's face it, all the stuff Farley must have been on kinda took away from his performance, and the story was just lacking humor to begin with.  If you want to see a memorable and humorous final role for Farley, check out Dirty Work.  Now that is vintage Farley.  Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know it's only a cameo, but his few minutes are funnier than all of Almost Heroes.  Again, I love Chris Farley, but let's face it--he pulled a Candy (ie Wagons East). "},{"Title":"A pathetic goodbye for someone as talented as Chris Farley!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The movie was horrible.  It's so sad that this had to be the way we say goodbye to one of the greats.  I also have to agree with sandy odegaard.  It would be funny if Chriss Farley held that guy's pass to the hereafter.  I'd love to hear that guy's negotiation with Farley.  heck it would be funny if Farley held anyone's pass to the hereafter.  Anyway, if anyone reading this hasn't seen the movie, don't.  Find another way to pay your respects to the great Chris Farley.  And Chris, if you can come down to earth and read this (or come up to earth, God forbid) I want you to know that your loyal fans miss you!In Loving Memory of Chris Farley "},{"Title":"Almost Funny would be a better title for this movie.","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This movie was full of flat jokes and bad gags. Chris Farley tries but does not deliver very many laughs. Matthew Perry bringing his Chandler Bing character from Friends to the wilderness does not work. Even a few stabs at off the wall humor hardly produce a snicker. I kept waiting for this movie to get going but it just kept coming across like an over long comedy skit. Eugene Levy and Kevin Dunn were the only two characters that were funny. It was a shame there was not more for them to do. Making a comedy from a history lesson has it's possibilities but they blew any chance with this boring attempt. It was nothing more than SNL AND SCTV go to the woods. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie to Relax to and Enjoy an Light Humor","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" The problem with most people giving ratings on IMDb is that most people are complete imbeciles!!!!No this movie is not a work of cinematographic genius, it does not intend to be. It intends to be a light humorous film that can be enjoyed by anyone, except of course the mentally deficient who prefer Saw and American Idol.It is outstandingly innocent and quite honestly, if you allow yourself to be immersed in this movie, there is no doubt it will make you laugh. Everyone who does not have an IQ lower than 50 will agree that this movie is one of the few that can be watched over and over, because it is so sweet and innocent and funny, and best of all uplifting. Personally I love sunny and green scenery of the old untamed North America, before people paved everything. Sure some of the scenes you can't consider funny compared to Dodgeball or Anchorman, but this is a different kind of funny. This movie is meant to be simple and humorous for the entire family. The fact this movie did not do well in theatres shows how stupid the public tastes are for movies, they always want bigger and better and mightier, MORE drama, MORE explosions, MORE emotion!! This movies is meant for you to sit back and forget your worries without annoying you with a bad plot or bad characters.I think people didn't like it cause you need basic knowledge of North American and European History to truly enjoy the subtle humor, and you need to have an open mind. "},{"Title":"Um... Okay, So It's Cliche, But More Like Almost Bearable","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Wow, what a lame movie. Chris Farley does his standard crazy white fat guy routine, and Matthew Perry does fine, but the movie just isn't funny no matter how you look at it.The story is about two guys who want to beat Lewis and Clark to the west coast, I think. I'm not sure; but in a comedy, the plot doesn't really matter, now does it? There's some problems along the way, resulting in what I think the writer thought were hilarious moments. By the way, in case you hadn't noticed, they weren't. The movie just isn't funny. Seriously.Go rent something else, like Airplane! or Eurotrip. This was just a waste of a videocassette. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie was not what i expected. Though i made all the way through without switching channels, i have to say it was not the best Matthew Perry or Chris Farley movie. Chris Farley is not as good as usual but he is the only one in the film making me laugh. Matthew Perry who is one of my favorite actors is in such a ridiculous role that he has trouble pulling it off. He does a horrible job of making a stuck up explorer funny and he should stick to something a little more like him. In the end i enjoyed this movie but it was not one of my favorites. The idea sounded funny and the actors chosen are funny but the script needed work. If you like Perry or Farley you'll get enjoyment but not your moneys worth.  "}{"Title":"Simply great comedy from Chris Farley","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  A hilarious film that displays not only the comedy that Chris Farley is known for but also adds a new twist with Matthew Perry and one of my favorite actors, Eugene Levy.  If you're in the mood for a wealth of cheap laughs and extremely funny quick jokes and simple humor, then watch almost heroes "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  People don't under that this movie is suppose to be stupid and not taken seriously. I respect this film because Chris Farley was one of my favorites in the comedy business and this was his last film. And I like Eugene Levy and all the others in the movie. But mostly I enjoyed this film because of chris. May he R.I.P and know his memory lives on in his movies. Goodbye you crazy mofo!! D "},{"Title":"Absolute Swill","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I actually saw this gem of a movie in theaters when it first came out in '98. The pain that I went through sitting in a huge theater alone can never be cleansed from my tainted and scarred mind. I'm sure the projector workers were all laughing at the poor sap sitting there.How anyone could allow this movie to be made is beyond me. What had the potential to be a great comedy turned out to be such absolute pig excrement that I felt dirty after watching it. Now this film did have potential, as I said. The comedic genius of Guffman and Show's Christopher Guest combined with Eugene Levy, Farley, and maybe even Perry should have given the movie a sense of laugh-out-loud funniness. Instead, this combination produced a cry-in-front-of-everyone-because-it-is-so-terribleness. The comedy, or lack thereof, was so downright stupid and preposterous that it seemed ridiculous instead of funny. Before I go any further, I should clarify that I'm a big fan of Farley's physical comedy, so I wasn't expecting a film that would deliver dry British wit - I was hoping to sit and watch a movie that would actually make me chuckle a la Tommy Boy. I didn't laugh once. Well, now that I think about it, I did laugh at myself for wasting an hour and a half of my life. The film's slapstick is about as funny as chemotherapy.This film is a sad, sad spectacle. I'm sure Farley's body is rolling in it's oversized grave. Even though I want to go on a killing spree after I saw this movie, I didn't lose the respect of those involved. People make mistakes, yes even mistakes this big. I attribute this flop to the script.  "},{"Title":"Poor acting and even worse plot.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I walked into my local video store and saw this film starring Chris Farley and Matthew Perry on the shelf, and I thought to myself this should be good for a laugh. How wrong could I be, did either of them read the script before they signed up for this movie. This film was not a comedy it was a horror, I have rarely seen such bad and wooden acting. Its such a shame because I really like both stars a great deal and to think this was Farleys last movie. There are a few but limited laughs in the movie and maybe die hard fans might enjoy, but apart from those people avoided it like the plague. "},{"Title":"So bad it's hard to believe","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie was so bad that me and my friends actually ended up using the fast forward on the video after a while. The one reason we did not end the misery and gave up (pressed stop) was that we actually all are big fans of Matthew Perry from friends and we had some small hope that the film at least should have one scene that would make us laugh... well it didn't... avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"almost a 9","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I like the movie very much. most say it's bad but i think it's very nice. Chris Farley and Matthew Perry  are both very funny  "},{"Title":"Almost A Comedy...Well, Not Really!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Chris Farley and Matthew Perry attempt to conquer the American frontier and be funny at the same time in this disappointing comedy from Waiting For Guffman's Christopher Guest. Farley goes through familiar motions whilePerry seems as if a laugh-o-meter should be going off as he bellows his dialogue. A dumb idea for a film that simply tried to combine the funny talents of both stars. Farley is better in this respect, but it doesn't save the film. "},{"Title":"Almost doesn't count....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Chris Farley had often said that he wanted to pattern his life after his hero - John Belushi.But Belushi's last movie (Neighbors) wasn't as bad as this one.Almost Heroes is not a movie as much as a curiosity piece.  You don't believe me, just watch for yourself as Farley (much funnier on SNL), Perry (more smirksome than humorous) and Levy (as under-used as they come) are directed by Guest (who is INFINITELY more talented than he lets on as director here) in a movie that is supposed to be a comedy but delivers more belly-aches than belly laughs.If humor were recorded in decibels, Farley would have been a grand master of laughs.  Here, he operates at top volume; every word an inaudible shout, every body movement like watching someone convulsing.  Even such a simple matter as Farley having a tooth extracted takes on the spectacle of Captain Ahab trying to bring down Moby Dick (please excuse the analogy). Everyone else basically stays in the background and lets Farley do his stuff.  But the sad thing is that in the end, there were people who thought this simple story would have become epic with Farley's hyper antics.  Instead, it's just desperate.And sad.One star, in tribute to Farley, who had done much better than Almost Heroes. "},{"Title":"Almost Nothing!","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Answer the question in how this project ever became green-lighted and you to could be a big shot Hollywood producer! I only rented it because it was Chris Farley's last movie and I am a huge fan of his. Surprisingly enough he was still great in this flop but he was the only one. Unfortunately a lot of his lines were rehashed from previous performances but I liked him nonetheless as he always is a laugh-riot. His expressions including his reactions to pain are priceless and what a shame it is that he's no longer with us...he will always be missed! Matthew Perry is a horrible actor and his character was an exact replica of Kids in the Hall star Kevin McDonald...he had the accent down pat and the whole works but it just didn't work out for him. The Native American chick was hot but that's about it. Eugene Levy was heavily disguised and played an okay Frenchman but even he was disappointing...he can obviously do a lot better. Some of the characters were just stupid and I just tried to tune them out completely. Oh yea, what the heck was Bokeem Woodbine doing in here playing a servant. He should stick to action and urban films since that's what he's best at. What garbage this is...proves how untalented Christopher Guest really is!Final ExplorationMovies Glad I didn't as it was one of the biggest flops in cinema history!DVD Purchase I doubt it'll ever be released for it to begin with.Rental Only for a final farewell salute to a comedy legend! "},{"Title":"Almost a Zero","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Having essentially missed Saturday Night Live during the 90's, I don't have any great affection for Chris Farley. Nor is Matthew Perry one of my favorites (I found Friends tedious). Therefore, the two reasons to see Almost Heroes, Farley and Perry, were not a big draw.Yet, I watched this bland, slapdash comedy in order to blow ninety minutes with my family. It was dull and only marginally funny. I was cringing at the crudity and nudity (bare rectal clefts are about as far as we'll go before we throw the 6th grader out of the room or hit the fast forward button). I remember chuckling from time to time, but most of what I did was shift in my chair.Almost Heroes is nothing more than a Grade F moron movie. "}{"Title":"An Interrogative Flick","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" There are many unanswered questions that surround this TBS Superstation staple. Questions like Who greenlit a picture of two incompetent explorers (played by Chris Farley and Matthew Perry, no less) who compete with Lewis and Clark in traveling across the country? Why did Christopher Guest (yeah, the one who specializes in mockumentaries) decide to make this mostly gross-out flick for teens? Exactly how spooky is that scene where Farley out-drinks an entire conquistador fleet? And why, oh why, was there a butt-shot of Eugene Levy? Maybe these questions are partly why I like this film far more than I should. Another reason may be that it showcases Farley the best of his final given films (the eagle's egg scene shows why fans adored him; flawless slapstick, all by himself... and a prop eagle). Another may be Perry's hilarious performance (he's at the height of his Chandler wit, which is all I really want to see him do). No matter how ridiculous the premise is, there actually are some genuinely funny ideas and moments in Almost Heroes, like old but nimble braves and a fellow traveler who, ignorantly and unwillingly, is dished out almost all of the group's natural suffering. My favorite scene is really more just a gag The team of sweetly dumb pioneers gives in to fear of animals and take fire at one squirrel. My main question after watching Almost Heroes How many more laughs could Farley have given us had he not passed away so early? My guess Way more than Adam Sandler. "},{"Title":"not very good","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" This is not a good movie. It tries to be funny but it isn't. When I first started watching, I thought I would enjoy the film. I didn't. The funniest parts were at the beginning, before the journey even began. When Farley was at his best, he was hilarious. Not here. He tries, but the script just isn't funny. Matthew Perry also makes the best of a bad situation, but it isn't enough. Other than that, there isn't much to say. Good idea, but poor execution. If you want to see Farley at his best, watch Tommy Boy. If you want to see Perry at his best, watch The Whole Nine Yards. It's a shame that this had to be Farley's swan song. I'd give it 4/10, because there were a few funny parts here and there. "},{"Title":"Drivel","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I stumbled across this movie one boring Sunday afternoon while channel surfing for something to pass the time and an hour and a half later, felt unbelievably stupid for sitting through the whole thing. This is film making at its lowest point, one of the worst abominations ever committed to celluloid I've seen, so why it has so many good reviews on these pages completely eludes me.The story is a send-up of the famous mission of Lewis & Clark across America, focusing on their two fictitious rivals (played by Perry and Farley) attempting the same trek. Watching the duo's many comic adventures in the American wilderness unfold, it is obvious the director was aiming for a 'stupid but fun' vein of comedy similar to that of the Monty Python team, but it backfires spectacularly. Why? Simple, the acting is utterly appalling. Fed with dozens of terrible lines, Perry and the rest of the cast's performances are played so ridiculously over the top, it removes any potential laughs from the film altogether. You see better acting at sixth form drama students end of year exam pieces.My advice here then would be to avoid this one. Everything is over the top, the acting, the storyline and any potential for humour is ruined by the sledgehammer like subtlety of the dialogue. If Ed Wood had directed comedies rather than science fiction, this would have been the result. "},{"Title":"FUNNY MOVIE!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  This movie is hilarious from start to finish. I was laughing my ass off all the way. Chris Farley and Matthew Perry are absolutely stunning as the two bumbling morons who try to beat Lewis & Clark to the Pacific. Okay, yeah, so it didn't really happen. Who cares? Its funny as hell! There were a few parts of the film that made little sense, but they were still hilarious. Christopher Guest, the director of BEST IN SHOW has given us another film that will surely make most who see it wet themselves. NOTE I did not wet myself during viewing of this motion picture.Yeah, so I can understand that this movie might p*** a few historians off, only because the whole thing is entirely fake, but it still makes for a laugh-fest of a film. If you like crude humor, then you should see this. It will strike your fancy.My bottem-line rating THIS MOVIE IS AWESOME!ALMOST HEROES gets 5/5! "},{"Title":"Worse than Black Sheep","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I worked as an usher the summer this movie came out, and I had to deal with a customer indignant that she couldn't get a refund because this movie stunk so bad.  All I could think to respond to her was, Didn't you see the previews?  I don't think a few good laughs is too much to ask from a comedy.  It's far, far too much to ask of this tripe. "},{"Title":"almost unwatchable","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Have you ever just watched a movie and asked yourself what the heck were they thinking? Almost Heroes is your typical insulting comedy and can't even cash in on two good leads. Farley(playing the same old idiot) tries his hardest but this film just can't be saved. Don't waste your time. 0/4 "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  See Chris Farley and Matthew Perry in one of their most mediocre films ever!I was expecting a weak, cheesy movie.  That's what I got.  It was slightly better than I had expected, but don't spend more than 2 bucks to rent it. The producers were hoping Chris Farley and Matthew Perry fans would pay to see this.  If you're not a fan of either, don't bother.  I like Chris Farley, so I didn't mind the film, but it wasn't as good as Beverly Hills Ninja.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Almost funny","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  It is a shame that Farley had to end his career on this low note, especially since he is playing the exact same character that he has done in all of his other movies.  This film screams for a young Mel Brooks to direct it. Instead, we get vulgar jokes that are more gross than funny.  The best thing about the film is Perry, playing the pris to the hilt and showing why he can handle big screen fame, he just needs a decent film to show off in.  I give this a 3, and mourn the missed opportunity this film is. "},{"Title":"As you have heard...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  this is not a good film...after catching it on cable I must agree... However it is not as awful as it is made out in critics' circles... there are a few good laughs, the sets are pretty cool, if you are a Farley fan see it for a few laughs... the problem was a bit more with matthew perry...perry is not a bad presence for TV, but cannot handle a lead role in a film... eugene levy was wasted "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I have a vague memory of laughing ONCE, maybe, while watching this pathetic attempt at humor. Difficult to believe that some of the people involved with the film could have spent all the effort to produce it, and not have a clue as to what was funny. Of course, I'm not 12 years old, and perhaps there would be some appeal to that age group, but for anyone else, forget it. Lame beyond belief. "}{"Title":"One Of The Worst Films Ever Made","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Why did they release this horrible film? It seemed funny at first, to pair up Chris Farley and Matthew Perry in a sorta Blazing Saddles like comedy and have Christopher Guest (This Is Spinal Tap, Waiting For Guffman) direct this film. It's too bad this ended up being one of the lousiest comedies I've ever seen. I love Farley and he tries to get us to laugh in this, but his antics seem tired in this stupid excuse for a movie. Perry is flat-out terrible in this and should just stick to Friends.  It's too bad this had to be Chris' last movie. I wanted to like this, but it was just so lame and pathetically unfunny I ended up just walking out of it halfway through and got a refund (of course, the theatre was empty). "},{"Title":"Why? - Spoilers","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I dont see how anyone who has dialogue in this movie could not just turn to the camera and say Why? Why am I doing this? Its not funny, its not even...can I just go please?.Not only did we vow never to watch a Matthew Perry film again, we ejected the tape from the video player, poured beer into into it, kicked it to pieces, then returned it to the video store and told them never to rent it out to anyone, ever.The spoiler? Your life, your virginal movie watching eyes will be spoiled, tainted, blackened if you let this excuse for a waste of celluloid near your person.Dont bother. Its pathetic.  "},{"Title":"This planet is populated by stupid and ignorant people","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  Chris Guest is an unsung genius. 'Almost Heros' is one of the best comedies of all time.Of course, in a world where 'Scary Movie' deserves two sequels, Chris Guest's work is totally ignored.10/10 "},{"Title":"What was the purpose?","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  The premise of the movie, the cast and director, made this movie sound promising. Too bad none of it was funny nor did the script make any sense. Not exactly the worst movie I ever saw (see Weekend at Bernie's for my vote on the worst movie ever made) but really close. Glad I only wasted a dollar on the video rental. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't even waste my time to see it for free.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":"  I went to see this movie for free while I worked at a movie theatre.  I had heard it was bad but I thought Hey, it's Farley's last movie and it's free, why not?  The movie was so bad that my friend and I actually got up and left to find a better movie to watch  (from 7 screens, most of which I had seen already).  Who would have thought a movie could actually be that bad? "},{"Title":"Just about as bad as you'd expect","Date":"20 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" I learned something interesting from watching Almost Heroes. A comedy is either funny or not funny. This is obvious. However, a comedy can be many different types of funny, but there is only one type of not funny. Almost Heroes is not funny. It's really pretty awful. Sadly, it's the last starring role for the late and great Chris Farley. He plays Bartholomew Hunt who, along with Leslie Edwards, played by Matthew Perry, sets out to explore the great uncharted West and reach the Pacific ocean before the much more famous Lewis and Clark. Edwards, Hunt, and a band of unintelligent misfits set out on this great journey and hilarity should have ensued, but unfortunately it does not.Almost Heroes isn't trying to accomplish anything except entertain its audience and make them laugh. I've said it before but when it comes to a film like this is can only pass or fail based on my own personal laugh-o-meter. For this flick the meter was pretty silent throughout, with only a chuckle or two here and there. It's all silliness with no hint of cleverness or creativity. The writing is uninspired and even the acting is undesirable, which is surprising for a man like Chris Farley. It's just a dreadfully stupid film.I've seen films less funny than this, of course, and I've seen comedies that are just so brain dead they make me angry. Almost Heroes isn't quite one of those comedies but it certainly doesn't have any redeeming qualities. The only reason I gave it a shot was because of the director, Christopher Guest, who I'm a huge fan of because of things like Best in Show and A Mighty Wind. Almost Heroes is far behind those two works of comedic genius and I wouldn't recommend it to even the biggest Guest fan. It kept me entertained for an hour and a half, but overall it's a waste of time and not worth watching. "},{"Title":"I do agree with one line...","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Western","Review":" Lewis and Clark, Lewis and Clark, I'm SO SICK of hearing about Lewis and Clark I *had* to see this film, as I live at the end of the Lewis and Clark trail, in Pacific County, Washington. I was also on the Comemmoration committee, so I'm definitely sick of Lewis and Clark. But in all, I found the film disappointing, especially the ending. If you're going to film about a historical event, at least attempt to do some research. The SW Washington/NW Oregon coastline is NOTHING like the northern California coastline where this was filmed. It might be amusing for those completely ignorant about the entire historical event, but for those raised on the facts, it was disheartening. Chris Farley was about the only highlight to the whole thing. Whomever made this film should be subjected to a full month of a certain local 'historian' and his constant raving, romanticized, self-absorbed blathering on the subject, ad nauseum. "}]