[{"Title":"An interesting, though slightly flawed take on King","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not going to say that this is a great movie, or even a great horror movie.  A more appropriate way of saying it might be that it's an interesting movie.  Those poor filmmakers, they're starting to run out of Stephen King novels to make into movies, so they have to turn to his short stories.  Usually this means what should have been a 30 minute movie is drawn out into an hour and a half or longer.  But in the case of Mark Pavia's The Night Flier, story works because Pavia is able to expand on King's original story, and he also seems to have a bit of talent as a director.Most people complain that Miguel Ferrer's character, Richard Dees, is too mean, or something like that.  QUIT COMPLAINING PEOPLE!  He's suppose to be an utterly heartless, sleazy, sorry excuse of a person.  You're not suppose to feel sorry for him at all as he descends to insanity.  Instead having such a terrible lead character is suppose to pose the question whose the real monster?  Or, actually I think it'd be more accurate to say, whose the real hero?  Is there a hero?  Ferrer pulls off the performance perfectly, making a character that could make James Woods or Clint Eastwood whimper in fear.  Unfortunately the rest of the cast doesn't do so well, and this pulls in the movie down a little way.Anyway, Pavia himself has a talent for gloomy atmosphere, with his overcast, gray skies and quiet music and always just slightly-off-angle photography. He expertly subdues the beginning 2/3s of the movie and then throws a bloodbath at us.  It's a very well planned and a shocking move on his part.The Night Flier kicks into major gear towards the end.  The final, final conclusion is a little weak, but it really couldn't have ended any other way.Overall, the couple flaws drag The Night Flier down to a good but not great movie, but the really cool climax and other elements make up for it, and make it a good time.  Be warned, it won't leave you feeling happy or good.  "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not really a great fan of vampire movies, in fact there are very few that I could actually name that I like, nonetheless I rented &#145;The Night Flier' because the DVD cover looked rather interesting but I still didn't expect much from this movie.Richard Dees (Miguel Ferrer) is a journalist for a sleazy and morbid weekly publication named &#145;Inside View' and is assigned to cover the story of a mysterious pilot who flies into rural airports and kills whoever is there, draining the victim of all their blood. At first Richard doesn't want the story but after seeing how big a story it could be and also wanting to put ambitious young journalist Katherine (Julie Entwistle) firmly in her place he accepts the assignment and goes in search of information on the killer he later nicknames The Night Flier.I was very surprised by the quality of this movie. Currently I am moderately wary of Stephen King adaptations and with it also being a vampire movie my hopes were not particularly high. The first ten minutes or so of &#145;The Night Flier' are fairly slow moving and rather tedious but that soon changes as &#145;The Night Flier' becomes a quite adept thriller. It's not a typical vampire movie and that is probably why I enjoyed it. Instead, &#145;The Night Flier' is more of a crime drama as the movie is directed towards uncovering the killer rather than stopping the killer. This makes it an interesting thriller in a way and despite some noticeably gory scenes stays away from the obvious idea of concentrating solely on the killer's activities. Tension is built up exceptionally by not concentrating too much on The Night Flier. The way the movie plays out gives it a strong purpose as it leads to a blistering finale. What we are left with is a story about a man on the edge who will do anything to get his story. The character of Richard is a bitter man, possibly socially maladjusted and one has to question whether he is in some way disturbed by all that he has witnessed in his life? He shows mental strength in his pursuit of success and seemingly fears nothing, showing no compassion or sympathy for the feelings of others yet there are still moments when he comes across as a much `softer' human being. Miguel Ferrer does an excellent job of portraying Richard and his performance in the last ten minutes of the movie is almost profound. The ending is brutal, in some ways shocking and definitely not what I expected. By the end it becomes obvious that there were two levels of horror working in this movie that came together well to leave us with &#145;The Night Flier'.There were flaws with the movie though, a couple of plot holes and many unanswered questions, though perhaps that the intent was to leave an air of mystery over the movie. Apart from Ferrer I don't think the movie was well cast as most of the other actors didn't really seem to fit the tone of the film. Furthermore, despite many great make-up effects there were also a few (one in particular) that looked awful and seemed to be totally out of place with the rest of the film. The movie was also a little slow in places and does not really get very good until about a third of the way through. These few faults though aren't really enough to harm the enjoyment and whilst this may not be to everyone's liking I personally believe it to be a well made and appealing movie. My rating for &#145;The Night Flier' &#150; 7/10. "},{"Title":"Solid adaptation of Stephen King's story.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really don't understand all those nay-sayers.Night Flier in comparison to the recent so-called horror movies about vampires is pretty good.It's quite scary,it's suspenseful,it's pretty gory and it's a good time!I hate modern vampire flicks like Blade or From Dusk Till Dawn-they're simply a big-budget Hollywood garbage with an overdose of special effects.Unlike the other reviewers I like the character of Richard Dees-this guy is so wonderfully mean that it's impossible not to like him.The acting is decent and the special effects are okay.As for the gore,there is plenty of blood in Night Flier,but the violence is not excessive.However gore-hounds should be pleased.Make sure you find this one!Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Serious, gory stuff!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Dees is a reporter and he is a vampire because he works for a tabloid and earns his living by writing lurid stories and taking sordid pictures. He's got a despicable job and he is getting sick of it. Dwight Renfield is the Night Flier and he is a vampire too, but he is a real one &#150; an evil and supernatural creature feeding itself on humans. He flies from one airfield to another across the U.S. on a black, private aeroplane. Of course he always leaves bloodless corpses behind him and Dees ends up chasing him with his tape recorder and camera. When they eventually meet, the vampire doesn't really feel like killing one of his kind, and he is ready to let him go. Yet Dees proves his curiosity will always make him chase people like the Night Flier and he will bitterly regret it. At the end of the film, everybody will see and remember Richard Dees as what he really was, that is to say a nasty character living on people's suffering. Well, this film is a great B-movie. The story is exciting, Miguel Ferrer is excellent and the film has no Hollywood-like happy ending. I strongly recommend it to anyone looking for a nice thrill and a few gallons of blood. "},{"Title":"One BIG fang. Multiple gory bite-marks.","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" You can say what you want about Stephen King-movies, but there's always just enough talent and budget involved to not make 'em look cheap. In THE NIGHT FLIER this talent mostly comes from actor Miguel Ferrer and SFX-artists Kurtzman, Nicotero & Berger. Ferrer is an often overlooked actor who most of the time only gets supporting rolls. But he'll always be edged in my memory as go-getter Bob Morton in Paul Verhoeven's ROBOCOP. Now he gets the chance to star in the leading roll in THE NIGHT FLIER, and he proves that he can carry a film. He was just perfect as the arrogant sleaze-reporter Richard Dees.There's a mysterious figure flying in a black airplane and landing on small airports at night. He leaves behind him a trail of mutilated, blood-drained corpses. Richard Dees, reporter for the cheese & sleaze magazine Inside View, is put on the case. So he gets in his airplane and starts following the same route as the vampiric murderer. Meantime, a rival reporter (the rookie Katherine Blair) is also assigned to write a story about it...The plot is nothing too complicated, but it's built up nicely and even manages to be a bit scary from time to time. It all leads to the enjoyable final scenes at the last airport. The vampire is mostly kept in the dark throughout the movie, which helps to build-up a little tension. But don't worry, you'll be satisfied when you see it's ugly scary face in the end. Which brings us to the work of our beloved KNB-crew. The special make-up-effects are very decent and quite gory too. And I also liked the fact that the vampire is able to mess with peoples minds.Okay, there are some improbabilities concerning some events in the plot, but lets not make a big deal out of it. Just take it as it is It's a decent Stephen King-adaptation and a good vampire-movie, nothing more nothing less. So switch off the lights and fly with it. "},{"Title":"A great under-rated horror flick","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A great Stephen King novel adaptation that scares the pee out of you. Vampire are some of the greatest characters ever thought of. This movie provides you with great dark imagery and a very creepy story. This flick dazzles the eye, and stirs your imagination, as you sit paralyze with fear. A definite must see for any horror genre fan. "},{"Title":"A notch above most King films.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a notch above most King films.I own the DVD of this film and I have to say that Director Mark Pavia did an excellent job with this film. Especially with the end. The end is a great tribute to George A. Romero's style but it goes further and becomes creepier than anything I've seen in recent memory. I caught the last fifteen minutes of this film on cable one night and I was hooked. I remember thinking wow what a stylish film what the hell is this? So I researched and found out the title and bought the film.The film suffers from a lame screenplay and some stiff acting. Miguel Ferrer was excellent, as was Dan Monahan. Michael H. Moss and Julie Entwisle were a bit stiff. All in all this is a good horror movie and the DVD transfer is sharp and the colors are precise. The sound balance is natural, without over-placement of artificial sound effects.Watch it alone on a stormy night! "},{"Title":"Creepy and inventive...","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spawned from a short story by famed novelist Stephen King, The Night Flier presents itself as a mystery that never strays far from horror. I honestly believe that this could be one of the most creative films of the '90s.  The dark and menacing tone keeps the viewer entranced, while the mysterious elements keep them guessing till the end.  The plot is coherent, and never truly strays into cliches. Production values, including special effects, for this film are exceptional when compared to similar made-for-cable movies.  The cast is led by a composed and disturbing Ferrer, though the rest of is forgettable. If you like horror films that are inventive and complex then this film may very well suit you. "},{"Title":"You've been here before, Richard . . . . . ","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Night Flier has to be in the overall Top 5 of Stephen King film adaptations. It may depart from the story in some respects, but the changes are effective for a film.The excellent Miguel Ferrer, who often pops up in King-based films, stars here as a tabloid reporter, Richard Dees. He seems to have lost his touch, or at least his boss thinks so, but he gets a chance to cover a juicy new story a pilot who lands at small, obscure airports and kills the people vampire-style. His victims seem to be entranced by him and, in the case of one woman, infatuated by him, and despite warnings posted throughout the country, no one has reported seeing his plane or turned him in. He calls himself Dwight Renfield, an homage to both the character Renfield and the actor, Dwight Frye, who played him in the Lugosi version of Dracula.But there's also a new reporter in town, Katherine Blair (Julie Entwistle). She is young, perky, enthusiastic . . . everything the jaded, emotionally numb Dees is not. It's a case of hate at first sight. Dees turns down this story at first, but when Renfield claims another victim, he decides to start following the case. There follows a period of Dees simultaneously stalking and being stalked by his prey, Renfield, as he interviews friends of victims and witnesses. In the course of this, he dubbs his subject The Night Flier.And, in case we should wonder just how low he's willing to sink for a good tabloid story, we see him vandalizing a victim's grave by decorating it with dead flowers and smearing his own blood on it. He receives warnings to stop his pursuit of the story, including, in one darkly humorous scene, a Bloody Mary that he did not order for himself. When he inquires, it turns out that the man who ordered the drink for him has disappeared. When he looks at the napkin under the glass, he sees a simple note Stop now. Our killer, you see, does not want to have to kill Dees, for reasons that become more clear later. Meanwhile, Dees's more-than-slightly-devious boss has encouraged Katherine to pursue the story herself, and laughs delightedly when he learns that the two are staying at the same motel and are therefore bound to bump into each other . . . and butt heads.They do, in fact, meet up, and Dees convinces Katherine that he wants to join forces. The two start working together and eventually come up with a hot lead Dees talks to a supervisor at an airport who is clearly lying when he claims not to have seen Renfield or his plane.The two plan to go to said airport together, but Dees pushes Katherine into a closet in his motel room and locks her in, intent on keeping the story for himself (Renfield has become something of an obsession for him). He arrives at the airport and finds himself surrounded by Renfield's freshly-killed victims. Any doubt that he had actually been tracking a real vampire goes out the window. He begins taking pictures, but soon is unable to remain his usual stoic self and becomes physically ill. Enter Renfield, who we cannot see at first, as we are looking into a mirror in Dees's POV, but who we hear in the form of footsteps and see in the form of smashing mirrors and stream of blood instead of urine going into a urinal.Here follows the ultimate, final confrontation between journalist and subject, in what is possibly one of the most intensely frightening scenes I've ever seen. After demanding that Dees open his camera and destroying the undeveloped film, Renfield explains why he does not want to kill Dees. You see, Dees, in his own way, is a vampire . . . a tabloid journalist who feeds on human depravity and tragedy by making his living on the stories he covers. Renfield sees him as a kindred spirit, but still threatens to swallow Dees whole if Dees continues to track him.As Renfield is making his escape, Dees chases after him, demanding to see his face . . . which we, the audience, have not seen, either, at least not in its entirety. Renfield complies, and we get our first real glimpse of an absolutely wonderful mask made by KNB. Again, one of the creepiest things I've ever seen.Renfield decides to feed Dees his blood, and there follows a hallucinatory, black-and-white, Night-Of-The-Living-Dead only with Vampires scene that comes to a head when Dees decides to use an axe to defend himself against this horde of undead creatures.Then, as the police enter, we transition to color again, and we wonder . . . was there really a Renfield, or did Dees actually do the killing to begin with? Was it really him all along? That question is answered for us, however, when Katherine, who has escaped the motel room and is on the scene, looks out a window and catches a glimpse of our vampire as his human-looking self. (We also know from a glimpse of pictures in an album he keeps inside his plane that Katherine looks very much like a woman he loved before becoming what he now is . . . was she with him in a past life? Does she feel an emotional connection to him because of that? We'll never know). The police are forced to shoot Dees when he comes at Katherine with the axe, and when one of them asks who he is, Katherine answers, His name is Richard Dees . . . we call him the Night Flier. Dees is dead . . . long live Katherine.A definite must see if you're a fan of King, Vampires, or both. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Interesting Horror Movie","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS! ! !Armed with only a camera and a tape recorder, slimy journalist Miguel Ferrer hunts down a murderer known as The Night Flier, named so because he travels from location to location in his airplane.The movie starts out like more of a murder mystery, and is very interesting to watch, as you are never told exactly what's going on, although when corpses with bite marks on their necks start to turn up, it gets fairly obvious. Ferrer tracks The Night Flier from location to location taking photo's of everything related to the case. As aforementioned, it starts like a murder mystery. It truly is tense, gory, and exciting, all at the same time. A lot of the story is told in a stylish sort of flashback, which adds to the tension as well as the overall style of the movie. The creepy music and ambient sounds add to the atmosphere, and the fact that we don't see the Night Flier right up until the end also builds tension.Ferrer plays the emotionally challenged journalist expertly, showing the characters physical weakness, but mental strength to succeed. The whole affair builds to an anti-climax, which I won't spoil - suffice to say, it's not a Happy Hollywood ending.The Night Flier is by no means the greatest horror film out there, but then again, it's not a mainstream Hollywood movie, so it never will get the recognition it deserves. It certainly gives the viewer a lot more than the recent King flop Dreamcatcher, and is definitely worth a look, especially for those looking for a decent horror or vampire movie.8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A great adaption of a great Stephen King story","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"    This movie, unlike almost every other movie made from a Stephen King story, is awesome.   Ferrer is perfect for the role of somewhat coldhearted tabloid reporter, Dees, and he makes the movie work in the end.  There are a few cheesy things about the movie, the look of the vampire being the biggest, but it's easy to look past these little things and see the movie as it is.  It's creepy and it's entertaining.  I have watched this movie a number of times, and I still get excited to see it coming on cinemax or HBO or whatever.The film's look is really done well, a lot of darkness adds to the overall feel.  The places used to shoot the different airports are awesome as well, great small town look, where things like this might happen, and no one would even know.  I love the movie, and I think it's probably the best King adaption yet.  By the way, the word can either be adaption or adaptation...just in case anyone was wondering of my use of the word.) 9/10 "},{"Title":"Publishing Publishing","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie a lot. It's about this news paper reporter named Richard Dees and he is losing slack because his stories are not being printed on the front page as much. He works for this newspaper that prints really weird stories like aliens and stuff. Then along comes a story and Richard becomes obsessed with and it takes over his whole life. Even though he warned a rookie reporter than she shouldn't become like him.The horror movie is a little different from other horror movies that I've watched before. It has some twists and turns in it that are pretty cool but not too amazing. I liked that it was raining all the time. That just made it so much creepier. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best... The Bottom Line","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was absolutely great. Of course it had some bad clips but overall, the scenery, plot, and charactors were far out the best. The ending was really strange and hard to understand but you got to love it. Oh yeah, and check out the villians face... some freaky stuff... nine out of ten!!! "},{"Title":"CREEPY","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was very creepy, i saw it when i was 14 and it gave me nightmares!! its about a reporter following this vampire demon around and it eventually makes the reporter go crazy! very good Stephen King flick! "},{"Title":"this is a great one","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect this movie to be very good, All of the recent Steven King movies have not been very good, but this was not like him at all. It is a fantastic horror movie. I recommend it for any horror lovers...this is a great one. "},{"Title":"Best Vamp ever...","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this movie an extra point just for having the meanest looking, most imaginative vampire I've seen since Nosferatu. It's not the greatest movie by any stretch of the imagination, but if you enjoy Stephen King, scary movies or just like vampires--it's worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Along His Professional Life, Richard Dees Had Looked For Hell... and He Found It","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Dees (Miguel Ferrer) is a nasty and bitter senior reporter from sensationalist tabloid Inside View. When a mysterious pilot starts killing persons nearby the airports, Richard's boss Merton Morrison (Dan Monahan) invites him to cover the matter, but he is not interest. However, rookie reporter Katherine Jimmy Blair (Julie Entwisle) studies thoroughly the story of a serial-killer that killed his victims Claire Ellis Bowie in Maine; Buck Kendall in New York; and Ray and Ellen Sarch in Maryland. But Richard steals her research and gives the following advice to Katherine Never believe what you publish...Never publish what you believe. He flies to each place in his plane and realizes that the killer might be a vampire due to his style and calls him The Night Flier. Meanwhile Merton assigns Katherine to follow Richard to give a different view of the same story. When Richard finally finds The Night Flier, he descends to the hell in his insanity and Katherine follows his advice. The Night Flier is one of the best adaptations of Stephen King for video, with an interesting horror movie with a different vampire story. The plot is well constructed, and the story is very simple, but also very frightening. Miguel Ferrer has a good performance in the role of a scum reporter. Unfortunately, Julie Entwisle has a very weak performance in an important character. The contrast between the final black and white scene and the following bright colored one is visually impressive. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vôo Noturno (Night Flight) "},{"Title":"Atmospherically dark, twisted, and gory.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I loved this adaptation!! Believe it or not! It was dramatic, bloody, graphic and *INTENSE* just like the story was. But this was adapted from a short story. It is in my opinion that short stories tend to be easier to adapt, as they have little room for detail or too MUCH story, thereby making it easier to adapt, as it leaves quite a bit to the imagination.The scenes here were well directed, the plot stuck with the storyline, the actors were capable, if somewhat dullard and slow at times, and the carnage was awesome. This is honestly not for anyone with a weak stomach, or those of tender heart. It can be considered quite shocking.*-SPOILER-* In the airport scene, when you enter the airport and it's filled with blood and body parts? That RAWKED!! *-END SPOILER-*Excellent job. It gets a 7.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great vampire movie!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Night Flier is so far one of the best vampire films up to date.While it delivers an extremely high violence level,it delivers some laughter sometimes(very rarely).The film has great acting that makes the movie great in many ways,Its entertaiment level is high,and the blood effects are spectacular.While it leaves out many elements that vampire movies have,it manages to make up for it in acting and violence.Some horror fans may not like The Night Flier,but it is almost guaranteed to deliver entertaiment to the average horror fan.Best part of the movie is the ending and the blood effects,and the worst part of the movie is the one scene where it is nothing but rancid acting.Other than that,Night Flier delivers great make-up effects,great acting in all but one scene,and perfect story line.Great movie to watch.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Night Flier!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is arguably one of Stephen King's best stories that is made into a movie! Night Flier is an excellent movie! Miguel Ferrer did an excellent job of acting! I just love the vampire! His costume is so neat and his great and horrific looks is so realistic! His voice is incredible! He moves so fluidly! His character in My opinion is very real and believeable! I don't know what else I can say about him! There is quite a bit of gore and blood! The music is very good as well! The Night Flier is a very decent film and in My opinion is a very unrecognized film that deserves more attention than it has received! If you love Stephen King, Miguel Ferrer, Dracula, Vampires, Universal Monsters, and Horror movies then Night Flier is the ultimate horror film to watch! "}{"Title":"One of my all time favourite films!","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Without a doubt, one of my all time favourite films. The Night Flier is an incredibly atmospheric and fabulously gripping film, so-well executed and full of mysterious suspense -- and easily one of the﻿ best Stephen King adaptations to ever be made, in my opinion. So criminally overlooked and underrated for a King adaptation -- a rare﻿ case of where the film version surpasses the source material (The Night Flier, first published as part of an anthology of modern horror in 1988, later became part of King's own collection of short stories, entitled Nightmares & Dreamscapes in 1993). The film isn't as widely known as it should be, as it didn't have a Hollywood release at the time. HBO bought it so it had it's world premiere on cable. It was then picked up by New Line Cinema and had only a limited theatrical release. Being the mid-1990's, it was not a fertile time for good movie horror. In recent years, it's become something of a cult classic with a big fan following -- myself for one! The Night Flier deserves and needs a Blu-ray release as soon as possible! "},{"Title":"This may be the best film ever with such a silly premise","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" For something based on a Stephen King short story, that looks and sounds like an overly long episode of Tales from the Darkside, has shockingly little sex and violence, and features a villain who is laugh out loud ludicrous if you think about it, The Night Flier is a stunningly good piece of work. It is honestly creepy, bluntly engrossing and steam powered by a great character and an equally accomplished performance. This is one of those movies where you're waiting for it to suck and instead, it keeps getting better.If I told you this film was about a tabloid reporter chasing after a vampire who wears a full-on Dracula outfit, complete with cape, and pilots a tiny, prop-engine plane from small town airport to small town airport, feasting on the middle-aged and elderly&#x85;admit it. That sounds like the premise of a horror parody, doesn't it? I mean, a real vampire who dresses like a Bela Lugosi impersonator? And he doesn't fly by turning into a bat, but by strapping himself into the cockpit of something that looks like a pair of wings got slapped onto a VW hippie van? And he sucks the blood, not from nubile lasses but from members of AARP? Does that sound scary to you?And yet, The Night Flier is one of the more genuinely entertaining horror films I've ever seen. Largely, that's due to the central character of Richard Dees and the snarling integrity Miguel Ferrer gives him. Dees is a veteran reporter for the sort of tabloid rag that wallows in blood, scandal and outrage of all kind. He is also one of the most unrelenting pricks in the history of cinema and Ferrer fills Dees to bursting with insolent, impotent distemper. He has nothing but contempt for all the other people of the world and their delicate sensitivities. Dees is such a thorough-going bastard and Ferrer is so unflinching in his portrayal that the character blasts through any viewer enmity and becomes an admirable figure. You wouldn't want to be sitting next to a son of a bitch like Dees in a bar, but he's exactly the sort of man you want trying to uncover difficult and ugly truths. And whether Dees is jousting with his wickedly jaded editor (Dan Monahan) and a perky female reporter (Julie Entwisle) or slowing unraveling the mystery of The Night Flier, you can't take your eyes off him.If you're looking for non-stop gore, flesh being shredded and disgusting perversion, you'll not find it here. The language is R-rated but the violence is no worse than what can be seen on most network TV cop procedural shows. The emphasis is on suspense and the smoldering anger of Richard Dees. The plot is also pretty simple, with Dees following in the footsteps of The Night Flier until he finally catches up to him. Like I mentioned, this resembles nothing so much as a good, 97 minute long episode of Tales from the Darkside, right up to the little twist at the end.This is a horror movie made by people who refuse to accept that the genre is only meant to appeal to unthinking teens and nihilistic freaks. They believe horror is for everyone and can engage them on more than the visceral level. It's a stark reminder of how messed up, degenerate and decadent horror films have become. So, The Night Flier isn't just a good movie. It has socially redeeming value, in addition to a buck-toothed blood sucker. What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"This is a really good movie","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'd like to add my own comment to this movie because I have some personal fondness for it. The reviews around here aren't so unfavorable either, but I'd like to up the praise a little. I'll also keep this spoiler-free, how about that.So what do I like about The Night Flier?a. Overall atmosphere. Right from the start, there is a thick air of mystery. Sometimes it retreats into the background, but it never goes away. It's not only mystery, but also a presence of the supernatural; an awareness of some being with more than human powers.b. Music. Supports the atmosphere very nicely. This applies especially to what you could call the main theme - the theme of the night flier's plane.c. Tempo. Almost perfect, just slightly on the slow side here and there maybe.d. Characters. The different reporter characters - especially our special couple (you'll understand when you watch the movie) - bounce off each other perfectly. Add their respective relationships to the evil guy - and to evil in general -, and you have fertile soil for an interesting story.e. Story. Following up on item d, yes, an interesting story was indeed written - mostly by Stephen King I guess (haven't read his book).f. Cast. Interesting actors. It's got Miguel Ferrer in it, and he fits his role 100%. Also, I love that plane repair hick and the way he talks. It's just quirky and cool. Oh, and the villain's voice Genius - pure genius.g. Acting. Good. Just good. Can't complain about anyone really.h. Repeated viewability. I've watched this flick quite a few times now, and it still grasps me. I do skip some of the scenes anyway. Some of the stuff is decidedly too graphic for my taste.i. Source of inspiration. The Night Flier teaches a lot about people who seek to understand the extremes in the world the best and the worst. Well, the movie focuses more on the latter.As for criticism My only complaint might concern the ending. It's a bit over the top and I didn't quite like the resolution they came up with.Watching The Night Flier, for me, is a kind of redeeming experience. Maybe it will be for you too? When the voice of the evil flier (or God masquerading as such) woos you, you'll know you're called and you'll know what to do Go to your favorite movie outlet and ask for The Night Flier. "},{"Title":"Creepy and scary A horror fan's dream","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Master of horror Stephen king has scared you before but never like this, THE NIGHT FLIER is not just a great adaptation but a great film as well and it was refreshing to see an intelligent horror movie and not just another slasher that featured horny teenagers being hacked to death by a machete wielding idiot with a bad childhood, this film deserves the kind of attention that a lot of the crappy blockbusters are getting today, because it is that good.Obviously I'm not going to add a synopsis, I hardly ever do, the best way to watch this film is to go in by forgetting everything you've possibly heard about it whether it be good or bad and watch it as if you just discovered it for the first time.Overall, its a horror fan's dream, enough said. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For a Stephen King adaptation, and they usually suck, this one is pretty good. Make sure you get the DVD or video, and not the TV version. Much better (gore, gore, and some more gore). Plus Miguel (I think he's the guy who does those voice-overs for just about movie trailer you'll ever see) does a plausible job of being an utter a**hole.  And the flick is also fairly scary even on a 2nd and 3rd viewing.  "},{"Title":"Dwight bites!!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is actually one of the better Stephen King adaptations. Miguel Ferrer plays a totally unlikable but interesting reporter on the trail of Dwight Night Flier Renfield, a vampiric pilot in the habit of tearing apart the denizens of isolated airfields. Though this movie does have its corny moments, its all in all pretty slick and engaging. One letdown is the actually revelation of Renfields mugg. Like another decent King adaptation SilverBullet where the werewolf really looks like a dude in a bear suit, Renfields vampire puss is seemingly a rubber mask from Spencer Gifts. The best scene *POSSIBLE SPOILER* involves sort of showing the vampire walking invisible through a restroom while all its mirrors shatter and his footsteps pass them one by one. Had they left the vampire unseen I think I would of liked this a bit better, still its a solid 7 out of 10 for me. It has its strong moments and its weak ones, Ferrer does a swell job as a dirtbag and it had me interested throughout. Lots of blood, axes a'swingin', a great exploding head, headstone kicking, face raking and one Cesna airplane that out acts a couple of the cast members. 7 out of 10 solid. "},{"Title":"So much blood...","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  spoiler alert I loved the blood!  An adaption done right!  Now that's what I'm talking about!  The scene where Dees goes into that airport and everyone's dead, cut to ribbons.  then the night flier is peeing in the stall and thats all you see, and then the sequence with the dream vampires.  Those scenes and the surprise ending were pretty much the best.  The acting was alright, too. The only thing that sucked was the night flier.  He was too slow and for the most part stupid.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Left feeling empty...","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This vampiric tale is based on a short story by Stephen King and in hindsight I think this is how it should have stayed. Although it has a few nice touches there simply isn't enough here to warrant a full length movie. There sadly isn't enough characterisation for you to feel for the main players and I ended up hoping the reporters would meet an unsightly end simply to put a stop to their constant whinging. The subtle hints at the vampires past also did little to explain from where and whom he came. The end twist was nice and reminded me of a twilight zone type close. I was also impressed with the &#145;zombie' style airport scene which reminded me of the Romero movies. Interestingly, Richard P Rubenstein worked on both this and the Romero &#145;dead' sequels.  Overall I would say its worth a watch but there simply isn't enough here to warrant a second view let alone its purchase.   "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation, Great Movie","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First read Night Flier in the collection Prime Evil (which was a great read) so I happened upon the film version at Blockbuster and checked it out.Miguel Ferrer is Richard Dees, a cynical and jaded reporter for a National Enquirer-esquire rag called the Inside View. His tough-guy attitude brings him into conflict with new reporter Katherine, who he calls Jimmy (as in Olson). The two are ultimately paired together for the investigation into a killer called The Night Flier, a strange killer who picks off the operators of small airports. Dees' investigation leads him into a desperate, insane attempt to recapture the front page, and find the killer.Ferrer is simply fantastic as Dees, as is the whole film. The other actors do a great job and the film overall is very enjoyable. The creature effects at the end were believable and scary. The ending itself was really creepy, the vision of Dees' hell was a truly haunting scene in my book.All in all a very good watch. Great on a cold Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Never believe what you publish, and never publish what you believe","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a good movie here. Very moody, dark, and mysterious. We follow Richard Dees, an angry, cold, heartless journalist as he follows the trail of a vampire-style killer pilot called The Night Flier in his own plane. Dees did a good job of making me hate him a lot, but I have to admit, thats what makes him so damn cool. You hate him, you're mad at him...yet you want to see him catch the bad guy. This movie had a variety of places in which Dees travels. He's never really in the city or anything, but always more in the countryside. This movie was very well made and deserves more than the 5.5 rating it has (as of 2/22/08). This is an instant classic. This movie was made in 1997, well past the point in time when Horror Movies just bombed. But it has managed to have the older, eerie feel to it unlike these piece of crap horror movies they spit at us today. I gladly rate this an 8/10. Watch this movie if you want a good, eerie horror movie. "}{"Title":"It doesn't suck.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King's novels and stories don't usually make very good transitions into movies. For every Misery or The Shining, there are twice as many films like Graveyard Shift, Maximum Overdrive, Firestarter, or The Mangler.That's why you might be surprised that The Night Flier is actually pretty good. I rate it fairly high because it is genuinely suspenseful at times, and it's a fascinating story to begin with. A tabloid reporter spends his life making up fantastic stories and putting a supernatural spin on ordinary news leads in order to achieve sensationalism. Naturally he uncovers something that cannot be explained, a rash of bloodless corpses that keep turning up at small airports, and he finds himself on the trail of a serial killer. In reality, it is a vampire, which the reporter is soon to discover.You'd think King's short story would have made an even better movie, because usually the novels suffer from being compressed into a feature length film. But there still isn't enough here to support a feature film, it seems. The movie seems padded with too much that could have been cut, even though the script fleshes out some of the situations well. Aside from its pacing problems, the one thing that keeps The Night Flier from being great is that it falls victim to my least favorite vampire movie cliché, which goes like this the vampires pass for normal, but during an attack, the vampire's face goes WHOOOSH!, and suddenly it's this horrible thing with pointy teeth. This story develops some real dread by having the vampire's hypnotic effects carry over into the daylight hours, but the dual nature of this creature is absolutely unnecessary. WHY does the vampire have to appear normal? Nobody ever sees it unless they're going to be killed.When I was a kid the movies would sometimes cheat by only making the fangs appear when biting was necessary, and now we have entire facial transformations. I never bought it for one minute, not even as a child, and it still doesn't work. It is not scary. Either the vampires look normal, or they don't. The Night Flier has a great hideous vampire in it, at least when the script calls for it to be hideous. Almost as an afterthough, we see it at the end as a debonair-looking man in a cape. Boo, hiss.Despite this somewhat petty gripe, The Night Flier is a fun movie. The performances are uniformly good, especially Miguel Ferrer. There are some problems with the conclusion, as it runs on a bit too long and adds an obvious and unscary finale to the story. It's no Salem's Lot, but it's not terrible either. Worth at least one viewing. "},{"Title":"Not King's Best, but Also Not His Worst","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King is not known for great horror films. He has a few, such as Carrie or perhaps SLeepwalkers or Pet Sematery. But he also has complete wastes of time like Langoliers. This one is in between those, being well made but lacking in a lot of horror substance.A reporter is on the trail of the night flier, a vampire who lands at small airports in the night and devours his victims. A newer, younger reporter picks up the same story and they must either work with or against each other to get the scoop.What is lacking about this film is that the focus is on the two reporters competing. While we have a vampire who flies a plane and attacks victims (with some fairly decent makeup effects on the corpses), the story chooses not to focus on him but rather these two characters. Why even make it horror? They could be competing over any story and the movie would be the same.The acting was alright, the music okay, the scenery just fine. And I will say again the corpses looked really nice. So I can't complain about that. But why did they hold off on showing the vampire for so long, especially since his face is revealed on the cover of the DVD? I haven't read the story, but if you have you might want to watch this for comparison. Otherwise, it might be worth your time. I don't plan to watch it again, but I don't regret it either. "},{"Title":"An excellent and engrossing vampire horror winner","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The always grimly serious and compelling character actor Miguel Ferror, the very talented and underrated son of Jose Ferror, lands an all too rare unusually juicy and substantial lead role as Richard Dees, a bitter, boozy, burnt-out star hack reporter who digs up dingy'n'dishy dirt for a low-grade supermarket tabloid. Richard hasn't done a worthy story in quite a while, so he's initially reluctant when his cheerfully sleazy editor (enjoyably played to the slippery wormbag hilt by Porky's series regular Dan Monahan) assigns him a gig covering a series of gruesome killings committed all over the country by a mysterious, Cessna-flying vampire-like maniac named Dwight Renfield (an impressively suave and commanding Michael R. Moss). But Richard's desperate to get back on top of his game, so he decides to follow it through. An eager beaver cub reporter (a winningly perky turn by cute Phoebe Cates lookalike Julie Entwisle) helps Richard out. The more Richard investigates Renfield's hideous murders, the more he comes to the horrific realization that Dwight's a savage, cunning, honest-to-goodness bonafide monstrous and dangerous age-old bloodsucker.Based on a Stephen King short story, The Night Flier offers an ingeniously novel and inspired twist on the standard vampire lore by incisively exploring a highly disturbing and interesting doppelganger theme Richard's ruthlessly driven and amoral pursuit of a hot headline-grabbing scoop so he can retain his trashy celebrity status shares an uncomfortably close similarity to Dwight's vicious butchering of human beings for survival and sustenance. In this picture there's no simplistic good morally upright humans versus bad totally evil monsters conflict all clearly drawn in broad strokes of black and white. In that tired premise's place we have a much more penetrating and provocative examination on how the fine line between man and monster is no where near as precisely delineated as we would like to think. Moreover, director/co-screenwriter Mark Pavia keeps the pace clicking away at a steady, unflagging clip, deftly creates and maintains an apprehensively spooky tone throughout, and concludes the film with a bravura paint-the-walls-red large scale splatter set piece depicting an axe-wielding Richard facing off with a bunch of ghastly ghouls in a corpse-ridden, fog-shrouded, grue-drenched remote rural airport that's not only shot in gorgeous monochromatic black and white, but also climaxes the whole smashing shebang on a deliciously ironic closing note. Nervy, gripping and above all intelligent, this genuinely unsettling winner is heartily recommended to all those fed-up fright film fans who want to see something besides the same old formula nonsense. "},{"Title":"Cheesy tat","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is so unbelievable; - the whole premise is bunkum; the fact that a serial killer (vampire or otherwise) could fly around untraced and kill as many people as the film implies is laughable. The vampire himself would not look out of place in a Bela Lugosi film. Most of the acting is so wooden the actors should be treated for dry rot. I await the day when someone makes a decent film from a Steven King novel (with the exception, possibly, of Stand by Me). This film suffers from what most Stephen King films do - lack of money used for the special effects, poor actors, appalling characterisation and dialogue. This film is cheap, tacky and fails in everything it tries to do. "},{"Title":"a new kind of vampire","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is one of the best i've seen in a while. stephen kings book was a little different but i cant complain its the perfect vampire film. it give the vampire a better part.dees is more of the villain than dwight. it mack it makes it a better movie it show you that you never know who is bad and who is good in my opinion i give it a 10 out of 10    "},{"Title":"The Night Flier","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have to say one of my choices as a horror sleeper from the 90's is this little creepy grisly effort from director Mark Pavia, based on a Stephen King story, regarding a narcissistic, manipulative, and ultimately vicious tabloid reporter who'll stoop to the lowest level to keep his story on the front page, meeting his match when he begins tailing a vampire killer flying a black Cessna plane who hypnotizes victims around plane air strips throughout Northeastern United States, the rural routes of small town America. At the bottom of his plane is maggot-filled earth, and inside, smeared throughout the controls is dried blood, collected over the his time of mutilation and death. Julie Entwisle, just a bubbly, high-spirited cutie presented as the perfect little fish to be devoured by Miguel Ferrer's cunning shark, tries to forge her way into the tabloid's upper tier, starting from the bottom with a key ability to get forms of information difficult to reach for the paper's top piranha. Anyway, we see as he flies in his own plane from destination to destination, Ferrer's Richard Dees working through the first murder sites, gathering bits and pieces from whatever he can find, through testimony and bribing coroners for photos of mutilated victims. We also get a chance to see his ways of flamboyant journalism by disturbing a victim's grave, adding ugly dead flowers and his own blood(..while even stooping so low as to move the gravestone)..everything is for getting the top story printed with extra spice.I think the idea of the main character being a real slimeball could hurt the film for many because it's much easier to cast a likable hero who we feel sympathy for as he/she pursues the killer leaving a graphic trail of gruesome murders, with throats ripped open so badly that the head is pulled apart from the neck displaying bloody flesh. There's even one scene where the head is ripped completely from the body, placed in an appropriate area as to show those who investigate that the vampire can operate without restraint almost teasing the authorities to catch him. The opening kill shows long gashes down a male victim's face..good, gory carnage is left in this vampire's wake. The closing sequence is one that receives mixed reaction. I've read from some who love it, believing it's the most effective portion of the movie, while others believe it's the most harmful. I particularly love the scene where we have Dees, after finally becoming sickened by the airport lobby slaughter by the vampire, watching from the mirror as the invisible count takes a leak, with the urine being blood red..haha, nice touch. The B&W portion where Dees confronts victims, dressed as vampires, as the count allows him to see what it's like from the other side, I thought was a nifty little moment of nightmarish power. I think we have been spoiled rotten by DVD special features, given access into the movie-making behind-the-scenes effects process. For some, the practical effects of gore, displaying the killer's grisly methods, will receive less of an impact, but I enjoyed them even though I know how they are brought to life(..I think for some, the nasty open wounds from the vampire's finger nails look less effective, and we can understand how they were created).I think the casting of Ferrer is ideal just because of the type of character he portrays. He indeed has a taste for bloody carnage and the vampire, through the final climactic sequence, first seeing the wake of violence of an entire group of people awaiting a trip to some unknown destination, and the B@W vision through a taste of the killer's blood, gives him an opportunity to experience just that. The audience does get what they crave, this bastard's comeuppance. He wanted that front page and gets it, but this time, Entwisle's young reporter(..who gets shafted by Dees)benefits. It's a fitting conclusion, I think, which speaks volumes for why this film must have an anti-hero as the main protagonist. I like how the film presents Dees, the backstories of those with stories to tell of past victims to him, the sleazy process of how he operates, and the way Dees falls to the one warning him to stay away. I loved the ending with how Dees, who basks in exploiting whatever works to bring him success, becomes the victim. "},{"Title":"A nifty twist!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can see by other people's comments, this is one of these movies that people either love it, or hate it. I can understand that. After all, vampire stories are as old as time itself, so how many ways can you tell it?Myself, I like this one. Yes, it is another vampire story, with a nifty twist. This time, the blood sucker flies from one small town airport, to another searching for fresh victims, and a tabloid reporter uses his feeding frenzy to get back to the front page. Miguel Ferrer is at his best when he plays a heavy, or some *bad* dude with an attitude.I do agree on one point though, they could have toned the gore down, just a tad. I don't recommend this to kids! Like one of the other reviewers said, this would have made a great X-Files story. "},{"Title":"Completely underrated movie!","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First when I saw the cover of THE NIGHT FLIER, I found it interesting that Miguel Ferrer was in a leading role; he is definitely one of our times greatest (and most underrated) actors. Its too bad he never gets any leading roles, because he shows us that he can carry it with no problem. Of course we all remember him in the leading role as the slick Yankee Bob Morton in ROBOCOP, but he should get bigger roles!! Well, this movie. The story is classic Stephen King, it's gory, fun, fu***** scary, and GREAT acted by Mr. Ferrer. In the end I almost s*** myself, it was G-R-E-A-T! Of a direct-on-DVD to be, it's a must for every horror- or Miguel Ferrer-fan.10 out of 10 (no less!) "},{"Title":"A different vampire thriller.","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The story is good and suspenseful, and actually has some brains behind it as well. Saw this in the late nineties. Based on Stephen kings story. Miguel Ferrer is great as the reporter, you tend to like him but at the same time you recognize what an asshole he is and whats in store for him. This is still enjoyable enough to recommend it. Surprisingly edgy and gory, with plenty of suspense and solid cinematography. Very moody, dark, and mysterious. It is an incredibly atmospheric and gripping film. In one creepy scene they show the vampire walking invisible through a restroom while all its mirrors shatter and his footsteps pass them one by one. Had they left the vampire unseen I think it wud hav been better. It has its strong moments and its weak ones. The films look is really done well, a lot of darkness adds to the overall feel. The places used to shoot the different airports are awesome as well, great small town look, where things like this might happen, and no one would not notice. Beware of a nightmare like ending. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King has many horror films made from his hit novels, yet only a few were made into true cult classics. Some movies were hits, and even fewer were classified as hidden cult classics like this movie. The most numerous of his films were the stinkers. Stinkers are King films that were made into terrible incarnations of the novels they attempted to emulate. As a hidden cult classic, the night flier never really made it big in the theatres, it was not critically acclaimed and the movie wasn't popular enough that common people would even recognize the name of it. With all of that working against the movie, it still managed to develop into a cult classic. Why? How? I will tell you the why, and it's because this truly is a good flick! The acting is good, the story itself is well written and conceived and the premise is great. The supporting actress who plays a beautiful yet brilliant ambitious reporter does a better than average job portraying her character. She is fighting to get ahead of her competition Deez but he is too smart, dedicated and one heck of a manipulator that manages to steal her credit, story and make her look bad at the same time.What this fantastic horror story has working against it is the ending. The ending does tie up some of the loose ends, but not nearly all of them. In fact the ending leaves quite a few things for the viewer to decide on their own. If only the story filled in more of the back story on the vampire and tied this up in a pretty ribbon it could have been great! I am convinced that if this movie spent another 30 minutes more on vampire back story and a bit more on Deez's outcome this movie would have pushed out of cult classic status and into horror classic. A great movie, one that I would recommend to any horror/vampire fan. "}{"Title":"Atmospheric and unusual","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm glad to hear that this movie has gained a cult reputation because it deserves it. A sharp, quirky script and vivid performances really elevate this strange tale. If you ask me, it is one of the great horror films of all time.A lot of praise has already gone to Miguel Ferrer for his portrayal of a loathsome tabloid's most loathsome reporter. It is deserved. But Julie Entwisle, as the initially naive new reporter, and Dan Monahan, as probably the weirdest boss in movie history, also bring their A game. The script gives them a lot to work with, from blowout fights to long soliloquies to hilarious one liners. And there are times in the boss's office that the dialogue is so offbeat and perfect that I felt like they were going to break out into a musical number.I haven't emphasized the scary of this scary movie, but don't worry. It's got the bite. I'd call it slow burn horror because it takes care building up a thick, disturbing atmosphere before things really erupt in the last act. "},{"Title":"Never believe what you publish, never publish what you believe.","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Stephen King story gets a solid adaptation thanks to co-writer Jack O'Donnell and co- writer / director Mark Pavia. One of its most interesting aspects is the fact that tabloid reporter Richard Dees, a minor character in the King novel The Dead Zone, is brought to the forefront here. And he's far from being a hero. In fact, he's the kind of protagonist whom the viewer will relish loathing. He's a cold hearted, cynical, miserable s.o.b. who will re- arrange dead bodies at crime scenes for a better photo. Played here by a typically excellent Miguel Ferrer, Dees finally latches onto a story that will affect him at gut level, as he tracks a mysterious, blood sucking serial killer who flies a black Cessna plane from one isolated airport to another, and murders one or more locals before moving on.Pavia does a very fine job of establishing, and maintaining, a sober mood, while also adding dark comedy elements. Things predictably get very gory, but there's a substantial amount of atmosphere as well. Filmed on location in Wilmington, it begins on an appreciably ominous note. The characters make this an interesting journey, with Ferrer at his best. Cute Phoebe Cates lookalike Julie Entwisle contrasts with him nicely as the appealing wannabe reporter who at first doesn't seem cut out to work for a tabloid. Dan Monahan of the Porky's series is fun as Dees's boss who's just as much of a sleaze as his star reporter but has a more upbeat attitude. And Michael H. Moss makes the most of limited screen time as our cunning vampire villain.Kudos to the KNB guys for creating what has to be one of THE ugliest vampires in film history, easily able to stand alongside Count Orlok in Nosferatu and Mr. Barlow in 'Salem's Lot' '79. Brian Keane composed a reasonably haunting and effective music score. Nice black & white finale, too.Those horror fans disheartened by the over abundance of less than stellar film versions of Kings' stories are advised to give The Night Flier a look.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why do all the weird ones have to fly at night?............","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps it's because they don't like the sunlight? Why you ask? Well, let's just say it burns them up a bit. 1997's The Night Flier is one of those films whose story of a vampire pilot flying from one tiny airport to another using a private plane might sound a bit silly at first but once you start watching it, you simply can't stop. A mysterious pilot flying a black Cessna Skymaster and using the name Dwight Renfield is stalking rural airports, leaving behind mutilated corpses, with no one having the faintest idea where he comes from. It's a story that egotistical, tabloid reporter Richard Dees (Miguel Ferrer) is put on to investigate. Dees doesn't initially think there's much to the story at first, but after a while, the usually uncaring and cynical reporter starts to wonder if there's more to the story than meets the eye with Renfield. Made for HBO, The Night Flier works for several reasons, First and foremost is the good job here of expanding upon the short story by horror maestro Stephen King. Mark Paiva's smart direction, combined with composer Brian Keane's soft-piano but creepy score, serve the story well by keeping the viewer enthralled scene by scene. Another plus is lead actor Miguel Ferrer's performance of Richard Dees. Richard Dees is not at all a likable person; he doesn't seem to care about anyone at all and his only concern is the story, the story, and the story. It's only at the end that Dees discovers what it's like to be at the other end, in a very spooky kind of way. Yet at the same time, Ferrer has that ability to keep us fascinated by the character's journey, no matter how low he goes. It's a real testament to Ferrer's ability and only makes me wonder why he isn't in more leading roles. Supporting him is Julie Entwisle as newbie reporter Katherine Blair, Dan Monahan as Dees' slimy boss Morrison, and Michael H. Moss as creature of the night Renfield. And what good would a vampire movie be if we didn't have an awesome creature to go with it. Michael H. Moss plays Renfield as vampires are supposed to be played, as vile, evil beasts that are from your worse nightmares. Helping in that regard is the makeup department, who manage to create one of the coolest and scariest looking blood-suckers ever. The Night Flier is dark tale done well with everything you'd expect in a Stephen King story. I don't know what the King thought of this film (Mr. King is somewhat notorious for not liking a number of film adaptations of his work and truth be told, some of them are pretty bad). But as for me it has to rank as one of the better Stephen King adaptations made and also makes me want to read the story it was based off of. So with all that said, if you're in the mood for a little darkness and a little spookiness, check out Stephen King's The Night Flier. P.S. It's on you tube. "},{"Title":"One of the best King's adaptations, really","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In spite the fact this is a B-movie, it is much more successful with short Night Flier's story than many other ambitious films trying to work with King's novels. I didn't expect anything from this adaptation and I was really pleasantly surprised. I wonder now why the rating is only 5,9.This film is more about mystery than frightening moments every minute but it is not a problem at all. You've got everything here what movie of this kind needs tension, excitement, dull atmosphere, mysterious villain and one really good horror scene, much more scarier then in majority of conventional horror movies.Here the vampire is a charming man who has great influence on the minds of his victims and can transform himself in an awful monster. That is the right depiction of King's vampire! This vampire isn't like Barlow in Salem's Lot (1979) who looks like some hissing blue rat! Miguel Ferrer gives out his best performance and I liked his character although his actions are pretty unlikeable.Overall good movie. You will enjoy and you even don't have to be Stephen King's fan. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Flick!","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Miguel Ferrer, Julie Entwisle and Michael H. Moss star in this 1997 horror film based on Stephen King's short story. Ferrer (Robocop) plays tabloid journalist, Richard Dees who is determined to get a story on a mysterious killer who travels by private plane murdering his victims at airports at night. Richard also has a private plane and follows his trail finding more bodies. Soon, Richard learns the killer's name is Dwight Renfield (Moss) nicknaming him The Night Flier and realizes he's a vampire. Entwisle plays tabloid reporter, Katherine Blair who competes with Richard to get the story. This isn't bad, Ferrer is great in it and there's gruesome make-up effects. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Fangs for the memories","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Veteran tabloid reporter Miguel Ferrer is on the trail of a savage killer who flies from rural airport to rural airport in search of victims. Soon enough the reporter begins to realize he's pursuing a blood-sucking vampire, Dracula cape and all. Shades of The Night Stalker! At some point, the killer starts warning the reporter off, to no avail. The story takes time to build, and the killer is barely glimpsed until the last five minutes. Keeping him in the shadows until the final confrontation, also done in The Nigh Stalker, pays off big time for the very shocking and bittersweet ending. Ferrer is intense as usual, and the supporting cast is populated by some pretty colorful characters. I was most intrigued by a scene where the reporter, already sensing something supernatural about his prey,finds the killer's empty plane on a tarmac and climbs inside, only to discover the controls rusted and ruined and the entire cockpit saturated with blood. "},{"Title":"Estimable little gem","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Despite a certain inevitable TV look and narrative this movie is possibly one of the best horrors of 90's. Mark Pavia delivers a well handled, gloomy and occasionally dirty atmosphere, that put far away his movie from the generally unaesthetically and untidy 90's horror films. Moreover there is a good amount of gore and a correct score. Although the plot is not very original the movie is resolute in a rather ingenious way, the main character (fairly good Miguel Ferrer job as the tabloid journalist) is not precisely a Good Person and there are various perverse ideas behind the script. Very good ending, too.This movie has to be one of the best Stephen King (sometimes good, generally average or mediocre writer) horror adaptations, only under CARRIE (8/10). Sorry, THE SHINING (6/10) is decent but it doesn't like me much. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this film was quite imaginative and well made for a low budget cheapie made-for-cable Stephen King film. I was quite absorbed by what the creature was and when I found out was rather shell shocked with the unique twisted ending. This is a rarity for a small horror film of this stature. Miguel Ferrer is the perfect choice for the lead because the main character was not likable or a hero. He was a pompous,self absorbed a**hole and brings the film a sharp edge that a film like this needs. The film has a low rating,but I thought it definately was better than most circulating these days. ****/***** "},{"Title":"Stephen King must have been thinking about The Night Stalker","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is being very underrated by your audience.  Movies rated in the fives are rarely something you would recommend to your friends and this film justdoesn't deserve this status.  In fact, of all the Stephen King films I've ever seen this one was probably the most  entertaining.  You can't question King'soriginality in storytelling but I couldn't help but think he might have written this story because he appreciated Darren McGavin's portrayal of a quarky journalist Carl Kolchak in the 70's television series The Night Stalker.  Even the word night appears in the title of this film.  I have fond memories of that series and I couldn't help associating the feeling I got while watching Night Flier with Gavin's Kolchak character.  This is a great vampire movie.  Salem's Lot with JamesMason was another of King's vampire films which was  quite enjoyable.  But Ithink this film even tops that classic for story and suspense.  So why such a mediocre response by imdb viewers?  The only thing I can think of is peoplewho don't like horror or vampire films still take the time to vote for them. This helps no one in evaluating films.  If you don't like a genre then don't waste your time criticizing a film. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  decent King adaption is well made very well acted it has an unforgettable ending as well as lots of gore now if you are expecting a masterpiece your not going to get it here but if you are expecting an entertaining little flick you should be fine **1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"well-done horror with cast of unknowns","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think this might have been an HBO movie.  In any case, for its cast of unknowns and its seemingly small budget, it is very good.  Surprisingly edgy and gory, with plenty of suspense and solid cinematography.  The Terri Hatcher look-alike is actually hotter than Hatcher, and Ferrer did an excellent job.  I'll put it this way  I rented Suspiria the same weekend, and enjoyed this one much more.  That says a lot about overrated foreign horror classics from our past, but it also says something for this highly entertaining movie.  I give it a legitimate 8.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"pass this one","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ok so my direct TV remote batteries died and I got stuck on this movie, sweet lord I can't believe this was made. It's got a pretty bad plot so far and I think it is lowering my I.Q.a serial killer who travels by private plane stalking victims in rural airports. One of the reporters, begins to suspect that the Night Flier could perhaps be a vampire  --- I mean come on plz "},{"Title":"Well, it wasn't good...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The only way a movie can completely fail, in my opinion, is by being boring. One thing you can say about this one is that it isn't all that boring. It's the kind of movie you watch for laughs, lots of dead bodies.  The vampire looks corny, but I liked the thing with his teeth.  It's a nice touch.  Sure the dialogue's bad, but it's the kind of bad you can laugh at. The gore's okay too.  I thought the vampire should have done some on-screen feeding, though.  What good is a vampire movie unless you get to see fangs sinking into human flesh? It kind of reminded me of Tales from the Crypt. "},{"Title":"non stop horror","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this was a pretty good horror movie with non stop horror! the only really great horror movies is the old ones, especially from the 1940's and at the 50's everything got bad with for example the crawling eye. to be honest, i've never seen a good horror movie from the 90's! if you really think! was scream scary or was it just sick and funny?? the answer is no! but this is an exception because this was different, intelligent and believe me! it was scary! "},{"Title":"Silly little vampire gore flick","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a gore fest with a little plot attached to it. It never explains itself but plods on at a decent pace. I haven`t read the book, but I think there was a lot left out, or maybe I`m wrong. The suspense was even enough but I got the general feeling everything could of been better. I think to sum up this gore - fest, would be to say  that it was a near miss. "},{"Title":"An OK movie.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This story evolves around a reporter who gets a case about murders. This movie starts nicely but then gets a little slow and afterwards gets a little better. Written by Stephen King.Recommended for older viewers less sensitive to violence and gore! "},{"Title":"Entertaining little supernatural flick!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A reporter (Miguel Ferrer) dying to get back on the front page of his newspaper tries to track down a serial killer that flies by night in a dark winged Cessna and brutally murders local residents of secluded airports. Though, the further he delves into the case the deadly it soon becomes as he digs up something supernatural about this killer or beast. Could this be his last story? From the master of horror tales Stephan King's The Night Flier is a reasonably fair adaptation, which I can't say for most. Well, it's definitely the best since Misery. What I found particularly enjoyable was that it took a different take on the vampire story, though the interesting idea doesn't go into any depth, which is a shame. It felt like I was watching something out of the X-files. The formula of the film seems to follow a more murder/mystery vibe than a fully blown horror film where we sit around watch the killer kill people and move on to the next victim. It's starts off with the obligatory kill to open proceedings, but then it settles down and centres more on the reporter Dees picking up clues and hints by asking people about how the victims were like before they died. This slow mid-section has a lot of flash- blacks and likes to dwell no what had happen to these people. Also Dee's getting warnings from our killer to leave the story alone. All of this eventually leads to a very stunning conclusion.The quality of the film was so-so. The production valves of the film show up like TV a movie. There's a deflated music score, misty shots, script is filled with some corny drivel and there's mostly abysmal acting. With some of the lines being delivered so over-the-top. Though, Ferrer performance is the only one who's worth a mention, as he's well suited as the cunning/prick of a reporter Richard Dees. Michael H. Moss as the vampire seemed to have some hypnotic pull whenever the dark figure was on screen. There are good makeup and gore effects with slabs of nasty violence. Most of the violence happens off screen, but you do hear the brutal slaying and we always see the messy and the ain't so pretty aftermath. The atmosphere and score throughout most of the running time really packs a sting. The chills and suspense (there were one or two good ones) aim up, where the last 15mins takes a turn into a pretty horrific and unnerving state. With stark lighting that truly adds to the bemusing and vivid feel. It powerfully pulls you in. I enjoyed the lively sequence that involves going back to a black and white colour tone, with shades of Romero's Night Of The Living Dead.The story had a fascinating, if bizarre setup and the further along the story goes the more interesting it does get. Not much of it is telegraphed or easy to pick up because there is so many unanswered questions and flaws that you pick up on. The main one is no origin or motive for our killer. We're kept in the dark just like our reporter is as not much is explained. There's a lot talk also about the killer than action, but that sort a changes in the last quarter of the film. The films climax when Richard and the vampire killer come together is excellent and it's a real jaw opener, but the actual end of the film would surly shock. That final twist I didn't see coming and it left me with a sour taste in my mouth.This puzzle leaves you with more questions than before, but still it's a fairly entertaining 90-mintues that ends pretty ironically. "},{"Title":"Good IL' midnight creep show -- 8 (very good)","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The cover box to NIGHT FLIER is scary, which is why I never picked it off the shelves. I figured that the movie inside was another Leprechaun or Ghoulies, and it's rare indeed that I choose to go with that kind of cheap-oh horror production. But wait, as it turns out, this movie is STEPHEN KING's NIGHT FLIER, so I slap my forehead and moan, Man the cover box fools me once again. Of course, I'll pay money for Stephen King any day of the week. Returning home, turning down the lights, and burying myself underneath a pile of pink stuffed animals, I prepped myself for an old fashioned horror treat. And lo and behold, that's what I got. I'd say that Stephen King has a stellar track record when allowing his novels to be transformed into low budget cinematic nightmares. (See It, Langoliers, and the Stand if you have time to kill.)The movie had a nice grainy texture to it. This might be because of the second-rate cameras that the production team used, the late film-to-DVD transfer, or because of my aging eyes. Whatever the reason for the graininess, it was perfect, since NIGHT FLIER's cast, dialog, and locations hearken back to late 80's television, even though this movie was released in 1997. The main lead, Miguel Ferrer, does a great job at being a total dick, and it's good to see him rise again since his phenomenal playboy role in Robocop ever so long ago. The female lead is really nice, too. Her name is Julie Entwisle, and it seems as if nowadays companies don't cast starry-eyed brunettes as much as they did twenty years ago. Oh well, box office loss and video rental gain I guess.Finally, I was so pleased to see that NIGHT FLIER did vampires justice! You know, yellow contacts, saw-toothed dentures in rotting gums, that type of thing. This movie stands as another testimonial that a handful of putty and a pair of fangs from a convenience store is way more convincing than slapdash CGI. The only bad thing about this movie is that it's entirely driven by suspense. The audience is constantly wondering, what does the vampire look like? Where did it come from, etc, etc. All we have is Ferrer's gruff two-hour monologue on his VOR recorder speculating on the answer to these questions. But be patient my blood-thirsty friends, because the NIGHT FLIER's ending bursts that tension with fruit-flavored satisfaction! Juicy Fruit Style.JYJimboduck-dot-com "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying horror film.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Night Flier has an outlandish premise that can be accepted only on supernatural terms, and the director does a pretty good job of sprinkling clues throughout the movie, but ultimately these don't pay off. In the final 15 minutes I, for one, would have liked to learn more about the vampire, his background and his powers,  but the movie wastes too much time setting up its ironic twist ending with an extended zombie sequence instead. Miguel Ferrer's uncompromising portrait of the scummy, sleazy, immoral reporter is funny at first, then simply appalling. But the film does have excellent makeup effects.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Night Flier doesn't quite fly (spoiler alert!)","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Somewhat entertaining, and Ferrer is solid, and it was funny to see PeeWee from Porky's as a ruthless tabloid boss, but... the huh?? factor was too high for me to recommend this, unless you're a huge Julie Entwisle fan (IMDB only lists 3 movie roles for her, so your choices are limited).  Entwisle is very appealing here; she reminded me a bit of Brittany Murphy in Drive, maybe with the spaz factor toned down slightly, but still very lovable and cute without being dumb; the kind of girl I wish there were more of in the world.  But anyway (SPOILERS DEAD AHEAD!!!)...- HOW did the rabid(?) dog on the roof of that one building get back to the roof of the building so fast after chasing Dees to his car?  (bonus WHY would the dog go back to the roof so soon?)- WHICH universe does this happen in?  In our universe, a murder string taking place near airports wouldn't stay secret very long, and people would start figuring it out on their own even if no reporter got the scoop for them.  (My parents live at a small private airport; news like that would get around!  LOL... vampires... heh.)- WHY would Dees sit in the cab of the Cessna so casually, with his back to the door, never checking to see if the bad guy was returning? and WHY would he stroll around in the airport at the end so casually, when it's clear that the bad guy is ultra-dangerous and ultra-homicidal -- and somewhere nearby?- WHY didn't the reporterette scream when Dees put the blanket over her head in the motel room?  She couldn't have known right away that it was him doing it, and it would freak out any sane person to have that done to them from behind like that, all alone, in a strange town.  At least, it would freak ME out!  I'd be fearing for my life.- WHO killed the previous reporterette?  Was it suicide or did Dees kill her?  Maybe I'm paranoid to suspect him, but I felt like that was implied by some of the elements of the film, although not directly suggested.  I kept suspecting that we'd find out he did it, and was a little surprised when we were not told that.- WHEN did the blood which dripped onto Dees in the front seat of the Cessna get onto the plane?  Seems to me it should have been dry by that time. ...and, most of all - WHY would Dracula fly in a plane??There are probably more I'm forgetting, but that's enough time spent on this movie.  I give it 5/10 for being somewhat creepy, having pretty good gore effects, and at least some fairly good acting, directing, editing, etc....  Could have used more work on the plot, though; as others have said, there wasn't enough of a plot to flesh out a full-length movie. "}{"Title":"Terror flies by night. Beware of the big bite.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is just short of a full blown gore fest based on a Stephen King story. Two tabloid reporters, one seasoned(Miguel Ferrer)and one not so accomplished(Julie Entwisle), begin to believe that a serial killer(Michael H. Moss) may actually be a vampire. Stranger than odd is this modern day blood sucker does not wing his way naturally, but by way of a black Cessna he seeks his victims. The gore actually gets gruesome as the film nears its stupid finale. Keep in mind that Mr. King had nothing to do with this film. I do admit it is a bit scary in the wee hours of the night. "},{"Title":"Once again, a case of reading the book (in Nightmares and Dreamscapes)","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Would have better strengthened considerably by making it as a50 minute episode of the Outer Limits. Too much superfluous material and stuff like the chief bad guy looking like he'd escaped from The Phantom of the Opera didn't help. The whole 'Night of the Living Dead' sequence was extremely silly and quite unnecessary. After all, if the dead were to punish anyone for their sins, now remind me exactly who was killing everyone again? "},{"Title":"One of King's best","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Despite being a direct-to-video movie, which usually is a really bad sign, this movie is better than most King films that make it to the big screen. The story is good and suspenseful, and actually has some brains behind it as well, with regard to the tabloid newspaper sub-theme. Miguel Ferrer is great as the reporter; you tend to like him despite yourself, but at the same time you recognize what an asshole he is and what's in store for him. When he makes it to the airport, and he's surrounded by dead bodies, it's one of the creepiest scenes in any recent horror film. There are a few drawbacks. The look of the vampire at the end is cheesy. And the chick who plays the other reporter is annoying, and there's no point to her being in the film, except to give it its twist ending, which is pretty good nevertheless.  "},{"Title":"Never really takes off.","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hoping to score a much-needed cover story, Richard Dees (Miguel Ferrer), unscrupulous hack for sensationalist tabloid Inside View, goes in search of Dwight Renfield AKA The Night Flier, a vampiric killer who travels the country in a black Cessna Skymaster, landing at rural airstrips where he feeds on the locals. Also keen to bag a scoop with The Night Flier is the rag's newest reporter Katherine Blair (Julie Entwisle), but has she got what it takes to do the job?The Night Flier is adapted from one of Stephen King's short stories, and it feels like it, the plot being far too insubstantial for a wholly satisfying feature length film; consequently, there is a lot of filler, mostly in the form of the dull rivalry between slime-ball Dees and ambitious newbie Blair, which soon gets tedious. A delightfully scummy turn from Ferrer (Dees is a character you will love to hate) and some rather gruesome effects from KNB help matters a little, but as Stephen King movies go, this is amongst the more forgettable efforts.5.5 out of 10, generously rounded up to 6 for the hilarious goof where the clean-shaven Dees lands his plane and, just for a fleeting moment, he is the proud owner of a very bushy moustache. "},{"Title":"Faithful, but not particularly memorable","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes, movie adaptations end up totally missing the point of their source material, but this was a very faithful adaptation. In fact, I'd argue that it's probably near the top, as far as faithfulness goes. Unfortunately, there a few things wrong that kind of drag down my rating.I like Miguel Ferrer, so I was pretty excited when I found out that he starred in this movie. As I expected, Ferrer is the high point of the movie. Dees is one of those characters that you love to hate, and he was done to near perfection. Unfortunately, given that film is such a visual medium, it was more difficult to get into Dees' head than the short story, but that's pretty much an obvious and unavoidable issue. Still, Dees' commentary in the short story was the best part, leaving me feeling slightly sad that much of his internal dialogue was missing.As far as the other actors, they were all pretty much passable. None of them were ever bad, at least. A new character was introduced, as a foil to Dees, I suppose. Usually, when this happens, it's a disaster, but I thought it was handled fairly well. Unfortunately, the actress, Julie Entwhisle, was one of the weaker elements in the movie, in my opinion. She wasn't bad, but she wasn't great, either. Dan Monahan, as the editor, played his character as a cheerfully sleazy bastard. I usually dislike comic relief in my horror movies, but it was done well enough here that it didn't bother me. Michael Moss, as the Night Flier, was fine. Other people really seemed to enjoy him, but I did not find his performance particularly memorable.I guess what really bothers me is the plot. This is not unique to the movie, of course. I really don't understand what possessed Stephen King to write a story about a vampire who flies a Cessna. I'll just say it this is a stupid idea. However, the story really does work, even though the main conceit is too wacky to take seriously. I like how Dees and the vampire serial killer are compared and contrasted, even if it is a bit heavy-handed and lacks subtlety. Nonetheless, it raises interesting questions about morality, ethics, and the role of sociopaths in our society. Still, it's difficult for me to just let go of the ridiculous idea of a vampire flying a Cessna. I mean, really? That reminds me of a hilariously bad European movie I saw once about a haunted elevator. Yes, that's right, it was about a haunted *elevator*. I think it was titled Lift, if you're morbidly curious.While somewhat generic, there are times when the movie does rise above being your average direct-to-video King adaptation. Some of the special effects from KNB are quite good. There's a fairly well-done homage to Night of the Living Dead near the end. Unfortunately, the atmosphere was frequently a bit flat, leaving you with gross-out effects or grisly, black humor, rather than suspense. Certainly, that's not bad, but it makes for a somewhat less fulfilling horror movie. Instead, I think Night Flier works better as an exploitation movie, since it's so lacking in atmosphere, tension, and suspense.Some people were disappointed by the ending, but I found it to be perfectly acceptable and perhaps even satisfying. If I sound a bit unenthused, then keep in mind that many King adaptations end up being dismal failures, and that finding even an average or mediocre one is something of a coup. While not High Art, this is still enjoyable enough to recommend to other King fans, even if they're only familiar with the movie adaptations. "},{"Title":"A fairly solid Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Of all of King's adaptations this one has to rank up there rather high as far as following the story. Granted it has a few add ons and a different ending, but these actually enhance the story more rather than take away. The story has a writer of a trashy tabloid on a hunt for a strange owner of a small aircraft. Seems where this person sets his plane down there are deaths and misfortune. A young upstart female reporter is also on this case. Well it is rather easy to figure out what the night flier is and what he is doing, but it is still fun watching the process. It all leads to one very bloody conclusion and a rather nice ending. The acting is fairly good for what amounts to a rather low budget movie and the effects are rather good too. They did not spread this one out to long as this one moves at a very quick place and it does not have many dull moments. Most of the super bloody scenes occur at the end though, as most of the movie is the reporter one step behind the night flier with him interviewing people in airports the night flier has touched down in. Various flashback scenes and such. All in all not a great movie, but a fairly good Stephen King film. "},{"Title":"Better than expected... Almost good","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First and foremost, if you read the short story by the master of terror and expect the movie will be as good or better, prepare to be disappointed. The Night Flier short story was brilliant and set near unreachable expectations for a movie without a serious budget. But on that note, this movie didn't turn out too bad.This movie is enjoyable if you don't give it high expectations and are looking for a creepy thriller. It won't scare you (unless you are easily spooked), but it may send a quiver down your spine.It's hard to write a competent script based on a short story because you have to add a lot of fluff to fill a feature length film. Often times there's some romance just for the sake of romance or the characters have a past with each other that they did not have in the story. But in this movie, the fluff wasn't too bad. It's mostly the competition between the reporters over the story and a few creepy scenes involving the Night Flier. (I personally enjoyed the scene with the dog on the trailer... spooky) The ending left much to be desired, falling well short of the story's ending, but it must have been difficult to wrap-up the rather open-ended Night Flier. They certainly made it creepy though, and I did enjoy the final descent into madness that Dees' character in the short story narrowly avoided.To wrap-up, if you are looking for a great movie to kick back and watch, rent Pulp Fiction or Titanic. But if you want to watch a decent to good Stephen King adaptation (worse than Green Mile, but muuuuuch better than Maximum Overdrive), or just want to be creeped out by a vampire movie, I recommend it.3/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Special Edition DVD","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie. I read the interview on iconsoffright.com from July of this year, (http//www.iconsoffright.com/IV_Pavia.htm), and Mr. Pavia, if you read this, please put out a sweet double disc special edition of this film like you mentioned in the interview, complete with the storyboards and production stills. I will totally double dip and buy this if another edition comes out. I already have the original DVD. I absolutely love this movie! Also, please add some of your first film shorts as bonuses on the second disc, like they did with Romero's 'Night of the Living Dead' millennium edition that was released by Synapse or Shriekshow or Anchor Bay (I can't remember exactly who). They added There's Always Vanilla as an extra. That would be totally great to see 'Drag' included. I'm very excited about the prospect of a special edition coming out as well as a sequel, only, I have to tell you, that movie 'Wolf Creek' that you said freaked you out...well, I saw that in the theater and it really, really, really sucked on my balls. Please don't ever make a piece of junk movie like that. Thanks for reading.Also, I'll post again on your myspace account. (http//www.myspace.com/markpavia) &#133;because I'm a psychotic!!! Did I mention how much I love this movie?!? "},{"Title":"Spoilers are a joke.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First of all these films have a finite budget. Mabe you prefer stuff like the Blair Witch thing! Peace be with you negative critics. But even corporate America is having budget considerations now which includes the film industry. I think whole operation was done very well. I was around when the earlier vampire movies in b&w were the thing to see. And I didn't didn't read the books. Only a film critic, not books. There are things I can be critical about in your best films. Face it , It was really good. I believe They could do a (II). The Night Flier Will be at the top of the list of good vampire films for long after I leave this world. "},{"Title":"One of Steven King's better movies","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Steven King's The Night Flier is one of the better Steven King movies around.**SPOILERS**A man (Rob Wilds) is brutally killed at a remote airfield in the dead of night. The story grabs the attention of gossip columnist Richard Dees, (Miguel Ferrer) but seems reluctant to take on the story. He tells his editor (Dan Monahan) to give the story to his newest reporter Katherine (Julie Entwisle). She reveals that they are supposed to be working together, which Richard doesn't take too kindly. Trying to intimidate her away from the paper, to little avail, another attack is committed on another airport. Coming to grips with his falling star at the paper, he agrees to take the story. He flies out to the spot of the first attack and questions one of the workers there, (John Bennes) and gets some useful information for his story. Flying to the spot of the second attack, he gets more information about the strange killer, and learns that he has struck again. He teams up with Katherine and together they follow the killer to an airport for his next victim and confront him.The Good News There has been a vampire resurgence of late, and this is one of the more impressive entries. It isn't the prototypical vampire, and that isn't the usual type. This one is alluring and ominous, and he likes to hide to avoid being seen and then spring when the victim isn't suspecting it. He also isn't a typical-looking vampire either, as he looks like a kiddie version of a vampire with a more demonic face. It was new, intimidating, and worked quite well in the film. Its first appearance was a real shocker too, maybe because it was the only true shock in the film, but seeing it was a great jump moment. It looks like a human wearing a demon mask; it's that creepy. What was also creepy was the ending, normally a bone-dry development for King's films. It is a real gore soaked finale, as bodies are seen butchered and mangled, generally cut-up beyond belief. It is so bloody that they had to reuse the technique from Taxi Driver by making the color fade to black and white. Not really, but it does have a really nifty dream sequence. It is really the closest the film comes to have shocks. What also got me was the great mystery that was set up around the vampire in the film. The few facts around him are nearly irrelevant to who he is and what he's doing attacking people. He has a mysterious aura around him that perfectly captured and make you care for him, even though he was a vicious monster. That was a great invention of the creators, and was something that I think is something that future filmmakers should've tried.The Bad News The main problem I have with this film, as well as many other King films, is that King isn't exactly a silver screen writer. His films are more psychological than anything else, and that in itself is somewhat of a mixed blessing. If it's done right, it can be downright brilliant. See Silence of the Lambs or The Shining to see what I mean. If it doesn't, then the film will be excruciatingly slow as the film tries to give the meat of the story before getting to the action. That's the part that the filmmakers of King's films often confuse a lot of back-story in a movie doesn't always mean it is creepy. King does have interesting set-ups for his films, but he waits for a longer time than other people would do with his films. That also brings about another gripe about King his films take way too long before something interesting happens. We wait for a near eternity before the real meat of the story comes through, and often times we are left with unconsciously long periods of time with no action at all. He leaves these set-ups that could potentially be creepy but instead really leaves you hanging in a lot of places. I could even mention that his movies are almost jolt-less, yet even King's best work jump-less as well. That doesn't surprise me at all.The Final Verdict While not the jump-fest most horror films are, Night Flier is an entertaining film that will fit the style of traditional Steven King fans. If you aren't a fan of his work, this won't make you a fan, but for vampire fans, this deserves a passing look or at the very least, a rental.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, and brief scenes of violence against the elderly "}{"Title":"Very scary movie!","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of Stephan King's scarier stories.  Of course, some of it is rather cornballish in translation, but overall . . . *shudder*.  The fiend in this movie is truely frightening, gave me nightmares!  Lots of gore, some of it really hokey, but the story this movie tells is quite interesting.  Also, be forewarned, it has an ending that might leave some folks afraid to leave the television room afterwards! "},{"Title":"Not great - but underrated","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a surprisingly good b-movie. I bought it just to enlarge my movie collection, but when I finally watched it I was suprised with it´s intensity and mysterious feeling. Two problems though - the movie is trying to make the viewers feel for Richard Dee´s (a brilliant Miguel Ferrer) towards the end, and we don´t. He is an truly awful person. Another bad thing about the movie is when we finally get to see The Night Flier in a close-up. I mean, that is plain UGLY. Not SCARY. Other than that though, good movie. 7/10. "},{"Title":"One awful film","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The 'Night Flier' was horrible, just flat out bad. It had no 'pulse', and when it began to show faint signs of life, it 'died'. Miguel Ferrer was unbearable to watch as the lead in the film. He was so nasty and mean, I do not see how anyone could feel any remorse for his character at the end of the film. He was a total jerk. He was annoyingly bad. The scene at the end of the film that ripped off George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead showed promise, but failed to deliver.  The vampire was one of the stupidest looking creatures I have ever seen. A giant rubber head, come on. It's hands looked like they were purchased at K-Mart, and the cape looked like it was purchased from Wal-Mart. And the film failed to answer many questions about the vampire. The producers seemed to have expected that whoever watched it already knew everything there was to know about the vampire. The one thing I still cannot figure out about this film is (other than who want to fund this movie) how in the wide world of lousy horror did not one person escape from the airport slaughter that takes place in the film (of course you do not get to see it happen). Come on, at least one person could get away, but not a one. That vampire killed about 50 people. I thought the blood of one person would be enough to satisfy a vampire, but not this one. It had to have a lot of blood. When you finally see the airport carnage, the shock factor was weak. But oh well, the movie was lame. As for all these people that thought this film was good, I just cannot figure it out. If you want to see a good horror film, you should not watch this or 'Scream', or any trendy prep-filled sorry excuses for a horror film. You should check out the original 1968 Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Carnival of Souls, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and The Evil Dead (1 and 2).  "},{"Title":"bloody awful","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie version was childish and plain awful. The acting was terrible. Everything was overdone. The short story version was MUCH BETTER, more subtle, less blatant. The movie is just alround bad. Kids and teens may get a scare out of it, but if you're grownup and you have a few marbles and have read the short story, you won't like the movie.Too much narrative and dialog was copied straight out of the short story. The movie could have been so much better, even as a Halloween thriller.Believe me, the short story version is far superior. Some of you, judging from the comments, are semi-literate, so you may want to brush up on reading, then have a go at the short story. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Stephen King adaptation","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Miguel Ferrer is the ideal man to play the leading role in this rather gore adaptation of a story written by Stephen King. He plays a loner, Richard Dees, who's a journalist for a pulp magazine. They publish stories about psycho killers and maniacs...the bloodier the better. Since he didn't make the front page in months, he gets offered the chance to write about a sadistic man who kills the staff of small airports. He sucks out all their blood and goes from airport to airport with his own plane. A scary black one. Richard doesn't see it as an interesting story at first, so it goes to an ambitious young woman named Katherine. Because of the research see does, Richards gets intrigued after all and goes after the killer. The interviews he does with the witnesses give him the idea to call him the Night Flier. He gets obsessed by the chase and is convinced about the fact that he will found out who he is and why he sucks out all the blood of his victims...Meanwhile, Katherine doesn't give up on the story either and she also goes after the Night Flier. Richard and Katherine can't manage to work together. Richard has lost it. The only thing he can think about is getting the Night Flier and make it to the front page... Miguel Ferrer's performance is the best thing about this film. He really plays Richard Dees as a man who gets by all by himself and doesn't need anybody. He warns his new colleague about the dangers of getting involved in a story too much, but he can't deal with it himself. He's arrogant and will go over dead bodies to get the right picture. Ferrer, rarely cast in a leading role, proves here that he can handle it real well. The story is enjoyable, but far from great. Fans of loads of blood and scary faces won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"This one bites!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am surprised at the good reviews many people have given this movie. It's a real b-movie stinker. I love a good vampire film, but this is at the bottom of the genre.The atmosphere was non-existent and hokey. This movie had a silly plot, bad acting, no special effects, and no brooding Vampire mood to speak of (as the box suggests).If you like a lot of senseless gore, with no real plot, this movie may be for you. Bur if you're looking for a good Vampire flick, you'll be sorely disappointed. This is straight to video garbage. "},{"Title":"What are you people on?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot believe the positive comments for this terrible piece of straight-to-video bargain bin trash.  I have honestly never seen such poor acting in a movie for a good long time.  Did anyone actually see the Boom microphone that pops down onto the screen about 3 times during the movie, this film could fill one of those movie bloopers books.What is so scary about a rubber vampire who flies a plane and wears a £1.99 cape?.AVOID AT ALL COSTS   "},{"Title":"Better Than Scream!!!! But it sucks","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie sucks. I have heard people say over and over how good it is and how great Miguel Ferrer is in it, give me a break! He was terrible and his character equally if not more terrible. The movie did NOTHING! The plot was dumb! A cheesy looking vampire who flies a plane, oh please. But when faced with this movie and some trendy, sorry excuse for a horror movie like Scream, I know what you did last summer and Halloween H20 I would gladly pick the night flier. But that just goes to show how terrible it is. Please if you want to see good vampire flicks check out, the original universal ones, the hammer dracula films, John Carpenters Vampires, From Dusk Till Dawn, Blade, Bram Stokers Dracula and others. Just leave the Night Flier at the store. "}]