[{"Title":"Cover does not convey how great this movie is","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cover of the Feverpitch DVD does not relay to the consumer what a really great movie this is. Whether it is about soccer or football, we can all sort of relate to the characters in this story. To be honest, I got this movie because Colin Firth is in it and after doing some research figured it couldn't hurt to watch it. I had just seen his Hope Springs which I had to turn off, just didn't like the story line and even his gorgeousness could not keep me there. But Feverpitch just had me laughing and I think I actually stopped breathing minutes at a time. It is so hilarious how serious his character, Paul, took football and how hard it seemed for his new girlfriend to relate to his seriousness. All you Firth fans out there beware, this movie will only increase your love for this man. And those who are just wondering if it is worth the rent, I'd say no. It is worth the buy!  "},{"Title":"A most personal film","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For me this is one of the most personal films ever made.I was at all of the games at Highbury shown in the film.The celebrations take place outside the entrance to the West Stand where i have been entering for the past 45 years.The school at which Colin Firth is teaching was my school.I even saw it in the Odeon Muswell Hill which is just one minute from the school,and of course that night.who will ever forget that night.I remember it so vividly as if it happened yesterday.To me the sheer brilliance of the book and the film is that Hornby manages to bring to life the dreams we live together.It doesn't matter if you support Arsenal or any other team the dreams are just the same.I was in a local book shop the other day when i saw a later version of the book.I sat down and read the new pages and they were as real to me as if i had been sitting next to Hornby at the time that he wrote them. "},{"Title":"How to film a novel","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a middle-aged American woman who has never seen a soccer game and has never seen any kind of live sports game all the way through beyond Little League (3 brothers, 1 son). I live in a town where football is the main local religion. Nick Hornby's novel was a delight to read and really gave me some sense of the psychology as well as the anthropology of being a fan. I rented the movie because I wanted to SEE the novel the stadium, the terraces, the colors, the craziness Hornby describes. Youtube and Wikipedia could tell me some about Alan Smith, Highbury, the Hillsborough tragedy, but not enough. The movie came through. Actual footage of games and scenes inside the stadium gave a powerful sense of what it's all about. The final sequence, in which various characters Paul's fandom has touched watch a championship game, was wonderfully moving. The plot has three characters--Paul the young fan, Paul the adult fan, and Sarah the outsider who is repelled by the irrationality, the loud and sweary masculinity of it all. The plot exists to allow Paul to expose, stubbornly as a child and articulately as an adult, what it means to be a fan. Sarah is there to force him into talking and thinking a bit about it. Both Pauls are marvelous. Colin Firth is amazing. His physical attractiveness is essential to the plot--it gets him into Sarah's bed so they can start talking about Arsenal-- and that simple fact leaves him huge amounts of room to be boyish, goofy, moody, clueless, innocent, and cruel. "},{"Title":"A Winner for Nick Hornby and Colin Firth","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nick Hornby strikes again! I watched this movie for Colin Firth, and enjoyed it as a fan and as a discriminating viewer. The script is excellent, particularly the dialogue (particularly in one delightful restaurant scene). I found the acting and craftsmanship satisfactory - be warned that dialogue can be quiet, so listen hard through the accents.  The film is delightfully British, so I highly recommend it for Anglophiles, and as Nick Hornby knows how to do, it is a nice mix of the ludicrous and the thoughtful.  The relationship the movie centers around is really interesting to follow.  We wonder what makes it tick, but Colin Firth and Ruth Gemmell seem comfortable together, so it isn't unbelievable at all. I wasn't expecting Fever Pitch to be so good, but I find that I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"a surprisingly complex and compelling film","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cover of the video is COMPLETELY misleading. I must admit that I never expected a film about a football fan to be either interesting or in-depth. I was surprised to find its US release under New Arrivals at my video store, and being a fan of Firth, I decided to give it a try. It's a very human story, and it is well-done. Nick Hornby's script is excellent, and he actually managed to pull me, a non-rabid fan of football, into understanding a little of what his character was going through. The inclusion of the childhood scenes was great for setting up why the character is still human, though he initially appears insane when taken in the greater context of human existence. He was portrayed very effectively by Firth, whose previous stand-out performance as Mr. Darcy in Pride and Prejudice contrasts so sharply with the character that he plays in this film that I found myself almost cringing at the immaturity and madness portrayed by him...until the character grew on me and I felt more than just pity for him. Ruth Gemmell did a fine job of portraying Sarah, a woman who was frustratingly in love with a man who loved a sport. I liked watching the growth of both of their characters throughout the film. The thing that struck me about this film was the reality and humanness of it. I could see such a thing happening in actual life, and I appreciated the portrayal of the everyday struggles of learning to refocus your priorities and commit to loving someone. "},{"Title":"On the surface, a film about The Arsenals and their fans, but REALLY about clinging to the one thing that binds you to a lost parent.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fever Pitch may not be a great film, but it is certainly a wonderful, charming, pitch-perfect film.On the surface, it is the story of a Peter/Pan who can't give up his obsession for a local Football Team.The man in question, (an incredibly handsome Colin Firth), is a teacher of English at the high-school level.  The teacher next door is a lovely young woman with the knick-name of iron britches.  Of course the predictable happens.What is unpredictable is the painful growth of Colin's character, and his slow progress in being able to give up his team just enough to make room for an even greater and more important love, the teacher next door.What I love best about this film is that Colin Firth here is NOT Mr. Darcy.  Mr. Darcy would NEVER let his Lizzie see him in his Fire Engine RED and white Arsenal Boxer Shorts!Here Mr. Firth is rough-edged and scruffy.  A man who prefers to hang out with his mates drinking beer and holding a fatalistic view that his beloved Arsenal will NEVER win the Championship.The charm of the film lies in the growth of this man/child and the patience and understanding of the woman who loves him and their slow but certain progress from attraction to real, lasting LOVE!See it!!  I happen to love soccer.  All my children played it and now my grandchildren play it.  I believe the rules are different for British Football, but those difference didn't take away from the thrill of watching Arsenal in action! Any golf,football or baseball widow will understand and love this film! "},{"Title":"Insights into obsession","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film explores the life, thoughts and relationships of an obsessive sports fan.  It happens to be have been made in England about a particularly dramatic title win (Arsenal's 1989 victory was the stuff of legend), but applies to obsessives everywhere, who pin all of their happiness on some team over which they can exert no control.  The writing is insightful, for example I don't know whether life is s*** because Arsenal are s***, or the other way around will be recognised by any fan of a sporting (or political) team, and the central character's long-term reaction to the long-sought victory is spot on.  The acting and direction are also spot on.  The mellifluous Colin Firth leads an excellent ensemble, from which Mark Strong (as Firth's buddy) stands out.  Like the best British films (Brassed Off, for example), this one has real situations and real, recognisable characters you care about, spiced with gentle comedy.  I recommend this one warmly. "},{"Title":"A classic movie about  football, unless you support Spurs....","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By now you would have read enough reviews to know enough about the story and the characters.So here's my own opinion of Fever Pitch..Like the DVD cover states for this movie, Love footie, hate footie, you'll love Fever Pitch. Fever Pitch defines how hundreds of millions of football fans feel around the world, who are as passionate as Paul (Colin Firth) is about Arsenal FC. The relationship with his father, how we handles his classroom and the teacher next door at the school are all realistic, especially if you're living in an obsessive football supporters world, or any sport for that matter..The fact that the Americans took this great script and tried to turn into a story of their own (See The Perfect Catch) shows that it had great appeal on the otherside of the Atlantic.. The Americans sure have been lacking ideas lately and some have resorted to trying to remake old English classics, with somewhat less success.. e.g. The Italian Job, Alfie and now Fever Pitch If anything, in Fever Pitch you could see Colin Firth's potential to be more than just an English character actor and we all know where his early efforts have gotten him today.A funny film, well worth watching if you've ever been passionate about anything in life, regardless of what team you support.. "},{"Title":"Perfect Sports Movie for the NON-sport fan","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't been interested in sports since I was twelve but this film made me care about Arsenal, Paul and other sports enthusiasts. The acting was perfect. The film was funny and lovely.  Colin Firth proves his versatility again.  For those of you who can't tell, this is the same actor who wowed everyone in Pride and Prejudice as the reserved, haughty, unapproachable Mr. Darcy.  Bravo. Brava. Thank you, Nick Hornby  "},{"Title":"On Arsenal underpants, the term GUNNER truly fits.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fantastic. I had the pleasure of going to Highbury (Arsenal Stadium) twice to see the Gunners play in real Premiership clashes against Sheffield Wednesday and Wimbledon, and the soccer fanaticism portrayed in the film is NOT hyperbolized at all. As a Yank, i felt like a right outsider, but i was hooked instantly when i exited the Underground station and was swept away in the program selling, chips devouring, pin swapping, memorabilia peddling madness that is English Football. Additionally, Fever Pitch is the ONLY modernly set British film i've seen that did not contain a single refference to American culture, film, TV, music, nothing... A totally home grown Brit flick which (to use an American sporting analogy) hits it out of the park. Shamelessly sublime. "}{"Title":"Gooner Glory","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those not familiar with English football, Arsenal is a very old, well-respected club with a proud tradition, and has done much to progress the game at all levels. They have enjoyed an unrivalled run of seasons in the top-flight, and because of this are envied by almost all other clubs. Outside of Manchester United, it has probably the largest fan base in the UK as well as a growing international following, following the success and attractive style of play brought about by manager Arsene Wenger. The club is shortly moving to a brand-new 60,000-seat, state-of-the-art stadium to help accommodate it's growing army of supporters. It is likely demand for tickets will still far exceed supply, although this depends to some extent on their ability to retain the world's greatest players, who bring with them a whole new, dedicated following. So now you know a little about the club, you will understand why this movie was made. Hornby is a life-long fan (Arsenal fans are affectionately known as 'Gooners') and the season during which the film is based, is arguably one of the most dramatic the English Championship has ever witnessed. The film briefly touches on the tragedy of Hillsborough, which was a turning-point in the game. Because of the loss of so many innocent lives, all UK stadia were redeveloped to ensure they were the safest, most fan-friendly in the world. The club most deeply affected by the disaster was Liverpool - favourites to win the Championship that year. Liverpool are probably the second most famous club in the country, hugely successful in the 1980s. Arsenal - always unpredictable - could only take the title if they beat Liverpool 2-0 at Anfield, Liverpool's ground. Almost all neutrals were hoping Liverpool would win the title because of the tragic losses amongst their fans - generally regarded as being some of the most devoted in the game. Almost everyone believed they would win, and with less than a minute to play in the Championship-deciding game, Arsenal were a goal shy. It was at this point on the night that I turned off the TV and slunk off to the pub to drown my sorrows. When I arrived, the place was buzzing, and the rest is history. This is precisely what this movie is all about - anything else is just filler to broaden it's appeal. Anyone who is not a Gooner could not possibly understand this movie, but it does work on different levels for those not involved.As I am involved, I can't possibly see beyond the facts. Enjoy the scenes, the drama, and the famous old Highbury stadium - which is as I write is hosting it's very last competitive match. The stadium is probably unique in location, surrounded by leafy north London back-streets. This film is more important historically than as a piece of dramatic art, but it's nice to know some people appreciate it as a movie. If some of those people learn to appreciate the club, it's history and - sadly doomed - stadium then that is a bonus. Those years can never be repeated, but they will never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great.","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't care for the main character's personality. He's the type of guy I would never waste my time on. Being a big sports fan is one thing; being completely obsessed is another. It's hard to root for a man who seems to care more about a sport's team than he does about the people who love him. I feel the main female could have done better in choosing a man. At least the guy in the American version was sort of likable. I wish the ending would have actually worked out the problems the couple was having, and it didn't really. It just basically leads you to believe everything turns out okay. Exempting the main guy, the other characters had okay personalities. The movie was fairly entertaining. I don't regret watching it, but I probably will not watch it again. "},{"Title":"You Don't Have to be a Gooner to Appreciate this honest Brit-flick","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a huge Arsenal fan, I HAD to watch this film. I was not disappointed - a true depiction of life as a fan.LIFE AS A FAN. That is what the film explores; the highs and lows of the life of Paul (Colin Firth), who lives his life in seasons rather than years, and struggles to cope with his cynical, pregnant girlfriend, and the highs and lows of an especially rollercoaster of Arsenal footy games.Rest assured, you do not have to support Arsenal to like this movie. Perhaps die-hard Liverpudlians will find the ending especially distressing, but the film focuses on how what happens on the pitch can affect everyday life, something all avid fans know about.You also need no knowledge of English footy. Just settle down for an evening of great acting, often poignant nostalgia, and frequent bursts of "},{"Title":"A brilliant portrayal of life as a football fan","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As an Arsenal fan my view of this film is no doubt biased, I simply love it and I can watch it time and time again. Any Arsenal fan would enjoy this film however I think that not only football fans but also any sports fan in general could appreciate and relate to this film.It is based on the book by Nick Hornby and the main elements are common throughout them although the story has been adapted quite a lot to make it more appropriate for a film. The relationship between the main character and his on and off girlfriend plays a central role in the film which differs from the book. The book is definitely worth a read for anyone who enjoys the film.Fever Pitch does a brilliant job of portraying all the emotions a football fan goes through, how it can affect every aspect of your life and how non football fans don't understand it. Therefore even people with no interest in football could also relate to this film and enjoy it. The whole cast were great in their respective roles and all brought a realistic element to it which is what I love about British films. I liked seeing Colin Firth in this role as it was an early film of his and probably not something most people would expect to see him in. I thought the whole atmosphere created in the scenes at matches was really authentic and it was also interesting to see how football has changed in certain ways. I can't pretend I would enjoy this film as much if it was about another team but I still think people shouldn't write it off because it's about Arsenal- or football even. This film is about a prominent aspect of British culture and therefore worth a watch for anyone. "},{"Title":"Among the best soccer movies ever made.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Late in 1999, this film finally became available in the US.  If you are a soccer fan (or a fanatic of any sport), you will relate to this movie. This is an autobiographical book by Nick Hornby, a long-time Arsenal fan, who also did the screenplay.  Incidently, the book is considered one of the best soccer books ever written.  For those who liked High Fidelity, a book also written by Nick Hornby, and reset in Chicago, they will enjoy the romance of Fever Pitch, the movie.  Colin Firth from Shakespeare in Love is excellent.  "},{"Title":"Lovely.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I adored this film. I had seen the new, American version before seeing this. I like them both very much. I love the British version because it is about football, and personally I am a football fan. Colin Firth does a wonderful acting job. This movie is full of good British humor. The characters are put in serious situations that are made humorous (ie the baby), and the lead character's reaction is quite hysterical. If you enjoy British humor and a good looking British man, you will not be disappointed by this film. It is fun, but it has it's serious moments as well. A very sweet film that analyzes the depths of our mind and how we deal with obsession. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled upon this film playing on cable one afternoon & much to my own surprise, I was hooked.  It's very well done & very enjoyable, even for those of us who have no clue about sports in general, much less the details of British soccer championships.  Only when the credits came up @ the end, did I know that Nick Hornsby of HIGH FIDELITY fame was behind it.  I patted myself on the back for letting my own good judgment overcome any snobbish preconceptions.  (Of course the initial hook was seeing Colin Firth's face on the screen.  The guy definitely has under-used leading man potential!!!) Jan "},{"Title":"football love defense","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sarah Hughes is the strict new math teacher and Paul Ashworth (Colin Firth) is the likable football-loving English teacher. The two are like fire and ice. He learned his love of Arsenal football from his father and uses it to connect with the students. Hughes' ice is soon melted. In flashbacks, his history with football is shown. It all culminates with the final game against Liverpool.It concentrates a lot on the value of football love. It's sincere in the defense of fandom. It's actually serious and it's not as comedic as I want. I must be missing most of the football humor. I'm not really understanding the jokes. The rom-com takes a backseat to the pontification of football. The couple's chemistry isn't really there. They don't mix and she's kinda stiff. They're arguing most of the time. At least, there is the magnetic Colin Firth. I'm sure this is fun but I wouldn't know. This is more of a local story that doesn't quite translate. "},{"Title":"Fairly Mediocre, Makes American Version Look Good","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When the line, I think I've seen this movie before and you both end up shagging on the carpet is meant to allow a movie to allow a movie to skip any pretense of courtship and romance you know you are in trouble. It is one of the lazier plot devices I've ever seen.The plot is basically this, two seeming opposites attract, rather quickly so we don't have to waste much screen time on it. They seem doomed from the start due to his obsession with the English football team Arsenal. This obsession is very much real and rarely played for humor, or at least effectively so.She stays with him though, but we only see them prior to or after shagging so no sense of the depth.They break-up, then eventually reunite after Arsenal has won the title, which makes no sense as he has not grown up or matured in any obvious way throughout the film. Nor does she seem ready to accept this man-child.Roll credits.I thought the American version was bad, but after seeing the inspiration for it, it suddenly looks palatable. "},{"Title":"I Thought It Was OK","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Nick Hornby from About a Boy, though I didn't quite enjoy An Education but being a Gooner, I decided to get a glimpse at this movie&#x96; the result wasn't live up to what I was hope for.Most people here called it the best football movie ever made &#x96; I wouldn't disagree with them but for me, I rather find it so-so. Maybe with all the hype it got me too much hope. Or maybe seeing this movie after 14 years of it release isn't quite doing the trick. Anyway let talk about movie&#x85; The movie itself is quite slow but it compensate with great essence of football, the fan &#x96; the crowd &#x96; the spirit is all there throughout the whole film. But the romantic part wasn't what was I hope for. I somehow find it a bit too boring.The casting and acting was probably the best part of this movie and it work great, but that doesn't help the movie. The set was boring but you still the glimpse of the old Highbury and that can bring back memories. Having a little knowledge of 80' and Arsenal legend would help you understand great deal.Anyway I can't really recommend this movie to everyone since it is heavily base on the love for this game. If you want to see it, there quite a lot of things one need to know about this game and its fan.Rating 5.5/10 (Grade C) "}{"Title":"For the Love of the Game","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is laugh-out-loud funny, romantic in an anti-romance sort of way (I don't know what that means either) and has something to say about why men love sports. I'm a converted football fan after living in football crazy Spain now for almost 5 years. This is the best movie about football (soccer) that I have ever seen (the best movies are about baseball).I read the book years ago and liked it very much without knowing much about the game. To return to both the book and this fine film with my new fanaticism for the game (Valencia CF is my adopted team) has been a true pleasure.Colin Firth proves once again that he is funny, likable, and a fine actor. I believed his passion for Arsenal, and furthermore, I totally understand it. The Spanish have a lot of respect for the UK fans because they are so nutty about the game.I also learned a bit about the history of the Premier League. What a season that must have been! Here it's been Barça or Real Madrid (mostly Barça lately) winning almost everything. "},{"Title":"Arsenal's Fortunes Always Hiding. Until Now.","Date":"4 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A London football-obsessed school teacher has spent the last 20-some years, and every day going forward, viewing life through the one lens his favorite team, The Arsenal Football Club. Having sublimated the grief of his parents' divorce through English Football, he views every week of his life as another football match in pursuit of fortunes always hiding.Colin Firth, who usually plays the archetypical sullen Brit, is resounding as author Nick Hornby's autobiographical noncommittal single man who's really just a lad grown up. Hornby's character then grows smitten a prim and proper English teacher who dislikes him at first but warms up to him and his enthusiasm for sport and life in general.Fever Pitch is a nice portrayal of the struggles of an irrational sports lover reluctantly coming to terms with the fact that, to the rest of the world, there are more important things than Saturday's game.written by Andy Frye, MySportsComplex.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"fervour rather than fever","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on Nick Hornby's novel, this is a case study of soccer fanhood, or hopeless Arsenal supporteritis. The fan, played by Colin Firth in good-humour mode, is brought by his usually absent Dad (Neil Pearson) to a match as a twelve year old and is instantly hooked. He grows up (if that's the right phrase) to become an English teacher in a London comprehensive school and coach of the first XI soccer team, but he's still an ardent Arsenal fan, a team that hasn't (as of 1988) won a championship. He falls in love with a fellow teacher (Ruth Gemmell) but she finds life with a sports addict hard to take. Will he get the girl and his team (Arsenal) the championship? Stay tuned! This is a nice fuzzy warm sort of movie which gives the viewer lots of quiet chuckles. There is a somewhat understanding headmaster (Ken Stott), pleasantly cheeky children, and lots of like-minded fans. There is certainly lots of solidarity. How sane adults can become sports addicts I find impossible to understand fully, but a large part of it seems to be the buzz you get from a sense of belonging to something bigger than you &#x96; a substitution for religion perhaps. "},{"Title":"Some big problems but contains right passion for the game","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teacher Paul Ashworth (Firth) has always been an avid Arsenal football club supporter and when he starts dating a fellow teacher his love for the sport clouds his other purposes in life.The first thing that will strike you about Fever Pitch is that it has the most boring opening to a film in all of time. The second thing you will see is the appreciation the film has of all emotions relating to the beautiful game and how it affects beliefs, life and so forth.Being a fan of British cinema I let the sleepy beginning slide and sat back to watch the film grow into this intriguing reflection on the football side of life and how Colin Firth brandished out on his typecast lover's role for once and created a remarkable shot at a man lost in a world of sport.Bridget Jones, Pride and Prejudice, Mamma Mia and Love Actually. The common factor is? You're right, they're all awful. But they are all also romantic comedies and star Mr Firth as a brandished eye candy for the female viewers. I've never personally been his biggest fan, and like Hugh Grant in About a Boy, it is good to see him brandish away from the Prince Charming perception and dive more into drama. This hard nosed football fanatic is a glorious exploration of obsession with no way of real world understanding and having seen many of his films, he to me has never bettered this. But with A Single Man due next year critics are suggesting it's his time for an Oscar.Sadly we can never fully escape his typecast and we see a love interest inserted to balance out the good and bad of his football obsession. This is almost as ridiculous as Love Actually, there was a brief laugh and then they're snogging, having argued previously in the week. Her jealousy and animosity completely contradicts what is to follow it and Ruth Gemmell in all honesty, brings little but negative vibes to the film.As a fan of football I found the representation quite an accurate depiction of the way the football world used to be and how we as neutrals watched with eager anticipation to see our favourite players march onto the field to the cheers and plaudits of the crowd. Now in a world where we see players selling perfume with their wives (Beckham) and more stories off field than on (manager sackings etc) it has been quite a while since the game has really been viewed as a game of sport and not of tabloid tales. This film however looks beyond the press and sees it as purely a fan's perspective, which benefits it.The scene in the stadium that introduces Ruth Gemmell to the game is a great collaboration of fan's passion and youthful exuberance.The final game we see is a title decider and whether you support Arsenal or not you will be gripped with the fans on screen to see the outcome. Despite major flaws with flashbacks, narration and love interests David Evans has created a good intended drama that is a good reflection of fans emotions to the game. "},{"Title":"Nick Hornby winner that is as shrewd as it is poignant.","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teacher Paul is an obsessive football supporter, his love of Arsenal F.C. knows no bounds. Sarah, who teaches at the same school as Paul, has very little in common with Paul. Inevitably they fall for each other, and inevitably Paul's love of The Arsenal starts to drive them apart.Nick Hornby is a very popular British writer who's other notable works comprise High Fidelity and About A Boy. With Fever Pitch he documented about the triumphant football season that Arsenal had in 1988/1989, while simultaneously outlaying his own stress inducing personal life that ran parallel with his football passion. In the novel, which became a monster seller, Hornby was able to perfectly form just how passionate and ridiculous the hardened football supporter can be I've been there and done that myself thank you very much, and tho some of it is expectedly lost in translation to the screen, the core essence is all there to make it a winning adaptation.Tho laced with truly funny sequences and English soccer in jokes, Fever Pitch is also a most tender and heartfelt piece. Parential problems are handled tidily by director David Evans, and crucially the female axis in this male dominated story is very well portrayed. Both Hornby and Evans do however owe a big debt of gratitude to its leading stars. Colin Firth Paul and Ruth Gemmell Sarah are wonderful, both understated and both providing an intimacy that at first didn't seem possible. Coming as it does in this particular season, the film encompasses the Hillsborough tragedy that left 96 football supporters tragically killed. This is expertly handled by all involved, with Firth particularly towering whilst acting from an armchair as he comes to terms with both the events on the TV screen, and his query laden girlfriend. Which leaves us with what exactly? Well it's a very British film, and it was no surprise to see it remade as an American piece in 2005. Funny and tender probably best sums up this 1997 film, obviously not as good as the book they say, but it's a mighty fine effort regardless. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Teenage Kicks","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Often alluded to as ' The Beautiful Game', that famous night in May 1989 exemplifies exactly why football is worthy of such an endearing nickname. And I'm not only talking on the level of how, against all odds, the resilient Arsenal snatched the title from the mighty Liverpool with practically the last kick of the season; Nor only on the level of the soaring emotional significance of that night for the losing team and their fans, who hoped to dedicate their almost-certain-victory to the 90 Liverpool fans crushed to death just a month earlier in football's most horrific tragedy; and neither on the level that the game's ball-for-ball account was delivered by one of the greatest commentators in living memory , Mr Football himself Brian Moore (R.I.P.) in which he produced one of the most famous lines in sporting history 'It's up for grabs now!'. In the light of the movie being discussed I'm going to speak on level that will further emphasise Hornby's point on fanatism and how ridiculously far some of us will take it. Yes, the championship decider between Liverpool and Arsenal had all of the above and more, but the very first thing that springs to my mind with its every mention is its aesthetics. In my opinion that night showcased 2 of the most (for lack of a better word) stunning kits to ever grace a football pitch. Both adorned with the famous 3 Adidas stripes down the sides and the old-school leaf; Liverpool in flaming all red sporting the cursive 'Candy' logo across the front in white, Arsenal in banana yellow with dark navy almost black sleeves and shorts with the neat 'JVC' logo printed on the front. I'm not sure which one I preferred but if I was to take this even further and look at the game on a metaphorical level as the 'Battle of the Shirts', I think Arsenal shaded it &#133;just! Forget Football Factory and Greenstreet Hooligans. For all you non-football fans who wish to learn more about REAL supporters and their so-called idiosyncratic passion for their team, watch this movie. But bear in mind, as good as it is, it barely combs the fringes of Nick Hornby's more elaborate hilariously witty novel .I also recommend that you watch the last 5 minutes of the Liverpool-Arsenal championship decider of 1989. Trust me, it surpasses any Hollywood script on all levels; audio, visual, dramatic, emotional.&#133; Fever Pitch! "},{"Title":"Fun original about sports obsession","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fever Pitch(1997) The original soccer based version of the Nick Hornby story starring Colin Firth( the remake stars Jimmy Fallon & Drew Barrymore and follows the Bosox).OK- I know obsessive sports fans- OK I am one - reformed- now I follow fake sport(pro wrestling).OK I still follow the Skins and the O's- but not like I did when I was younger.Colin Firth is an obsessed Arsenal fan- been following them for 21 years- when the season is going on - the rest of the world is static to him. Miss Hughes(misuse) is a leggy and serious teacher that teaches the class next to his class- they eventually hit it off(probably cuz they are the best looking folks on the faculty-they seem to have nothing in common-besides good skin and good form).Firth is so obsessed he even gets a flat within spitting distance of the Arsenal pitch.A good flick about sports obsession . B "},{"Title":"World evolves around a football","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First - don't be fooled by the stupid cover of the video, which doesn't really help to give this film some credibility.  Someone was asking in his/her comment why this film did not get a bigger release here in the US, well look on how popular soccer is, it's still treated as a stepchild in the US sports world and to be honest I'm not too much into the MLS myself. I'd rather see an English or German game on FSW (Fox Sports World). All this said I have to clarify that fanatics can occur in every sports - what about all you Saints fans that are still hoping that New Orleans Eleven will one day win the big one.  I'm not gonna repeat the story line as it is documented many times in these comments. I think the script is utterly funny, I actually checked if some of the good lines in the movie made the quotes' site on IMDB. Checkout the smoking / stay over night quote, which took me so off guard that I immediately wrote it down, specially coming from the iron britches lady.At the end when Sarah Hughes (Ruth Gemmell) is wearing the red/white polka dot dress (Arsenal colors), we already know the end of the movie, but it doesn't spoil it all. A sports movie that women may dig as well. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Maybe you need to be one of us to understand","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If even Chelsea fans don't hate this movie, then it has to be great.The characters are real, the script was adapted by the author of the autobiography. The situations are real, that's the television footage of the match, with commentary. The only thing wrong that I could spot was that the outside of the North Stand was under construction in '89, and that isn't reflected in the movie.AFC, 2003 FA CUP Champions. "},{"Title":"Not just about The Arsenal!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great movie, by far in my top 5 all time greats!  It tells of a man who is obsessed with a Football (soccer) team, The Arsenal.  His whole life has been about them.  When they win, he is happy.  When they lose, look out! A woman who is prim and proper enters his life when The Arsenal have the chance to win the League for the first time in 18years.  As his teams has it's ups and downs during that faithful year of 1989, so to does his relationship with her.  In the end, they both make compromises, and with his joy of Arsenal winning it all, so does he ... by winning in life, the girl he loves, and becoming a father. "}{"Title":"A good slice of life film about young dreams and growing up","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fever Pitch is one of those slice of life films that sucks you in.  You may not be interested in sports, but the filmmaker gets you involved with his love of the game, and that game being football (soccer for us across the pond).  Colin Firth who plays Paul gives a great performance of a man who loves his football.  Ladies if you ever want to get into a guy's head about sports and what it means to some of us this is the movie you need to see. When Sarah enters Paul's life played by Ruth Gemmell adulthood comes a knocking.  Fever Pitch is one of those films that gets under your skin because due to the themes in deals with.  Love, passion, and one's dreams are all themes that run throughout this film.  In the end Fever Pitch is a neat, lovable, and funny film that just might make you smile. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for the sports fan in all of us.  More so for Gooners.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A neat well-paced romantic tale about an Arsenal fan-atic discovering that there is love other than that for his team.  Unlike Hollywood sports films, which are either propaganda-like 'epics' or kiddie fantasies, Fever Pitch is told in the restrained manner characteristic of many 'small' independant movies, which hence does not mask the irrational behaviour of the die-hard fans.  It may have all the corny dated touches, from the school team scenes to the celebrations in the end, but they only enhance the charm of this story.A classic for any Gooner (as in 'Gunner' - anyone associated with 'Arsenal' FC), and not for Liverpool (nor 'massive Spurs') supporters.  May 26 1989 remains one of the most dramatic last minutes to a football season, headed of course by the injury-time ten years later (May 26 1999) at the Nou Camp (2 goals and a Treble for the World's Greatest Team). "},{"Title":"Fun Footie Fanaticism","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable, small British film, adapted from one of the best sports books ever written. Fortunately, Nick Hornby wrote the screenplay, so there is a consistency of tone despite the differences (the film is centred around a romantic relationship). Fortunately this is now available in Canada on video, but never got much (if any) of a theatrical release. Seen as too specific to soccer fans, but any sports fans should be able to relate. "},{"Title":"You don't have to be a sports fan to enjoy this film","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A tight and well made film about the excesses of sport fanatics. Although this film is about soccer and therefore may not be appreciated by most North Americans, it is a film that delves into much more than just the wins or losses. Check it out, you might be surprised. "},{"Title":"Touching and hilarious portrait of an obsessed fan","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is an overlooked gem - much better than the American remake.Colin Firth's Paul really hasn't a clue as to how stunted he is emotionally, due to his obsession with his favorite football club, Arsenal. Sarah, the uptight teacher who sort of conveniently falls into his life (if she hadn't been teaching in the class next to his, he probably would have remained alone) is aghast to discover the depth of his attachment to Arsenal (the Arsenal boxers that Paul blithely sports give her the first clue).I love the scene where Paul is trying to convince her of his newfound maturity, but only succeeds in lighting his dinner napkin on fire. Firth's portrayal is quietly brilliant and hilarious. And as a baseball fan who wears rally caps and refuses to move her spot on the couch when her team is winning a big game, I found so much to relate to. I've been there with Paul in the depths of despair and the heights of delirium. Luckily I married a baseball fan too! I bought this movie on DVD after renting it, and love to watch it once or twice a year. Undeniably and proudly English, it entertained this American to no end. "},{"Title":"Funny Film about Obsession","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of us either know an obsessive or are one ourselves. This film is about a man whose obsession with a football team has brought him years of comfort but also stunted his emotional development. Cocooned in his family of Arsenal fans, Paul Ashworth is clueless in real relationships. Colin Firth, most often known to fans as restrained and aristocratic Mr. Darcy, v. 1 or v. 2, is here rumpled and unshaven and wild-haired throughout. His voice as Paul is also quite different. I'm no expert on English accents, but he swallows his consonants and broadens some of his vowels. And instead of Firth's patented watchful smoulder, here when Paul is talking about his beloved football team -- confiding unnecessarily that he would pay extra! to live next door to the stadium -- his face is entirely unguarded, open, and vulnerable. Paul is a man-child. One can only agree when the love interest refers to him as a 12-year-old.The movie has many delights the great shaggy performance by Firth; the excellence of the writing; the truthfulness of the human observations (which pertain to many subjects beyond football); the comedy. However certain parts of the movie were frustrating for me, an American viewer. One it's pitched to an English audience, of course, so the dialogue is very rapid and full of English slang. Without the consonants and crisp diction, and with a music soundtrack, the words can be very hard to follow. (I must have replayed It's NOT the smoking, Steve. It's the crapness, half a dozen times before I could make it out.) I wanted to shake the director as I felt with only a very little tinkering, which would not have harmed the specific Englishness of the story, he could have created a world-wide hit. In my opinion it wasn't -- as has been written -- the background of football that kept this from happening; folks enter into entire fantasy worlds a la J.R.R. Tolkein without batting an eyelid. It was the blurry, difficult-to-follow audio! Viewers need to be able to understand what's being said! (Non-Brits may profit by turning on subtitles.) Two a lot of the cinematography looked cheap and poorly lit. Three I would have added a bit more to flesh out the romance, as this one, as written, though fun, was uneven and appears doomed.Here is an audio clip from a Colin Firth fan site which illustrates the charms and frustrations of this filmhttp//www.firthessence.net/audio/football.mp3(a) Different and interesting Colin Firth accent. (b) Terrific portrayal of obsession. (c) Wonderfully written lines that I had to strain to catch. (d) Great music that unfortunately made it even harder to do (c).However, the film is well worth the small struggle (if you're not English) to decipher. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Partisan","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a Gooner I can't see this as anything but a celebration of the most dramatic season finale ever. Everything else that happens in the movie is incidental, and although I accept that those who don't know about Arsenal won't appreciate this, it is undeniably the case. Sorry if you though there was a movie in there somewhere - there really isn't. This is about Arsenal winning the league in the final seconds of a hugely memorable season, and the sheer emotion of the fans.If others find the movie entertaining then all well and good - I hope neutrals will come away with a feeling of warmth towards this historic club and it's magnificent fans. Those that understand Arsenal will appreciate the sentimentality, and I for one am proud that a quite successful film has been made about my team. Firth and Strong give passable impressions of Gooners, though Gemmell probably gives the best dramatic performance as the initially uptight middle-class feminist.In Highbury's final months the film gains a poignancy and serves as a tasteful tribute to the fans, the players, and the greatest little football stadium the world has ever known. There will never be another Highbury, but thanks go to this film for immortalizing this unique football club. "},{"Title":"Great film - highly recommended!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why Fever Pitch was not more widely released in the U.S. is beyond me. This female American baseball fan finds much to relate to, and this film boasts a funny, touching script, wonderful performances and a terrific soundtrack to boot.Colin Firth (Paul) gives a quietly brilliant comedic performance as the child-man who comes to realize that football may have a bit too much of a hold on him.  Anyone who lived through Game 6 of the 1986 World Series will relate to the scenes of Arsenal's 1989 championship win, and the expression on Paul's face.There are so many funny bits throughout. It is really one of the better, more memorable films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"It's a Winner!!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is unique, funny, and absolutely charming!! Colin Firth is, needless to say, exceptional as a Football Fanatic. I didn't think I would like him as a Yob, but I fell in love with the realness and honesty of the character. His character made me understand the guys I've gone out with in the past, who were Hockey-Obsessed, and I will look at Sports-Crazy guys in a different light from now on!! For those women out there who would like to watch a Romantic-Comedy with your Sports-Crazy boyfriends/husbands but they think they're all tear-jerking Chick-Flicks, give this one a try; he'll probably appreciate Paul's (Colin Firth) point of view. This is a Definite Must-See for Colin Firth Fans, Football/Soccer Fans, and those who are tired of the Hollywood Romantic Comedy Formula.  "},{"Title":"It is ok..","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on Nick Hornby's novel of the same name, Fever Pitch follows the life of a fanatic football fan and public school teacher.  Ever since he was a young lad Paul has worshipped 'Arsenal' in England, and the movie goes back in forth in flashbacks as he parables his joys and failures with the victories and defeats of his favourite club.The movie does fairly good justice to the book but it does leave out a lot.  It is quite humourous and good natured, but the decision to add a plot of dating a stuffy school teacher and knocking her up became a bit distracting.  Nevertheless, it is wonderfully acted by Colin Firth who can't make any comparisons to life with out some 'football' analogy, and won't live life without his team.  A perfect example is when his divorced dad comes to see him again, and asks why they have to go see Arsenal every time he comes to visit.  His father then suggests for a different outing to visit his grandmother, and the kid looks horrified and shocked that he would even insinuate that they miss a game.  It's as if his father had gone mad that they would visit MOM... instead of watching the 'Gunners'.I did like the film but the book was better, its more rich and detailed.  But the film completely captures the essence of every guy who routes for his favourite football/soccer club.  I should know, I am an Arsenal fan myself.Best advice though... read the book firstRating 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Football is the place he feels pain and joy","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Colin Firth is endearing as a London schoolteacher for whom Arsenal fills the void in his life - it is the place where he feels joy and pain.  Nick Hornby's screenplay follows him through the 1988/1989 season, which culminates in Arsenal winning the League Championship in the final minute of the season's final game.  This sequence achieves the near impossible feat of making watching TV - where Firth and his friend (Mark Strong) are viewing the game - seem interesting. This is a very English affair, and a very English obsession.  Anyone wishing to a pertinent picture of contemporary English national identity could well study this film as it portrays the way the English grieve (as in the sequence during which Firth cries at scenes of the Hillsborough disaster) and celebrate.  Also, unlike 'The Firm' and 'I.D' it depicts the fan as a likeable obsessive, not a dangerous hooligan. "},{"Title":"Well made British film.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fever Pitch is an excellent book written by acclaimed English writer Nick Hornby covering his love for Arsenal, England's number one soccer team and their 1989 championship win. The film adaptation starring Colin Firth has been well made; the school scenes are particularly well done. Probably unappealing in America where soccer is not as popular this is actually a good adaptation that is surely one of the best films to come out of England in the last five years. Well worth watching even if you don't like soccer Fever Pitch captures the amazing spirit of 1989 that brought Arsenal the most exciting championship ever. "},{"Title":"Under Rated","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fever Pitch is a really good film and I'm going to repeat what so many have written and that is you honestly don't have to like football (or soccer as you Americans like to dub it!!!) to enjoy Fever Pitch. Colin Firth is brilliant as the teacher Arsenal fanatic who falls in love with a colleague who hates the game. This is my favorite Nick Hornby adaptation. "},{"Title":"I don't know much about football, but I love this film!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Luckily for me, not knowing much about football did not ruin my viewing pleasure. At first, watching somebody become so obsessed with a game is quite worrying, but as the film progresses and we learn more about Paul, we understand him and his obsession a little more. Although I am not sure if Colin Firth is a major footie fan, the way in which he acts out his part makes the reader believe that he is. Also, the way in which Sarah (Ruth Gemmell) struggles to understand his football fever is particularly amusing and for most women, her character is probably one of the easiest to relate too! A must see for all Arsenal fans...and all Firth Fans, such as myself, this film is a true bred British film and we should be proud of it!  "},{"Title":"I expected more","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'd heard a lot of good things about this movie but it didn't really do much for me, it was just okay. Sure it was funny and cute and heartwarming but I think I was expecting more humour as this is described as a romantic comedy and it was actually kind of sad.We follow Paul Ashworth (Colin Firth), who uses Arsenal to fill his life starting (through flashbacks)as a lonely young boy. He continues his obsession into adulthood, using the team as an emotional anchor and basing his whole life (and moods) on how well the team is playing. His new girlfriend doesn't get it, I mean it's just a game! Arsenal takes on a life of its own though, its the third person in the relationship, its an obsession, its a metaphor for life and sadly Arsenal keeps losing. (Maple Leafs anyone). On one level I could totally relate to Paul's character as a Canadian we're all about the hockey, its what we talk about and it rules everything.As okay as this movie was it was still 100% better than the American baseball remake which I didn't even make it all the way through. I will have to make a point of reading Nick Hornby's book. 05.13 "},{"Title":"Has some interest, though it can't hold a candle to the book","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some years ago I read (and liked) the book Fever Pitch by Nick Hornby (High Fidelity, About a Boy), which was a collection of autobiographical anecdotes about his long lasting support of Arsenal, from 1968 when he become a fan until 1989, the year the Gunners won the First Division after almost 20 years.The movie decides to eschew the book approach and fictionalizes the story as a sort of romantic comedy in which supposed opposites attract. It's 1989, and Colin Firth is Paul (Hornby's alter ego) a teacher at a school in London, and the movie is about his burgeoning romance with Sarah Hughes (Ruth Gemmell), a new teacher at the school. As their relationship develops, Paul seems sometimes more concerned about Arsenal's standing in the championship and the increasing likelihood that it will finally win the league. This to the dismay of Sarah, who hates football and is very uptight. Intercalated with these scenes, we see Paul as a young kid in the late 1960s, his relationship with his divorced father, and how he initially become an Arsenal fan.One problem with the movie is that we never know what Sarah saw in Paul, since she is critical of him from the start (the first time they talk in the movie, she protests the noise his students are making in the classroom next to her own class). Their chemistry is basically zero. Of course, this is not the fault of either Firth or Gemmell (their acting is fine). It's the script that in my view took a wrong approach. "},{"Title":"Delightful rom-com pitting sports lovers against regular folk with no clear winner.","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Plot is quite good, performances are excellent, even the writing is good. A quick plot summary1) Boy loves Arsenal 2) Boy meets girl and they hate each other 3) They end up falling in love and accidentally getting pregnant 4) Boy's love of football drives them apart. Girl keeps wanting him to live in the real world. 5) Boy makes pretty solid arguments about how the real world is not really all that interesting and it's good to have something outside of yourself to be emotionally attached to. 6) Arsenal wins the league and the both realize they were equally sort of wrong. 7) Happily ever after.This is a delightful film, and you will enjoy it. Especially if you are a Firth fan. He has delightfully moppy hair and his character is frustratingly endearing. There is very little to say on the positive side as it is all just...really nice! Funny, heartwarming, great pacing, just lovely. Stop reading this review and go and watch it.For the downside, there is really only one the resolution. In classic, rom-com style, after having a row, she (though it's usually the guy) has a change of heart and seeks him out. She runs to his house in the final minutes of the game, and he tells her to...well...get lost but uses much stronger language. This moment relies on you knowing that most British apartments (at least in the late 80s) didn't have a way for you to buzz people in from inside your home. He realizes it was her and runs down to get her (even though the game is still on!) and she has wandered off. He runs back upstairs to catch the winning goal, and they meet up/make up/make out during the victory celebration in the streets. That all sounds lovely, but for me, it fell a bit flat. First, I felt her wandering away was strange. I don't think the movie was materially improved by delaying their reunion until the party. I suppose it gives a bit of a reason to show the celebration, but it felt strange. The time it took him to run downstairs, after swearing at her, was hardly enough time for her to wander far enough that he couldn't see her. Second, the issues in their relationship remain unresolved. There is a bit of a throwaway where he says, Their failures are not my failures any more or something like that. Essentially, his life/happiness is less connected to Arsenal's success. So, the movie wants you to think that they met in the middle he changed a little and so did she (evidenced by their cute bickering as the movie closes). However, it's a trick. He gives up something deeply meaningful to him and becomes less connected to football and his fellow fans. She likes football a little more. That's it. She doesn't think the real world is any less real. She learns no lessons about the beauty of loving something you have no control over. That's her whole character preparing, lesson plans, organization. It's all about control. She doesn't give that up or even question it. You could argue that she feels it a little in the street celebration, but that's unconvincing to me. I've been in those celebrations, and they're fun even if you don't care a whit for the team or even the sport. All it would have taken would have been a single line suggesting that she might be rethinking her priorities. But no, the conclusion is that sports are still juvenile and silly, and we should all really focus on more important things and not be so affected by them.In conclusion, I liked it, but for my personal tastes (as a lover of sport), the resolution could have been more satisfying. "},{"Title":"Love for football vs the woman","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are looking to see a romantic comedy I would recommend this British film. It's funny, it's serious, and of course romantic, without being sentimental. The movie felt like a big smile, but the question is; can the love for football and the club Arsenal be combined with the love for a woman? Paul is obsessed with football and 'The Gunners', but Sarah has no idea what this game is all about.The writer Nick Hornby wrote this novel in the 80s, and he is also the man behind the script. He also has a little cameo as a coach for a boy's football team. The story takes place in 1989, and this proved to be an enjoyable and fun movie. I could see myself in my younger days watching the Norwegian team Rosenborg and British Manchester United play, and relating to this movie's depiction of enthusiasm, empathy, anxiety, and even grief, on behalf of the team.Fever Pitch rises above all those anonymous romantic comedies. There is something here that I've never seen before; the environment, the dialogues, and the actors; it has all made this story into something different. As Paul says; There's always a reason to love what you love. That's passion. For the main character, Arsenal was the social channel to his family and friends, the team meant life and affiliation.Everything is told with intelligence and good humour. The actors gives us capturing performances, especially Colin Firth, he is sparkling with his growing dilemma - football or Sarah, or maybe both? This movie puts across the necessity to be thrilled by football - and of course by fellow humans. This movie for certain a feel good movie! "},{"Title":"Not a sports movie, per se","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not a sports movie, per se, as those tend to focus on athletes, but a fan movie. (I wasn't aware that they were called fans in England, I had always heard the term football supporter) Colin Firth plays a lifelong soccer fan, from his formative years. I don't know if his obsessiveness is at all common in England, but it must be enough so for people to recognize the archetype. I have not seen the American remake, which focuses on baseball, (probably because of the word pitch in the title) but in the States, that sort of fandom comes closer to (American) football. But it never get like this. The story is about how his fanaticism drives his entire life, overcoming love, marriage, parenthood, and all else. It's an OK film, but I find it hard to recommend. "},{"Title":"Touching soccer-centric suburban romcom","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nick Hornby has made a reasonable living out of book that re-acclimatise age old blokey diversions with the mainstream. High Fidelity, a film about a record obsessive who comes to terms with regrets over previous girlfriends, was more successful generally. Fever Pitch deserves attention though as a well-acted, pleasantly scripted account of the same shortfalls and overlaps of growing up, this time centred around the obsession of football.Colin Firth, sporting a mop stolen from backstage at a Simply Red gig is the Arsenal compulsive, maybe not living and breathing the team but certainly wearing them. It's the high noon of 'cool Britannia' where women are getting used to the idea that not only thugs but also real men enjoy watching - indeed, following - football and this story is as much about Ruth Gemmell's Sarah coming to terms with that. Holly Aird and Mark Strong are the genre-satisfying confidants. It's a sine qua non for Arsenal supporters but all fans can enjoy it as well. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Fever Pitch is a Fun Movie","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm biased because I am addicted to an English football club myself, but I absolutely love this movie and could watch it everyday.Viewers unfamiliar with British football culture will learn a lot about the game and the passion people have for it, as well as enjoy a nice British film that gives insight into a part of English culture spanning decades (1950's - 1980's).Collin Firth's narrative is wonderful, and the movie is very faithful to Nick Hornsbey's book and storyline.The music is spot on through out and assists the viewer unfamiliar with the novel or English football to understand what is going on and why the character's act the way they do.And the end is fun and inspirational.Okay, so maybe it gets a little corny here and there, but it's a great British film and done with style and class.And one last thing - my favorite team, the mighty Liverpool FC, won the 2005 European Champions League and I know exactly how it feels to follow a team to victory - YOU'LL NEVER WALK ALONE! "},{"Title":"Captures the essence of fandom and gives the one thing that can melt it","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That's how good Nick Hornby's original best-seller was. It captured the essence of fandom at a time when sport obsession is more rampant than ever, and yet, it showed how eventually, true love presents itself as the one thing more important than what the football (or for that matter you can substitute it with any sport) fan holds dearest. At the end of this film, you come away with not only a touching belief in love and its pricks and silent sacrifices, played out beautifully by the characters, but also a sense of what nostalgic fandom means not just as almost a tradition in a person's life, but the power of love to melt over it.Acting performances in this film are fantastic and while its probably not the film that launched Colin Firth's career as British Leading man, is the one that has him capturing the essence of something intrinsically British (namely- football fanaticism), epitomised by his crazy worship of his team, Arsenal F.C. Firth's performance is as classy as it is deranged; hilarious yet naively charming. However, Firth's acting is boosted because there is essentially a fantastically wonderful story that underlaid this work, since it was based on Hornby's published work (which was always) probably going to be made into a movie, just for its fairytale feel, and of course, it was a precedent setting film as it was one of the first football (soccer) based mid-budget films. And like its ensuing emulators, other football based movies, like 'My Summer with Des' or 'Mike Bassett', what is utilised strongly is the level of emotion and drama that can be correspondingly tweaked to titillate based on the events of sport that the show uses. In this one, complete with stock footage of Michael Thomas' injury time winner at Anfield over the English Champions Liverpool F.C in 1989 - the team that in the words of one of the ladies in the film, was 'famous for being good', the film can boast an amazing climatic setting for the finale, on top of the romance quotient.It set a romantic comedy precedent for British type sport movies and is worth watching for that pioneering factor alone. 1-0 to the Arsenal, 2-0 to Colin Firth, and 3-0 game set and match for Nick Hornby's Fever Pitch! "},{"Title":"book is better","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's not easy to find a good film about soccer/football (or sports). This is not a great one, but is lithe enough to be funny. But the book it's based upon is great probably, the best book ever written about football...and very difficult to adapt (well, probably Kaufman'd done it...anyway). "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are several Paul's in this world-I feel Im one of them and so for me this film is a landmark achievement.The film helps us understand people like Paul and some us really identify with him.Of course he's  lucky Arsenal did win.Many of us are still waiting for our teams to win.Colin Firth is terrific as is Ruth Gemmel.  "},{"Title":"No better film covers the fans obsession with this wonderful sport","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSOften it's easier to write a review in which the criticism is neutral and completely unbiased. Sadly with films like Fever Pitch it's just not possible. As a result on a personal level, this film is absolutely wonderful. This adaptation of Hornby's diary is a beauty of a film. To me personally it's not necessarily wonderful because of it's acting and direction, which are relatively mediocre, but because it reminds me of me and of everyone I know.Paul Ashworth is a passionate football fan. Stemming from his childhood with a distant father, Paul has developed a lifelong obsession with Arsenal Football Club. Into his life steps fellow teacher (Paul being an English teacher) Sarah Hughes (Ruth Gemmell). Sarah hates football, but through their relationship, the two develop as individuals and learn a lot about themselves.Fever Pitch makes me smile in an ironic way. As a rare Manchester United fan who doesn't particularly care about Manchester City or Liverpool but who detests Arsenal, this film SHOULD be an object of annoyance. The thing is though, despite how much someone might loathe and hate the team which Paul is a lifelong fan of, they can associate with him. Only the other week I was talking to a Tottenham Hotspur (the ULTIMATE Arsenal Rival) fan who even loved this film. The essence of Fever Pitch is that everyone who lives in the British Isles will associate with either Paul or Sarah. Whilst Rugby (Union in particular) might have certain superior tendencies, football is and will always be the national sport. With this in mind, everyone in this country will either feel a passionate fan like Paul, or they'll feel the annoyance of knowing a fan, like Sarah.Perhaps ultimately though, football isn't the true essence of this film. As a plot accessory, Hornby chooses a topic which is easy to connect to, but this could be anything. Everyone in life develops an obsession in their life which they rely upon. To demonstrate this, we need simply look at 2005's American remake in which the fan is a Baseball fan. Anything in which one person can develop a loving basis is worthy of attention and it's always worthy of praise.Fever Pitch is a personal favourite, and as a result it's easy to say it's wonderful, but it's hard to review as a film. From a neutral point of view, it could be argued that the soundtrack is superb and the general plot are brilliant (if predictable), whilst the acting is average and the cinematography is hardly special. Ultimately though, Fever Pitch is never a film to be taken from a neutral point of view. This film is something to watch and adore from a fanatical point of view and to adore as it's easy to associate with. It's a film which the fan sits and adores and associates with. There's the people who we live with and who slowly get converted to our faith, and there's the lifestyle which we live. It's too easy to get attached to this film.On a final note, it's already been shown that on a personal level I adore this film, but one thing I want to point out is just how much it much appeal to me. Simply put, I DETEST Arsenal. As a Manchester United fan, it should be that I hate Manchester City, Leeds and Liverpool. Ultimately though, it feels nowadays that United fans just feel pity for City and Liverpool rather than hatred. Perhaps I'm wrong, I probably am, but on a personal level, Arsenal are top of the list. I HATE Arsenal. I HATE that whilst they are admitably the best side in the League, they are ridiculously foreign under Arsene Wenger. Anyway, this is irrelevant. The point is that whilst Arsenal might be scum, this film is addictive irrelevant of the team. Whether Paul was an Arsenal fan, a Birmingham fan, a Chelsea fan, even a Manchester United fan, the point remains that football is a passion which the country is united upon. Irrelevant of the team, we all feel this pride and this bond and personally, I love this film for reminding us of this. "},{"Title":"Very very very underrated. The best on its kind.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I normally do not comment on movies but to see this movie so underrated made me so. This is just a brillant movie that shows what it's like to be a supporter. I watch a lot of movies but I'm yet to see a better movie on this subject.Near Perfect.  "},{"Title":"OK movie, but lacking something.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie was weak at best. It is unbelievable as a romantic comedy, and the main character's obsession with Ar5ena1 is just annoying. There are no really likable characters in the movie, and the story just isn't very compelling. The courtship between the two main characters is jarringly short... they go from meeting (and disliking each other) to snogging in a manner of minutes. You never get a good picture of why, exactly, they like each other.This movie may, however, appeal to people who like Ar5ena1; especially all of them who claim to be lifelong supporters of the team, all of them who claim to have watched the match in question, and even all of them who (like most Ar5ena1 fans) turn off the telly when 'their' team is losing in order to go to the pub. Now that's loyalty! COYS! "},{"Title":"Should have been better.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The biggest problem with this film is that an opportunity was missed to comedically exploit football-fan fanaticism. Instead, sport-fanaticism is taken far too seriously, considering what it really is, and although there is some humour at its expense, there wasn't enough of it. Somehow too much time is spent on soppy relationship nonsense, which goes nowhere. Still, the film isn't boring, and occasionally provides amusing insight into the world of the mindless football fan. The ending, with the main character desperately trying not to watch a championship match and being totally negative, is quite amusing, and there should have been more of that. "},{"Title":"Unlikable characters, underdeveloped story, disappointing film","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've liked other movies based on Nick Hornby books (High Fidelity, About a Boy). I saw the American Fever Pitch before I discovered it was a Nick Hornby story, and I thought that movie was pretty tepid, so I got the British version starring Colin Firth. I thought I would be in for a treat, but the movie was seriously lacking.I mainly felt that the two main characters were both thoroughly unlikable. I could not see any reason why these two people fell in love. We were given few (I'm hard pressed to remember even one) scene in which they were not bickering, nagging or generally disrespecting each other. There was no chemistry between the two of them, and neither character's personality seemed to benefit from contact with the other person. It seemed absolutely false to me. Paul seemed to have no capacity to enjoy life at all, even when Arsenal was doing well. Sarah ceaselessly nagged Paul about aspects of his personality that she was well aware of before they got together. They were both uninteresting and charmless. I normally like Colin Firth, but his big soulful eyes were not enough to carry this character.It also felt as though the movie had been cut down from a longer runtime. There were awkward progressions from scene to scene and elements that were partially developed, then abandoned. In a montage near the end, Paul and Sarah are seen frolicking together, but it happens in the midst of a time when they are separated. Indeed, the very next time Paul encounters Sarah at school, he coldly greets her with a perfunctory Ms. Hughes. It doesn't make sense.The film cheaps out on the football action - I can't think of a single shot of pro football that was filmed for this movie. The only time we see actual football (apart from the kids games and an amateur match) are on TV. There were times when I expected the camera to cut to the on-field action, but it never did. The net result is that the movie feels cheap and under-imagined.Hornby is credited with writing the screenplay for this film, and I don't think he did a particularly good job of adapting his talents to the medium. I also think the directing was mediocre. A good director could have helped the production overcome the problems this film suffers from, but the direction here seemed limited to a workmanlike effort to cover the action and nothing more.I guess I'll have to read the book to get a good experience with this story. This film is seriously disappointing. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See, Colin Firth is this bloke who's so into footie and Arsenal that He Just Can't Commit to a relationship. And, er, that's it. This could have been funny but it really wasn't and even as a brain-dead romantic comedy, it's a bit grim. "}{"Title":"A fantastic portrayal of the stupidity of the obsessive football fan.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We'll never be beyond that stageAnyone who's seen this wonderful depiction of what it is that sets those of us that follow football (or for readers in America English Football) apart from from most rational, sane people will identify entirely with the sentiment of this quote, and the film as a whole. You don't really have to know anything about soccer to get this film but it definitely helps. If you are one of those quite frankly crazy people that will happily travel the length and breadth of the country to watch a game which has no consequence you will take so much more from it. Even though Paul follows Arsenal- a team despised by many in England- its not about them and more a young lad's discovery of Football. The way in which this develops into full blown obsession is what many true fans will appreciate the most. "},{"Title":"Try being a Chelsea fan!","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is utterly brilliant - brilliant plot and fantastic music, particularly 'There she goes' by the LAs which is particularly appropriate for the teacher in the film.It's also a very English film, too, and not just because of the north London setting - football, Arsenal Football Club, patience (for years on end as your football team fail over and over), diffidence and stuff like that.By the way, if you think it's painful being an Arsenal fan believe me it's 100 times worse as a Chelsea fan (we haven't won the league since 1955).  When Chelsea win the league it'll be not fever pitch but a volcanic eruption. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very well-made and very entertaining movie.  Highly recommended.Look for Stephen Rea in a small part which is hilarious.Also, this movie has more Subbuteo in it than any other film I can recall. "},{"Title":"the world needs more films like this","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Today's IMDB poll was about sports. Apparently a mere 1.8% of the voting populace wanted to see a good sports film about horse racing, whilst 13% would prefer football. Although this movie is more about fans than football itself, it should satisfy u 13%'s football-film-related-needs. It's funny, touching and romantic enough to make even my mom love it, plus it is the perfect portrayal of any sports fan. Colin Firth is hot and highly amusing as always. Best part (after the end) when he sets the napkin on fire. Anyway, Fever Pitch is a total must-see. Now where the hell is my horse racing film? "},{"Title":"Please change the ending.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a Liverpool fan, I hate this film.  It would be superb if the ending was changed.  It simply hurts too much to re-live that fateful day. Whenever I watch the film I leave the room for the last few minutes.A must for football fans. "},{"Title":"Really quite good, but maybe my expectations were too high","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very good movie, but not quite as impressive as 'About a Boy' and 'High Fidelity' which were also based on Nick Hornby books. For some reason, the screenplay missed some opportunities. For one thing, the protagonist just didn't seem like a real person. I mean, I know he was supposed to be a stereotype, but Hornby's work is usually excellent at making fanatics look like interesting and complex human beings. Here he didn't succeed to the to the degree he probably could have. "},{"Title":"A man must choose between his love of soccer and his love of a woman.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a queer film to be released in this overly saturated sports country. In the US we have too much sports as it is, why  anyone would want to inflict more sports on us for the sake of commerce is criminal! Anyway this film deals with soccer and a man who loves soccer who meets a woman who doesn't like soccer but when they hook and she gets pregnant she begins to like soccer and by the way did I mention this film is about soccer. I hate to be redundant and obviously facetious here but if you're not a soccer fan, which I'm not, I mean a soccer fan who wears the team's colors, whether it be uniforms or paint on one's face, which I'm not, then there really isn't much going for this film. Rudy, the Michael Anspaugh film from 1993, touched upon similar issues in its depiction of a youth whose life revolved around football but refreshingly there were elements of dreams lost, missed opportunities, and the ultimate value of perseverance woven into the film's overall theme but in Fever Pitch's case we are hammered, bombarded, and yes raped by this one fan's intense love of the game. "},{"Title":"Own Goal...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ENGLISH.. FILM REVIEW FEVER PITCH..(POSSIBLE SPOILERS) Although, what its spoiling is beyond me...Fever Pitch, based on Nick Hornby's autobiography, is a romantic comedy about a man, a woman and a football team.  Sadly in my view, these 3 things make a terrible film. It all starts in when a young boy called Paul (Luke Aikman) goes to watch a Football match with his Dad (Neil Pearson), after seeing one match, Paul instantly becomes a `Gunner', or an Arsenal fan to those people who hate football. The Years go past and Paul is now grown up (now being played by Colin `Mr Darcy' Firth) and is also a High School English Teacher and Coach of the Schools Football teams. When new Teacher Sarah (played by Ruth Gemmil) turns up, Paul's life takes a horrible twist.you see, he fancies her, but there's a problem (warning, if your not sitting down, you might want to.). Sarah isn't a football fan! So, the film is all about two things, the first is Paul getting Sarah to like football and the second is Sarah getting Paul to be not so obsessive about it, and to sum it up, that's it! Although other Gunner's will see similarity's with this film, Non-Football fans will not get what its like to support a team through thick and thin, and there's bound to be wives/girlfriends out there that can find similarities with Sarah, being a Football `widow' so to speak. For me though, its not the bad acting or the theme its based on, it's the plot, its based on Nick Hornby's life.doesn't say much does it? The acting is fairly wooden, and very repetitive, one example is this, where Paul shouts, `Should have scored there 'which appears in nearly every scene. Another thing that makes this film slightly rubbish is the fact that its British, it's a Brit Flick, and we all know there's not many any decent ones (Trainspotting err.Get Carter, err.. Nope that's it) Colin Firth is wonderfully cast as Paul, as it doesn't take much acting to shout `Go Arsenal' and he seems to be able to do that, just. The rest of the cast is a shambles to say the least, Ruth Gemmil hasn't got much to do as Sarah, except moan a lot.Mark Strong (who plays Steve, Paul's best mate) is also a barren and lifeless actor, who struggles to even be noticed in the film, as all he does is watch Football. Not a good film then? Well if you like Arsenal go see it and relive the `Glory' days, but for those out there that hate football, or Romances, will find this film sad and depressing. Also if you're a Tottenham Fan you might not want to watch it, apart from the few scenes where Arsenal lose. In my view I wouldn't pay to go see it, nor would I buy the video, its that bad.no redeeming features etc, its just another film, in which the Director (David Evans) has made fall flat on its Arse-nal Other Films 1, Fever Pitch 0 "},{"Title":"They think it's pullover","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know nothing about football. They think it's all over, it is now does not strike me as the Gettysburg address. What's so amazing about it? But Colin Firth really makes you believe that he believes. Why do producers always have to sensational events in sports films, though? In 'Fever Pitch' the director has a player stand in the goal mouth and deflect a crucial goal with his hands in a spurious attempt to create tension. Surely in the actual game the referee would have put a stop to that sort of thing right away? "},{"Title":"Poor movie about an even poorer team","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just complete crap! Watch Glory Glory Tottenham Hotspur instead for your footballing pleasures. The ending is depressive.  "}]