[{"Title":"Simple but effective action movie.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"47 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There is nothing in The Peacemaker that is new or something we haven't seen done before in an action movie. Yet the movie serves its purpose; to bring some mindless entertainment with some nicely done action.Nicole Kidman in a main part of an action movie? Yes, Nicole Kidman in the main part of an action movie and who would have ever known, she is actually believable in her part but her acting is just a bit too standard and boring but yet like I said before, her characters remains believable. Thumbs up for that! But the best roles are played by George Clooney and Armin Mueller-Stahl, who is always great in a movie.The movie's opening is really a memorable one and is one of the very best action movie openings I have ever seen along with The Rock, which was made one year earlier. After that the movie looses some of it's power and pace and we begin losing interest until the next action sequence occurs. Yes, it truly are the action sequences that are the highlights of the movie and make this movie a watchable one.The visual style of the movie is also what makes this movie above average. The cinematography by Dietrich Lohmann gives the movie a cool action movie feeling. Dietrich Lohmann unfortunately died not much later during or shortly after completing the movie Deep Impact.The music by Hans Zimmer is most excellent. Zimmer and co really set up some new standards for action movie soundtracks in the nineties.Standard action movie but well executed! 7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Solid first effort from DreamWorks","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"40 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Let's be honest first of all.  Did anybody think the first movie out of the gate from a studio owned by David Geffen, Jeffrey Katzenberg, and Steven Spielberg be an artsy-fartsy film?  For what it is, this is pretty good. Director Mimi Leder does a good job keeping everything going (she was less successful with her follow-up, DEEP IMPACT), and I was involved the whole way through.  I like George Clooney and Nicole Kidman, but I will admit they don't get a whole lot to do here.  Like the similar MISSION IMPOSSIBLE, there's not a whole lot of character development for the heroes, so the film depends on whether or not you like the stars, and fortunately, I do.The one distinguishing factor of the movie is the villain, played by Marcel Iures.  While the one who steals the missiles is your standard action villain, there's a gravity and sadness Iures brings that's unexpected in a film like this.  This is no sneering DIE HARD rip-off, but a guy who takes an action because he feels it's the only choice he has, and the film at least brings forth the notion that if that's how he feels, we the Western powers are somewhat culpable. "},{"Title":"Standard story &#150; but good tension, good action scenes and a great performance by Clooney make it good.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When nuclear warheads get stolen during decommissioning in Russia, American military agents Thomas Devoe and Julia Kelly start to try and track their movements before they get into the wrong hands. Julia's intelligence background and Thomas' more direct approach don't gel too well, but they must recover the weapons before they are used in a terrorist strike against the US.This starts well &#150; with the detonation of a nuke in rural Russia, and indeed it goes on quite well from there. The story is the basic 'terrorist with stolen nuke' story but it has sufficient ability to rise above the norm to be quite enjoyable. The odd-couple of Devoe and Kelly isn't made too much of and it avoids that pitfall. The action scenes are handled well and, though lacking in flair, they do contain plenty of tension and excitement.The cast really help &#150; in particular Clooney. Clooney takes what could have been just a one dimensional tough military role and adds layers to it. His violence is just beneath the surface and it shows in his face and eyes. At times he does what is expected of him &#150; but for the most he lifts the role and the film. Kidman also does well &#150; at times she is a screaming side-kick, but she also has a bit of depth there too. The support cast never really get beyond ethnic stereotype &#150; only Armin Mueller-Stahl has a good role. There are some interesting roles given to now famous people &#150; Boatman (Carter in Spin City) and, to complete the ER coonnection between star and director, Goran Visnijc in a tiny role.Overall this is a standard story. But a top-class Clooney and plenty of good, tense action scenes make this much better than the average stolen bomb flick. "},{"Title":"A Real Suspenseful Thriller by Mimi Leder!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Terrorist films abound these days, as though putting stories about terrorists who make mistakes is supposed to make us all feel more safe. This taut, well-written and finely acted espionage film is different that those currently in front of us made in 1997 this film in retrospect had a better grip on just how frightening terrorism is and how two-sided the implications of danger usually are.Filmed with never let your guard down suspense, the story is rather simple nuclear weapons are circulating with one headed to the US and the military joins with science in tracking the carrier of the bomb. George Clooney is in fine form as Lt. Col. Thomas Devoe, professional yet charismatic and his scientific colleague is Dr. Julia Kelly, with Nicole Kidman delivering a polished performance. And for once we get to see a terrorist as a person Dusan Gavrich (Marcel Iures), despite his mission to destroy us, is a vulnerable, bruised human being. The supporting roles are well handled by such strong character actors as Armin Mueller-Stahl.Cinematographer Dietrich Lohmann keeps the action lively with multi-angled shots and surveillance scenes and the tension is well maintained with the music score by Hans Zimmer. But in the final analysis the credit for the success of this film lies in the capable hands of Mimi Leder. A terrific little suspense film. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Pretty decent movie...","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"29 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie. It did what it set out to do, to entertain, though post 911, the premise is especially scary (how poignant to see the WTC in the New York skyline).I was drawn into the plot, and didn't care about any inconsistencies or holes. Everything came across as plausible.As for the comment made ccthemovieman-1 about the unlikelihood of someone of Nicole Kidman's looks being in a position like that, well, all I can say is that he should take a look at some of the female analysts and spies (ie. Valerie Plame) that work not only in the US government, but also others like Israel.Make no mistake, many of them are as beautiful as they are intelligent. And I give kudos to the filmmakers for resisting the one formulaic turn, and that is making it into a romance flick where the male/female protagonists first dislike each other and then fall into each others arms by the end of the movie.So, for all those who say this movie is predictable, here's one predictable and clichéd turn it didn't take. It concentrated on the action and suspense, and only hinted in the very end at the possibility of a romance.It was interesting to see, that even though Dr. Kelly was Devoe's boss, the actual dynamics were in reverse, with her following Devoe's lead for most of the time, and listening to lectures from him about her inexperience.I guess the movie's producers thought it was too much for someone like Clooney to constantly take orders from a woman. A formulaic turn, I suppose.Clooney and Kidman acquitted themselves well in their roles, as did Marcel Iures who portrayed the terrorist. He came across as human, and a truly tragic, sympathetic, though misguided, figure, imo.The train hijack sequence was awesome. "},{"Title":"Stylish, hi-tech, completely unbelievable... Great","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of so-called action directors should take some time off to watch this movie and learn from it. We do not need to see a dodgy cgi train crash when we can have things the subtle way, just a couple being awoken by the distant destruction. We don't need to see a carriage load of soldiers cut down with machine guns in a choreographed ballet sequence, just the arcing laser sights through an open doorway. We don't need ultra evil bad guys who kill off their companions in sudden rages, just a compassionate man on a disillusioned mission for peace. We don't need the 'obligatory' kiss between the co stars at the finale, just the promise of future things.Peacemaker is politically unbelievable, it has some seriously ill thought out moments. But at the end of the day it brings a freshness to sequences we've all seen a million times before, it lets us feel the emotions of ALL the characters. Intelligent, stylish, and great fun to boot. Worth a couple of hours of anyone's evening.  "},{"Title":"How do you stop a terrorist who has no demands?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"33 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A distraught Bosnian piano teacher named Dusan Gavric (Marcel Iures), whose wife and daughter had been shot down before his eyes by Bosnian Muslim snipers in war-divided Sarajevo, intends to ignite a stolen nuclear bomb around the U.N. building in New York in revenge for that atrocity&#133; Nuclear weapons specialist Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman) and US Special Forces Colonel Thomas Devoe (George Clooney) try to stop the psycho...Clooney, convinced that United States educated half the world's terrorists, plays a talented soldier who takes great liberties to get what he wants including heavy bribes and savage beatings&#133; With that cool, suave and dashing look that makes women swoon, Clooney demonstrates great sense of humor with his performance, and looks pleasantly cold as hell during high action sequences&#133; His unexpected reactions get on Kidman's nerves so easily&#133;Kidman looks lovely as the anguished scientist who wants to save the world, struggling tightly against her self-doubt &#133;Mimi Leder definitely proves that she's a commanding presence behind the camera&#133; She shows how to move more effectively the camera creating tension throughout the hijacking of the warheads, Vienna's exciting car chase, the flight of the three US Air Force helicopters ordered to return to Turkish airspace, the truckload of the bad guys hanging over a cliff, and the tracking of the missing warhead on Manhattan's crowded streets&#133; The music is great... It follows the action well and elevates the dramatic suspense throughout the show... "},{"Title":"underrated/over-criticized","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"43 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Some movies stick in your consciousness. This is one of them. Although the script is not that original in its major components, Mimi Leder made a very strong visual statement here. The train hi-jacking sequence is about as good as anything on film. Although many reviewers here see the movie as one long cliché, the anti-hero is really protesting Western militarism and the ubiquitous arms industry. He's suffered a great personal loss at the hands of the let's sell guns to everybody group. The Peacekeepers ignore the slaughter going on around them. Blowing up the U.N. and a sizable chunk of Manhattan may not be the best answer, but in the context of the film it makes sense. In many ways the film is much more subtle than just good guys/bad guys. Look again and watch for the nuances. "},{"Title":"New-killer power...","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The newspapers and the t.v. movie reviewers didn't give this a very favorable rating. As I had heard from someone else that I knew who saw this, didn't seem too impressed either. But as I live and learn, I realize that I have to be the one inevitably who says, I like it, or it's a waste of time. You ultimately judge what's worth your time right? I saw this, I wish that I saw it in the theater, at any rate, I saw the characters of (Clooney) Col. Thomas Devoe and the very sweet and ever so lovely Nicole kid man's Dr.Kelly as being the type of characters that could keep me in an interested and ever curious state. Which for me, is exactly what I look for in a film. I enjoyed the search and out of country 'trauma', that happens when in a foreign land at times, kind of like the terror that over-took the characters in Clear And Present Danger. Although these two are different 'flavors' there seems to be a parallel in the action and the characters engrossment of their duty.As such, I liked how Clooney seemed as Devoe and his mode of operation. I usually don't see a lot of female directors that really bring it home with an action persona, but Mimi Leder has done that to a very satisfying extent.George Clooney and Nicole Kidman carry out a great working 'chemistry' that I found not only watchable, but believable. I recommend this action adventure/thriller quest for all fans of the like and the two. Enjoy. (***) "},{"Title":"Terrorist are human...but still evil as Hell.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is an action packed apocalyptic thriller from director Mimi Leder. A renegade Russian diverts nuclear warheads, scheduled for dismantling, into the hands of a Bosnian diplomat still blaming the West for the death of his wife and daughter. A well planned train wreck is used to cover up the diabolical theft of the weapons. A race ensues to find one last missing nuke. A crack special forces Colonel(George Clooney)and a U.S. nuke expert(Nicole Kidman)track down the lone missing warhead targeted for the United Nations. A very impressive opening showing the weapon laden train winding through southern mountains of the former Soviet Union. Plenty of action and violence. The cock-sure Clooney does his own stunts and incorporates his own brand of humor. You can't help but like him in this role. Miss Kidman is not only beautiful, but appears smart as a whip. There seems to be a very good working chemistry between the two. This breathless thriller also stars Armin Mueller-Stahl, Marcel Lures, Alexander Strobele and Michael Boatman.  "}{"Title":"Extremely stupid movie!!!!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Quote Russians can't find snow in the middle of the winter but WE U.S. Army can... God help us. Next I'm just a member of special forces of U.S. Army, i'm alone in Wiena fighting enemy spies on my own and killing them all... yeah wright. Oh i'm sorry they killed my friend and he was a good man so they had to pay for that. Well i guess when a man lose his wife and kid when sniper (which is by the way sold by USA) shot them, he has no right to revenge them, can't measure that with a good man. Now i'm not saying this is not a good action movie, i'm only saying this is a extremely bad movie!!!Bottom line is we are all stupid and bad except one and truly U.S.A. and heroes of United States Army. God help us all!! "},{"Title":"The Cheesemaker","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Infuriatingly predictable and wholly uninvolving, The Peacemaker finds George Clooney in classic head-waggling mode (as Army Intelligence Officer Devoe &#150; hey! I bought that record of his, Whip It!) and Nicole Kidman in severe-skirted secretary mode (as White House Liaison, Julia Kelly), saving White America from nuke-thieving Russkies who intend to blow up Manhattan. In movies of this ilk, the American Military is omniscient, portrayed as so technologically advanced they can pinpoint license plate numbers half a world away; relishing showing off their spy-satellite capabilities and infiltration devices - yet never putting that technology to use in deterring the theft of nuclear weapons in the first place. They seemingly only use these gadgets to sell your confidential details to lowlife corporate bidders, to conveniently lose your records when you report an identity fraud and to send you garbage-loads of junk mail whenever you purchase a new electronic appliance with your credit card &#150; instead of doing something important like CAPTURING OSAMA BIN LADEN. As Devoe says, Toil Is Stupid.Kidman is the token sexy woman in power, incessantly battling to be taken seriously in a Man's World &#150; until man-toy Clooney turns up and cows her with his head-waggling and tacit indications that she might soon be allowed to touch People's Sexiest Man Alive 1997. But they get too busy to get busy, barking orders at everyone within modeling distance, as is the manner of Nuclear Threat movies walking through office hallways hastily (glass doors and staircases, add extra points), handing off reports, getting reports handed to them, hectoring underlings to get the President or the head of That Department on the phone, reeling off statistics and information to each other, extras with one line updating them on the crisis situation (oh joy! &#150; one step closer to a SAG card!) &#150; doesn't anyone in the star's walking trajectory ever have something that they should actually be doing at the time they're lining the star's route being barked at? Meanwhile, something of world-shaking import is happening &#150; but in Nuclear Threat movies I can never quite scare up the interest to find out what. Ultimately, the Russian plot to blow up the United States grinds to a standstill through the efforts of the poreless Kelly (whose bra is always tantalizingly translucently apparent through her secretariat blouse) and the head-waggling of Devoe (who is air-lifted onto a truck which hangs off a bridge in classic Vehicle-Hanging-Off-Bridge position, leaving him just the right amount of time to get off before it falls).Flowerpot hats off to Devoe, as all the stolen nukes are accounted for &#150; but one! So begins the final idiot act of the movie &#150; congruent with the final idiot act of a desperate terrorist (played by a non-threatening, apathetic Marcel Iures), who has the opportunity to detonate the nuclear device in his backpack at any time &#150; keeping in mind that a bomb that powerful would do the same amount of damage no matter where it blows &#150; yet opts to mill aimlessly through New York streets, presenting himself as a target for military rooftop snipers. Despite Devoe's imprecations of Are We Not Men?!, the snipers refuse to take out the Russian, due to curly-haired American kids getting in the way (&#150; strange, that's never stopped them in real life...).When the movie has degenerated to the final chase sequence, Devoe gets to perform the action hero staple of Running Over Car Roofs and sliding over car hoods like a TV cop &#150; he even gets to knock over a bum with a shopping cart! This movie has everything!Finally we meet the star of our show &#150; The Bomb - replete with easy-to-read big red digital numbers ticking down (Sesame Street was so proud they dedicated a sock puppet to Devoe), which Julia must defuse. And the big red numbers only give us two minutes to think about how predictable this whole scenario is &#150; as if the film-makers would risk mussing Nicole Kidman's makeup by having a bomb explode in her face. But wait! &#150; there's more malarkey to digest we are told &#150; via Julia's harried and wholly specious dialog &#150; that this contraption is a bomb within a bomb; that there is a small normal bomb that they can detonate which will actually negate the detonation of the nuclear bomb &#150; I'd like to slap someone now, please - so we can still have our happy ending (the big convenient explosion) and yet save civilization! Diving through a stained-glass window with an explosion at your heels apparently only sustains a few minor scratches to the forehead, no worse than falling off your bike on some soft grass. It's a beautiful, beautiful world!Let us not forget the pat Hollywood epilogue Julia does laps in a pool while Devoe appears to make energy-dome innuendo about whipping it good! after she emerges. Not that she has any choice in her future bed-partner. As Devoe once sang, Freedom of choice is what you want / Freedom from choice is what you got. He is, after all, a New Traditionalist, and one of the Ten Commandments states, Thou shalt not end a Major American Studio Movie without the heterosexual couple spanking it, to please the slack-jawed masses. Fade to hack.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"By The Book Post Cold War Thriller","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Did you know there's literally hundreds of nuclear warheads scattered throughout the old Soviet Union ? Bad news for humanity but good news for Hollywood producers who want to make a post cold war thriller featuring stolen nuclear warheads getting into the wrong hands but this type of scenario has become over familiar . While women watch  Disease of the week  TVMs I guess the boys will be watching  stolen nuclear warhead of the week  on another channel So what makes THE PEACEMAKER different from a mediocre Tom Clancey novel or a James Bond movie ? Good question and one that I can't really come with a good answer to . I could point out that the bad guy is a White European Christian but if I remember correctly the plot of THE SUM OF ALL FEARS was changed so instead of Arabs we had WASPish Neo Nazis as the bad guys . In fact I'm struggling to remember when the bad guys weren't whacko white guys , would it be GOLDFINGER by any chance ? I guess the movie deserves some credit in mentioning the motives of the villain who is misguided rather than evil , and the motives don't exactly put the United States in a very good light but of course it's left to an American special forces officer to save the day and yes there's a scene where the hero attempts to defuse a bomb that has a timer that helpfully lets the audience know how many seconds are left to detonation YAWN THE PEACEMAKER isn't a terrible movie . In it's favour it's much better than another Hollywood blockbuster dealing with the Balkans conflict namely BEHIND ENEMY LINES but is in no way comparable to something like SAVIOR . It's also infinitely inferior to a mainly forgotten British production called SEVEN DAYS TO NOON and it's a movie that is more interested in making money at the box office than giving people sleepless nights in a world where a stolen nuclear warhead might explode anywhere "},{"Title":"Thud.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS.  Clooney seems like an actor of modest talent but an affable guy, whose part here could have been handled by Willis.  Kidman probably has more range and is definitely more decorative.  (Her nose seems to have been professionally drafted by someone with a set of transparent plastic French curves.)  Iures is frankly charismatic, on the order of Yves Montand, and is the only character given any developmental background.  That is to say, the performances aren't bad -- but the movie is. Where to begin.1.  We meet Clooney at a Senate hearing while he is being asked to account for his arrest during a fist fight in a saloon in the company of a foreign spy and a prostitute.  He's one of those roguish wisecracking mavericks we are supposed to like immediately.  (In case you don't like fist fights, foreign spies, or whores, he has an explanation that absolves him of depraved tastes.)2.  The dialogue is ineffable.  We've got AUTHORIZATION, boys!  Let's ROCK AND ROLL!3.  The writers were unsure of who to pin the blame on so they spread the guilt around generously.  There are the Russians of course, since we can't seem to get over the Cold War.  And then the German are shown hard at work doing evil, a stretch, true, but still World War II was no pink tea.  The chief villain describes himself as a Serb, a Croat, and a Moslem.  Iraq is brought up in the first few minutes, and the stolen nukes are headed towards Iraq.  North Korea was not invited to the party.4.  The action scenes were I'm sure generated by computer.  A truck entering a bridge is blasted by a helicopter, swerves wildly, knocking down utility poles and whipping around cables that emit sparkling fountains, before finally smashing through the railing and being jolted to a halt by the cables now wrapped around its axle.  Clooney is dropped onto the truck bed by cable from a helicopter.  A surving villain knocks the pistol out of his hand and we get the obligatory shot of it skidding across the floor out of reach.  Another fist fight while the cables snap their stops one by one and the truck dips farther off the edge of the bridge.  (Cf., the elevator scene at the beginning of Speed.)  The helicopter crew decides the truck is about to take its final nose dive and they yank Clooney back up, but the cable was somehow wrapped around his neck and is strangling him, so he whips out a knife and cuts the metal cable in one swipe.  He drops back into the truck, finishes off the heavy, saves the stolen nukes, and the truck finally pulls loose of its encumberances and drops towards the gorge below, exploding halfway down, and leaving a Harvard-educated Pakistani astrophysicist dangling from a bridge girder.  (None of this is made up, I swear.)5.  Clooney, Kidman, and an accomplice complete a dangerous theft and make off happily in their car.  The accomplice mentions that they are in an embassy car so it's armor plated and has bulletproof windows.  I leave you to guess whether this datum turns out to be important in the next 60 seconds.6.  Those cars skidding and twirling and pirouetting along the rain-slick streets of Vienna, the driver, Clooney, having presumably learned his skills at the feet of Remi Julian or however it's spelled.7.  Iures intends to explode a nuke at the UN Building but is wounded and goes to ground a few blocks away.  Clooney poses the perfectly reasonable question of why Iures just doesn't blow the thing up now, since it will take out half of New York City.  Kidman shouts back, You don't UNDERSTAND.  That's not what he wants.  He wants his death to MEAN something!  Well, you can tell just from this exchange that Iures is a man of no mean principle.  Looked at pragmatically, a few hundred yards would make little difference, and nobody would be left alive to tell whether Iures had reached his goal or not anyway. Where was I?  Oh yes, number eight.  Thank you.8.  Iures is now dead on the altar but his warhead or whatever it is is timed to go off in a few minutes.  We know this because there is a red digital readout that tells us how much time is left.  All exploding devices have red digital readouts.  Why?  That's a deeply profound question. Kidman must figure out how to disarm the primer so that only the pre-primer will explode (or something).  She hacks at the fiendish device with fingernails, screwdriver, and pistol butt, while Clooney counts aloud the number of seconds remaining.  Nine.  Eight.  Hurry up!  Seven.  Doing the countdown in a situation like this, it's true, is a dirty and thankless task, but somebody's got to do it!My mind is so benumbed by exposure to radiation leakage that I can no longer count past eight.  I don't think the producers of this piece of derivative stereotypical commercial garbage could either, unless the number were preceded by a dollar sign. "},{"Title":"International intrigue and noisy action about nuclear smuggling starred by an exceptional couple","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A nuclear blow up in deepest Russia turns out to be a terrorist act that triggers rapid response by USA government. The Pentagon to avoid the uranium robbers from utilizing to wreak atomic war against the U.S.A . assigns the dangerous mission to two high officers ( attractive Nicole Kidman and impulsive George Clooney) . The expert field agent Clooney and spunky but unexperienced Kidman must solve the risked complications on the East pursuing nasties suspected of smuggling soviet nuclear arms into nations less civilised and stable . They get involved in the tangled chase of the Servian terrorists that run across countries until Iran . Meanwhile, they go to Vienna , there are are helped by a good Russian general (Armin Mueller Stahl) . The final terror arises when the terrorist (Marcel Iures as meek musician professor in the film's best acting ) behind it all is looking vengeance and goes to N.Y where happens a moving ending in the midst of a confusing crowd.This exciting movie contains suspense , thrills, twists and turns , rattling action, and implacable intrigue . The yarn is interesting though based on fictitious deeds and barely credible tale . There are suspense, thriller and action, and the scenario is varied and spectacular . The flick is fast moving and interesting , as a highlight after another piles up . Extraordinary nail-biting scenes, specially when there happens the helicopter attacks on some amazing images and final climax in New York streets . George Clooney's performance as hard-boiled colonel is excellent, he hands perfectly the role ; cocky Clooney along with elegant Nicole Kidman form a perfect couple as troubleshooter team dispatched to trace terrorists . Stirring and moving score fitting perfectly to action by today prestigious Hans Zimmer . Colorful and adequate cinematography by Dietrich Lohmann . The motion picture is well directed by Mimi Leder in his first movie . She's a good filmmaker , usually for TV (¨ER¨ played by Goran Visnjic who appears as secondary in The peacemakers) and occasionally for cinema (Deep impact , The Code). Rating  above average . Well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Bland Globe-trotting Tom Clancy/James Bond Wannabe Thriller","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Stolen Russian nukes are up for grabs in the George Clooney & Nicole Kidman escapade The Peacemaker, a sloppy but serviceable global thriller that drowns its audience in sentiment rather than buoys them with entertainment. Director Mimi Leder in her cinematic debut struggles with a second-hand, warmed over story. The cliffhanger predicaments and their resolutions emerge as more hackneyed and pretentious than virile and exciting. Enough with these adventure sagas set in the new Russia! Few surprises enliven this downbeat, humorless, technical Tom Clancy clone. Although The Peacemaker boasts a couple of decent scenes, the film grovels under a heavy-handed script, dull villains and equal opportunity his'n her plotting. The Michael (Crimson Tide) Schiffer screenplay follows the strenuous efforts of U.S. Army Special Forces Lieutenant Colonel Tom Devoe (George Clooney of ER) and scientist Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman of Far & Away) to recover 10 nukes that corrupt Soviet General Aleksandr Kodoroff (Aleksandr Baluyev 0f Deep Impact) has purloined. The action ignites with sizzling promise as a team of commandos armed with machine guns and night goggles stages a daring night train robbery. With the red laser beam sighting systems on their guns and the twinkle of red from their night vision equipment, they manage to evoke an evil, sinister look. General Kodoroff explodes one of the nukes to delay the response time of the authorities, so his henchmen and he can spirit the stolen warheads out of Mother Russia.Meanwhile, an assassin guns down a member of the Bosnian parliament scheduled to attend a United Nations peace conference. Piano teacher Dusan Gavrich (Marcel Iures of Hart's War) replaces him. Dusan's wife and child die as innocent bystanders in a street shooting; Dusan resolves to spread the tragedy of Bosnia beyond his borders so the world can experience his pain and anguish. His cohorts lay claim to one of Kodoroff's nukes. Dusan intends to sneak a warhead into the United States and trigger it at the United Nations. Consequently, as one of the members of the Bosnian diplomatic team, Dusan represents the title character.The Peacemaker evolved from journalistic exposes by political reporters Andrew and Leslie Cockburn. Schiffer's predictable script recycles familiar elements from the 1983 James Bond thriller Octopussy where the villains attempted a nuclear blast to inflame the anti-nuclear protest groups and compel Western nuclear disarmament. Of course, The Peacemaker occurs against the backdrop of the anything goes 'new' Russia, a setting a little overdone recently by GoldenEye, The Saint, Crimson Tide, and The Hunt for Red October. The stolen nukes theme can be traced back to the 1965 Bond epic Thunderball as well as the more recent John Travolta extravaganza Broken Arrow. The reliance on satellite technology as well as cooperation between the military and civilians at the highest levels of the government has the Clancy imprimatur inscribed on it. Little more than Jack Ryan with a sex change, Nicole Kidman's Dr. Julia Kelly combines literary detective Nancy Drew with the sexy 1960s TV heroine Honey West.Feminist touches such as allowing the characters to savor quiet moments when they can cry are out of character for this kind of adventure that DreamWorks has served up. The Peacemaker could be accurately described as a macho chase melodrama that collides with a soapy chick flick. Quite often Leder aims for the cerebellum when she should smash the solar plexus. The best scenes in The Peacemaker bristle with volatile action. Nevertheless, even they falter between the lack of zip in the directing and the absence of zing in the plot.Composer Hans Zimmer deserves credit for a strident but pulsating instrumental score that effectively strokes the film's action sequences. The demolition derby in the streets of Vienna is still a yawner, marginally redeemed by Clooney's bad boy antics. Clooney's Lt. Col. Devoe cannot miss a shot until the end of the movie when he fails inexplicably to nail a full-sized man scrambling past him in an alley! If sobbing heroes and heroines aren't enough, director Leder and scenarist Schiffer deploy a villain who is more of a sob than an S.O.B. As Dusan Gavrich, Iures creates a bland antagonist. He resembles the later horror movie icon Boris Karloff, and he looks incredibly lugubrious with his totem mask of a face. There's nothing charismatic about Dusan, so the filmmakers have stacked the cards in this drama against themselves. You cannot really hate the Dusan Gavrich character in a way that a great villain should be despised.When Leder stresses the human elements in The Peacemaker, she allows her audience to think instead of react. Thinking audiences are less susceptible to the hokey roller-coaster machinations that convulse The Peacemaker. In a good adventure movie, audiences mentally dodge what the heroes must physically evade. Moreover, members at an action movie are better served when they flinch instead of furrow their brows. Otherwise, they'd realize how phony the predicaments are and that they could never occur in real life. Our heroes deduce who the terrorist is with a nuke in his backpack, but they underestimate him so often that their efforts strike a ludicrous note. When somebody dies in the line of action, our hero and heroine break down and cry.Even the title The Peacemaker with its inherent irony not only conveys little pizazz, but also its significance may be lost on audiences. Director Leder well-intentioned message about the horrors of a nuclear blast would make a better disaster of the week television movie than a globe-trotting Clancy/Bond wannabe thriller. Undiscriminating audiences looking for a distracting bit of action with exotic scenery and juvenile heroes may appreciate The Peacemaker until the tragedy dampens the aura of escapism. Veteran action adventure moviegoers will find The Peacemaker more disappointing than tolerable. For all the film's smart moves and cool looking imagery, The Peacemaker is too derivative to be a milestone in the thriller genre. "},{"Title":"Nothing new to see.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" How much more movies like this are gonna be made? There are always some terrorists that possess nuclear weapon and threatens to use it and all-mighty US army which is always badly organized and must be led by one man, the main actor of the movie! Think of every positive human ability - he has it all. Every situation, which in reality needs a whole bunch of people to deal with, he resolves alone and walks out as a hero! I mean, if the producers wanted him to be like that, why didn't they just gave him blue suit with read cloak and letter S printed on his chest? This is type of movie in which you can always guess how the ending will look like and you won't be wrong! I rate this movie 1/10 for using standard terrorist movie layout and not bringing us anything new, 5/10 for good performance and acting and 8/10 for background music. "},{"Title":"This movie was HORRIBLE!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I could not believe how bad this movie was. I thought it would never end! It made no sense whatsoever, the plot totally lost me, I hated it! I had to give it a 1 for awful, yet it doesn't deserve that. If you haven't seen this movie don't! "},{"Title":"The Peacetakers","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've never actually seen an episode of ER. I actually took to the movies to appreciate George Clooney, and have since 1997's The Peacemaker.While this movie didn't get a lot of hype or admiration, I truly had a good time. Loved the wit and snappiness of Clooney's dialogue, the action, suspense and drive of the characters. While it's not perfect and has that annoying An Improbable Jump Through Solid Glass to Escape scene that I always doubt and some omitted scenes that would've been awesome to see &#x96; i.e. two trains colliding, it was an enormously fun ride that, surprisingly, still holds up today, 16 years later.The plot is the norm with a extensive plan, terrorists seize a nuclear bomb and it's up to two unlikely government heroes to work together, on a global scale, to find out where they're headed, what they're up to and why. What stands this above the rest, was a fresh and young Clooney doing his soon-to-be normal, but great, schtick.I happen to be a fan of his cocky, but smart, ambitious but laid back appeal. So, I always give him a pass. And this movie contains one of my ALL TIME favorite movie scenes (mild spoiler) Clooney's dear friend just gets killed and after an exciting car chase leaving one terrorist barely alive, Clooney says nothing in the downpour of water, walks up to him and shoots him point blank. As much as I like snappy comeback and final last crass words, this scene completely shocked and pleased me, because this is how it should've been done in real life and in the movies.Other than that one scene, it's exciting, interesting, has a great pace and a fun puzzle to put together while watching. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Above-average political thriller","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was the debut film of Steven Spielberg's Dreamworks studio, and while it is less than stunning, this film gives an interesting spin to mid-1990s political intrigue.With George Clooney in what I suppose was his second lead role, after From Dusk Till Dawn, the story examines post-Cold War Russia and the political catastrophe of U.N. negotiations in the Balkans.The wonderful Marcel Iures is a Croatian diplomat whose disillusionment with the civil conflict in his country has led him to make a deal with a rogue Russian general to buy a stolen nuclear bomb to blow up the United Nations headquarters in New York. As heartless an act as this may be, the character, nonetheless, is a sympathetic one.Although the movie takes place largely outside of Russia, there is even some reference to the poor conditions modern-day Russia is plagued by Russia, what a f*cking mess, God I miss the Cold War. It's both humorous and to some extent true.Armin Mueller-Stahl makes an appearance as a former Soviet general who is friends with Clooney's Tom Devoe. The romance angle between Devoe and Nicole Kidman's Julia Kelly is muted by the impending danger surrounding them. They are people from different sides of the political stratosphere, so their relationship might not last long anyway, but it does end with hope in sight, for the true romantic.Less relevant today than it was at the time it was made, the film is still a very intelligent study on foreign relations in the mid- and late nineties. "}{"Title":"Great entertainment, if sometimes uneven","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The film was made as Kidman/Clooney's post Cruise/ER stars were vertical in their ascendancy. This genre vehicle was just what either needed to consolidate their bankability. Clooney's action man is a more interesting performance than Kidman's slightly confused senior intelligence suit both of them are thoroughly watchable though.The film is quite relentless &#150; it might have benefited from trying some scenes to develop their relationship outside their commitment to, er, saving the world&#133; but there's the problem, that it's rather like a feature-length episode of 24. Instead, Leder looks to modulate the drama and pace with the disjointed parallel story of the ultimate baddie, complete with children in frame and emoting at the piano (I found it all a bit contrived).So, it's all one big rush of action, punctuated with trying to work out what's going to happen next. And, as such, it's brilliantly handled. The script's good (this is the third time I've seen the film so I really paid attention) bar one or two necessary clumsy resynchronisations of the plot (Kidman claiming to have emailed herself vital paperwork lost in an explosion). The action's what makes it Clooney's picture, properly military and matter-of-fact; I for one would follow him into battle. The filming/editing helps &#150; the cross Manhattan chase is particularly good. One caveat. I know that this is a studio picture/genre flick/matinée blockbuster but everyone's trying to give it an edge. Why can't Hans Zimmer? I know I'm not a fan, but I did try to listen without prejudice (having seen his name up on the credits) only to be let down again with a contrived, ubiquitous score (OK the director gets the last say in when it gets used, fair cop). As a test though watch the penultimate scene as Marcel Iures' Dusan sees a busker playing Bach the impact of this carefully placed extract is much more effective than the wallpapering that we are otherwise palmed off with, not least during the action sequences that least require them. Grrrrr! 7/10 "},{"Title":"You have to be into the genre...","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out in the theaters because my sister suggested it for (of all things) the 'view' of George Clooney.  At the time i had truthfully never heard of it, but nothing else piqued my interest either.  Boy, was i glad i went!  In literature and filmography, the techno-thriller is my favorite genre and a movie like this does not disappoint.  Fast paced, but with enough slower areas to allow you to catch your breath and regroup with what's going on.  And the pace is DEFINITELY fast.  No time for extras like romance or side missions, this  movie stays true to its focal point and never lets it get away.  Clooney & Kidman do a great job in more hostile environments than they're typically used to (at least for Nicole), and Zimmers' score adds to the edgy, quick beat of the film.  Some might say overdone, but i believe it fits in nicely because of its boresightedness on the theme.Not for everyone; my sister actually turned out not liking it so much due to its nature, but i had a blast.  Never turn down an opportunity to watch again.  4/5. "},{"Title":"One of the best action films ever!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker is easily one of the best action/intrigue films ever.  Most people find this hard to believe since the film suffered from lack of press and was sadly underexposed when it was released. The plot is intricate yet credible. The storyline revolves around stolen ss-18 nuclear warheads from a dismantled Russian missile.  It is Col. T Devoe (US Army intelligence liason and Special Forces/ George Clooney) and Dr . J Kelly (Acting chair of the Nuclear Smuggling Committee-Nicole Kidman)  who head up the recovery effort. In tracking the stolen warheads we are treated to a global perspective.  The many different cultures involved are presented in a reasonably unbiased manner and fit really well with the overall context. Perhaps one of the nicest features of this movie is the absence of completely overdone and unrealistic 'Hollywood' stunts.  That is not to say that the movie is low-budget or cheap, because it is not.  This movie is proof that a producer, director, and writer with vision, taste, and intelligence count for alot more than $80million and a bunch of laughable stunts.This movie reminds of the early James Bond movies in that it is truly international with many governments and malcontents involved, albeit without the outrageous twists. It is a terrific movie, George Clooney and Nicole Kidman were perfectly cast, and it is refreshing that throughout the search for the warheads the 2 leading characters are not overwhelmed with notions romance, as too oftens happens in movie where this would probably be the last thing on the characters mind. Give it a chance and you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Marcel Iures","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing about this movie is Marcel Iures, the romanian that plays the bad guy. Actually he is the only reason i watched this film, he is romanian, just like me, and this is his first important role in Hollywood.And he manages to play superbly, but that's usual for a fabulous actor like he is. After a long career in Romania, Iures started in Hollywood with minor roles in movies like Interview with The Vampire. This is his most important Hollywood role so far, and he does it so well! After this film he came back home and acted in a few theaters and impressed everybody playing absolutely brilliant the role of Richard the Third from the Shakespearean play.Enough about Iures - the movie, Peacemaker, is a good action film, with all the ingredients for a success. Still it lacks many things, but it's a good watch if you enjoy action films. Plus Iures. Vote 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I love you Mimi Leder","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Peacemaker is one of my all time favorite action movies. And its rating is one of the most odd ones in IMDb history, every time I bother about it, when visit the page of the movie. Mimi Leder is not a well known director sadly. I saw Deep Impact in 2000 or 2001 and liked it so much. Especially the scenes which the meteor comes down to the earth were dazzling and glorious. However, The Peacemaker is her masterpiece. George Clooney is great in this film, he is a great actor, especially his mimics. Yes, any actor can play this role, Thomas Devoe, but Clooney is a gift I believe. Action? A critic says that The Peacemaker is one of slow paced movies, so in the bonus disc, in the behind the scenes part, we can watch making of two action scenes. A big lie! How many action scenes does The Peacemeker have? Let's count. The first action sequence is a car chase. This scene is so stylish. Mimi Leder chose a cloudy, rainy day to shoot this part, the cinematography consists of gray tones mainly. The background music is sweeping, the crash moments are very strong, and generally it is not showy. Thomas Devoe squeezes the car almost. The second long action sequence occurs on the air and then in an aircraft. The third action sequence (attention, I always use sequence, not scene) takes place in New York. In those scenes, Leder catches dazzling panoramic views. And this time, she chose a sunny day. However, there is a thought provoking and frustrating scene. There is a little girl who obstructs the visual angle of the sniper, but Clooney and Kidman insist him to shoot. Returning to the action, the camera follows Clooney while he is jumping from one car to another, then makes a half rotation around him. Brilliant! The gunfight scene recalls John Woo movies. From the deliberately made opening sequence till the end, a solid thriller. "},{"Title":"i quite enjoyed it...","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" the opening of the movie was great, i was expecting more on the story after the first part but all i saw was a cliché, nevertheless the movie was entertaining in some point.this movie showed that not all terrorists are heartless or monsters. All people who want to do bad have their reasons and that's what i saw in this movie. One thing more, about the Americans or US government, no wonder why some people got crossed with them, coz they like meddling, they just couldn't take away their hands in everybody's business. Well, that's what every war movies have shown, correct me if i'm wrong.Anyway, i gave this movie 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That's your plan? That's your f*cking plan?","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Part James Bond, part Tom Clancy, The Peacemaker is a formulaic action movie from start to finish. This time, vengeful Bosnians have stolen a Russian SA-18 nuclear warhead, hiding in central Europe, hoping America's latest Special Forces action man (and his brainy, beautiful sidekick), don't track them down. The action flits from mainland America to Vienna to Bosnia, and to somewhere Russian, before a tense finale in New York.The missing nuke warhead plot is realistic. The Russians have recently admitted that, because of the break-up of the USSR, they haven't the faintest clue where all their bombs are now. The political Film Society nominated this film for one of it's Expose Awards (It lost to Rosewood).OK, the film could have been shorter and less predictable, but, hey, it's George Clooney and Nicole Kidman. What more do you want? No, there's no kissy-kissy; this is war! And, you will be sympathetic to the terrorist's motives.If you like Bond, if you like Clancy, and if you like Clooney and Kiman, you will like The Peacemaker. "},{"Title":"More of the same, as heroes try to protect a Western city from armageddon.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker is just another in a long, tired line of James Bond style farragoes. The stars are good-looking, the locations are global, the action is polished and improbable, and the music is fittingly rousing. There isn't a shred of freshness about the picture, but it fills the time efficiently.In this offering, the hero is George Clooney, a slightly dangerous American soldier who believes in action first, negotiations later. He is partnered with a lady agent, Nicole Kidman, who believes in negotiations first, action later. Together they race around Europe, the Middle East, and ultimately the streets of Manhattan, in an effort to track down ten stolen nuclear warheads. As it turns out, one of the warheads has found its way into the hands of a Bosnian fanatic who plans to wipe out the United Nations and the surrounding city blocks in a nuclear holocaust.The film begins in gloomy, messy fashion, with lots of dimly lit scenes of murder, assassination and treachery, as the whole complex theft gets underway. For a good hour or more, it isn't very good, but it finally lights up with a violent car chase sequence in Austria. Then there's a further slow patch, before another decent action sequence in which US army choppers invade Soviet air-space to pursue a truck carrying some of the lost weapons. The finale is actually the best segment in the whole film, a taut and well conceived hunt for the walking bomb as he makes his way through crowded streets ever closer to the steps of the UN building. It is a long time coming, but for this sequence alone The Peacemaker is worth watching. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly unpleasant experience","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker, quite simply, is a complete hive for cliches.  The plot is so completely unoriginal that viewers can positively predict the ending from the very start.  Russian mobsters steal nukes; Russian mobsters tries to con everyone else; the Good Guys are smarter and rush in and kick some evil rumps and rescue the nukes.While some of the action may have been fun to watch, the unimpressive plot leaves a dry taste in the viewer's mouth and makes the film a boring experience. "},{"Title":"Thumbs down!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This awful movie is the fair of stereotypes all the goods are smart, cool and heroic (like Clooney in the role of an American official), all the Russians are idiots, the bad is a Jugoslavian that, poor him, has suffered too much that now instead of understand the value of peace wants to make all people suffer like him.... transporting an atomic bomb in New York(with timer! in the backpack!!! you understand!?). And the nice thing is that he was visible by satellites by means of radiation emitted by the bomb, but he survives happy only because in that manner he can be killed by the overmentioned hero........ too bad!A real eye punch...    "}{"Title":"I Hope Hollywood Isn't The Voice Of America","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Retrospective. Oh dear, oh dear oh dear. What trite nonsense. Be it Nicole Kidman desperately trying to look sexy with wet hair or delivering the immortal line 'I'd be more worried by a terrorist with one bomb than ten', this films is utter balderdash. Once more American film studios search out a bette noir, this time it's the Bosnians. And hey, surprise, surprise, those darned Ruskies are friends.One an only assume that the people who watch this kind of film have the mental capacity of Mickey Mouse - hence the need for exciting location titles every few moments - not that they are needed because there is a gross stereotype for every nationality or ethnic minority. If I hear another Russian called Dimitri I am going to scream.I loved the peasantification of the the Serbs and Croats. Have the film crew ever been to Eastern Europe? Clearly not.The positive aspect of the film is that it enables one to discriminate between bad films and good films. Ahhh...so nice to have such bad films at hand.I dread the day when some other director and 'B' grade actors make a film on the Iraq conflict. I'll conclude as I started. Oh dear,oh dear. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A US Army colonel (George Clooney) and a civilian woman (Nicole Kidman) supervising him must track down stolen Russian nuclear weapons before they are used by terrorists.My biggest problem with this film is that it seemed to me to be miscast. George Clooney is pretty good, and he plays the smarmy role he is great at doing (the modern day Cary Grant). Nicole Kidman seems off, though. The role never seems to fit her, and there never seems to be a clear understanding of who she is bumbling, nervous librarian? Or assertive world-class diplomat? Not surprisingly, the movie has sort of faded into obscurity, and will probably continue to do so as time goes on. "},{"Title":"One of the subplots derailed the film","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Peacemaker was a good and watchable film. The opening was solid and the structure of the story seemed interesting. Unlike other films of this genre, some intelligent and investigative plot lines unfolded.But ultimately the film should have steered clear of the plot line involving the Yugoslav character. Chasing the weapons, solid action, but running along side a rather silly plot about a man who seeks to avenge the deaths of his wife and daughter, and the war at the heart of it all, by detonating a nuclear bomb in the UN in New York. It became sentimental, far-fetched and sent the plot off course.I can only describe it as destabilising the main plot and I think that this is why a lot of people thought it was 'ok' but not great. "},{"Title":"I miss the cold war......","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Two trains crash somewhere in Russia, one carrying a nuclear payload.A nuclear explosion follows the crash and the world is on alert...However, White House nuclear expert Dr. Julia Kelly doesn't think it was an accident.Special Operations Intelligence Officer Colonel Thomas Devoe doesn't think so either. Together they must unravel a conspiracy that goes from Europe to New York, to stop a terrorist who has no demands...before Out of Sight made Clooney officially the coolest man on the planet, he was the one from ER who seemed desperate to be a huge movie star.A few of his movies, including this one, were so high profile, but so poorly received and average at the box office.It's because they seem so unique with the synopsis, but the execution is so average. Here Clooney has a bit of a swagger wearing white trousers and smirking at Kidman, who justs gets in a fluster every now and again.Sounds like the perfect recipe for a romantic comedy. But this is about Nuclear Weapons going missing. And the film drags in places.One of dreamworks first releases, it does have its moments. The car chase is quite good, and a siege on a bridge is visually impressive, as is the claustrophobic feel of the final act.But for a film that is over two hours long, these really seem few and far between, when the rest of the time we are treated to heated debate.The two stars are good, and you can tell Clooney will be big, It's a good job he met Soderbergh though. Heaven knows what would have happened to his career otherwise. "},{"Title":"Much better than I thought it might be . . .","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I was particularly interested in this film because I was curious how Hollywood would treat this type of scenario, and of course, anything with Nicole Kidman in it has to be at least somewhat entertaining. I actually worked for DOE, in the national labs at Berkeley and also Los Alomos, a number of years ago, and a consequence of such have become quite familiar with nuclear ordnance in its myriad forms, including the so-called suitcase nukes that both the former Soviet Union & the USA have developed.Make no mistake, these types of miniaturized nuclear devices do exist, including from decommissioned MRV ballistic missiles and the like. The concept of nuclear warheads, slipping into the wrong hands does very much exist, although in current times this may more likely come from Pakistan, or any variety of rogue states who could acquire such through third party brokers. As a side note, any of these types of nuclear devices do require periodic refurbishing, the details of which I won't elaborate on, but after a certain length of time, the capacity for thermo-nuclear detonation does diminish.Having said all that, does the film realistically portray any of this actually translating into a potential situation? Well . . . not exactly, but I think it's interesting that at least the concept was presented in a not overly ridiculous fashion. Sadly, with tremendous irony, I noted the twin trade towers in several of the background scenes. How odd it is that history often unfolds in the least expected ways. It was, after all, not a miniaturized nuke that was the greatest act of terrorism and evil ever perpetrated on US citizens, but rather planes filled with people . . . and boxcutters as the weaponry of terror.Was the film entertaining? Yes. Could it have been done better? Not sure if I have a qualified answer, but it certainly could have been done much worse.A bit dated? Perhaps . . . but I still think it's worth the time to watch, and contemplate. "},{"Title":"Dull action flick with not much to it","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" An American army officer and a nuclear scientist, or something of the like, try to gain control of stolen nuclear bombs, all this in the context of the ex-Yougoslavian conflicts. There are a few good things about this film but they are outweighed by the flaws. First of all, this film is stuck between a good action-thriller (think Tony Scott stuff) and a silly film to amuse 10 year olds. Its problem lies in the fact that it could have been a nice serious, fast-paced, well-directed action movie but turns out to be a diluted version of one (though well directed, I must admit). Where one might expect a little more violence or a rougher edge, you get Clooney cracking jokes and when you would like a little more gravitas given to the baddies, you get one-liners such as I hate them because they are poor (talking about middle-eastern refugees). Another element I did not care for in this film is Nicole Kidmann. She is pretty but never convincing, never funny, always out of place and always too theatrical. All in all, this film is light, Clooney is pretty cool but it remains a bit of a waist of time and will not make you laugh nor hold your breath. "},{"Title":"Is this an updated remake?","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" As I was watching this film I could not help but be reminded of a British film 'Seven Days to Noon' made in 1950 and by the time the film was nearing its end I was convinced it was a plagiarised version, especially so because of the final action in a church. The film is quite enjoyable, a bit heavy on American bull*hit but not too bad. A little too reliant on guns, explosions and violence which unfortunately nowadays is all too common and a lazy way to cover up for genuine dramatic action and acting. Of the two, in my opinion 'Seven Days to Noon' is the better film from an acting, suspense and drama point of view but if you want a cheap thrill and don't want to have to think too much, I'm sure The Peacemaker will satisfy your needs. "},{"Title":"Normal movie, flawed concept.","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The main problem with this movie is the notion of a Bosnian Serb as a nuclear terrorist, especially in the United States. There's just no historical basis for it. If he was just a madman acting alone, driven to madness by the death of his daughter, it might have made a little more sense, but he had organized help in the movie. The notion of any kind of organized Bosnian Serb terrorist attack against the U.N., also resulting in the deaths of large numbers of American citizens, flies in the face of historical reality. If the terrorists had been suicidal Islamist terrorists, it would have actually been a bit more believable, at least from a historical standpoint, although certainly offensive to some. This movie is deeply flawed, from a political perspective, and ultimately comes across as a piece of political propaganda. "},{"Title":"Amazed with acting and cinematography....","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Filmed with never let your guard down suspense, the story is rather simple nuclear weapons are circulating with one headed to the US and the military joins with science in tracking the carrier of the bomb. George Clooney is in fine form as Lt. Col. Thomas Devoe, professional yet charismatic and his scientific colleague is Dr. Julia Kelly, with Nicole Kidman delivering a polished performance. And for once we get to see a terrorist as a person Dusan Gavrich (Marcel Iures), despite his mission to destroy us, is a vulnerable, bruised human being. The supporting roles are well handled by such strong character actors as Armin Mueller-Stahl.Cinematographer Dietrich Lohmann keeps the action lively with multi-angled shots and surveillance scenes and the tension is well maintained with the music score by Hans Zimmer. But in the final analysis the credit for the success of this film lies in the capable hands of Mimi Leder. A terrific little suspense film. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"My wife and I were entertained by Clooney and Kidman.","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" By modern standards this is a pretty old movie. In shots around NYC the twin Trade Center Towers were still there. Still as an action drama it holds up well.George Clooney is Lt. Col. Thomas Devoe who, as the movie starts is being grilled by Washington types for a recent escapade where he ended up having a Ford SUV sent to the daughter of a foreign diplomat as a thank you for cooperating in a meaningful sting operation. This establishes that he doesn't hesitate to use unconventional means to get his job done.Further, as the movie begins, we see a train transport of 10 nuclear warheads in what used to be the Soviet Union, and it becomes clear that some of the authorities are up to no good. A train wreck is forced, and one of the nuclear warheads detonated in a remote region of the Ural mountains. The remaining warheads are feared heading to Iran.Nicole Kidman is Dr. Julia Kelly, formerly involved in nuclear weapon production, and now in Washington. She ends up in charge of the investigation for the USA, reporting to the President. As it turns out she, a by-the-book person, has to work with Devoe.The action involves several foreign settings and culminates in NYC as a terrorist is trying to detonate something near the UN building as a statement against what is perceived as ill-advised fighting in his native country, fighting that resulted in the loss of his family.Overall it is a pretty good movie, and Clooney and Kidman are fun to watch. "}{"Title":"Relentless","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Rarely has a political thriller felt more real. This is a terrifying thriller that starts out strong and never lets up. Even the best summer action movies can't hold a candle to The Peacemaker.A nuclear weapon explodes in rural Russia. Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman) is tasked with finding out what happened. Everyone thinks it was an accident, but Kelly believes otherwise. Now, she is partnered with Colenel Tom Devoe (George Clooney), and they have to race against time to find the truth behind a dangerous cover-up.For the first release by Dreamworks, the film stuido that combines Hollywood giants Steven Spielberg, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen, is an impressive debut. Much of the film deserves praise. The film is well-acted, tightly paced, and superbly executed.Fortunately, this was made before studios realized the marketing capabilities of the PG-13 rating, making The Peacemaker an adult, R-rated film. Thank God for that. This is an intelligent, densely plotted film. It does not insult the audience's attention; in fact, it requires strict attention from the viewer. This is also a very violent film (the R rating is well-deserved). It is all worth it, however. The Peacemaker is an intense thrill ride. You want suspense? You got it.The Peacemaker wouldn't be half as good as it is if it weren't for dynamite performances by the two leads. Future superstars Nicole Kidman and George Clooney are terrific. Neither one has ever been better. Kidman is great as the desk worker who suddenly finds herself out in the real world where mistakes can cost more than just a reprimand from your boss. She's out there, and she's scared as hell. Her partner, on the other hand, is the complete opposite. He's been there before, and he's at home there now. Past experience's have led him to believe that things are more or less black and white, and he has no time or patience for pencil pushers. She's the brains while he's the loaded gun, and Clooney has no problem essaying the part. Clooney brings some of his charm to the part, but only when circumstances allow. He's also effective as an action hero, and when he has to show his soft side. Armin Mueller-Stahl is wasted in the small part of Devoe's friend, Dmitri Vertikoff, but at least he's in it.As good as The Peacemaker is, it's not perfect. The fault mainly lies with the handling of the villain. The main villain, Dusan Garvich is ably portrayed by Marcel Iures, but director Mimi Leder attempts to make Garvich better rounded by humanizing him. While sometimes this approach works, it doesn't here. It weakens him and makes him less frightening. Personally, I found Aleksander Kodoroff (Aleksander Baluyev) to be more fearsome. Kodoroff is a pure psychopath; all he cares about is money. How he gets it or who he has to kill for it means nothing to him. Nor for that matter do the motives of those who pay him to do their dirty work.Still, The Peacemaker is a tremendously effective thriller. The premise is golden, and the film exploits it for all its worth. "},{"Title":"a bit puzzled","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this film on television yesterday and one thing puzzles me. There was a wild car chase scene where George Clooney is being pursued by two cars. They were driving at breakneck speed, crashing their way through a main city square, firing bullets, knocking down structures and terrorizing innocent people who just happened to be in the area (it was a crowded plaza). The scene took about 5 minutes in film time, as George Clooney kept backing into his pursuers after their vehicles stalled.And yet, despite all this mayhem in the middle of a busy and centrally located city plaza, mayhem that, I stress again, goes on for several minutes, NO POLICE EVER SHOW UP!!! I realize that if they did then the movie might have ended prematurely and would have been a lot less dramatic, but these are the types of things that make me cynical about the filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Great first film from Dreamworks","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This films plot feels like it could be from a rejected Bond script; corrupt Russian general steals nuclear weapons in a spectacular train robbery and our heroes travel around the world trying to stop him delivering them with little or no help from anybody outside their own agency apart from one Russian who dies fairly early on. Don't let that put you off though as the story, while somewhat cliché is exciting.The opening sequence where a train full of commandos pulls along side a train carrying nuclear warheads on their way for disposal and transfer most of them from one train to the other was exciting. When they detonate one of the bombs to hide their crime from the Russian authorities the detonation gets the attention of the US. At first it is thought that it is a terrorist attack but soon they realise it was just cover for a robbery. In charge of the US investigation is newly promoted Dr. Julia Kelly assisted by Lt. Col. Devoe, played ably by Nicole Kidman and George Clooney.What follows is a thrilling adventure as they first go to Vienna to meet up with an old friend of Devoe's and follow up a lead about a Russian general who officially died on the train but had apparently phoned his girl friend afterwards. When Devoe's friend is gunned down they flee in his car and what follows is a fairly spectacular sequence where the assailants pursue Devoe and Kelly but end up dead in a Vienna square.Now our heroes know where the bad guys are going and what vehicle they are in the move to intercept it, the only problem is the bad guys are still in Russia and Devoe and his choppers don't have permission from the Russians to cross the border. Of course he crosses anyway and is able to retrieve all but one of the weapons. This weapon eludes them and finds its way to the hands of a Bosnian who intends to detonate it in New York.Like all such thrillers it lacks believability if one thinks too much about it but that doesn't matter as it is such an exciting story with good heroes and villains. Talking of villains it was nice to see that the main villain wasn't really a bad man, but a good man broken by the effects of war. It was also nice to see a film where there is no romantic involvement between the leading lady and the leading man. I'd definitely recommend this to fans of spy thrillers in the Bond mould. "},{"Title":"Called The Peacemaker but I never knew why","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The end of the Cold War may have been welcomed in most quarters, but there were at least two groups of people who regretted it, namely certain hawkish elements in Western political and military circles, who needed a new enemy to fight, and Hollywood film-makers, who needed a new subject for their political thrillers. As the nineties drew to a close, both groups decided that, in the absence of any serious alternative candidates, the Russians and their fellow-Slavs in Eastern Europe could continue to serve as the enemy. Hence, on the one hand, the Kosovo war and, on the other hand, films like The Peacemaker. (Russians also feature as the villains in other thrillers from this period, such as Crimson Tide and Air Force One).The Country and Western song The Devil's Right Hand contains the line called the peacemaker but I never knew why. The reference in the song, of course, is to the Colt 45 pistol, but the line could equally well apply to this violent action-adventure thriller which has little to do with making peace. The basic plot is that an evil Russian general has stolen a nuclear warhead and sold it to a Bosnian Serb terrorist, who intends to detonate it in Manhattan. The only people who can thwart this plot are the World's Number 1 Male Sex Symbol (as an American army officer) and his female counterpart (as an American intelligence agent).Apart from the inappropriate title, there were two things that surprised me about the film. The first is that a film in this very macho genre should have been directed by a woman, Mimi Leder. There is actually a discussion on this board about how different the film might have been if it had been directed by a man. (The whole discussion, in fact, seems to be based upon the questionable assumption that all action thrillers are directed by Kubrick-type auteurs who retain complete artistic control over any project they work on, but I will let that pass).The consensus view seems to be that a male director would have introduced a romance between George and Nicole and would have ended the film with a full-scale shootout. If Ms Leder was indeed responsible for the decision to omit any romantic sub-plot, I think that decision was the right one, as any such romance would have interfered with and slowed down the main action and made the film even longer than it is already. (At over two hours it probably exceeds the optimum length for a thriller of this type). There does not, however, seem to be any point in avoiding the standard cliché of the final shootout if you are going to replace it, as is done here, with the equally hoary cliché of the race against time to defuse a ticking bomb, which helpfully comes complete with a digital readout showing precisely how many minutes and seconds remain before Armageddon. That plot device was pretty corny even when it was used in the Bond vehicle Octopussy more than a decade earlier.The second thing that surprised me was that that arch-liberal George Clooney should have agreed to appear in what is essentially propaganda for the role of America's armed forces in keeping the world safe from the Great Russian Bear and its Slavic allies. The Russian general is portrayed as so evil that he is prepared to destroy part of his own country with a nuclear bomb in order to make a quick buck. By rights the Serb terrorist Gavric, prepared to destroy part of someone else's country in order to make a political point, should be portrayed as even more evil, given that he intends to destroy not a remote area of the Ural Mountains but a city of some eight million people. In fact, the film makes a misguided attempt to humanise Gavric, who makes a video explaining his actions in terms of revenge for the killing of his wife and child by a Muslim sniper, but never succeeds in making him sympathetic, or even particularly understandable, and certainly never makes any coherent point about the origins of the Bosnian War. I suspect that the intention was to make the film look like a serious statement about terrorism, so Clooney could make a shoot-'em-up thriller with a clear conscience and without his fans assuming that he had followed other action heroes like Chuck Norris, Rambo Stallone and Arnie the Terminator into the Republican Party.In any case, Clooney is not particularly good in this film, coming across as too laid-back and nonchalant. This style of acting has served him well in comedies such as One Fine Day and Intolerable Cruelty, but it can be a problem in thrillers such as this one and Ocean's Twelve. (To be fair to George, virtually the whole cast in Ocean's Twelve were so laid back they were practically horizontal). Nicole Kidman is rather better, but has less to do.Leder handles the various action sequences competently, but the film as a whole, with its predictable plot and outdated political attitudes, never arouses much interest. Crimson Tide works much better as a post-Cold War thriller because, by not showing the Russian villains and confining the action to an American submarine, it manages to find a new angle on its subject-matter.A final word about the music. Prokofiev (or, according to another version of the story, Stravinsky) once said of Rachmaninov that he had not written a hundred different works, merely the same work a hundred times. I am starting to get the same feeling about Hans Zimmer; once you have heard one of his film scores, you have heard them all. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Decent enough, nothing earth-shattering","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" If there was a movie that you could say followed the plot step-for-step by the manual, this would be it. It was neither raised nor torpedoed by the actors, plot, or directing. Everything was as it was. Nothing spectacular nor grating. Clooney and Kidman work well together in the film, and Mimi Leder doesn't try to throw any Hollywood hyperbole into the film, sans the very end. Scenery, especially in the former Soviet Union, was effective, and we probably get something slightly closer to how to handle the situation presented in reality than Hollywood tends to give us. (I point to films like Volcano and Armageddon as examples of Hollywoodizing a film.) All in all, a solid film. "},{"Title":"Outlandish Thriller","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Now here's an outlandish thriller with even more plot holes than Air Force One. Mimi Leder fails to make us care about the plight of the people or any of the principal characters, let alone the fact that a madman has stolen nuclear weapons which he appears intent on using.Action sequences early on are good but they soon peter out in what is a tedious middle stanza. A well staged, tense finale helps tremendously, but the resolution is always obvious.Clooney is hard to like with his cheeky grin and over-confident persona. Nicole Kidman is sensational, even when under par as she is here. The Peacemaker is hi-tech, ultra slick but alas, too thick.Saturday, December 6, 1997 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"George Clooney + Nicole Kidman together equal James Bond and spare NY from nuclear destruction","Date":"17 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Every so often, this picture had some realism to it. Mostly it was a hectic and overlong, nervous and excited movie.A Russian has hijacked 10 nuclear warheads that he's transporting for sale, with one going to a Serb-Croat-Muslim who intends to detonate it at the UN building. Kidman is the Executive Branch operative and Clooney is the military operative. The story takes on James Bond proportions as they seek out what's going on and then attempt to stop it. There are 2 or 3 climaxes that extend the story's length. After awhile, I was fast-forwarding through the predictable chase scene in NY City.There is quite an elaborate car chase scene in Serbia (I think) in which Clooney uses the car to destroy three cars in pursuit. This scene works well. Clooney handles his part nicely. He never fails to know what to do and acts very quickly. Kidman keeps up with him.The movie glorifies the U.S. technical prowess. The depictions are unreal and fantastic, if not ridiculous. It makes for propaganda.Nuclear warheads on American soil in terrorist hands are the ultimate U.S. nightmare, and so that's what the movie shows. In a moment of realism, we learn that the terrorist is attacking NY out of retaliation for US and NATO interference in the old Yugoslavia and the deaths of his family. It's called blowback. The other U.S. bugaboo is Iran (horror! horror!) and so another plot element is warheads headed for Iran.It's all strictly comic book level and by the numbers action, a popcorn feature. Nothing deep here except sell tickets and pay the upkeep of the producers, staff and movie makers. With Dreamworks making it, I didn't expect much, and nothing much happened.Why were the James Bond movies more satisfying? "},{"Title":"One of the better movie starring George Clooney and Nichole Kidman","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie would have been just as good if it was a plot for a James Bond movie. US military and civilian are tasked to find a stolen nuclear bomb. Cliff hanger of course is its detonation time, and how the two will find the bomb.I seriously think that this is one of the best role George Clooney played. He looks so real as the military officer. His chemistry with Nichole Kidman is really good too.The movie is hard to rate in that it's really well put together, but acting is bit weak, and this takes away from the tension. There's not enough character in George Clooney's role to make him interesting. Like many others who likes this movie, I like it for the story, and the quality of the production. It's an intriguing story, and is worth a watch for its story alone. "},{"Title":"A humble masterpiece","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Well, the 5.9 average doesn't do justice to this movie. The truth is that 'The Peacemaker' is a masterpiece and the reason is simple it's captivating, thrilling and engages the human mind without relying on cgi effects but on masterfully directed subtle action scenes. I do not want to analyze it more because if I do I will miss the point. I will only say this in many reviews we can read that it's a decent film and has nothing new to offer to the genre... In reality this is the exceptional thing about this film it takes common place material, used again and again, and transforms them to something brilliant. This is one definition for the word masterpiece on cinema! I loved it! "},{"Title":"Good story","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" George Clooney and Nicole Kidman star in The Peacemaker, a 1997 film directed by Mimi Leder and also starring Armin Mueller-Stahl. The plot is a good one - some Russians set up a train wreck in order to get nuclear warheads, destined for detonation, to a Bosnian diplomat with an ax to grind - he blames the west for the deaths of his wife and child. The U.S. special forces, led by Colonel Devoe (Clooney) manage to get all of the warheads except one. They have to find it and find it fast - it's going to be used on the United Nations.The first part of the film is the most exciting, showing the setting up of the train disaster. Then the focus is on the U.S. nuclear expert, Dr. Julia Kelly (Kidman) as she is temporarily put in charge of the situation and comes up against Devoe, a smart aleck with some passionate ideas. The two work together toward a common goal.There are some very tense and exciting scenes in this film and some great special effects. Both the stars are very good. What I didn't care for was the stereotypical relationship between Devoe and Kelly - the instant dislike, his aggressiveness and his backing down when he realizes how smart she is. I realize there is a need for a dynamic between the two at first meeting, but why does it always have to be dislike and/or a turf war? These are two people in a world crisis who have to work together but approach the crisis by different means. Instead of using the man/woman tension shorthand, how about meeting as equals and arguing? He can notice she's a woman and a looker later when their strategy is in place.Basically I liked The Peacemaker, but for me there was not enough character development and too much dependence on special effects to make it really great. I guess I'm spoiled from watching too many old movies where characterization was more important than blowing things up. "}{"Title":"A dashing start from Dreamworks","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This film was released in 1997, just ten years from now, i.e. 2007. For long time I have been searching a long list of serious action thriller, and fortunately found this title in various movie reviews sites. So I bought the DVD and watched with my best friends. I must admit that this is the first title I watched of George Clooney. Clooney starring as an US Army Intelligence Officer Colonel Thomas Devoe, really makes the film a tasty meal. Also it has a recipe of Kidman, a nuclear expert of the White House who undertakes the serious railway incident case. Though the film is in the same direction with the 007 James Bond series, it must be realized that without Broccoli production also Hollywood can provide this type of serious suspense-thriller. Most impressive fact of the film is that it was the first production from Dreamworks with a huge success after its release. The Peacemaker is usually made for them those who are crazy of watching 'suspense/thriller/action' types of movies (just like me!!!). Those respective audiences who do not watch this types of movies should avoid this movie and stay away from any blind negative comments. Thumbs Up! The Peacemaker. "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller though Clooney's Character is utterly repulsive","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  'The Peacemaker' is an Excellent Thriller.It's full of Action,Explosions,Dead bad guys and thrills in just about every scene.While Nicole Kidman might not convince in her role of a top nuclear scientist. Clooney more than convinces as the arrogant,smarmy,gung-ho,U.S.A vs rest of world military man.The action is well handled by Director Mimi Leder who went on to direct 1998's End of the World Thriller 'Deep Impact'unfortunatly the movie wasn't the Big Box-Office smash predicted with a fairly small budget of $50M (well-small considering the $160m plus spent on this year's Blockbusters) it made just under $42m in the states and made only $102M Worldwide which is a shame as this is one of the most exciting and thrilling films ever made well worth watchingMy Rating **** out of ***** or 8/10 "},{"Title":"I think this movie was better than THE SUM OF ALL FEARS","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker is one of the best action-political thrillers I have ever seen.  It grimly foreshadowed what terrorism can do (9-11), but the pace of the movie is great and it is a very realistic situation in today's present world. This movie is filled with pulse-pounding excitement and the acting is absolutely superb. I espoecailly like that they used russian language actors. The whole movie in my opinion was exceptional and yes I did see THE SUM OF ALL FEARS and it is comparable, But The Peacemaker did it better and earlier, This is simply action packed, the car chase scene is great and the helicopter scene as well. This movie was just excellent and is way better than the sum of all fears, Clooney is a much better actor than Affleck. Anyways I recommend this movie to anybody who likes political-action thrillers.  SUPRAMAXX RATING - 9/10 SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Routine actioner with an exceptional car chase","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've been quickly scanning the reviews for this film, and did not notice many comments with respect to the terrific car chase halfway through the movie. Three late model black BMWs versus a new (at the time) Mercedes. The action zips all around town, and for once, the protagonists use their car in a realistic fashion to wipe out the bad guys - by backing into the other car's passenger door at 40 mph! The only flaw with the entire scene - the obligatory scene where the car explodes and our heroes jump in the air toward the camera.I think its one of the top car chases of the past ten years, behind Ronin and, surprisingly, Short Time with Dabney Coleman. In fact, Short Time's scene may be the best of the three, and its not even an action movie.  "},{"Title":"Much better then the ads make it look","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, for 5 years I have avoided this movie because I thought it looked crap. But it was on TV so I thought..what the hell. I mean heck. What the heck. Anyway, it was a bit slow at first but when Kidman and Clooney finally get on the plane, the movie gets good. Overall, it is actually a very good movie. I was surprised.Kidman and Clooney have really excellent chemistry and I hope to see them work together again. Kidman was very good in her role. I think most people find it hard to accept Kidman in this role because a she was too young and b Kidman is a dramatic actress and this is her first and only action movie, so it comes off as a surprise. I think she does it quite well. Much better then say...Clooney. He was good, but he always plays the same character. I just didn't buy him as an army dude. Perhaps the smart thing about this movie was that there was no forming of a relationship between Kidman and Clooney. Although they do hook up at the end. What I mean is, there was no huge wiil they/won't they? focus/storyline.The characters were quite well developed and I unexpectidly enjoyed this movie. * * * 1/2 out of * * * * *. "},{"Title":"Excellent genre film","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Although the plot could be less complex and still work, this was an impressive major film debut for Mimi Leder, now one of my favorite directors. What ultimately sold me on it was that it avoids the typical cliches of instant romance between main characters, plus its technical accuracy. Also, even the villain is human and easy to empathize with.Not perfect, but much better than most... Almost up to the standard Leder set with 1998's Deep Impact. "},{"Title":"Terrific Action Movie with slight miscasting","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I was unprepared for how gripping this movie would be. The many action sequences are truly edge of the seat, the scenery alone wonderful (and all over the globe), the acting first rate. Mimi Leder should really be congratulated for her direction. The scenes in Vienna alone are worth the price of rental. I have two slight criticisms of a really wonderful movie. One is that as well as Nicole Kidman does her American accent (and as delicious as she looks), she was simply too young for the role. I had already thought of Sigourney Weaver when I read the comment below with which I totally agree. Linda Fiorentino would have been another excellent choice. In fact, it would have been very interesting to see Clooney with an older actress such as Anne Bancroft - after all, there is no real love story in the movie. Kidman looks so very young in this movie that it seems as if the White House is represented by a high school senior. The second is that there are no real twists in the movie. We know who the villains are instantly - it might have been more interesting to have some others surprisingly implicated (e.g., Clooney himself?). The movie is on a relatively simple plain - no ambiguous motives, no world-weariness - simply good and bad (though they do a nice job of giving some sympathy to the Serb villains). To the Russian critic, the movie doesn't say that Turkey borders Russia - it simply has a Russian complaining that the Americans should return to Turkey - the closest NATO ally.  "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  An exciting story despite a often used terrorist/nuke theme.  One of George Clooney's better performances.  George and Nicole Kidman played very well together.  Tense closing moments.  Recommend for those loving action.  I rated this a 7.  "},{"Title":"great action movie","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this movie when it came out because I liked it so much but I had not watched it in a while. Then after the attacks it makes you realize how realistic the movie can be and it was even better after you think about it. This is a movie you should go buy right now. "},{"Title":"Mimi Leder's perfect direction, Michael Schiffer's clever screenplay, Clooney's great     performance and.........Nicole Kidman","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe the subject here is old, another terrorist nuke flick but The Peacemaker makes you forget all that and see that this is much more than that cat and rat chase. This is one of the best action movies of all time and deserved more attention and another eyes.Dream Works believed in this film to be their first one and they end up doing a really classic. Mimi Leder delivers scenes that makes you remember sometimes Spilberg. It was first Michael Schiffer film after Crimson Tide and he did it better. George Clooney gives his best performances (if not the best) in his career. And the movie still has Nicole Kidman in a not that bad performance, but come on she is Nicole Kidman. The support cast is great too with all the Russians and stuff.Make yourself a favor and go watch this movie again. Probably you didn't got all the details. "}{"Title":"Old plot but a good conversion","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is truly an above-average movie. The Peacemaker was Mimi Leder's first attempt to direct an action movie and she did a good job. The plot is very old and it immediately reminds the viewer of some boring B-movies but you should not judge a movie by looking at the plot. This flic is a DreamWorks-production and has everything to entertain you until the end. Besides the actors and the score I enjoyed the way the movie is filmed. The camera caught some impressive pictures which I still remember (I watched the movie in autumn of 2000), e.g. the scene where the old Russian couple left the house to help the victims of the train accident while the nuclear bomb explodes or the scene with the piano play of the Serbian terrorist. I draw the conclusion that The Peacemaker is no action fast food which you should not miss if you accept it that the movie is based on a well-known plot.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Well presented plots and conflicts","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker may have a predictable plot but it is presented in a fashion that is entertaining.  Granted, you know right from the start when the Nukes are stolen it is going to be the job of Kidman's (Julia Kelly)and Clooney's (Tom Devoe) characters to find and recover them.  How this is done is what make this film, a movie worth watching.  From the theft of the nukes and the detonation of one to cover the theft to the armed incursion into Russian territory to recover them are realistically done.The conflict between Julia and Devoe is also pretty realistic as well. Julia is a PHD of Nuclear Physics and is the diplomat in charge of the overall operation to recover the stolen nukes.  However, Julia lacks any practical experience necessary to extricate the nukes from hostile hands. Devoe, on the other hand is an expert in foreign covert operations and knows exactly what is needed to recover the nukes, little or no diplomacy and at times, brute force.  This leads to a conflict between Julia and Devo which, although is predictable but is presented believably.The well presented plot and the realistic conflict between Julia, the diplomat and the Devoe the soldier make for a good movie anytime.  "},{"Title":"Fairly good leadoff hit for Dreamworks...","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Not a homer, a single up the middle instead. I kinda liked it-it sure does remind me though of the most recent Bond flick; complete with the Russian setting, arms and the like, renegade Russian officers, etc.Not much here was all that original-though I enjoyed the convoy in Azerbaijan, the helicopter stuff, the stuntwork on the Bridge or the bigtime carchases in 'Vienna'(shot actually in Bratislava), those were enjoyable if rote, been there/seen it before things. Read the goofs section though-Nicole's wardrobe changes in the carchases and what not are NOT the intended sort...continuity problems galore.But hey, like I said, it was not a bad flick, just not that suprising or whatever.**1/2, as I enjoy both Clooney and Kidman, I will be nice. It's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"superior !","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Intelligent and amazingly gripping storyline, nuance in characterizations and unrelenting pace - THE PEACEMAKER is a stand out in its genre. I loved the concept that love has no time and place when the task at hand is saving the world. No slowing down for kisses or courting. In my eyes Kidman steals the show, her best role to date. But most praise must go to director Mimi Leder (there is a distinctive and refreshing female touch to her direction) and Michael Schiffer who managed to construe this efficient plot. MI-2 is an embarrassment an embarrassment of imbecility (directorial and plot wise) in comparison. "},{"Title":"Clooney and Kidman Save the day, naturally","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The terrorist-take-over-the-world plots have practically become a genre upon itself. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman go to the extreme as a pair of government agents trying to stop terrorists who have stole nuclear warheads and threatening to blast the hell out of the free world.  The Peacemaker is a great flick, with breakneck chase sequences, cool fight scenes, and a good chemistry between Clooney and Kidman, with Nicole being her usual cool-as-ice dame, and Clooney doing his best Jack Ryan impersonation. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous George saves the world","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ... with a little help from Mrs. Tom Cruise, that is. What more can be added that hasn't already been covered by the other hacks on this page? Not a lot really. Predictable plot and outcome (except that the two main characters for once don't end up doing the horizontal hokey-cokey), reasonable but not outstanding performances, a liberal sprinkling of enjoyable action sequences and a bunch of dislikable baddies. Not a bad movie to rent for stormy winter night, but it won't go down in history as an all-time classic. I'll be generous and give it six out of ten.  "},{"Title":"A great action film that respects your intelligence, too!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  What struck me about this film after seeing it in the theatres was how the overall situation seemed familiar, but the performances by Clooney and Kidman, the rousing Hanz Zimmer score, a great script, and smooth directing by Leder give this old territory new twists, a brisk, exciting pace, and a deeply rooted sense of reality and truth.  Since then I have seen it six or seven times and recently bought the DVD, and I still feel the same, just more so.I highly recommend this film.  While the opening lacks a bit, it quickly builds and moves at an ever-increasing tempo to a very satisfying and well-executed climax.As far as I am concerned, this is a 10.Many may feel let down by the fact that this movie never becomes an over-the-top, 'Michael Bay' style explosion and one-liner-fest, but I found that very refreshing.  "},{"Title":"A car chase to rival The French Connection.....","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie, with a car chase to rival The French Connection.The acting is good...Kidman looks great, & the shots of the cities are very well done...Good photography. Check It out. "},{"Title":"Good action move.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Good action move. The two main charterers are great for a movie like this, believable without the need for a lot of development.There's nothing cringe worthy and the move successfully builds tension, probably the biggest failing in most action moves. The down side, nothing very original or particularly spectacular.Also a lot of time (in action move terms) was spent developing the villain to little effect. That and the main charterers should have died of radiation poisoning shortly after the films climax. "},{"Title":"If Kidman and Clooney can't save the world, who can?","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A passenger train carrying ten nuclear weapons is moving through the night with it's ghostlike puffs of smoke trailing through the dark forest.  Just this scene did it for me.  The effect of this scene with the darkened theater plus Hans Zimmer's wonderful score opened up a great movie. Clooney, at his regular cockiness, and Kidman, who can p**s with the big boys, run and argue and do anything possible to find the stolen nukes.  The movie intensifies when the russian terrorists are heading to Iran with the weapons and Clooney/Kidman must stop them before they are lost.  With a wonderful finale which takes place in non other than the city that never sleeps, The Peacemaker was an intense and thrilling movie.  I give props to Leder for the cinematography and to Zimmer for a dramatic score to follow.  "}{"Title":"A good, solid action thriller","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Two trains crash into each other in Russia, and a nuclear blast follows. Everyone in the White House thinks it was just an accident, except Dr Julia Kelly, played by Nicole Kidman, who knows that this bomb has to be set off by a nuclear trigger.  Colonel Thomas Devoe, played by George Clooney agrees with her, pointing out that people were jumping from one train, but not the other.  They uncover that the blast was covering up the theft of the other 9 nuclear warheads on that train.A good, solid action thriller, The Peacemaker has a good plot and good characters, as well as a great ending climax.  It has one of the most original ways to disarm a bomb that I've ever seen.  Acting is good from the main leads and I liked how the bad guy had a reason for wanting to blow up a nuclear weapon.  Great action and fairly good music add to the experience. An entertaining film and a film that I would recommend, The Peacemaker is a good action thriller.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Violence, Low Level Coarse LanguageRating 77 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Since I am a firm believer that the sole function of a movie is to provide entertainment, this movie rates a solid 10! Not only do George Clooney and Nicole Kidman do a creditable job, but the directing and editing keep the movie fast paced and still lucid. The real winner is the music score. It is symphonic in quality, adding a dimension to the movie that would have been flat without it. Thank you for a fine film.  "},{"Title":"Very Standard stuff","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker is O.K but its nothing special.  Clooney and Kidman are good in their respective roles, but did we really need another terrorist/ nuclear bomb film?  The locations in the film are used well, and the ending in New York was well done, but its just so predictable.  Naturally its up to the Americans to save the world again!  YAWN.  Probably the type of film you can watch when you have nothing better to do, but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it, its just not THAT good. "},{"Title":"Neutralizing the bomb was original","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The film is standard stuff1) Bombs are stolen 2) None but the americans seem to have figured it out or care. 3) One of the bombs is headed for NY.The music is really good. I like the villian's point though I don't think it explains why his family had to die.The best part - where they de-activate the bomb by causing the explosion from the explosives to not implode (and hence detonate) the plutonium - was pretty original if not correct and realistic.I loved the movie for the above and the music. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as one would have thought","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker, quite surprisingly, turned out to be a pretty good movie. George Clooney plays the military liaison assigned to Nicole Kidman, who happens to be the President's special expert on nuclear weapons. Brought together when someone steals a bunch of nuclear weapons, Clooney and Kidman work together to find the weapons before the terrorists decide to use them! Keeping up with Hollywood's fascination with the theft of nuclear weapons, the Peacemaker's story is not anything new, however, good performances by Clooney and Kidman make this film worth watching. Plus, the screenplay happens to be good, and the characters fit in easily with one another, so all in all, it's not a bad movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Differing from most of my friends, I loved this movie.  Not that I thought it was totally believable, but hey it was an action flick what do people expect.  I thought it was extremely well made and I loved how Nicole Kidman stayed in character the whole movie.  She didn't become this action hero, but actually showed emotion over lost soldiers.  Kudos to the directors on this one.  Hated the ending where he asks her out though.  Totally unnecessary.  "},{"Title":"A solid suspense/action movie","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that The Peacemaker is on my top ten list of action movies of all time. The action sequences may seem like they have been done before, yet they are carried out in a way that makes them impossible not to watch. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman give great performances and have a great chemistry with one another. The final chase scene in N.Y. will leave you breathless. This action movie is different from many other action movies due to its intelligence. "},{"Title":"Great action thriller with stunning finale","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker was unfairly overlooked when it came out. Granted there are some plot holes, but this isn't Citizen Kane. It's a fantastically exciting action thriller with a brain. It makes the terrorist a comprehensible person and tries to make the war in Bosnia human. The three action set pieces, the train hijacking, the car chase and the recovery of the nukes, are all great, but the film takes off during the final half hour. The search for the bomber in Manhattan is a masterpiece of action filmmaking. New York is used to full advantage, and really comes alive as a character. With eye-catching photography, perfect editing and Hans Zimmer's adrenaline pumping score, it's the way all action endings ought to be. "},{"Title":"Not just any old nuke flick","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  'The Peacemaker' takes that old scenario of stolen nuclear weapons and injects it with enough energy and excitement to make an entertaining action/thriller. I thought Mimi Leder did a top job as director while Clooney and Kidman put in solid performances in their roles, even if Clooney got to do all the fun stuff.   "},{"Title":"enjoyable save mid-Manhattan flick","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. A lot of it's been done before, but not with such enjoyable actors in the main roles. The hunt for the missing nukes in a devasted Transcaucasus was well done, and the use to which the final missing nuclear trigger was to be put was pretty original. They weren't saving the world, just a few choice square miles of mid-Manhattan, which was refreshing. Also refreshing was George Clooney in a different role, one he handled well. I enjoyed it a lot. "}{"Title":"A Little better than average","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I'm surprised to see comments about this being an excellent movie. Far from it. It's a little better than average, but not worth a $7.00 admission. I'd rate it as a good HBO movie.The plot is promising and the actors are generally good, but it gets tedious with too many car chases and gratuitous violence. The man hunt in Manhattan is good though with snipers on the roofs. That's a highlight, but the ending is all too predictable. This is a movie that would have benefited greatly from some good writing. The dialog is flat and plot from a formula. For all the money spent on this, maybe someone could have hired a writer.I found George Clooney's character a bit rude. Kidman is ok. She should be embarrassed about the role, but it's not a career highlight. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker kept me on the edge of my seat.  It was very exciting. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman present a great combination on screen; I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"This movie wasn't just great. It was excellent.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I thought it was very exiting anddramatic. George Clooney and Nichol Kidman were great together.I remember a lot of scenes where I was exited. Like the openingsequence, the car chase, the helicopter/truck scene involvingthe nukes, the chase through New York was EXCELLENT, and myfavorite I won't mention because it would ruin the movie. Thecinematography was beautiful, and the locations where the moviewas filmed looked great too. It was exciting to see themilitary, F.B.I., police, and other agencies teamed up in NewYork. George Clooney hasn't made many films, but his career inacting looks good. (I'm one of the few people out there wholiked Batman and Robin.) He naturally played his part in themovie, and I liked that. This is was one of the best fi "},{"Title":"Nicole Kidman Was Looking Sexy But Then Again Russians Are Evil","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Nicole kid-man was so sexy but clooney was looking gay & a wannabe tough guy.Russians are portrayed as bad guys again in this who wants to launch a nuclear attack on USA but why because the main bad guy got betrayed & wanted revenge .i really don't care for stuff like this anymore because the only movie i lover of bombs is broken arrow of john travolta.the climax of the movie is bad & rushed & you'll see why i love movies but this ant-Russian & all that stuff is gone too far.after 9-11 a lot of films came out with more concepts like the plus point was that they have Afghanistan & Pakistan & terrorist groups stories & osama you know what i am saying.i cant understand clooney this guy acts the same in every film & his hairstyle also never change.my rating of the peacemaker is 2/10 watch only for Nicole kid-man. "},{"Title":"Holy Cow, is this movie G R E A T !","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I have a friend who worked in the nuclear disarmament group inside the State Department, and between his background and the book by the disarmament guy that Bush II kicked out of Iraq so we could invade it, I felt like I was on the edge of my seat throughout this movie. I thought that George Clooney and Nicole Kidman had great chemistry together. I loved that they were consummate professionals during the action of the movie, and that their characters learned from each other.The action across Russia and the former Yugoslavia had a feeling of vermissitude that just rung true. The street scenes in New York were the same. "},{"Title":"Decent Popcorn Fun","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's not really anything we haven't seen before, but THE PEACEMAKER makes for a fun popcorn movie. George Clooney stars as a US army colonel who, along with Nicole Kidman, must track down stolen weapons of mass destruction before it's too late. It all makes for a fairly engaging effort that, say what you will about it, is never boring.What's most refreshing about THE PEACEMAKER is its avoidance of the obligatory sleep-together scene usually involving the male hero and his female aide. Without the distraction of romance, they (and we) are able to focus solely on the task at hand, a task given added weight by real-life events that followed this film's release. Good action scenes, particularly where Clooney drops into a suspect truck, add to our enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Great action flick!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The Peacemaker is an excellent film from the beginning to the end! It has one of the best beginnings a movie could have. I just love the entrance of the General! I just love the train scenes and the peaceful moments following it with the great music. Speaking of the music, this is one of the greatest scores ever composed and it is by none other than Hans Zimmer! George Clooney and Nicole Kidman are really good and Armin Mueller-Stahl`s performance was good aswell. The demolishing car scenes was so cool. This truly is a thrill ride. I have seen this movie three times now and each viewing is gets better and better! I recommend Clooney,Kidman,and nuclear missile fans to see this! "},{"Title":"Bratislava as Vienna,Sarajevo,N.Y.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Well the movie wasn't great, it wasn't even good. What i found really amusing and interesting enough for me to watch this movie, is that the city i live in was used to represent 3 locations at once ( budget problems? ).The part of the story that takes place in Vienna was shot in the city center of Bratislava ( one really funny moment was when the car exploded in front of the Slovak National Theatre, which had Austrian flags all over it). Then the next thing you know there's this cnn reporter standing in front of the most important slovak university (just a couple of kilometers away form where the car exploded) reporting from Sarajevo. The house where the terrorist lived was , yes you've guessed it, shot in Bratislava again. But the most interesting scene was when Clooney and Kidman chase after the villain into the cathedral. The outside is from N.Y, but the inside is from St. Martin's Cathedral in Bratislava. The shots of the trains riding through the Russian country were also shot in Slovakia.That is why i love cinema, it makes you believe anything. And that is also the only reason why i haven't changed the channel. "},{"Title":"Peacemaker a Colossal Bomb *1/2","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After seeing this film, we will all agree that war and the movie industry can be hell.Nicole Kidman plays a Ph.D scientist who meets up with a Casanova army like guy, George Clooney, who is on the hot-seat being interrogated by a Madeline Albright-look alike condemning his behavior.A Yugoslavian is assassinated in front of a church. The latter was a diplomat and the one who did him in will replace him. Seems though that the guy is bitter for the murder of his daughter. He claims he is Muslim, Serb, etc. and blames the west for the troubles of his land.Together with a Russian general, a nuclear warhead is stolen and eventually brought into N.Y. to create mayhem.The film is action-packed. We have our usual chase scenes throughout Europe, around Azerbijan and finally in New York.Clooney is his usual casual-confident self. Scientist Kidman never saw anyone die before.The first hour or so lacks little interest as we know little that's going on.The bomb actually goes off in a N.Y. church. How much destruction? We survive but not thanks to this film. "},{"Title":"Good Action/Thriller","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Good action/thriller movie that just wants to be better but did not make the next level due to a weak ending despite a credible and exciting last few minutes.Good cinematography and directing.Clooney shows his versatility by showing his action side but Kidman was misscast here.She did try her best though.Nothing deep but not a moron movie either.Only for big action fans,and fans of the lead stars..... "}{"Title":"DreamWorks blasts on to the scene with its first theatrical release, The Peacemaker, starring George Clooney and Nicole Kidman.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A Russian General has stolen 10 nuclear weapons, and as a show of force has detonated one. But did he steal the weapons for his own use, or is he just the middle-man? It's up to Clooney and Kidman to get the nukes back and save the world. Kidman plays Dr. Julia Kelly, a nuclear scientist and the acting head of the White House Nuclear Smuggling Group. Clooney is Lt. Colonel Thomas Devoe, an intelligence officer with the U.S. Army's Special Forces, who seems to have an amazing knowledge of Russians. They join forces to track down not only the weapons, but also why they were stolen. The story is very complicated and with all the foreign names, you really need to pay attention to figure out who is who. The story travels from the U.S. to Bosnia to Russia to Austria and back to the final climax in New York City.The story, while confusing at times, is actually quite good. I think it's the first one to deal at all with the situation in Bosnia, and it also takes advantage of the usual bad guys in American film, the Russians. The thing I liked best about the movie was that it was non-stop action. First time film director Mimi Leder, is a converted T.V. director, known mostly for her work on E.R. She takes that non-stop E.R. style to the movies, and it works quite well, the movie doesn't let up for a second. And George Clooney proves to me once again that he is a movie star. He has a presence about him that the top actors in the field have. Like Tom Cruise or Mel Gibson, he has an easy-going nature about him, but whenever he is on screen he commands attention, but doesn't overpower the screen like a Stallone would.Kidman manages not only to hold her own in the movie, but at times (especially the end) she takes control of the film, which is rare for a woman to do in an action-adventure. And most importantly, in most movies when you put two good looking people like Kidman and Clooney together, there is usually a stupid attraction sub-plot running along throughout, but thankfully this time, there isn't. The Peacemaker is a good, edge of your seat thriller that grabs you from the start and never lets go. Check it out.  "},{"Title":"Well, what can I say","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Yet another All American World Saving film. Not only is 90% of this film predictable with renegade terrorists not sticking to plans, ex-regime Generals looking to give the finger to Democracy and only one man (and woman in a bathing suit) can stop them as usual with an array of unorthodox tactics.From the outset the film lacked a convincing story which seemed to follow a formula. Take Broken Arrow for example, its basically the same except no Stealth Bombers.If you want to watch a film with some substance then this is definitely not the film for you, if anything it will just anger you with the amount of rubbish that is being displayed.On the other hand Hanz Zimmer's soundtrack is very gripping and stirring, especially the mens choir work, very nice indeed. "},{"Title":"Coulda, Shoulda, Woulda","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Despite never being impressed with this film, I watched it several times. Maybe I just wanted to get my money's worth out of the DVD but I recall, I actually liked this the first time I saw it. However, the more I watched it, the dumber the film got sort of like George Clooney's political statements.As stated, the story began losing credibility with multiple viewings. There are just too many hokey action and plot holes to make this the intelligent film it's trying to be. Nicole Kidman's beauty doesn't help, either. There is just no way someone in her position looks like that. Clooney is his normal arrogant character but part of that makes him interesting to watch. It's really a fair movie but you just know it could and should have been a lot better. Maybe that's why I gave it several chances, always hoping that it would be better than it really is. "},{"Title":"functional but not thrilling","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Russian general massacres his troops, steals nuclear warheads from a transport train, and hides the evidence by setting off one warhead. Russian says it's an accident. White House nuclear expert Dr. Julia Kelly (Nicole Kidman) is sure that the bomb is detonated deliberately by terrorists and Special Operations Colonel Thomas Devoe (George Clooney) interrupts with an opinion that this is actually a robbery. The two have to work together to track down the missing nukes with the help of the Russian counterpart Dimitri Vertikoff (Armin Mueller-Stahl).This is basically a movie running on tracks. There is no originality. The villains are too interchangeable and not very compelling. It needs a big name to be the big bad. The investigation doesn't have enough tension. It tries to be a bit funny with Clooney camping it up a little. There is some action but it's not spectacular. "},{"Title":"Feels like a poor man's 007 movie.","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Mimi Leder's The Peacemaker tells the story of a group of terrorists who hijack a train carrying a payload of nuclear warheads traveling through southern Russia. They set one of the nukes off as a getaway diversion, making everyone else believe the blast was an accident. However a nuclear weapons specialist and an army colonel begin to piece together the truth and before you know it they are hot on the trail of the rest of the warheads while a larger attack in a highly populated area is being planned. Every time I watch this movie I can't help but feel like this is a poor man's 007 movie. It's almost as if this were the kind of plot they would have suggested to Pierce Brosnan at the time but he turns it down and they get George Clooney for the lead role and just change the characters. It's not a particularly bad movie but it does have its flaws, notably in the special effects in some scenes. Clooney is OK as Tom Devoe, sometimes he comes off a little too arrogant and cocky for his character. Now on the other hand you have Nicole Kidman playing the weapons specialist out of D.C. and I don't know why but she is absolutely gorgeous in this film. She is definitely more credible as her character than Denise Richards was in The World Is Not Enough. There is a some good drama to the story particularly from the man behind the terrorist plot, you get a sense of what could drive the guy to do what he is doing. Overall not a bad movie, it's a good way to kill a few hours on a weekend and it gives you a good reason to think about Nicole Kidman as a redhead. "},{"Title":"Persistently Relevant and Riveting","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Peacemaker has both the sophistication, intelligence, and the suspense of its contemporary action thrillers as Spy Game (2001) and Enemy of the State (1998). The balance in the characters both male and female, the good and the bad guys makes for this mainstream action movie raises the bar on its other contemporary movies. The script is both cerebral and action packed, well edited, and nicely paced. Perhaps the renewed geopolitical tension in the world today with nuclear Iran and North Korea as well as the spread of terrorism keeps this movie relevant for today's audiences. Overall, this is a nice fusion of drama, action, technology, and political message of sorts. "},{"Title":"The piece (of crap) maker","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film last night and, although it is advertised as a breathless thriller, I found it a complete strain to try to get thrilled. The quality of the acting was...OK; Cloony produces a performance which is lacking slightly when compared to his later work (such as Oceans 11-13) and Kidman, while looking stunning (better than in many of her other films) also delivers an adequate performance. Character development is very limited, despite some initial hope (the flowers from Kidman's ex) setting up a potential avenue for sexual tension between the lead roles, this is not mentioned again, so why put it in the film? The lack of enjoyment I felt during this film was not down to the acting performances, however, it more the result of a script that was as thrilling as washing the dishes.Nuclear warheads are stolen by a Russian general who opposes his governments decisions to comply with the west's demands and is now only in it for the money (although, we find out later that there is another villain interested in one of the warheads). It is unclear until the last 20 minutes of the film why Marcel Iures' villain wants to attack the west.There are other little annoyances, such as poor subtitling I shouldn't of... is just something that someone is payed to get correct, making the film seem a little cheap at times. Other distractions are some of the gaps in the plot, I have no idea what caused the authorities to raid Iures' house, finding the vital clue to his target. At one point he is being asked to step in as the only alternate, and the next his home is raided. I also find in impossible to believe that a diplomat from Bosnia would be able to smuggle a nuclear bomb into the US without setting off a single security measure. Diplomatic immunity my arse!Overall this film, while not terrible, is disappointing (despite the eye candy of the leads). There are many action thrillers that are much better than this and much more intriguing. "},{"Title":"Clooney and Kidman must save the world","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Two movie stars join forces to stop nuclear terrorism. Nicole Kidman is the brilliant nuclear scientist and George Clooney is her gung ho army man sidekick. Nuclear bombs get stolen out of Russia and they must find them. Bullets fly and cars are destroyed. The war in Bosnia gets thrown into the mix as well. Thankfully, two Hollywood stars are on the case.It's a decent action/thriller. It just gives off a major Hollywood vibe. You know, the nuclear scientist somehow always finds herself in the middle of the action. The two leads have their cutesy sparring back and forth Care for some coffee? Kidman says. Love some, Clooney replies. It's over there. Kidman says with a self satisfied smirk on her face. Zing! Clooney interrupts her briefing at the beginning to show how clever he is, etc. I'm not saying Hollywoodisms are bad, it's just blatantly obvious that the movie resides in Hollywood's version of reality.So while the story is a serious one and takes an unusually somber tone for an action flick, I couldn't get serious about it. I knew I was in good hands with the movie stars fighting evil. Clooney and Kidman will save us. They always do.  "},{"Title":"One amazing film","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I first watched this movie with a group of friends about two years ago, but didn't really pay much attention to it. However recently I watched it again and must say it is a fantastic piece of filmmaking. The first real surprise, is that this movie is directed by a female director Mimi Leder (Deep Impact). This was a shock because some of my favourite action movies have been directed by women. Kathryn Bigelow, who's movie Point Break still stands for me as one of the best action films ever made. Those who would think a woman couldn't make a good action movie, can sadly eat their words after watching the Peacemaker. The two main stars are Nicole Kidman and George Clooney. Kidman really brings a sivalised but no messing approach to this film and is never intimidated by Clooney's character but sometimes fears his aggresive methods. Clooney is great and really is believable as a Military officer, they both really work well together. The film has some great action sequences and in the final act when Kidman, Clooney, and FBI race through the New York streets on a busy summers day trying to gun down a Suicide Bomber is edge of your seat stuff. I really enjoyed watching this film, it didn't have the over the top action and pointless confusing plot as most action films. The narrative developed nicley and the preformances were believable. The direction by Leder is a great achievement and her use of cinematics and screen direction really created an intense and gripping picture. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The thrill ended as soon as the action landed in The Big Apple","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Mis-casting Nicole Kidman where Sandra Bullock was needed doesn't help this over-plotted actioner. Bosnian trauma was already a cinema overkill years before it was made and by the time Nicole is struggling with an A-bomb's wiring to save New York City, as many have already said, we've seen it before. The best action ends half-way through when the bad guys get it. "}{"Title":"A collection of action movie sequences in search of a story","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A by-the-numbers actioner with good production values but a lame story. Kidman's character is an in-over-her-head analyst who is saved from her womanly weakness over and over by lanky, devil-may- care scallywag Clooney. Really, it's a ridiculously demeaning portrayal of a woman with authority, and Kidman adds not a whit of irony to her role.The plodding pace drains the energy from Hollywood's best-quality visuals and stunt work. Clooney's charm isn't enough to offset the wooden performances by those around him. Everybody marches in lock step through a series of ever more unlikely developments, toward a conclusion that can't come a minute too soon.This movie reflects its producers' contempt for its audience by giving us the clichés and stereotypes we've seen a hundred times before, and not a whit of originality to offset them. It takes a special kind of cynicism to waste this much money and talent, but director Mimi Leder is down to the job. "},{"Title":"A tired cliché of a movie which at least has a good opening","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Made in 1997, although very much relevant in today's world, The Peacemaker stars George Clooney and Nicole Kidman in this action thriller revolving around potential terrorist attacks in New York. The film takes us to a variety of countries as our two leads hunt down the men responsible for selling nuclear warheads to those hell bent on causing pain and disruption to a country they feel is responsible for destroying their families lives.The Peacemaker opens with a brilliant opening sequence where a corrupt Russian General steals nine nuclear war heads from a train transporting them across the country. In an attempt to cover up their actions they set off one of the bombs in the process, killing up to 15,000 people. The cover up however is not successful and Lt Tom Devoe (Clooney) sees straight through the smoke screen, and upon briefing the acting adviser Dr Julia Kelly (Kidman) the two dart off across the World on the trail of the missing warheads, both using very opposite techniques to find their answers. From Vienna to Eastern Europe to New York City, Clooney and Kidman do all they can to prevent one of the biggest disasters to occur in western civilisation.For starters there is nothing particularly original about this film. The premise is a slight variation on something we have seen so many times before. The problem with this is in the writing where included throughout are several clichéd moment that we have seen in many films of the same era. For example we have the typical cursing every time something bad is said or a gun is fired, we have the typical screaming sidekick teamed up with the unfazed hard man (Kidman and Clooney), and as well we have the run 'with only ten seconds to spare' and jump as the bomb explodes in the background, as a matter of fact we have that twice. It is a slight shame really considering the opening sequence is very well done, but the pacing there on in just drags until the next set piece which is then followed again by slow pacing before the next set piece. This can only be a fault in the writing where we are literally given all the stereotypes of this type of film in one two hour block. The best part about the writing is the B story involving a diplomat who has an agenda for his deadly act. The story is dripped in slowly at the beginning and then brought to the forefront for the final act. It is the best part about the story as it is something slightly different than your typical Russian baddie plot; however it isn't particularly the norm that a B story actually completely overtakes the main plot of a film for the final thirty minutes of it. It makes the opening ninety minutes feel a little clunky and shows how weak the main plot actually is.Some of these issues could be down to the direction, which although not entirely bad does seem a little flat. Mimi Leder does manage to get a decent performance from Clooney but Kidman doesn't seem out of her comfort zone. The opening sequence is very well directed, and the music really adds to the drama, but the other action sequences seem pretty lifeless, especially the chase scene through the streets of Vienna. Also something that was heavily noticed whilst watching was the amount of time taken to chase this man throughout New York without the bomb going off when he had put a time limit on the bomb for a much shorter amount of time. Put it this way an entire third act which is about twenty minutes of screen time told us it was only about seven minutes in their world. It was definitely not plausible and there is a way they could have got over this.The film isn't entirely bad but there is enough wrong with it to make it not particularly good. The tired clichés really take over after such a promising start to proceedings. The film could have, and probably should have, been better but the lifeless way in which the story was told, and the dull action sequences, really hindered the possibilities the film could have had. The music was one of the standout points, composed by Hans Zimmer, and from knowing his work in this day and age it is very obviously his work and the soundtrack booms over every tiny piece of action, unfortunately the action fails to live up to the score. I can't particularly say I was disappointed with this film as the opening scene was definitely one I was pleased to have seen, the thing is I could have happily turned it off after the opening twenty minutes and have ended up seeing a much better film.2 / 5For more reviews www.tolli-movieworld.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"POSSIBLE SPOILER  The Credibility Leap","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie. I don't know why. I guess I like George Clooney and I like Nicole Kidman. The only issue I had was with the stretch of credibility. I could suspend realism to accept Nicole as a beautiful, brainy, brunette bombshell (pun intended). And I could accept her and Clooney having the same impossible-to-kill-no-matter-how-they-drive-or-how -many-times-they're-shot-at qualities as Ahnold and any action hero these days. But the one thing I COULDN'T accept was Clooney being a li'l LTC and having all of the command powers he seemed to have. In real life, this would require him to be at least a full-bird COL.And let's face it, whether they realized it or not, the writers fashioned Clooney's character after none other than a free-wheeling, unbridled COL Ollie North if he were given unbridled power. (Okay, he was a Marine, not in the Army.) But, still, I think credibility wise I could have accepted things a lot better if despite all of the free-wheeling carting of nukes around the world, the ability to identify the number off a license plate from a satellite camera (and presumably the nose hairs on Osama Bin Laden but we still can't find him), and everything else, if they had only had Clooney be a full-bird COL from the get-go. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I dislike action thrillers very much, and so I was very surprised to be entertained and not offended by this one.Yes, the plot is ridiculous - but what action thriller has a reasonable plot? What makes this movie a very good non-art-flick is the acting and the directing - Nicole Kidman is never 'the girl' and she is believable as an intelligent, strong woman. Neither she nor the director ever let her get shrill or competitive, and her vulnerability is just plain REASONABLE, never 'girly.' The scene that grabbed and kept me watching was early on - when Kidman's character is given complete authority, the feeling of being alone and vulnerable was palpable - truly a great scene for a director and actor, regardless of the quality of the movie.George Clooney was, as others have said, excellent - never a testosterone-driven one-dimensional soldier. He acted and sounded like all the soldiers I've known - never any subtlety or color in his conversation, but truly a human, nonetheless. Can George Clooney act badly? Haven't seen any evidence of it yet!The director kept the plot moving along, not so fast that it became muddled or confusing, and not so slow that it was boring. She allowed actual character development - something missing in the genre - and kept the action scenes clean and exciting.I have absolutely no complaints about this movie, which is in stark contrast from my response to every other action thriller (except 3 Days of the Condor). I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Another unknown action movie delivers !!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I had been stumbling over this DVD in the bargain bins for a while and finally saw it for the right price and bought it based only on the story as described on the back of the DVD case. After watching this film, I must say that I am sorry I waited so long. This was a good movie !! The story centers around a US army colonel (played by Clooney) and an expert on nuclear weaponry (played by Kidman) as events team them together to find a missing nuclear warhead. This warhead may be in the hands of terrorists that are trying to bring it into the US. As action movies go, this film ranks right up there with some of the better action movies I have enjoyed recently like The Long Kiss Goodnight and Executive Action. All have similar entertaining stories that captivate you and make the time fly as you get absorbed by the action. Just like in the James Bond movies, bullets seem to bypass our main characters, coincidence is the norm and long action scenes find many in the story killed with the main characters seemingly unscathed. Nothing wrong with that. Forget about some improbabilities you may see and enjoy!! I did ! "},{"Title":"Almost very good...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" THE PEACEMAKER was to be Dreamworks first big movie, but it barely broke even.  Like a later Dreamworks movie, GLADIATOR, THE PEACEMAKER has a fine story, charismatic actors, better than average music, and bigger-than-life imagery.The flaw I think is that unlike Maximus who was heroic and sympathetic, Col. Tom Devoe becomes less sympathetic and more distant as THE PEACEMAKER goes along.  Unlike James Bond, Col. Devoe is one notch too vulgar, and this also weakens the sympathy factor.Worse, the final bad guy in THE PEACEMAKER becomes more and more sympathetic as we watch the film.  We feel his loss.  We feel his pain.  We understand his emotions.  What do we feel for the heroes?  Whatever it is, it is not nearly so much.The end needed more George Clooney charm, and less sympathy for the bad guy. "},{"Title":"Almost great","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" THE PEACEMAKER was to be Dreamworks first big movie, but it barely broke even.  Like a later Dreamworks movie, GLADIATOR, THE PEACEMAKER has a fine story, charismatic actors, better than average music, and bigger-than-life imagery.The flaw I think is that unlike Maximus who was heroic and sympathetic, Col. Tom Devoe becomes less sympathetic and more distant as THE PEACEMAKER goes along.  Unlike James Bond, Col. Devoe is one notch too vulgar, and this also weakens the sympathy factor.  Worse, the final bad guy in THE PEACEMAKER becomes more and more sympathetic as we watch the film.  We feel his loss.  We feel his pain.  We understand his emotions.  What do we feel for the heroes?  Whatever it is, it is not nearly so much.The end needed more George Clooney charm, and less sympathy for the bad guy. "},{"Title":"Great effort by all!","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites, so much I saw it three times!  It combines tight direction from Mimi Leder (not bad for her first outing after ER), really good acting from G. Clooney (only his Perfect Storm effort is superior), Nicole Kidman (funny in that before this movie I wasn't a fan of hers) and support from Michael Boatman.  A really good story, and very well written, that unfortunately is a very true danger now, nee SEPT 11 stuff.  Loved the location filming thru Europe and NYC as well.   Getting back to Clooney; this as I said, was a superior effort on his part, and he manages quite well to carry this film.  The particular role of his in this film is worthy of a sequel, and as the chemistry was there between he and Nicole she should be there as well.  I remember reading somewhere how the producers felt the film underperformed at the box office.  Hard to understand that thought as the film made over $100M world wide. "},{"Title":"Shades of 9/11...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING Contains spoilersWhile watching the latter part of the movie (plot to target the United Nations building), looking up from the street through the surrounding skyscrapers I several times half expected to see a 737 shoot out and smash into the World Trade Center towers. No doubt the view was not precisely _the_ one so well known from TV coverage but it looked eerily similar and given the circumstances of the movie...The plot is easy enough to follow A group of terrorists hijack 10 nuclear warheads from a SS10 ICBM. They arrange a collision between the transporting train and one packed with civilians, and detonate one warhead to cover the theft. Enter Dr Julia Kelly (Kidman) and Col. Tom Devoe (Clooney). Kelly is a spunky US presidential advisor - attractive, smart and courageous - but one who has never seen combat or watched someone die. Devoe is a battle-hardened veteran, not particularly a chauvenist but one who has little time for formality or niceties if it means terrorists escape with nuclear bombs to hostile countries. There is inevitable conflict between Kelly and Devoe.In relatively short order, 8 of the remaining 9 warheads are recovered, but only after the loss of a chopperful of soldiers. While Devoe is in the thick of it, Kelly only sees much of the action via spy-satellite. However she is appalled at the loss of life when the chopper is downed and requests a list of its occupants' names, weeping when she receives the list.The remaining warhead, or at least a crucial part of it powerful enough to destroy many city blocks with a small nuclear blast, is being couriered by Dusan Gavrich (Marcel Iures) to the UN. An unlikely terrorist, Gavrich is a professor who teaches children the sensitivities of classical piano-playing in his spare time. He and his associates (mostly family) have deep and personal reasons for their deadly intent however.The UN is not destroyed, largely thanks to Kelly's pluck and courage. Faced with vaporisation within a minute, and urged on by Devoe, she disarms the bomb with a knife!.Before I get drowned out by guffaws and belly-laughs, and in case you didn't know Nuclear bombs work by making plutonium or uranium-235 go critical in a way that a calculated amount of energy is released _before_ the bomb destroys itself. The bomb at hand is of the compression type, looking much like a miniature soccerball, a plutonium core surrounded by high explosive. The latter must implode the core in an extremely precise manner to achieve the desired nuclear explosion, hence disrupting that implosion by removing one of the imploding panels, as Kelly did with the knife, should prevent the device going nuclear (though not of course the conventional explosion). These days when many cannot distinguish technological fantasy from fiction, I wonder how many twigged to the significance of what was happening there?Judging from the IMDb business and box office data, this movie barely scraped even despite being intelligently and competently done by Mimi Leder (Deep Impact). If it had been released post 9/11 and particularly in recent times (2003/2004) it might have been a different story...JR movie fiend "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry.  But this is the sleeper movie of all time.  I think I have excellent taste in movies, and I only saw this one recently for the first time (summer of 2003), but I have to say that this is one of the all time greatest movies I have EVER seen!!!Does anyone else feel this way?  I really think I have a good taste in movies and I would rate this as within my favorite 10 movies I've ever seen!The action, the suspense, the humor, the casting, the acting, etc., ranks it as a magnificent movie.  I think Clooney and Kidman are perfect, and I wouldn't change anything in this movie.Anyhow, that's my 10 cents worth.  Thanks.Ron J.  "}{"Title":"rubbishmaker","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The reason I rented this movie was because I wanted to see something which won&#129;ft require the work of my gray matter something just for the eyes. So I thought an action movie will do. When I saw The Peacemaker in the rental shop I remembered that one of the causes for Cruise and Kidman to split was this movie, actually Clooney to be more specific, which gave me one more reason to choose it for my evening entertainment.   BIG MISTAKE. I won't waste my time explaining the flaws of this movie-not to forget that IMDb has limit on how long our reviews should be. I will just say that there wasn&#129;ft a single believable moment in it-totally contrived. OK I can&#129;ft help it-I will just comment one scene the train chase scene at the outset. One train chasing another, and pay attention, not behind but on the opposite (for the incoming traffic) rail track. Hilarious.Everything is so stupid and contrived that tires you out. Makes you wonder should I laugh or should I cry. Total waste of time and money. Avoid this movie. Overrated 4 stars out of 10.   "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I normally can't stand this type of film.  I actually only watched it the first time because I caught the beginning train scene as I was flipping channels.  This film I thought was much more intelligent than the normal 'shoot first, think later' films I have seen.  It was a good study in film making for this genre.  I thought that Mimi Leder did a good job at capturing the humanity of all the characters, including 'bad guys' and nameless victims.  Since I've seen this film, I have been surprised to find that it was not that popular and does not seem to be well liked.  I recommend it to anyone who would like to see an action film with relatively little gore and absolutely no sex. "},{"Title":"Good action flick","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There is no usual cut and dried villain in this movie, so it is not easy to hate him. You have a sneaking sympathy for the bomber. I liked its intelligent plot and the way the Bosnian conflict was weaved in the story. The characters were plausible and the action set pieces were good, especially the Russian the New York pieces. "},{"Title":"A Good old fashioned action movie","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The peacemaker was a very enjoyable movie stuffed full of action and stunts. If that is the type of movie you like then you will be in heaven. Plot is full of holes but the does not matter as this film will have you on the edge of your seat throughout. Good stuff! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The DreamWorks fisherboy's first catch doesn't stink.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Director Mimi Leder has done far better stuff on TV with ER and China Beach, but her first film is better than her second (Deep Impact) - it benefits from an efficient screenplay by Michael Schiffer (Crimson Tide) that mercifully denies us a romance between George Clooney and Nicole Kidman, who are in any case too busy saving the world (eventually New York) from a nuclear bomb to get physical. The main villain isn't too one-dimensional, it moves along briskly, and if our heroes are a bit less compassionate than they probably should be, they're just doing their job. It's not a classic, but it's not bad. "},{"Title":"Gas-X","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" If watching Nicole Kidman non-act but look pretty and George Clooney look stern while munching on scenery, then Mimi Leder's gasbag of an action thriller is for you. We've all seen a million of this genre of movie--breathless hurtling across the globe to prevent bad guys from doing bad things. It's all by the numbers, right down to the weapon of mass destruction about to go off in the Big Apple; there isn't a shred of originality anywhere.George (pre-bloviating, self-important political bore) is the hero who looks yummy in his army uniform and Nicole is the think-tank type who backs him up while looking smashing (you can't fight terrorists without looking good, can you?). The rest is just so much foo-gas with lots of action (something like a company of Russian infantry on a train get slaughtered to indicate to you how serious things are) and suspense (Gee, do you really think the bad guys will win?), but no brain or heart, and lots of cynical expectations that you'll sit through this flatulent wallow.Adverbs like yummy and smashing are signals for the consumer who wants depth and coherence in a film to put the movie back in the rack at the video store and, for pity sake, move on. "},{"Title":"i'd give it a minus 10","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  okay, so the only reason i watched this movie was George Clooney. But after i watched it i was really disappointed. Why do brilliant actors like Clooney and Nicole Kidman take place in a movie like this? It's so cliche, the Russian of course are the bad guys and the Americans are the great heroes. the story is more than poor, at the end you feel real sorry for the dead terrorist. Anyway, Marcel Iures who plays the bad guy is the only good thing about this movie. His acting is amazing, he's the only one who really puts life into his character.  "},{"Title":"I'd Be At Peace If Every Copy of This Film Was Destroyed.","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The Peacemaker (1997) Dir Mimi Leder / Cast George Clooney, Nicole Kidman, Marcel Iures, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Goran Visnjic First film produced by Dreamworks and it isn't a promising start. Title is wayward because nobody pauses long enough to figure out what peace means. Plot regards six nuclear bombs that a terrorist wishes to set off on American ground. George Clooney enters as a Special Forces Colonel who joins forces with a nuclear scientist played by Nicole Kidman. They manage to uncover all of the bombs save for one, which the terrorist possesses. Standard plot sidelined by action sequences that serve no other purpose other than to demonstrate production. Director Mimi Leder handles the action with great skill yet only Marcel Iures as a terrorist is the one broad role. He had lost his wife to the violence surrounding the area and he blames America. Clooney and Kidman are billed as names only. They begin with promising roles but soon enough they are on the run and narrowly avoiding death. Armin Mueller-Stahl makes an appearance before he is abruptly killed off. The characters are sidelined in favor of big budget explosions that basically make a lot of noise. The production is solid but the screenplay serves only action lovers and has little regard for the subject at hand. It is a forgettable film that serves mainly as a test object for Dreamworks. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A rather dull and dry movie about nuclear bombs","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is being advertised almost everywhere. Buses go past with it plastered all over the side, but is it as good as they are trying to make it out to be. In a word no. I found the movie quite dry and boring, and I slept through a part of it (okay, I had had a restless previous two nights travelling between Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney, but if the movie was good I would not have fallen asleep). This movie did not grip me, moreover I was waiting for it to end so I could go home and sleep.The plot is pretty basic. A renegade Russian General steals some nuclear warheads because he is upset that the communist reigime has ended. Who the Russian General actually was was a little unclear. I assumed that he was killed just before they detonated the warhead, but it seemed that it was the guy who killed the Russian General. Rather confusing I'd say.Then they bring in the war between Bosnia and Serbia and things become even more confusing. They try to tie it up in the end but the threads seemed to have been to obscure to begin with. And then there is the thing about a nuclear bomb only blowing up a few blocks in New York City. Okay, that is possible as the bomb they were referring to was the detonator for a fusion bomb, but once again it was a little unclear (though I could have been asleep when this happened).Now, Nicole Kidman's character is one that I find interesting. She begins acting as if she is a woman that is strong and is able to command men. Moreso, she acts as if she will not let a man walk all over her. Then George Clooney enters and walks all over her. That type of character is interesting, but I think they did not develop it properly. I went in thinking that she was supposed to be a strong woman and when it turn out that she wasn't really that strong, I was somewhat disappointed. Yet she does have some strong points as she is able to hold George Clooney back from entering Russia.George Clooney, well, all I can say about his character was that it was very uninteresting, even quite dry. Typical special forces commander that knows everything and can do everything by himself and the only reason Kidman is in the movie is to put a pretty face beside him. Honesty, one can give this movie a miss. "},{"Title":"Lots of action - not much sense","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Arab terrorists steal some nukes and one of them tries to set one off in NYC. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman get to the guy and disarm the bomb enough that just the detonating bomb goes off - not the actual bomb and only a church gets blowed up good. I was hoping for a more inventive ending but this film is strictly by the numbers. Kidman is the best thing in the movie since she's such a knockout although in this movie she wasn't as gorgeous as usual. Clooney is good old boring george clooney. Outside of oh brother, where art thou?, he has never made a good film.Right at the end of the movie, why does the terrorist with the nuke in his backpack, blow his brains out 5 minutes before the nuke goes off? That gives our heroes a few minutes to disarm the bomb!!!! "}{"Title":"Almost great...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE PEACEMAKER was to be Dreamworks first big movie, but it barely broke even. Like a later Dreamworks movie, GLADIATOR, THE PEACEMAKER has a fine story, charismatic actors, better than average music, and bigger-than-life imagery.The flaw I think is that unlike Maximus who was heroic and sympathetic, Col. Tom Devoe becomes less sympathetic and more distant as THE PEACEMAKER goes along. Unlike James Bond, Col. Devoe is one notch too vulgar, and this also weakens the sympathy factor. Worse, the final bad guy in THE PEACEMAKER becomes more and more sympathetic as we watch the film. We feel his loss. We feel his pain. We understand his emotions. What do we feel for the heroes? Whatever it is, it is not nearly so much.The end needed more George Clooney charm, and less sympathy for the bad guy.  "},{"Title":"Almost great...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE PEACEMAKER was to be Dreamworks first big movie, but it barely broke even. Like a later Dreamworks movie, GLADIATOR, THE PEACEMAKER has a fine story, charismatic actors, better than average music, and bigger-than-life imagery.The flaw I think is that unlike Maximus who was heroic and sympathetic, Col. Tom Devoe becomes less sympathetic and more distant as THE PEACEMAKER goes along. Unlike James Bond, Col. Devoe is one notch too vulgar, and this also weakens the sympathy factor. Worse, the final bad guy in THE PEACEMAKER becomes more and more sympathetic as we watch the film. We feel his loss. We feel his pain. We understand his emotions. What do we feel for the heroes? Whatever it is, it is not nearly so much.The end needed more George Clooney charm, and less sympathy for the bad guy.  "},{"Title":"Almost great...","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  THE PEACEMAKER was to be Dreamworks first big movie, but it barely broke even. Like a later Dreamworks movie, GLADIATOR, THE PEACEMAKER has a fine story, charismatic actors, better than average music, and bigger-than-life imagery.The flaw I think is that unlike Maximus who was heroic and sympathetic, Col. Tom Devoe becomes less sympathetic and more distant as THE PEACEMAKER goes along. Unlike James Bond, Col. Devoe is one notch too vulgar, and this also weakens the sympathy factor. Worse, the final bad guy in THE PEACEMAKER becomes more and more sympathetic as we watch the film. We feel his loss. We feel his pain. We understand his emotions. What do we feel for the heroes? Whatever it is, it is not nearly so much.The end needed more George Clooney charm, and less sympathy for the bad guy.  "},{"Title":"A boring action flick","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the promising cast this movie doesn't deliver the goods. It's just one badly done action scene after another. No suspense, no adrenaline pumping, this movie just went by me without really grabbing me. A B-class movie that recycles a story and scenes we've all seen a million times before. This woman director might consider picking different genres. Just a thought, just a thought.5/10  "},{"Title":"Spoilt by goofy plot.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 119 min.Peacemaker gets off to a great start, nice bit of tension and some great shots of trains steaming through the Russian country side. Alas after the end of Act I (the hijack Kidman appears and the plot falls apart being more concerned with Kidman & Clooney then the characters they play.The penultimate scene must be one of the finest twists on the ol' 'bad guys can't shutup and shoot' routine even seen in a movie. Although some credit must be given to both Clooney and Kidman characters for being prepared to shoot New Yorkers.5/10 catch it on TV. "},{"Title":"Great, another fake action film","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so fake. I mean, when do you see people dodging a bomb like that. They just jump out of the way. And then they save the day by shooting the bad guys all by them self. The acting lacked all over, especially with the witty remarks. I would give this movie ** out of ****. What I mean is, if you want to see another waste of time movie like this, rent an action film where people stop warheads from going off one second before the warheads should blow up. "},{"Title":"not bad but nothing special","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A devastating nuclear explosion in Russia creates panic among prominent American figures in Washington, D.C. Inexperienced nuclear weapons expert Kidman is called upon to try and help resolve the crisis; when several other nuclear warheads go missing, she enlists the aid of headstrong Army intelligence officer Clooney, and together their search leads them to uncover the scheme of a terrorist with no demands. Lots of gimmicky action sequences/stunts, but the film never peaks in its level of excitement or suspense, and the story grows more confusing as it goes along. Overall just another run-of-the-mill action flick, though it does show signs of life as it nears the finale. ** "},{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, im a fraud. When i say i have seen this movie i mean  that i have just got home and saw the last 10 minutes. SO-- SPOILERS!  -- Nicole Kidman is trying to defuse a nuclear device with a PLUTONIUM CORE using only a penknife! She says something like well expose the core and then there wont be a nuclear explosion,only a ordinary one. Fact if even a divine body like Nicoles came near near an unshielded Plutonium core she would be dead  within hours even if her brain had not been cooked by Gamma waves instantly. Fact 2 the conventional TNT would blast the Plutonium as dust into the atmosphere and probably render that area uninhabitable for thousands of years! I am tempted to rent this movie to see if the rest of it is mind numbing bilge, but ill let its 5.8 user rating speak for itself-i think you were being way too generous! "},{"Title":"EAT THIS, CLOONEY!!!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  George Clooney may be the the ultimate hearthrob, sexiest man since sliced bread, etcetc but he simply doesn't cut it as a macho action hero. He just doesn't look right with a gun in his hands, wearing an ill-fitting army uniform and shouting orders at soldiers in a practiced manly voice. At last, us guys who have no luck with women can have a good laugh at his expense. You're playing with the big boys now Clooney, leave the rough stuff to Mel and Bruce!P.S. Can you tell I'm bitter? "},{"Title":"Where are the T&A??????  I want my money back!!!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Mayor probblem with this movie... (SPOILER)Kidman is cast as a nuclear scientist, holding a PHd in Nuclear Physics. Anyone can notice Kidman (back in 1997) is not even 30 years old, more like 28. Unless her character is a one of a kind genius, there's now way on Hell she could've gone through college, a masters, a PHd, and enough work experience in order to get inside the White House before she's thirty. Never mind the fact that pretty ladies almost never go for a science career (not medicine, but engineering, math and physics. And even good looking guys like Carl Sagan and John Nash are more the exception, not the rule. Issac Asimov and Einstein are more like the standard).  My point is since she's not a believeable character (in no possible aspect), she must be around for other type of action (Bond girl type of action, since the Bond girls are only ther for T&A, like Denise Richards, playing the same role as Kidman in The World is not Enough). And there's NONE of it. Kidman plays (tries) the role as if she was for real. Clooney can afford to do that. A military guy (the one that goes out there to fight) usually is a macho type, so we can take him seriously. But Kidman... Give me Moulin Rouge any day, that's her type of role (a half dressed whore), no wonder she got so many nominations. We can all take her seriously there.My choise for the role Sigourney Weaver. She was 47 at the time (a 47 year old woman is much more believable, and can command much more authority, and EXPERIENCE), and she still looks great (even now, in Heartbreakers), and is the type of woman who could boss around military guys like Clooney's character and look real. Not Kidman. Sorry but those loose pants and regular skirts didn't cut it, and as for the swimpool, when we realize that it's Kidman in the water, it's too late. Could've been Clooney in drag for all we can see on the screen, before it's too late. "}{"Title":"Cool movie)","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Terrorists stole nuclear weapon in Russia. Ha-ha-ha!!! Try!!! I will look after that at you.To the directors of the film When you do something, do carefully without mistakes. First of all look at geographical map. !!!Turkey do not have the land border with Russia!!!It was very strange to fly from Turkey to Azerbaijan through Russia. What for to do such a huge additional way. Maybe just fly forwards.Serbs are not kamikaze!!! Those are only muslims (bosnian muslims if we have the deal with this film). "},{"Title":"It is a good thing that Nicole Kidman is attractive...","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'll bet that George Clooney shall be for ever grateful for Nicole Kidman's role in The Peacemaker. Clooney, though gifted with a magnetic personality, is not exactly a heavyweight in the acting department. Next to Kidman's  performance in this movie,Clooney comes off as Laurence Olivier.Whom amongst us has never met the female in the workplace, who has an aggressive personality, yet little competence? Nicole Kidman is that sort of person.Think of all hell breaking loose, bullets flying, men dying, nuclear bomb about to off. Now imagine Kidman striding into these sorts of scenes, legs spread apart, hands on hips. Unfortunately, that is all she can do. She does not at any time project the authority, that tells you that this is a person on top of her game. She bawls orders more like a harried nursery school monitor, than a presidential advisor.Clooney grinds things out as best he can. Director Mimi Leder partially amends for casting Kidman by the high production values, and striking art direction.My advice?  Watch the movie and fast forward through Kidman's scenes. Even better, run her bits at double speed, and hear her talk funny while she acts funny.There is a decent action movie in The Peacemaker without her. "},{"Title":"Slightly above average action flick with some hugely corny moments","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Clooney manages to play a character that actually makes you forget about ER, for the most part anyway. The same mannerisms are there, but he suits this hero role much better than an emotionally stunted Doctor. Kidman plays a strong second lead, for there is no one support, she's an unusually strong character . A confident woman who often takes control and is often giving orders to Clooney. Although there are a couple of grimace provoking scenes, the moment where a shot against a terrorist can't be made because of a group of Girl Guides stands out here, the plot is intelligent and very much edge-of-your-seat stuff. With modern day locations and political backdrops it makes for an exciting terrorist action film, although if you want more intelligence and less action, check out Arlington Road. "},{"Title":"Okay but not that really entertaining","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Its not a bad movie but in middle of the whole chase you kinda lose what the movie is trying to say. Director Mimi leder tries to show the big chase to find stolen Russian nukes (how many times have we seen that now....anway) but also has this weird melo dramatic atmosphere of what the bomber is going through emotionally and psychologically. If you are going have an action movie whats the point of making it out of point with dull melo drama (as if the movie was set to win the oscars).After all this is supposed to be fictional fun for must viewers, there is no need of making it into a paradox (especially with cheap remake of USAF helicopters).Now though this movie has some similarities with The World is Not Enough, like Nicole Kidman being the bombshell heroine and nuclear scientist she is better that Denise Richards (at least in acting...other features of her are debatable). We have George Clooney trying to be a James Bond and a John Mclane (lets not forget Die Hard folks) wannabe.If the movie just focused on the action, thrill and some comic relief it wouldn't have been that much of a flop. Clooney otherwise is okay by being the handsome, wise crack, trouble with authority army Major and boys lets not forget his sexy nuclear scientist assistant Kidman. Ok...its stereotypical but at least fun to watch......director even misses that....I give the movie 6/10.....so don't feel bad if you missed it, but watch for the sake if you have time.P.S I haven't seen deep impact (also by Mimi Leder) but I can predict why it did not do as well as Armeggedon.  "},{"Title":"Not original at all, Could have been better","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a typical chase film with predictable action sequences and typical type of plots seen in other action films. Nothing new here, and there is nothing in the film that makes me care if they blow up New York or not. Who cares...Saying that, the film is generally entertaining with George Clooney being the brash, heroic figure and Nicole Kidman as the brains behind the brawn.But its just eye-candy and after a while it tastes the same... "},{"Title":"so-so movie","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Just like most people have said, the plot is nothing new.  A terrorist decides that New York must be irradiated to teach America a lesson. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman only go through their paces. What makes this movie better is the interesting, if not best, direction by Mimi Leder.  She makes the most out of a budget of only $45 million.  In the scene when the villains were stealing the nuclear warheads, Leder did in a way to tap our imagination as to the situation going on.  In another movie, we'd probably see less than convincing train crash.One thing bugs me was when (in obvious typical cliched fashion) Clooney and Kidman had to go through a glass window.  Kidman's character sustained several cuts all over her arms (Clooney has a cut in his forehead).  And then in the ending, where Kidman does her regular exercise in the pool, she doesn't have any cuts but Clooney still has a bandage on his forehead. 2.5 of 5 stars.  The movie just has a typical plot with typical characters making it to hard to care even though Leder is a good director. "},{"Title":"Not a total waste of time.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the fact that George Clooney and Nicole Kidman didn't shack up.  I liked the music, a lot.  I liked the fact that the bad guy was a musician who loved his family.  Other than that, this was a totally average action movie.  Not a total waste of time though. "},{"Title":"How stupid they think is the audience","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I liked the movie. Very entertaining, nice actors. Too bad that Armin Müller-Stahl dies so early. B-U-T !!! There are a few things which might be over the top What about the action sequence in Vienna. They ruin the whole inner city for half an hour with their cars and not a single cop shows up? Give me a break.This is not a little continuity mistake in the movie. As an audience, I feel insulted. Somehow this seems to be a trend. (i.e. Lethal Weapon 4, tons of that careless action). I mean action is nice and entertaining, but it should make a little sense. Another one Near the end of the Manhattan chase when they have the shooting in the alley. Clooney and Kidman just jump to cover when the bad guy shoots back after the other one gets hit. Cut. Both bad guys can escape (one badly wounded). Cut - Clooney and Kidman running to chase the two guys. Did I miss something. How long does it take to crawl out of their cover. Did they stop at the Starbucks inbetween? Also, keep the make-up artist under control - please. If Clooney has a bleeding wound on the side of his face and two minutes later you see him in a close-up with nice make-up and foundation. No-Way.I don't trash action movies, I like them, but don't treat me as a dumb audience. With budgets up to $100 Mio you can't affort to be sloppy. "},{"Title":"Another Terrorist nuke flick","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I sat down expecting a pretty boring movie with crummy acting and a stupid plot. What I got was a half-way decent movie, decent acting, and plot we have seen before. The movie is nothing to get overly excited about. George Clooney, as Tom DeVoe, somewhat redeems himself after his last few fiascos. The plot lacks originality.  How many times do we need to see 'terrorists' take control of nuclear weapons & threaten to use them, wealthy fiancier makes demands, Innocent people get killed to emphasize demands, this plot has been overplayed. Something new please. Overall, The Peacemaker is an entertaining movie, but I would only give it *** out of *****.   "},{"Title":"Kidman spoils what should have been a great movie","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Kidmans acting in this movie is deplorable. The scriptwriters and the director should take some of the blame however as mostly her character was a waste of space and unrealistically involved in the action. firstly she was at least 20 years too young for the part and secondly as a supposed expert she didn't seem to know a heck of a lot, thirdly despite the ridiculousness of some of her lines she delivered them with no conviction or believability whatsoever. The story itself was entertaining and Clooney does a good job playing the cool strong man but the character Kidman played became overly involved in situations where her character had no place being and it removed all credibility from the whole movie. what could have and should have been a very good movie turned out to be an annoying failure. i have given it 4 points for the story but 0 points for Kidman and she was damn lucky this did not resign her to the scrap heap of bit parts and an extra "}{"Title":"The Popcorn Maker","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an underrated summer blockbuster. The plot rattles along its predictable rails at such a pace that you may find your disbelief left somewhere down the track by the time the credits start to roll.Nicole Kidman and George Clooney put in a businesslike Odd Couple performance as the Suit and Loose Cannon and they are well backed up by the rest of the cast. The stand-out performance comes from Romanian actor Marcel Iures as a revenge-obsessed Bosnian suicide bomber. Iures is very effective at showing his character's grief and steely determination. The rest of the cast do things pretty much by the numbers, so it sometimes feels like Iures has walked in from a different film.Now the downside. Iures's character blames the USA for providing weapons to the warring states of the Former Yugoslav Republic, which is why he wants to detonate a nuclear weapon on US soil. But hang on, the Serbs, Bosnians and Croats got their supplies from Yugoslav Army stockpiles which were made in various Soviet states. The movie therefore makes an unfounded criticism of American foreign policy, as well as portraying US troops (on an incursion into Russian Federation territory to capture stolen nuclear warheads) as the World's Police. No one in the film seems to give a damn about the supposed supply of weapons to the genocidal butchers of the FYR, but the idea of nuclear weapons being driven into Iran on a truck has everyone jumping into helicopters, dying heroically etc etc. The motive for the bomb attack on New York is sidelined until it is merely an excuse for Kidman and Clooney to jump on a plane and fly back to save the USA.The climactic scenes, where Kidman and Clooney have to try and disable the dirty bomb in a New York church, are pretty laughable. I'm no physics expert but I'm pretty sure that exploding a nuclear trigger won't wipe out 10 city blocks. It will spread deadly plutonium dust over a wide area but it won't be a nuclear explosion. Therefore the film ends on a bum note. If you can suspend disbelief for a couple of hours and be swept along by the great action sequences, The Peacemaker is good entertainment. If you tend to analyse as you watch, you may wish to give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Mindless stereotyping","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Another mindless 'political thriller' to be churned out of the Hollywood propaganda machine.As a action film it's passable, if a little bog standard. But what really brings it down is the horrific stereotyping and inane go-America attitude.The Russians are portrayed as hopelessly inefficient, undisciplined as they sit around smoking and no doubt sipping vodka whilst on duty. While the slick and professional US troops have to swoop in and sort the mess out for the rest of the world, constantly shouting at each other to be considerate to all civilians! Thank goodness we have the US to save the day, because as Cloony says we can' leave it to the Russians as they couldn't find snow in winter. "},{"Title":"THE PEACEMAKER (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  For those who think Nicole KIdman never made a bad movie must watch this. In fact, you are wondering how director Mimi Leder got two actors like Kidman and George Clooney for such a movie! Okay in the case for Clooney he was in touch with Leder as she has directed some episodes from ER. The peacemaker (the title alone let me puke) brings two nuclear experts (guess who they are!) to Bosnia and Russia to stop some corrupt colonel who wants to trade some nuclear weapons to Iran, and later as you will see one bomb goes direction...New York...not that far away from the WTC.(not that you can accuse them of being cheap as this film was made years before 11th September).  This movie has some very weak points that spoils everything...the first 30 minutes in Russian were a typical cliché like you only could have found in old cold war movies (and was it really necessary to seek the most poor looking place in Russia?) and secondly this movie tried to be hard to be a James Bondmovie (without the same budget or actor cos after all Clooney is just Clooney). The scene with the bulletproof Mercedes were ace and sometimes Kidman tries to lift up the film but in general this movie was very poor.  "},{"Title":"Iures","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Maybe I should have said more about Iures' performance. it's really not bad.  His character, as it's drawn here, is just about the only one that is more than a cardboard cutout.   He plays an apolitical piano teacher who is drafted into this nefarious scheme.  And he LOOKS the part.  His reasons for his actions are both circumstantial and reach back into his personal history.  One almost wishes him to succeed.  He's got our sympathy -- except for the fact that he's lugging an atomic device around in a backpack planning to blow up New York.  "},{"Title":"The Mother of All Stereotypes","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to imagine how so many stereotypes gathered in the same script. Feminism vs. machoism, ethnic terrorism, post-cold war but still full-of-uniforms Russia, military force can solve all, etc... All seems incredible in this action script, excepting of course the idea of a mega-terror act in Manhattan, which now looks like kind of a pre-monition (the movie was released in 1997).This is a disappointing thriller movie. The action and good acting of Geroge Clooney cannot compensate for the flawed script. Nicole Kidman is mis-casted, she looks too young, too beautiful and (sorry!) not enough smart for the role. The rest of the characters are an amalgam of different nations terrorists and spies, the mix does not make much more sense than the rest.It's easy summer entertainment, but not above the average and probably below the level some of this summer's releases.  "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Great action scenes and good acting by George Clooney and Nicole Kidman, but the movie fails to satisfy due to many holes and non-credible series of events. Can't believe a nuke weapon will make it through international customs just because it was in a box marked Diplomatic papers - Confidential. Also, it doesn't make sense why the guy would shoot himself if the nuke he is carrying is going to go off in 2 minutes. Wouldn't he keep talking to push through those two minutes ? Well, I don't know. May be he was already stressed out from everything and he couldn't last for another 2 minutes. The story-lines clearly doesn't answer many questions. If those questions do not come up in your mind and you just want to enjoy an action movie, this is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"TV whipper-snappery not good enough for ya?","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Egads!  Putrid.Mimi Leder fails to translate to cinema with this hog.  After this completely useless exercise in banality, she needs to be excommunicated to the Land of Lifetime Movies for Women.  It plays like a bad Roger Moore Bond - without the campy fun (the, sometimes, only saving grace of his lesser efforts - see Live & Let Die).  Played with a strained straight face to the hilt, long after you've stopped caring (I eventually tried to take a nap in the theater on its opening day!).Two things this is when I decided that Clooney apparently only has one role in him, and since this was released he's done nothing to prove me wrong. He's 'Ross' in every damn movie he's ever been in, even the stupid vampire flick.  Also, I AM SICK OF MODERN SCREENPLAYS USING COMPUTERS IN THE PLOT LIKE A PAIR OF CRUTCHES.  In films like this one, it is inherent that at some point (or at many), characters will sit at a keyboard and make that terrible key-clicking noise for five minutes while they come to some revelation.  Brings the movie to a screeching halt like a pointless sex scene.I can't (and won't) begin to list the cliches that have piled up in this thing.  If I hadn't been in the Navy at the time of this film's release date, and completely sick of the endless shipboard re-runs of movies like Dumb & Dumber and Turbulence, I would never have laid down the $4.50 for a 10 am screening in good ol' Sand Dog.I could have put that dough to good use.Peace. "},{"Title":"much ado about nothing","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I beg your pardon for my bad way of writing a perfect American idiom. I think (I hope I am wrong!)than the film the peacemaker is not even for the little children.The worst of the serie of the James Bond movies is one hundred best than this! Why? One example a man with a nuclear weapon with plutonium (more than two pounds!)is walking near the United Nation Center building without presenting any finding of irradiation!All the film shows these sorts of topics of violence, love, and uncredible events; It seems to me that it would be a good action to give the price of the peacemaker to the pooor men of New York! It remains the question about that Why did the author did this picture I do'nt know if I must weep or laugh at that! I am so sorry that I prefer shut up  "},{"Title":"Lame first effort for Dreamworks","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  What a strange and disappointing first effort from Dreamworks.  Some Russian terrorists pinch a nuclear bomb and surprise surprise they feel the need to bring it to the states.  The characters are supremely daft, with George Clooney making 007 look relaxed.  Ms Kidman looks both pallid and lost throughout the entire proceedings and the general feeling that they were trying to cram in as much as they could so we'd miss the non existent plot pervades the whole daft exercise. "},{"Title":"One word - Garbage","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the dumbest action movies I've ever seen. God, can't Hollywood even make these right anymore? This movie is full of loose ends and implausible bits. Clooney's character was stamped out using the Bruce Willis mold they keep in the closet. Same old tired hero who doesn't go by the book, or is considered a renegade. Please. Enough! The dialog is a joke, the plot is rehashed, the whole thing is a mess.Stay away.  "}{"Title":"I Need a Pacemaker...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There are so many loose ends (unbelievable situations) you couldfit a peacemaker in them. Fairly good acting and plenty ofaction, but I just couldn't believe most of it--I can suspend mydisbelief as long as the next person, but when you come to theend of this film and realize that you are not going to getanything in return, it leaves a pretty dry taste in your mouth.What are the ingredients for that peacemaker drink? "},{"Title":"Contrived plot, unrealistic characters","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've read quite a few comments on the movie, and I don't understand what all the excitement is about.The single word I can come up with is CONTRIVED.Some movies you buy it, where the characters and plot are at least a little believable, and some (like this one), you don't! If a character that's written like Kidman's is a realistic portrayal of our government intelligence officials, then we're all in trouble.Clooney is the stereotypical, CIA-is-evil, U.S. is responsible for all that is bad in the world, military hotshot. Not to many of our troops feel the way his character does. It's very one-sided.Chase scene towards the end where Clooney and Kidman ducked for cover in the alley, then sat there as the villain runs away (a good block or so, by the look of it) was completely unrealistic and ridiculous. It's those small things that add up to me not buying it in the end.The opening sequence was brilliant, I'll give it that.The score was obnoxious and misplaced, like it wasn't even for this movie but they decided to use it.Wouldn't want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Nothing great, but an okay nuclear war thriller","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"    THE PEACEMAKER is another average nuclear threat thriller. This time we've got Clooney and Kidman trying to save the day. THE PEACMAKER isn't anything we haven't seen done before, but it's still a decent, entertaining movie. 2.5/5 stars.JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Boooooooring!Even Homer Simpson hates it","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I am sick and tired of Hollywood production. Serbs are bad guys, Russiansare bad guys,Iraqi troops -bad guys, French people stink, Irish are always drunk, Brits are so bloody pompous, Afro-Americans have the sense for rhythm. This thing happening to my people-being described worse than devil himself is part of Am,erican stereotype politics, WASPS are good, all the other are evil MF's. U know what I mean. I disapprove all murders committed in the name of my,Serbian people, people thats lost 3 million people fighting for freedom 1912-1918 and 1941-1945,being allies with USA, France,GB. There are 7-8 mil.Serbs, now. My nation was abused, tortured,suffered through the centuries. I hate war, I never held a gun in my life.I didn't want to shoot Croats and Muslims, considering them for my cousins.I even refused to go to the army.So,I have the right to go anywhere i want, being proud of my heritage and no one has the right to accuse me or my family for anything just because of our origin.Is that the same right that is written in the American Constitution?Bill Of Rights?I don't want to shoot Americans either. We are all being abused by evil forces -Serbian,Croat and Muslim war criminals and American Empire.God be with you all, people of good will! "},{"Title":"Now that George Clooney has won an Oscar, it's amazing that he once starred in this garbage.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" You know how George Clooney is one of the most well regarded actors in Hollywood? You know, that he just recently won an Oscar for Syriana and received a Best Director nomination for Good Night, and Good Luck.? And he went on a fact-finding mission to Darfur? Well, nine years ago, all this would have seemed unfathomable. In 1997, Clooney starred in two of the most pathetic movies imaginable. Everyone knows how bad Batman and Robin was, but probably not as many people know about The Peacemaker. This one casts him as a man out to stop a terrorist from using a loose nuke from Russia.Yes, they could make such a plot into something interesting, but they didn't. Nicole Kidman's character is the ultimate cliché she's beautiful and smart, and totally melts in Clooney's presence. It's almost incredible that director Mimi Leder also directed the very good Deep Impact.Look, just avoid this worthless movie. George Clooney and Nicole Kidman have both starred in plenty of good movies, so there's no reason to waste your time on this. "}]