[{"Title":"Out to Sea-Go Down to the Sea in Ships to Catch this One ***1/2","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon, both of whom are sadly missed, proved once again that they were a team dedicated to their craft of bringing hilarious moments to the screen. This film is just another example of this.This time out they play two brothers-in-law who land on a ship as dance instructors on board.Of course, their boss is a perfectionist and miserable person named Gil Godwin who just enjoys harassing these boys. It's hilarious how Lemmon gives a quick lesson in dancing to Matthau and how the latter dances a riotous rumba with the boat's owner Rue McLanahan.Too bad that fellow dance instructors Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor are given so little to do but their parts call for that. Matthau falls for Dyan Cannon, on board with her fellow gold-digging mother, the usual outrageous Elaine Stritch. Unknown to them, Matthau has no money either. The widower Lemmon falls for Gloria De Haven, looking lovelier than ever.The film belongs to Matthau and Lemmon and will serve as a further tribute to their illustrious careers. "},{"Title":"Out to Sea (1997)  ***","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A competent comedy that delivers the laughs for fans of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. I suppose this film was made for those who enjoyed the two GRUMPY OLD MEN films, as there seemed to be a bunch of these buddy team-ups spotlighting the comical duo in their twilight years. The idea is a sure-fire one Matthau, a bumbling gambler who's thousands of dollars in debt, connives his unsuspecting friend Lemmon into taking a free cruise with him where they can meet rich old ladies; the catch is, they've been signed on as Dance Hosts and Matthau can't dance. OUT TO SEA is a funny film, and not all of the chuckles are to be found courtesy of Lemmon and Matthau. I found Brent Spiner (best known as Data from STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION) to be very humorous as the snobby ball-busting dance coordinator. As the prissy boss of the two aging actors, he manages to match them in the laughs department. Though the film doesn't really need any, there's also a a love story or two to be found here as well, involving Dyan Cannon (who looks pretty fine for her years). *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Light Hearted Romantic Comedy","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Movies aren't always suppose to be about deep, provolking thoughts. Sometimes they're simply meant to be escapes from reality. Out To Sea fits the bill perfectly. A light hearted golden years romantic comedy, Out To Sea may not be big budget, you might be able to easily tell when they were acting in front of a green screen, but it's still very much a movie worth watching. A sweet movie that needs to be given a break. This is just good, light hearted fun. It's not meant to be a deep movie. It's something worth watching. If for nothing else, you must see it for Brent Spiner's humorously stiff and uptight rendition of Oye Como Va. Gil is a character you love to hate and Mr. Spiner pulls off the perfect evil comic foil to two beloved comedy movie gods. "},{"Title":"Just a fun romantic comedy that I think anyone can get a little kick out of","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While this movie is not the most entertaining in the world, I think it is better than most over all. I mean it had it's little laughs and just all around a good feeling. It's not too often we get to see two old geezers just having fun with their age and honestly having a good time with the jokes. Walter and Jack had such a great chemistry together as friends/brother in-laws. Just watching them romancing these women was fun and you rooted for them all the way because wither we have to admit it or not, for their age, they still had game! D I loved just the whole plot of being able to move on and having fun no matter how old you are. I'd recommend this movie for a nice laugh if you want one.7/10 "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau have got to be one of the best buddies ever to work together. They have made lots of movies together, i think they are both fantastic when they do work together in a movie. Out to sea is a fantastic comedy movie i think to watch. I give the movie 10 out of 10. Jack lemmon and Walter Matthau will be remembered when the movies they did together will be on tv. They will be sadly missed. God bless you both. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite good. Although some people call this movie the Grumpy Old Men And The Sea it is hilarious at the right moments and soft at others. Matthau and Lemmon are two great actors and if you like one or both of them, be sure not to miss this film.  "},{"Title":"A Very Funny Movie","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charlie Gordon (Walter Matthau) is the guy who can't seem to let go of horse racing. The debts pile up high on his head. So, he decides that it is time for him and his brother-in-law to take a trip out on the open seas. His brother-in-law, Herb Sullivan (Jack Lemmon) whose wife passed away reluctantly tags along. It is not until they board the Westerdam that it is realized that Charlie signed them up as dance hosts. What follows is some hilarious antics not only on the open seas, but on the dance floor. And a sweet love story also comes along too. People criticize this movie for the pointlessness it brings. It is actually quite funny, but seems to be geared more toward the seniors' group. I think this movie was quite good. Rent it for a weekend and just see. "},{"Title":"Decent enough comedy","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I got a few laughs out of this one, more than a lot of other so called comedies. The big ship was a knockout and getting to see a lot of it's scenery was fun as was getting to see some of Dyan Cannon's curves. This wasn't the height of Lemmon's and Mattheau's career, but it wasn't a total dog as some suggest. "},{"Title":"A Very Very Funny Film!","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was totally surprised just how good this movie actually is because when I first saw it I was only mildly amused! I must say however, that I am still very disappointed that Donald O'Connor wasn't given a bigger and better role! He was an enormous talent.There is a great chemistry among all the main cast members and Matthau has never been funnier.I am tremendously glad that this picture got made because we get to see Lemmon and Matthau team up for the very last time; in a vehicle that puts their talent to great use. Brent Spiner proves that Data from Star Trek the Next Geeration is not the only good character he can play.The storyline is really quite simple but the comedy and the characters work really well and I laughed heartily throughout this movie and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Thanks for the laughs!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Matthau plays Charlie Gordon who cons his widower brother-in-law Herb Sullivan (Jack Lemmon) into a cruise in search of rich and lonely ladies.What he doesn't tell Herb is that they have to be dance hosts. Out to Sea from 1997 is a comedy with excellent actors.There are great performances from Elaine Stritch, Dyan Cannon, Gloria DeHaven, Rue McClanahan, Estelle Harris, Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor.Lemmon and Matthau make a great team in the lead.This movie would be much worse without them.This legendary couple saves the movie.They're both dead now.Matthau died July 1st 2000 and Lemmon June 27th 2001.These two made us laugh in so many movies.The world of comedy lost a lot with them.So thanks for the laughs you two.We will miss you very much. "}{"Title":"what can I say it's a great film","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a great film, just like any other movie that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau do together. This one was hilarious. Two guys that pose as dance hosts to go on a free cruise. Thisfilm was funny, hilarious and a joy to see. I remember when this film first came out and I first heard about it I said to myself I can't wait to see it, I know this film will be good and it was. I liked Jack and Walter's adventures in this film especially the Cruise Director, Gil Godwyn who was such a jerk to work for, But it was funny to see Jack and Walter test his patients. Never the less if you haven't seen this film yet you are missing out on a great film. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau always work so well together in films. It is a shame that they are no longer with us. "},{"Title":"Amusing Follow Up to the Two Grumpies","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After the making of GRUMPY OLD MEN and GRUMPIER OLD MEN, the box office success of those two films made it evident that another film property co-starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau was needed. They found one property, THE GRASS HARP, where they shared one scene together. But then this film was made which was fully their film together. Like most of their films Lemmon is the quiet partner who is dragged into the troublesome situation by the noisy partner Matthau. Here they are brother-in-laws (Matthau's sister, who is dead). Matthau convinces Lemmon that he needs to take a sea cruise to end his long period of mourning. Lemmon does not realize that Matthau got them free passage by signing them onto the cruise as social dancers (partners for elderly lady passengers). Lemmon can dance, but Matthau cannot, and one scene has Lemmon trying to teach Matthau, only to be caught by Donald O'Connor and Hal Linden dancing together (O'Connor and Linden jumping to the wrong conclusion). If they can't pull their weight as social dancers, they will have to pay the $1,500.00 per person fare as travelers. Neither can afford that. Matthau really could not care much about this - he hopes that he will be lucky to find, romance, and marry a wealthy woman. Lemmon is encouraged to do the same, but he is not as mercenary. As it turns out Lemmon does meet Gloria De Haven, and Matthau meets Dyan Cannon (and her mother, Elaine Stritch). But the course to true love is never smooth in movies. Matthau has a rival for Cannon, in Edward Mulhare. And Brent Spiner, the cruise entertainment director, is an evil martinet determined to impress the cruise line owner (Rue McLanahan) to put him in control of all the cruise ship's entertainment centers.It is a well-cast film, which helps (this is reminiscent of the two Grumpies films that preceded it. But those films had better balance to them. They had moments of pathos where one could see Lemmon and Matthau were not just funny men but human types. Here Lemmon is shown to have such a weakness - he has romanced De Haven in spite of his qualms, but at a critical point remembers his deep love for his first wife. But Matthau's personality is so mercenary (a cousin to his Whiplash Willie Gingrich in THE FORTUNE COOKIE), that his turning into a legitimate lover of Cannon doesn't quite sit well. Nor does it sit well when we find other likable characters can be equally mercenary.However there are plenty of great moments in the film. Spiner's unplanned involvement with a colorful local parade is one. So is Matthau's ridiculous dance with Rue McLanahan that looks atrocious (he calls his non-steps, the crawl)but that she enjoys. Spiner, better known as Mr. Data the android in STAR TREK, THE NEXT GENERATION, turns in a fine comic villain performance. My only criticism is that Linden and O'Connor seem too peripheral in the plot (although both do give filler about the ruthlessness of Spiner, whom Linden really dislikes). But the film is still very amusing, and worth while seeing. Unfortunately it was not their final film. That would be THE ODD COUPLE II. "},{"Title":"Two Comic and Acting Legends Keep This Love Boat Movie Merrily Afloat","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out to Sea (hereafter OTS) is basically a melding of Grumpy Old Men (or The Odd Couple, take your pick) with a typical Love Boat episode. Before you groan and decide this is something you might want to skip, I wish to assure you that comic and acting (and sadly, now departed) legends Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon effortlessly turn on the smooth, wacky, exasperated, and cunning charm to make OTS a laugh-filled, satisfying, if somewhat predictable romp.The frantic fun begins when Matthau's character Charlie Gordon, a shifty gambler in hock with several bookies and loan sharks, persuades his despondent, widowed brother-in-law Herb Sullivan (Lemmon) to take a cruise with him on-board the Holland America liner Westerdam presumably to cheer him up. When Herb protests that neither of them can afford a cruise, Charlie assures him that he managed to wrangle free tickets. Herb grudgingly agrees.Of course there's a catch. Only after they board the ship does Charlie inform Herb that in exchange for the free room and board, they must serve as dancing partners and escorts for unattached women passengers. Though Herb is understandably agitated with Charlie for this con, he figures he and Charlie can make the best of it. After all, cruises have all sorts of amenities and benefits, and the Central America/Mexico itinerary is enticing. Besides, Herb is a good dancer. But, of course, there are other catches.One, while Herb can trip the light fantastic, Charlie can't. In fact, Charlie has all the dancing grace of the Scarecrow from The Wizard of Oz. Two, their boss is the despotic, brown-nosing, and smugly irritating martinet Gil Godwin (Brent Spiner, in a role as diametrically opposite to his unemotional, rational role as Data the android from Star Trek &#x96; The Next Generation as a role can be). Gil is the cruise director from hell with a soul of a drill instructor. He warns all the dance partners that dancing is as far as it goes with the women passengers. Any kind of relationship, even the most casual, is strictly forbidden. Naturally, Gil keeps a haughty eye on Herb and Charlie &#x96; especially Charlie, who spends much of the movie shirking his dancing duties and dodging and disobeying Gil's edicts.And so OTS launches into a comedy of deception, mistaken identity, and screwball antics. Besides avoiding Gil, Charlie keeps busy by playing poker against the snobbish, wealthy card expert Cullen Carswell and doggedly wooing the apparently glamorous, well-to-do Liz LaBreche (a still stunning Dyan Cannon), traveling with her ornery, cantankerous mother Mavis (Elaine Stritch) who wants her to marry someone worthy of her social station and who instantly disapproves of Charlie. Meanwhile, the more subdued Herb finds his own romantic interaction with Vivian (Gloria DeHaven), a fetching widow traveling with her grown daughter and son-in-law. They are mutually attracted to each other. Problem is, Vivian, through Charlie's interference, believes Herb is a doctor. Herb is actually a retired Gimbel's sales clerk, but is afraid to tell Vivian the truth because he doesn't want to disappoint her. Besides, Herb still stubbornly yearns for his deceased wife of 46 years, Susie.Again, the plot is straight out of any Love Boat episode, but Matthau and Lemmon are consummate, confident pros who can squeeze laughs out of the most outlandish doings. Through both physical slapstick and quick and sharp dialogue, Matthau and Lemmon seem to be having a ball in OTS and therefore let us have fun, too. And yet, good comedies always have a core of emotion and pathos. Both Matthau and Lemmon have it in OTS and so we hope that they can rise above the sticky deceptions and white lies they have built and find love and fulfillment. Do they? Well, think about any Love Boat episode and how it turns out that Herb and Charlie aren't the only ones harboring secrets in the movie, not least Gil and his shameless flattering of ship owner Ellen Carruthers (Rue McClanahan) in order to secure a promotion, and rest assured that poetic justice comes into play.P.S. Although I have been on several cruises with several cruise lines, including Holland America, I have never been on the Westerdam. OTS showcases the ship well and I'm sure Holland America was grateful for the publicity. I would love to take a trip on the Westerdam someday. "},{"Title":"Worthy swan song for pair of screen icons","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I taped this for my 12-year-old son, who'd had so much fun watching Grumpy Old Men and Grumpier Old Men. He giggled, but little did I suspect it would sweep ME away.I'm giving this a 6 because it's not a great movie, but the expert ensemble work of the cast makes for a truly rare treat.Out to Sea is apparently the last time Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau performed on film together -- only four and three years from their deaths, as it turned out. Lemmon as Herb and Matthau as Charlie -- could he really have been called anything else? -- soar as brothers-in-law floundering in retirement without ladies on their arms.What we have here is a love story wrapped in a moral -- Be Yourself! As in the best of Shakespeare's comedies, almost everyone pairs up by the end, and all's quite well that ends well... Who cares that it's a crazy scheme that gets the septuagenarians on to a cruise ship bound for Chitzenitza, Mexico, to view a total eclipse of the sun? Lemmon, 72 when this came out, makes for a convincing romantic lead, an ideal match for elegant widow Vivian (Gloria DeHaven). At first we think the far more earthy, 76-year-old Matthau, out to snag a woman with a hefty bank account, will set his sights on the predictably raunchy Elaine Stritch, playing Mavis. But we inevitably accept him as squire to Liz, portrayed by an ultra-sexy Dyan Cannon -- in her late 50s, amazingly, when this came out. We have as much fun watching as they enjoy, being together. This movie's side characters are also a joy to behold, particularly Brent Spiner as the smarmy cruise emcee Gil Godwyn. I also enjoyed watching Donald O'Connor, of Dancin' in the Rain fame, wittily cast as a dance host, the dapper Hal Linden as one of his quipping peers, along with Brillo-voiced redhead Estelle Harris as a sex-starved cruise-ship passenger. (Wish she'd been given more screen time, however.) Outtakes of each of these performers, dancing campily as the credits roll, is itself worth the price of admission.Lemmon and Matthau were cultural treasures and this understated movie is a testament to both their talents and the magic of their on-screen partnership. "},{"Title":"Fleecing the old ladies","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A bit of the plot from Moon Over Miami and even more from The Monte Carlo Story has Walter Matthau as a degenerate footloose gambler getting a bit long in the tooth persuading an equally aged, but more square Jack Lemmon to take a cruise and try and fleece the old ladies in Out To Sea.Matthau needs Lemmon because Lemmon can cut it on a dance floor and he's signed them on as dancers for the unescorted women on the cruise. Of course Lemmon doesn't know that. What he does know that Matthau who is the brother of his late wife has come to him with one scheme after another for years. And Matthau owes some big money to the bookies and that's why he needs cash.So they go on the cruise and as for Matthau he gets involved with Dyan Cannon and her mother Elaine Stritch and its poker not the dance floor where he meets them. Matthau has to deal with a pompous Englishman in Edward Mulhare who really is a sitting target for Matthau's cons.As for Lemmon he gets involved with Gloria DeHaven who is accompanying her daughter and husband on a holiday. They don't think she gets out enough. Oddly enough that's how Matthau feels about Lemmon.As for the rest of the cast, Star Trek's Data Brent Spiner has a great part as an obnoxious twit of a performer and dancer who lords it over the others of greater talent who also include Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor. Matthau bounces some great lines off him and Spiner's reactions are priceless. I'd also have to single out Elaine Stritch who comes into her own explaining the facts of life to Cannon.During the Nineties we were fortunate indeed to have Lemmon and Matthau in some great films, specifically written for them. In Out To Sea you can see that a great supporting cast was assembled for them. Like some of the comedy teams, these two comic actors did variations on their first film together The Fortune Cookie where Matthau is the con artist who is always dragging Lemmon into one of his schemes.Out To Sea isn't as good as The Fortune Cookie or the first The Odd Couple, but it's still plenty funny. "},{"Title":"A comfortable comedy ...","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" with two old friends.I've always enjoyed both Lemmon's and Mathaeu's films, and of course their team efforts are always worth watching, and often hilarious.Although I didn't personally regard this film as in the hilarious category, it is certainly a competent and entertaining vehicle for fans of the two principle actors and of 60s style romantic comedy plots.Brent Spiner may actually steal the show in terms of laughs as the arrogant and tyrannical Cruise Director.Gloria DeHaven proves that senior ladies can remain enormously attractive. "},{"Title":"yes!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i think matthau and lemmon are the funniest pair of comedians and god's gift to film!  i think they are really talented and have great chemistry in every film they did together and OUT TO SEA is no exception!! dyan cannon is great in her role too.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There isn't much to say about this film. It is entertaining, and was not made with the intent of winning any major awards, but just to make people laugh. Most of the humor works quite well too. It is very reminiscent of Lemmon and Matthau's other projects together THE ODD COUPLE II and Lemmon's solo with James Garner MY FELLOW AMERICANS.The film has divine originality as the plot has not been done before; but the story has its share of cliches. The dance host director (played by Brent Spiner) who has the honor of taking on the bad guy villain role of this film is quite laughable, but still acceptable. The film goes from depressing to funny as hell and makes you forget your life for a while.Quite a good comeback for the Grumpys. Well worth watching. I recommend you see GRUMPY OLD MEN, THE ODD COUPLE II and MY FELLOW AMERICANS.OUT TO SEA 4/5. "},{"Title":"Sweet Lemmon-Matthau romantic comedy","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Out to Sea is a fun movie starring that wonderful duo of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. This film is not quite as funny as their Grumpy Old Men comedies (which it strongly resembles), but there are many laughs throughout. Lemmon and Matthau play a couple of in-laws who take a cruise together. Once they get on the boat, the thing Lemmon doesn't know is that Matthau has signed them on as dance hosts so they don't have to pay for the cruise. This infuriates Lemmon who's in no mood to dance. What's worse, Matthau doesn't even know how to dance. Nevertheless, they go along with it and it the process they meet some of their fellow passengers and crew members. Here are the crew members there's the cruise director Gil Godwyn, played to the hilt by Star Trek The Next Generation veteran Brent Spiner, who acts like an evil dictator. There's two fellow dance hosts, played by Barney Miller star Hal Linden and veteran movie musical star Donald O'Connor. There's the ship's owner Mrs. Carruthers, played by Golden Girl Rue McClanahan. As for the passengers there's Vivian, a widow played by Gloria De Haven, who falls in love with Lemmon. There's Liz, played by one of my all-time favorite actresses, Dyan Cannon, who falls in love with Matthau. There's Mavis, Liz's mother, played by veteran stage actress Elaine Stritch. And they meet others as well. All these actors are a pleasure to watch as Lemmon and Matthau play off of them. It's great to see Cannon here, see's beautiful as ever; Stritch is a hoot; Spiner is a funny comic villain who's plays it deadly straight; De Haven is wonderful; Linden, O'Connor, and McClanahan have a good moment or two; and finally, the two main stars, Lemmon and Matthau, are fine as usual. A nice little gem of a comedy.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Watch the credits...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I expect more from a Jack Lemmon/Walter Matthau pairing than this. It is ok but not anywhere near comparable to their other movie pairings, ie The Odd Couple, Grumpy Old Men, etc. Hal Linden was good in his role as a dance host. The best moments in this film come as the credits role and the outtakes are shown at the end. "}{"Title":"pretty decent","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What the heck?  Rent it.  It has good dancing, everybody's dressed up in great outfits, and it's kinda funny.  Plus there's nice scenery.  And--oh, did I forget to mention the wonderful Gil Godwyn?  He's a laugh riot and a mahrvelous singer, too.  Check out the charisma! "},{"Title":"Nostalgic twilight pairing","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 8/2008. When I originally wrote my comments, shortly after first seeing this film, I took a critical view, feeling that Lemmon and Matthau had basically phoned-in their performances, which paired them in a manner they'd done several times previously.But upon seeing it again, it seemed different, especially in view that neither of the two main mega-stars lived a great deal longer after its release.With the exception of Spiner, all of the eight principals are performers with considerable experience, and likewise unavoidably a lot longer in tooth than we've seen in many of their other film and t.v. work. But isn't almost everyone?Seeing it again, while it certainly won't be regarded as a classis in any of their careers, it is a fun film, with a lot of interesting scenery as well.From my viewpoint, it reminds me that many films, plays, etc., can often be looked at either from a very critical viewpoint, or looking instead to the lighter side, without expecting a film to be another Citizen Kane, Casablance, or (in terms of the two leads), another original Odd Couple. It also will provide a continuing piece of nostalgia for Lemmon and Matthau, as well as the others in the cast. "},{"Title":"GRUMPY ODD COUPLE","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, they're both dead now. This was their last film together, I think. It has its moments, but it is no GRUMPY OLD MEN or THE ODD COUPLE. But I always enjoyed watching them, even in a so-so movie like this. Nice to see Donald O'Connor still moving and grooving. And frankly this is no worse than the buddy films Hope and Crosby were doing together in the waning years of their careers. "},{"Title":"Funny last pairing of Lemmon and Matthau","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out to Sea is the last of nine comedy films that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau made together. The two Oscar winners and senior stars had given us some funny and entertaining films over the years. Besides their comedy, each had a distinguished film career that included dramas, action films and mystery-thrillers. Matthau lived just three more years and died July 1, 2000, at age 79. Lemmon would live just four more years, and died June 27, 2001, at age 76. In this 1997 film, the boys are in their usual form. They have slowed down some but still appear to be chipper. They are a couple of retired codgers. Lemmon plays Herb Sullivan and Matthau is Charlie Gordon. They are brothers-in-law. Charlie's never been married and Herb, who wed Charlie's sister, has been a widower for a year or so.This film has some prominent actors in supporting roles, and these add to the humor. Dyan Cannon, Gloria DeHaven, Elaine Stritch, Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor all are good for laughs. Brent Spiner plays the stars' nemesis. He's Gil Godwyn, cruise director.The plot is far-fetched, and that makes it even funnier. The cast seemed to be having a ball making this film. It isn't on the level of the earlier Lemmon-Matthau comedies, but it's still an entertaining film that's sure to arouse many laughs. It's a good adult film to enjoy, especially for middle aged and older folks. Few in younger audiences are apt to enjoy or appreciate old-fashioned humor, especially among the older set.Here are a couple samples of humor in the dialog. Gil, No, you listen to me. I'm your worst nightmare. A song and dance man raised on a military base. Dismissed! Herb, I'll bet his father was cruise director on the Bismarck.Herb, to Charlie, You're crazy. Years of insanity have made you crazy. "},{"Title":"Out to see. In for a laugh","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Wlater Matthau and Jack Lemmon are one of the most beloved silver screen pairings, having made such classic films like 'The Fortune Cookie' (for which Matthau won his Oscar) and the more well known 'The Odd Couple' together.In the 1990's film studios realised again what a great partnership they had on their hands to exploit,and so the duo made four films together in this period, with 'Out to sea' being one of them.It's not a great film, I'll say that from the start. The plot is thin and the film itself is overlong. BUT, what makes it is the chemistry between the two leads. Their friendship both on and off screen shines through for all to see and these talented comedic actors wring every last joke out of the script. For that alone this film is a good one.A mention must go to Brett Spiner also, who has the thankless task of playing straight man to Matthau and Lemmon. He does however steal quite a few scenes and deserves the laughs he gets.Overall, this isn't the duo at their best, but it certainly beats a lot of the other comedies we have today. "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Mathau Not Stranded.","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out to Sea (1997) Dir Martha Coolidge / Cast Jack Lemmon, Walter Mathau, Brent Spiner, Dyan Cannon, Brent Spiner Very funny comedy with two elderly males attempting to relive their glory days. The title regards the clueless high hopes by the leads. Walter Matthau plays a gambler who talks his widowed pal into going on an all expense paid cruise but he didn't mention the catch, which is that he signed them both up as dance hosts. The entertainment organizer, who opens his own act, takes an immediate dislike to our grumpy old men. The rest involves their encounter with two other women. Jack Lennon still loves his deceased wife so he struggles in accepting new love. Matthau gets caught up on the dance floor for which his inability to dance is put hilariously to the test. Familiar plot travels a predictable formula but director Martha Coolidge shows examples of comic timing. She previously made such entertaining comedies as Valley Girl and Real Genius. Matthau and Lemmon have irresistible comic chemistry. Brent Spiner plays the entertainment organizer in a standard role yet a terrific foil. Dyan Cannon plays Matthau's love interest but the role is too straight forward. Brent Spiner plays the foiled master of ceremonies who views our duo as a major inconvenience. Theme regards aged friendship. That keeps the script from drifting out to sea. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Not the Odd Couple's best, but still fun","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is this a great film? No. But it's a fun film, particularly for those of us old enough to remember the hey day of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau -- a match made in heaven, if ever there was one.As with his character here, Lemmon really was 71 when this was shot; Matthau was only 59, but looked much older. Each only lived 3 or 4 years after this film, but they did make a sequel to The Odd Couple after this. So, while it's not a great film, it is great to see these two real-life pals together again on screen.The plot is simple Matthau (a gambler) ropes Lemmon (a retired store clerk) into going on a cruise, and Lemmon doesn't realize that it's not as passengers, but as professional dance partners. Matthau hopes to hook up with a rich widow (at which he fails...sort of...Dyan Cannon), and Matthau just wants out, but falls in love with Gloria deHaven. Along the way there are some funny hijinks, but only the ending is disappointing...way too impractical.Along for the cruise as other dance hosts are Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor, who, frankly, get too little screen time. Brent Spiner is good as the overbearing cruise director. Elaine Stritch is fun as Cannon's mother. Edward Mulhare, who died shortly after making the film, plays another cruise ship passenger. And Rue McClanahan plays the owner of ship. It's a fun group of seniors.This probably won't tickle many of the younger crowd, but I think it's fun. Just not GREAT fun. "},{"Title":"Good Lemmon & Matthau Comedy!","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Dyan Cannon, Gloria DeHaven, Elain Stritch, Rue McClanahan and Brent Spiner star in this 1997 comedy. This focuses on pals, Herb (Lemmon), a widower and Charlie (Matthau), a gambler. Charlie talks Herb into going on a cruise with him where they can look for women, but have to be dance hosts because they can't afford it. Soon, Herb finds romance with divorcée, Vivian (DeHaven) and Charlie with Liz (Cannon) who is single, but is on vacation with her mother, Mavis (Stritch). The late, McClanahan (The Golden Girls) plays Ellen, the ship's owner and Spiner (Independence Day) plays obnoxious, cruise director, Gil. This is a good comedy with a good cast and The late, Lemmon & Matthau were great together as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Slow and silly, but a little interesting if you are interested in cruises","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think this movie was mostly slow, boring, and silly. I could not feel any interest in the main characters or their doings, at all. The humour was very simple. However, I thought the movie was just a little interesting as well, because of its subject cruise ships with all their traditions and finery, and especially dance hosts (who by the way exist in reality). My daughter and I are thinking of taking a cruise, exactly this variety with a lot of dancing lessons and evening dances... And then maybe at least I will dance with such dance hosts! -) Also, one got to see a little of the exotic destinations, when the passengers and hosts went ashore for excursions. "},{"Title":"comic team","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another pretty decent film from comedic geniuses Lemmon, and Mathau,, not quite as good as their earlier work but still very entertaining,, this film has them getting on board ,, albeit under false pretenses as dance instructors. well neither one of them really know how to dance all that well,, one of them men falls for Dyan Cannon, who still looks pretty darn good for her age. the other falls for Gloria De Haven also pretty good looking I might add. along the way there are lot's of laughs, great one liners, as they have to figure out how to pull of being dance instructors. These two actors especially when paired together never cease to amaze me how good they are at their craft,, Both of them will be dearly missed. "}{"Title":"An inseparable friendship and a less-than-average plot","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out to Sea is perfectly acceptable daytime entertainment, but then again, when looking at the body of work Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau made together, it treads the line of unacceptable daytime entertainment. Lemmon and Matthau were unstoppable forces of hilarity and laughter in their 1968 screen debut in The Odd Couple and, despite playing rivals and not friends, were terrific as bitter codgers in the back-to-back Grumpy Old Men films. Out to Sea, on the other hand, plays like a screenplay that was meant for two relatively unknown elderly actors - not two established, renowned ones whose filmographies are littered with winners.Lemmon and Matthau star as Herb and Charlie, respectively. Charlie runs up a bill with the local bookie because of bets on horseracing and gets him and his friend Herb jobs as dancers aboard a luxury cruiseline. This is the last thing Herb wants and, particularly, it's the last thing Charlie want but this isn't the time for choices. Charlie needs money and Herb needs the company and the experience, despite not admitting it.Out to Sea would've likely been funnier had it taken a raunchier route, I believe. As is, the film feels like a safe, unrealistic, geriatric comedy with little depth of humor outside quirky incidents (which was the opposite of Lemmon and Matthau's comedic masterpiece The Odd Couple). However, when the conversational fluidity finds its way into this film, it becomes a tad more bearable. When Herb and Charlie engage in lively banter about relationships, age, and life itself is when the film evolves into more than acceptable entertainment.This is the reason my review of Out to Sea isn't the definition of mediocrity or a scathing one. The chemistry the two actors have on screen together mimics a long-lasting, inseparable friendship between two elderly friends that feels authentic. Combine that with occasional sparks of humor based on events rather than dialog, and you have a tolerable film that is akin to a mixed bag in cinema.Starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. Directed by Martha Coolidge. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Voyage","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Once in a blue moon, along comes a film that is genuinely sweet. This is one of those rare gems. Expertly directed by Martha Coolidge. What a fun ride this must have been for all concerned. There are legendary performers having a great time on screen and sadly most are now gone. Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon have an on-screen give-and-take that is delicious and funny to watch (and Lemmon has a poignant and wistful scene as well.) Dyan Cannon(with a delightful giggle and a contagious laugh) and Gloria DeHaven are the romantic counterparts to Lemmon and Matthau and it's terrific to watch Edward Mulhare, the great Elaine Stritch, Rue McClanahan, Hal Linden, and wow ---there's Donald O'Connor showing he's still got it(wish his role was bigger.) Finally, although it would seem impossible to steal the movie from such greats &#x96;Brent Spiner virtually pulls it off as the arrogant singing cruise director. (He should star in a TV sitcom. &#x96;not too late!) His timing is superb. Along with established ballroom dancer, Andre Fortin, the dancing sequences would make Dancing With the Stars fans applaud with joy. Don't miss the added dancing sequence during the end credits with all of the stars and some funny outtakes. Out to Sea makes you want to finally book that seven day cruise&#x85;if only you could bump into these wonderful characters before you head back home. "},{"Title":"Follow the performers, not the plot.","Date":"3 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie that people of a certain age will say of I didn't think they made movies like that anymore. Walter Matthau gives his usual over-the-top performance, but instead of leaving teeth marks all over the scenery, leaves endearing grease stains. He is like that great uncle we all know that still wears plaid polyester and embarrasses everyone, but we still love anyway.Jack Lemmon's performance reminds us why he had more Golden Globe nominations than anyone else (22). He gives a true-to-life performance of the basically 'good, ordinary man', even in the milieu of a farce.This film will probably not appeal to people who prefer blunt humor designed to confront or offend, but will appeal to people who appreciate broad farce played with a straight face.The entire supporting cast is excellent in their ability to play such absurd characters while maintaining the reality of each character.Brent Spiner gives a marvelous performance as a professional version of a lounge lizard. Anyone who has known professional hosts in real life will immediately recognize the type he is playing. He nails the type perfectly. His rendition of 'slime' merits study as a perfect example of the contrast between absurd and pathetic.The plot is rather a straight-forward 'let's marry rich' theme that has the usual results. Just because a plot theme has been done a thousand times does not mean that it is dated, but rather that it is a timeless theme.The rest of the supporting cast shows what can happen when professionals exhibit their skills in the roles that are written for them, instead of vying for the spotlight. In this film even the second tier actors shine. It is also obvious that they enjoyed making this film.The plot may be standard and thin, but it allows the performers to shine.This film is a true treat for people who want to see professional actors engaging in their craft. The plot falls away and the performers shine. "},{"Title":"Purely for the sake of interest...","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You can't help but be impressed with the cast list! It's truly a high school reunion of the class of Hollywood Greats, but perhaps that's not enough.This is your typical Lemmon/Matthau comedy of recent years. Matthau constantly getting Lemmon into trouble. I'm sure many people would find it irritating to see two rather old men trying to regain their lost youth and still chasing the 'broads' round the boat, but because it's Jack and Walter I'm prepared to give them that privilege!They manage to get jobs on a cruise ship as dance hosts which Walter's character Charlie sees as a chance to meet and wed a young, beautiful and wealthy woman, in the form of Dyan Cannon. Jack's character, Herb, is as usual the more sensible one, who finds love with a woman his own age (played by Gloria De Haven), and after the obligatory problems along the way, they all get together in the end.I was impressed to spot Donald o'Connor in the line-up and he proves, in his one moment in the spotlight that he can still move. I found the regular comic inserts that cropped up from O'Connor and Hal Linden to be quite amusing. The romantic matching of Matthau and Dyan Cannon is, frankly, just weird. Brent Spiner is quite funny as the pompous cruise director, Gil Godwyn, but, to me, Elaine Stritch's was by far the funniest role playing Dyan Cannon's mother, she was very good. I cannot bring myself to criticize Jack and Walter, I still think Jack has that poor helpless victim style of acting that he often had in his roles which I love, and Walter is his usual lovable rogue! Like I say, it is nice to see them all again.Personally, it felt more like an excuse for some old-timers to get together again and have a few laughs, which is fine and quite interesting to see, but not a must see! "},{"Title":"not as funny as Odd Couple, but still very entertaining!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, even though it was not up to the usual comedic standards of Lemmon & Matthau.  It was still a lot of fun, with a good bit of slapstick.  The cameo of Donald O'Connor was a real treat, as was the appearance of Hal Linden, Rue McLanahan, Gloria DeHaven and Elaine Stritch.  "},{"Title":"The love boat","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Out to Sea was a vehicle for Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, a team of comedy actors that excelled in their different movies. This film seems to have been made after the success of Grumpy Old Men, and it involves a cruise where the men will be involved in funny situations since they have been hired as male escorts to entertain the single women of a certain age that are attracted to this type of vacation.Martha Coolidge, the director, doesn't bring anything new to the picture. It's a formula movie, and as such, we know where it's going at all times. The best thing in the film is Brent Spinner, who is the cruise entertainment director, the man in charge of Herb and Charlie. This man, who loves to sing, supervises his domain with an iron fist and gets funny results.Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau could do their Herb and Charlie well, as they proved in the many films they appeared together. Both actors have some good moments in the film. Dyan Cannon, Elaine Strich, and the lovely Gloria DeHaven, are good to see in any movie. Others in the cast include Rue McClanahan, Donnald O'Connor, Hal Linden, among others.Let's remember Mr. Lemmon and Mr. Matthau for other, better made movies than this one. "},{"Title":"a great way to spend an afternoon","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i just happened to be channel surfing and this movie was on HBO one afternoon.I started to watch it and for whatever reason i continued to watch it and was glad i did.like another poster said this movie was truly funny and recalled the way Hollywood can make a truly entertaining movie,, even if the the so called critics do not agree.one of my favorite parts among many was the closing credits with the edited bloopers and the dancing done by the stars as the credits rolled. to bad these two great actors are not with us anymore to possibly give us more of this quality humor in our movies. "},{"Title":"A great effort","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A cute romance about two very different men ending up with true love.Its a heart-warming movie that may not be as funny as Lemmon and Matthau's previous efforts but is good never the less.Its a must see for any romance movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Very funny flick","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is well cast, often silly and always funny.  Lemmon and Matthau work their tag team magic to perfection.  Brent Spiner is just a riot as the egotistical tyrant of a cruise director.  From the first hare krishna to the last you ought pay him fifty bucks for calling you two studs, I thought this was a totally entertaining fun comedy "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau together again","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another film with the hilarious duo who starred in Grumpy Old Men and Odd Couple II.  I saw this movie when I borrowed it from my grandmother.  My sister and I both sat down to watch it and just laughed ourselves silly.  I thought that the mother of Liz (the woman who Matthau falls in love with in the movie) was funny.  One thing that I wonder, however, is why a young woman like Liz would ever fall in love with an old man like Charlie (Matthau).  Another interesting character was the cruise director, Gil Godwin (played by Brent Spiner).  He was one of those proper types of people.  He and Charlie did not get along at all, with Charlie always stalling himself when it came time to dance.  This movie is sure to delight people for generations to come. "}{"Title":"Could Have Been Called Grumpy Old Men Part 3.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tiring little film that has Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon on a cruise to take money from rich widows in this watchable, but somewhat silly venture. Once again the two all-world actors seem to be kept down by unsteady direction and a corny screenplay. Dyan Cannon does well in a supporting role, but overall there is not much really to recommend. One of the more recent partnerships between the two late actors just does not come close to their earlier productions together. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"THIS ONE WAS LOST AT SEA...","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sadness was the emotion I felt, after the screen went dark. Puzzled, was another. Why would two seasoned screen vets like Matthau and Lemmon sign on to this putrid project? I'm under the impression they didn't read the script, before the cameras started rolling. All the cast is wasted, in this unfunny, uninteresting and unimpressive movie. Sadly enough, this was one of elegant Edward Mulhare's last projects, here as the heavy. Dyan Cannon tries, Hal Linden looks bored, Donald O'connor reciting a few lines laden with profanity. (??!!). I'm not with the Legion of Decency. My point is they were spouted purely for the strangeness of hearing him use off-color language. That is a desperate attempt to infuse humor into a picture. He actually did deliver the film's only morsel of entertainment, when he pattered about on the dancefloor, though. I save my harshest criticism for the leads. Walter Matthau should have known better. He still delivers great solo performances (IQ, Dennis The Menace, etc.). His character, although affable, is rather dull and one dimensional. Seen him once, seen him all. Jack Lemmon gives another one of his trademark, weepy, just too darn sensitive male portrayals. When he starts that mode, I vicariously want to hand him a box of tissues. OUT TO SEA is painfully unfunny, and whoever produced this mess should be made to walk the plank. "},{"Title":"out to lunch","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know which is worse; the cravenness of producers in trying to make money by pasting the Lemmon & Matthau come-on over any old product that comes along, or the cravenness of Lemmon & Matthau in willing to go along. This movie ranks as one of the honored few that I stopped and rewound halfway through because to go on was too painful. I did this just after the following exchange -CANNON I've never seen a lunar eclipse.MATTHAU Well I have.CANNON Really?MATTHAU Yeah, but the moon got in the way.That was it for me, folks. The dialogue here is so leaden and devoid of humor one is amazed they had the gall to bill this as a comedy. Matthau at least invests his pitiful material with some of his old spark, but Lemmon, resplendent in his new Stepford-like facial tuck, seems to be sleepwalking through the experience. He was probably trying to pretend he was somewhere else. The cast looks like the residency list at the Hollywood Home for Out-of-work Has-Beens. Is that Donald O'Connor? I bet they're going to have to have him dance, right? Quelle surprise! The only good part of the movie was getting a glimpse of what fantastic shape Dyan Cannon is in at the age of 61 (source the Internet Movie Database, naturally!). Yea verily, a dog.  "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Out to Sea was a great movie. I expected comedy and from about 10 minutes into the film to the end, there was comedy, and laughing points. Jack and Walter are great together, and the addition of Rue McClanahan made it a wonderful movie, that should be seen over and over again. "},{"Title":"Trite, mundane and generic.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Out To Sea is not a good movie, but it's not necessarily a bad one, either. Not a particularly memorable film, it is mostly unfunny, and has a mass-produced feel. I think I laughed out loud a total of about five times. Nearly everything about Out To Sea is middle of the road, so to speak- mediocre, but still just barely passing. Many of the characters are not developed very well, but the viewer makes acquaintance with them enough to understand their place in the film. Most of the jokes are generic, and stale. Even the comedic talent of Lemmon and Matthau seemed a bit wasted. The mother of Gloria DeHaven's character (I don't remember her name- see I've forgotten already) was delightful, and garners most of the laughs with her blunt, abrupt personality. As usual, Rue McClanahan does a laudable job with what she was given to work with, but this is probably one of her more forgettable roles (which is not her fault).  "},{"Title":"Appropriately titled comedy has chronic fatigue...","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon (both looking winded) find themselves on the run, eventually hiding out on a cruise-ship under the guise of dance escorts for ballroom broads. Perhaps a decade ago, this may have been a great opportunity for the two leads to mine big laughs from a highly-contrived scenario, but here they're just too old to make the material sail. Matthau, in particular, doesn't seem as mobile, and Lemmon has to work overtime to make up for the obvious lethargy (not successful for a comedy). Dyan Cannon (doing an Ann-Margret) is sprightly, and familiar TV faces--plus a tap-dancing Donald O'Connor!--show up in small roles, however it is Brent Spiner as a wormy entertainment coordinator who steals the show. ** from **** "},{"Title":"great disappointment","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a great disappointment after the classic collaborations of Lemmon and Matthau in The Odd Couple, The Fortune Cookie, and both Grumpy Old Men movies.  These two wonderful talented comedians are capable of a great deal more. "},{"Title":"A formulaic movie.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Let's not fool ourselves, okay?  We all know that this film was made because of the success of the Grumpy Old Men movies.  Unlike those, however, this travesty has zero humor and very little heart.Gloria DeHaven is the sole shining light to be seen.  It breaks my heart that she was finally given the chance to show off her skills to a new generation of moviegoers, only to end up in a piece of dreck such as this.  There was a touching scene which featured her being stood up by someone she was falling in love with.  Her fine performance was the only quality acting going on in Out To Sea.  Everyone else is just going through the motions.  2/10 "},{"Title":"Lowering the bar....","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Noticeably, if I review a comedy, I noticed that I lower my standard automatically in order to watch it. This could mean one of two things. Either 1)I don't like to laugh.... Or 2)the movie just isn't funny.It would have to be the second, because I do appreciate decent comedy. This is just not in that category. While it is not the worst, it is, as suggested, another Grumpy Old Men scenario. The scenes are at times a bit too embarrassing. Matthau, while funny, just too hard to believe as a card shark, even for a laugh.Dyan Cannon looks amazing for her age (Is she really 75?); there are several gratuitous bikini scenes to compliment her plastic surgeon. One great appearance by Elaine Stritch, always managing to be sarcastic and funny, even with minimal screen time. All in all, not the worst, you may get a few laughs. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Cliché Filled  Mostly Waste of Time","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I never heard of this film when it first came out. It must have sunk immediately. o) I saw it on cable while sick in hospital so I hardly had enough energy to watch it, let alone turn the channel. Better choice than the Style Channel. ;0(. Filmed on location, this travelogue should have been on the Travel Channel. The plot is recycled from ship board farces of the thirties and forties. The cast seems to have been recycled from the fifties. Donald O'Connor, star of musicals and Edward Mulhare as a card shark. As to the main cast, Walter Matthau is still playing the same part as he did in Guys and Dolls or was it the one about the orphan girl? Wiseacre irresponsible gambler and rounder. But it just doesn't take with a man of his age. As to Jack Lemmon, he plays his part so straight, he can hardly dip and glide when dancing. And as mentioned, Dyan Cannon is outstandingly attractive as another swindler sailing with her mother who thinks Walter is rich, while he thinks she is rich. Elaine Stritch plays Dyan's mother, another retread from the fifties. The most fun is the running feud between Brent Spiner as the domineering and snotty cruise director who immediately spots Walter as a poor dancer, and spends his time trying to get him dismissed so he will have to pay for his free passage. In the end, though he receives his comeuppances. Meanwhile Jack mopes about, meets an attractive woman, with mutual attraction, but their affair is broken up by Walter's lies that Jack is a doctor, when he was actually a retired department store buyer. But finally, the two men take to the sea in a rubber boat to intercept her seaplane and all is well. There does not seem to be any principal player under the age of fifty. "}{"Title":"Odd Couple Goes On a Cruise...","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon team up in their Oscar and Felix personas one more time, this time on a cruise. The same old jokes. The same old scenarios. While a fun film, this horse has been beaten to a pulp.  "},{"Title":"Shame, Hollywood, Shame!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, you should be ashamed of yourself, for wasting two of the greatest comic actors ever in this piece of mediocre Hollywood-ised fairy-floss.  Have we lost the ability to make charming movies so much that we must resort to this series of cliched characters and predictable situations?  Billy Wilder, Ernst Lubitsch and Preston Sturges come back - we need you!Having said that it is always a pleasure to see Jack and Walter - and it's good to see veterans like Gloria De Haven, Donald O'Connor (why didn't they let him dance more?) and Elaine Stritch back on the screen.  But the real star is Dyan Cannon's figure - can she really be sixty years old!?!  No-one has the right to look that good at her age! "},{"Title":"Sea you later...","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Once again, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau team up as a pair of elderly grouches. Out to Sea is basically The Odd Couple and Grumpy Old Men set on a cruise ship, with the two guys trying to meet and defraud old widows. I personally think that they could have done without all the romance stuff and just had JL and WM get on each other's nerves. But don't get me wrong, there are some great lines (namely the one about shark-infested waters). Also starring Dyan Cannon, Gloria DeHaven, Brent Spiner, Elaine Stritch, Hal Linden and Donald O'Connor (in his final role).Oh, and in case Dyan Cannon is reading this STOP GETTING FACELIFTS!!!!!!!!!!! YOU LOOK TERRIBLE WHEN YOU DO THAT!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Amusing But Old Fashioned","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau were something of a double act in the 50s and 60s and while it may have been old hat to see them appearing in movies together in the 1990s they do work off each other rather well with Matthau being a hubristic con man and Lemmon being a slightly neurotic up standing citizen Did I say old hat ? because OUT TO SEA is a very old fashioned film . It contains some mild swearing but apart from that the script could easily have been written in 1960 something . Maybe it was since we're treated to go go dancers and rumba . Did I say this is an old fashioned film ? Where OUT TO SEA works best is when Herb and Charlie interact with the camp and authoritarian Gil who doesn't take any nonsense . As for the negative points i will confess to remembering that I liked it at the time but I'm having difficulty trying to remember why which is a sign of a forgettable movie "}]