[{"Title":"A great film about really bad people.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is basically the filmed dissatisfaction of upper-class yuppie life. These are people who have everything but seem to live in a swamp of self loathing and hateful arrogance and selfishness. Their tart, affective interplay is like watching a game of mumbletypeg, but with words. These are the kind of people you would not want to live next door to, but these are the people who usually seem to win in our society, sad as that is to ponder.Jason Patric plays the single most evil person in movie history. His 'shower scene' is sick, twisted, but oddly humorous. You hate yourself for laughing, which is the point. In that way you understand how these people are born. They are us.This is arrogant mall culture, the kind of American decadence the Soviets warned us about. At least they were right about that.The film is about how creeps become dissatisfied at their own creepiness. Great dialog, the ending makes complete, yet sad, sense. Our world is mad, and we need to change it, before it eats us whole. "},{"Title":"Could These People Be More Screwed Up?","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good movies do not have to be about pleasant subjects, many excellent films are about depressing subjects or have sad endings. Neil Labute's first two movies are definitely not happy, and delve deeply into the dark side of modern human existence.  They both address the same issue, human dysfunction and evil amidst the bounty of white collar America.  In Your Friends and Neighbors, Labute has us eavesdrop on two Yuppie couples and their friends. For various reasons (mostly of a sexual nature), the couplings are disintegrating, and we're treated to listening in on the action; in bedrooms, in restaurants, and in steam rooms. Labute writes excellent dialogue and the movie is well acted. Unfortunately, Your Friends and Neighbors lacks the dramatic punch of his first film. We just watch as the characters screw up their lives, and the lives of their supposed friends and loved-ones. Afterwards you just want to take a shower. A toss-up to grade; if it sounds interesting rent it. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but it draws us in with its subtle power and intrigue. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  YOUR FRIENDS & NEIGHBORS / (1998) ***1/2 (out of four)Your Friends & Neighbors is not really a film about sex, although every single scene, in some form or another, depicts its characters' obsessions with sexuality. The sex is not the subject of the film, but rather a medium for the characters to display various forms of behavior. Through eight very different characters, we realize the differences of behaviors, personalities, attitudes, and various degrees of selfishness. Although wealthy and classy, none of the characters are role model citizens. This is a tricky film to watch, never particularly entertaining, but often curiously involving. The sexual content and strong language will turn many audiences off, but this movie does have a solid understanding of itself, and I honor its art.Neil Lebute is clearly more interested in the characters' sex lives than in a clear, concise story.  Ben Stiller and Catherine Keener play partners. They have good friends, another couple played by Amy Brenneman and Aaron Eckhart. Stiller and Brenneman have an affair. Keener has issues with her partner's verbal expressions during sex-she finds a mate in a female artist's assistant played by Nastassja Kinski. Eckhart is his own favorite sexual partner. Jason Patrick plays a cruel, arrogant womanizer who forces his will on others. Eventually, the characters' selfishness destroys their own relationships. We become infatuated with these circumstances.Many of the scenes contain a strange, subtle power of intrigue. One of my selection of scenes takes place in an art gallery, where the various characters chat with Nastassja Kinski's character. They have the same conversations, but the scenes end differently. Another fantastic scene is where the three men relax in a steam room and discuss their favorite sexual encounters. Jason Patrick's explanation packs a powerful, disturbing punch. Although these scenes do not necessarily construct a story, that's not a problem. The focus here is the vivid dialogue, the aggressive behavior, and the keen direction. This isn't a movie about a story. It's a movie about behavior.The characters talk about sex constantly-whether it's in the supermarket, the basketball court, in bed, an art gallery, public restaurants, gym showers, their homes, business places, steam rooms, and more. The movie lacks passion to share with the audience, but we can tell Lebute is passionate about writing these characters. There is constantly an uneasy tension between most of them; they form no chemistry or charisma. He isolates them in their own world so that we can watch the interaction, not the romance.Your Friends & Neighbors initially received an NC-17 rating by the MPAA. It contains very little nudity, no violence, and only a few scenes of actual sex. It received an R on appeal, but perhaps we should examine the association's motives for the higher rating. The discussions of sex in this movie are more vivid, more disturbing, more vivid than any actual act of sex. In a way, the MPAA honored the movie's power. They proved that Neil Lebute's social drama is certainly not for all audiences, and it's not really a great movie, but we should strongly respect the angle and courage. "},{"Title":"With the friends like Mary, Barry, Terri, Cheri, Cary and Jerry","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Your Friends and Neighbors (1998) is the second film by director/writer Neil LaBute and it tells the story of three couples and their complicated friendships and relationships. I've seen it more than once during the last couple of days - and I found it incredibly clever written, well acted (especially by Jason Patric and Catherine Keener - their only scene together was the second best in the movie - so dynamic and tight) and skillfully directed. LaBute certainly has a very unique sense of humor and he knows well the history of cinema. To give all characters the names that rhyme - Mary, Barry, Terri, Cheri, Cary and Jerry - was a clever idea - the characters are interchangeable in their relationships and it does not matter really, who is with whom - Mary with Barry or with Cary or Jerry or Barry with Barry, and Cheri with Terri or Jerry? The important thing is that they are selfish and often unpleasant and despicable people who are not happy with themselves and can't make happy their spouses or partners. Another interesting trick - the repeating scene in the Art gallery that starts with exactly the same words for each character but leads to different developments. I mentioned that LaBute knows his movies. Have you noticed the poster from Goddard's Le Mépris, (1963) aka Contempt with Brigitte Bardot? Contempt features one of the most fascinating and longest scenes of a breakup ever filmed. The breakup scene between Terri (Catherine Keener) and Jerry (Ben Stiller) started like in Contempt but it only lasted a few minutes and it was a good scene. Actually, I loved all scenes with Catherine Keener and if I have to choose one character that I liked, it would be Terry. Seems that Charlie Kaufman might have seen LaBute's movie because Terry and Maxine from Being John Malkovich have a lot in common. I was actually waiting for Terry to say to Jerry, The thing is if you ever get me, you would not know what to do with me. Jason Patric was a revelation - I don't know him very well but I remember that he gave a very good performance in Narc. As for the scene in a steam room, it is not just the best of the film; it is one of the best scenes - monologues ever. I know not many would agree with me but the scene is as powerful, unforgettable and strangely erotic as the monologue in Bergman's Persona. LaBute's writing, his camera, and mesmerizing performance by Patric made this scene an instant classic. The film is not perfect and sometimes it drags but overall I found it interesting and enjoyable. You don't have to like the characters in order to like and appreciate the film. Sadly, the beautiful, sensual and talented Nastassja Kinski (Cherri) does not have much to play while Ben Stiller does and I am not his fan - even in this film. LaBute's usage of Metallicas Enter Sandman (performed by Apocalyptica) during the opening and the closing credits instantly pulled me in and Bryony Atkinson's song My Hollow is terrific. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if bleak with a slightly depressing moral","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jerry lives with Terri but Terri is irritated by everything he does especially the way he talks during sex and needs to analyse everything.  They are friends with Barry and Mary who have sexual problems as Mary is rarely roused for sex.  Jerry makes a move to meet up with Mary to have sex behind Barry's back.  Meanwhile Cheri works at an art gallery and picks up people there and Jerry and Barry's friend Cary lives his sex life devoid of any care or consideration for anyone else.I have previously seen In the Company Of Men so I was prepared for the sort of view point the director seems to take regarding the nature of men and women but even then, this is still a pretty depressing look at relationships.  Our characters are barely even given names, certainly no last names, and they are rarely used when you listen.  More than that the names are pretty typical &#150; the sort of names you might make up if you were put on the spot, like John Smith.  The point being that these characters are not supposed to be fictional but more `everyman' characters.  However is this what everyone is like? &#150; does everyone have major relationship issues and try to have affairs with their best friends etc?  Do people really have stories of male rape as their best sexual experience?  I doubt it &#150; this is a real condensing of the whole human experience into a handful of characters.It works quite well because it is very frank and this kept my interest.  Not shocking but I did want to keep watching because the dialogue was good.  Sadly I could have cared less about the actual lives before me.  As a plot I didn't get involved partly because it was so fake feeling &#150; it was obvious from day 1 that LaBute was not going to give us the luxury of even one mildly messed up relationship, no &#150; it was obvious that everything that could fail would.  The dialogue does save the film as it is well written and darkly funny, however it just wasn't enough of a story &#150; instead it was rather smugly self aware.The cast do well with the dialogue and the film is staged more like a play than a roaming film, with mostly static interior shots used.  Stiller is good but doesn't excel himself.  Eckhart shows how good an actor he is by playing a character so the opposite of his character in LaBute's previous film and playing it well.  Patric steals the show but his character is the least developed.  He is the funny one and is like Eckhart's character in `In the Company Of Men' in that he is selfish and cruel to women.  However his character seems to be LaBute's ideal in this piece as he is the only one who seems to get what he wants &#150; is this the moral of the film?  The female characters are weaker as you'd expect.  Brenneman cuts a pathetic character and simply mops around a lot.  Kinski is given little to do although Keener has a stronger part to play.Overall I enjoyed this because it was full of good dialogue that keeps you listening because of how very frank it is.  However that doesn't mean that the story or film is involving and it does feel a little distant and not based in any life I've ever lived.  A bit too cruel, harsh and dark but it just about gets by on those credentials &#150; but the music of Metallica played on violin is worth watching the credits for! "},{"Title":"Unflinching","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute is one of my favorite filmmakers of recent years, and this film is one of his best. He creates distinctive characters, some selfish, some self-loathing, and lets them develop in sometimes unexpected ways. The writing is satirical at times, but that's fine - it's never forced. The directions in which these characters go ultimately feel like natural progressions. Sometimes you can't believe what you're seeing and hearing, but it all fits. The cast is up to the challenges of the material - especially Jason Patric, who gives his best performance in years. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors is a movie about relationships, sex and the effects of both. This is pointed out clearly in the beginning when Jerry (Ben Stiller) uses direct address as an introduction. By having Jerry (Stiller) speak directly to the movie audience, LaBute communicates the significance and meaning of his movie.  This movie is a fine example of a character-based movie done the right way. LaBute manages to have six very round (if not dynamic) characters whose interactions serve to show the frustration of relationships quite eloquently. One of the best aspects of this movie is the dialogue; the characters' feelings always come through through their conversations. Even Mary (Amy Brenneman) is able to portray her feelings effectively with her concise statements. For example, her response to Jerry (Stiller) when he is trying to become involved with her again is people are weird, and you couldn't keep your erection. There are countless dialogues like this one, quick-witted and bitterly realistic. If you aren't the kind of person who enjoys a true character-based movie, maybe you should skip this one. All the characters have very real flaws that abrogate any growth, for those of you who crave action and a happy ending; this movie will most likely bore you. "},{"Title":"The scene with the three men","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the most fascinating moments in this film is the scene in which the three men each tell about their most exciting sexual liaison. Jason Patric's anecdote is amazing, both as written and as acted. A virulent misogynist with no empathy for the women he has used sexually, he tells a story in which a bunch of jocks, including him, rape a homosexual to show what contempt they have for him. The Patric character is last in line and in describing his encounter with the abused rapee, he expresses more than a deep empathy for the victim, but in fact something like respect and love. The implications inherent in his anecdote have kept on resonating for me ever since, but the capper to it all is how powerfully Patric tells the story. I wouldn't particularly want to re-see the rest of the movie, but I could watch that scene again and again. Why is Patric so underrated? He was also very good in Incognito. "},{"Title":"Those People am YOU","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're a person (especially between 25 and 35), without emotional depth or without spiritual (not necessarily religious) inklings of something beyond yourself, you're morally adrift on a raft of tortuous narcissism. That's what this movie says. Not having emotional depth doesn't mean you don't feel things deeply; it means here you can't empathize with others. In fact the movie shows graphically that without the qualities and sensitivities we think make us most vulnerable, all we can be is mentally wounded, emotionally hurt, damaging to others. A more realistic, sensible portrait of narcissism and its discontents I've never seen. Everyone in this film is so focused on his or her self, nothing that could help can enter. Here is a world without anything transcendent, without even community through which to escape the prison of self absorption. Here is a take on contemporary America. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated film","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" CONTAINS SPOILERS THROUGHOUT The first time I saw this film, I came away not liking it. It was disturbing, heavy, and none of the characters were very likable. But through the years I have seen it a few more times, and it has grown on me considerably.I must be honest here-I saw it only because it had Jason Patric and Aaron Eckhart (two actors that I can truly say I became a fan of from seeing them in their earliest roles-Lost Boys for Patric and In The Company of Men for Eckhart), and they delivered on their performances. Patric's character is one of the most twisted and narcissistic characters in cinema history, but he brings a vulnerability and a likability to the screen, and it's hard to hate him. You want to know where he's coming from, and you get a glimpse after he describes a brutal sexual encounter in which he attacks a classmate, and then says it's the best sex he ever had. Even though it is an ensemble cast, Patric owns the film. Eckhart, in a 360 turn from his character in the aforementioned In The Company of Men, plays a nerdy, emotionally distant husband who can't enjoy sex with anyone but himself. Amy Brenneman, as a neglected housewife who has an (almost) affair with Ben Stiller's character does a good job, but you never see it coming when she ends up with Patric, and it makes no sense. The always brilliant Catherine Keener puts in another deadpan performance, this time as the bitchy artist type who decides she prefers a woman (the luminous Nastasja Kinski) over Stiller. She does get hers in the end, after she snottily rejects Patric's character and he puts her in her place. Ben Stiller, who most of the time annoys me with his constant mugging and nervous jittery energy, fits in well with the cast, and you end up feeling sorry for his character. He means well, he just seeks out the wrong women.The movie is talky, but the conversations are riveting. You want to hear more, and learn more about what makes these characters tick. Overall, I give the movie an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Distaste for the human condition, all brought to us by Neil LaBute","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With a better cast and an even more  disturbing group of characters, Neil LaBute  failed to disappoint in his sophomore effort.  Laced with dark dialogue and realistic reactions  conducive to the actions of the characters,  this film actually surpasses In The Company  of Men in regards to the evil that is known  as the human condition. With some great  performances by the likes of Jason Patric,  Catherine Keener, Ben Stiller, Amy Brenneman  and Aaron Eckhart, this film really sucks you  into this unsatisfied world of betrayal and sex.  A film only Todd Solondtz couldn't have made  (if anyone else could have made it). "},{"Title":"The academy award should have gone to....Jason Patrick.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGH I first saw this movie after a friend recommended it to me. She knew I dug movies like Closer & American Beauty and told me this was a similar type of film. While I still think the other two are superior I did like this and found it to be a somber, provocative, performance driven multi character study and very interesting to watch.The six main characters were all played with excellence but sometimes in a film, there is one performer who walks away with the movie and in this case it is Jason Patrick. I must say this performance ranks up there as one that should have been awarded with an Aacademy Award but wasn't. Although all the characters are interesting, when Patrick is on screen he is just riveting. I first saw him, like so many movie buffs have, in Lost Boys and through the years have admired his performances in movies like Rush & After Dark My Sweet. This is however, hands down, my favorite of his performances and I'm not sure I'd still be giving this film an 8 if he hadn't been in it.This movie is of coarse, about dysfunctional relationships and each performer brings something unique to the role their playing. I found the casting in general to be excellent and though most of the characters are dislikeable, their also interesting and one thing the movie does is get one's attention and keep it. The movie is extremely dialog driven and though it can drag at times, for the most part it stays extremely compelling to watch.Your friends & Neighbors reminded me of such movies as Closer, Sex,lies & Videotape & American Beauty, all of which I thought were superb. It also reminded me of the not superb but still intriguing We don't live here anymore. And it even reminded me a bit of this year's Friends With Money which I liked a smidgen more then this. Although I did not think this was superb, it was well above average and very very good. If one likes any or all of the above mentioned movies chances are they will probably like this.The reason I did not think this was superb was because of a few things. One was the incomplete feeling I had about this film which I did not have about the above mentioned films I DID think were superb. For example,we, the audience, are not told a heck of a lot about any of these people and though we are exposed to their quirks and dysfunctional aspects, not much detail about them other then these aspects are provided. In some of these other films, I really did not have that feeling to the same degree. Also, The ending in my opinion, was weak when compared to the rest of the film although Brenneman's character ending up with Patrick's came out of left Field And genuinely surprised me.(I had thought at first Keener's character would wind up with him since she seemed to hate vulnerability in anyone she was romantically involved with.) I would have liked this movie to supply me with more detail on the characters of these people because there were to many loose ends and to strong an incomplete feeling at the end. I really had a difficult time with that and feel this should have been longer and a bit more structured.As far as the characters' themselves....well Keener's character was so dislikeable it was difficult to feel much toward her other then annoyance. Yet if the movie had shown more of her life other then telling her lovers to be quiet during sex, I doubt I'd have felt that way. Brenneman's character starts off dislike able but she gradually is developed as a lonely and perhaps depressed woman underneath the vivacity and Brenneman does a really good job with the part. (I think her performance is my second favorite.) Aeron Eckert is an amazing actor who's superb no matter what one sees him in and here he's no different. Stiller of whom I'm really not all that much of a fan, was very very good in a dramatic role and should be doing more dramatic material rather then playing almost the same role in in so many comedies. Natasha Kinski has not gotten as much recognition for her role but she should as her character was probably the most likable and had a sweetness and vulnerability that the others lacked, or perhaps wanted people to think they lacked. I actually though she came off as the most stable.I think in spite of the flaws, this was a really good movie with excellent Performances and my vote would be see it, see it, see it! Although it's very dark, not very enjoyable at times and may leave one feeling a bit gloomy(or more then a bit) it's story and it's look at the darker aspects of relationships, is really really interesting and makes for kind of the anti sunny Rom com. Not romantic, not sunny, and definitely more then a little disturbing Your Friends & Neighbors is definitely not your typical movie. My vote's 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"How many ways can a movie fail?","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors failed in just about every way a movie can fail.  The characters were uninteresting and obnoxious.  Normally I can deal with a movie in which I dislike every one of the characters, but in this case I just wanted them all to die.  I know that sounds harsh, but you'll feel that way too if you have to sit through the thing.  There's nothing wrong with the characters being outright malicious, or even spineless (though I don't think the characters were intended to be portrayed so), but what I can't stand is two dimensional characters.  I don't know if it was the bad acting or bad writing which was responsible for this, but certainly this movie had an abundance of both. Well, when all else fails, enjoy the dialog right?  This brings me to my other big problem with this movie.  Basically it was very frank sex discussion mixed in with dialog that could have been written by just about any 8th grader.  Grown people just do not go around talking like horny junior highschoolers.  As a matter of fact, grown people do not go around acting like horny junior highschoolers either. The movie was entirely too long and had way too much dead space.  The script was terrible, the characters were terrible, the dialog was terrible, the plot only served to hilight the complete lack of substance to the movie, and I just wanted it to end.  If you ever find yourself faced with a choice between Chinese water torture or Your Friends and Neighbors, I strongly urge you not to pick the movie. "},{"Title":"Familiar people and other things we'd like to forget","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Your Friends & Neighbors is a film about six middle class people plagued by dysfunction and unhappiness. These people do and say things that are awkward, immoral, and nearly always familiar enough to make you cringe. They cheat, lie, and hurt each other--not so much with callousness, but with sad disregard.It's not escapist entertainment, but the film manages to evoke some thought and ambiguous feelings without feeling emotionally labored or difficult. In fact, the normalcy of the characters make it something like an easy to watch soap opera featuring distillations of all those things in real life you'd prefer to forget.Your Friends & Neighbors is also wonderfully cast. Patric's pathological character is a stand out (bearing strong similarity to Eckhart's character in In the Company of Men), but with the exception of Kinski, all of the actors manage to captivate us in varying ways--from Brenneman's introverted reactions to Keener's profoundly cold mannerisms.This is an excellent film that might not always be well received but can and should be watched by anyone open to a cynical view of humanity. "},{"Title":"Bleak but compelling","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bleak and dark portrayal of the relationships between 6 main characters. The film was watchable only because some of the characters were very easy to sympathise with. You will want to turn away from the screen because the other characters are so hateful. This is a really intelligent film, you should be able to recognise some aspect of every bad relationship you've ever been in. Much easier for a woman to watch than a man. The repulsive male figures are worthy of hate. The repulsive female figures are just pathetic.Don't expect to come out feeling uplifted but do expect to feel relieved that your relationship isn't going nearly as badly as any of those depicted in the film. If it is then now is the time to get out. Out of 5  for relationship masochists - 5 for everyone else - 3  "},{"Title":"a cutting look at sexuality in relationships in which what is not said is just as important as what is said","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The subject is sex in relationships.  Your Friends & Neighbors is a film that one either loves or hates.  There is no middle ground.  It is an actor's movie and one with strong performances.  With the vast majority of movies, the viewer is searching for some form of on-screen identification so that one can feel some degree of comfort.  This is one of the aspects of Your Friends & Neighbors that makes it so unsettling because there is none.  There are no heroes or heroines.  From the opening scene, the character portrayal and developments are brutal.  As the audience, we see everything.  There are no pets or children present to soften it.  It is an entirely dialogue driven movie that succeeds or fails dependent upon the screen performances of the six principals.   The character delineations are sharp and crisp, whether one likes the character or not.  It would give away too much of the film to describe each character.  But each and every performance is first rate.  Nastassja Kinski finally has a role in which she can show some of her acting skills.  Even though her part lacks depth, there is an on-screen sparkle that is delightful to watch.  Because of its subject matter, this is a movie for mature audiences and more than deserves an R rating but not for the usual reasons of sexual depiction or extreme violence - initially it had an NC-17 rating.  Most viewers in their 20's can simply not relate to what is happening on-screen.  Forget it, if you are a teenager.  To appreciate this movie, one must have experienced some part(s) of it on a very personal level.   "},{"Title":"A sad  movie about unhappy people","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the first minutes of this film one of the main characters played by Ben Stiller explain to his audience, a class of students  Its all about f-( censored ). And unfortunately the hole film is build on this simple and stupid sentence. If there is nothing else in a relationship then this no wonder the characters are so disappointed and unhappy. Dear Writer / director, believe me, there is much more in the world then this. Open your eyes and your heart and you'll find it everywhere!I bought this film because of his excellent cast. Catherine Keener, Jason Patric, Amy Brenneman, and many others I have seen in other movies. But, even a great cast can not help. "},{"Title":"A Confusing, Hopeless Movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had very high expections for this movie before I saw it.  It looked like it was going to be a very funny black comedy.  Unfortunately, this movie falls far short of my expectations.  First of all, this movie really wasn't funny.  Sometimes there are movies that you don't laugh at but still think are quite funny, e.g. Grosse Point Blank, but this movie really doesn't have that quality.The only response I really had to this movie was confusion.  It lacked direction and there seemed to be no point to the story.  I couldn't identify with any of the characters, and thus was not very interested in what happened to them.  Almost all of the characters are just terrible people that have absolutely no redeeming qualities.  The movie could have been funny if bad things happened to these people or they changed their ways, but the movie was just about how terrible these people are.Before the movie ended, I turned the movie off.  It couldn't hold my attention.  What happened to all the characters really was of no interest to me.   "},{"Title":"Abomination!!!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I picked up this film, because it was rated as a comedy over here in Finland. On the cover it said Hysterically funny. Imagine my surprise.Now, I know we Finns are not considered the most jolly of the people of the world, but this cannot under any circumstances be considered a comedy, even here. In fact, even if this was a documentary, it would still be frightfully boring. I cannot recall even smiling during the experience. "},{"Title":"Even A Great Cast Can't Save This One","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Take a story about two couples, one married, one living together, an obnoxious, egotistical misogynist, and a nondescript lesbian, then get six actors with varying degrees of charismatic screen presence to play them, and you have `Your Friends & Neighbors,' written and directed by Neil LaBute. The story centers around six malcontents who interact, mainly, it would seem, for nothing more than to fuel their own desolate existences.  The scenes are actually a series of conversations between various combinations of the six people involved here  Barry (Aaron Eckhart) is married to Mary (Amy Brenneman); their marriage is neither happy nor unhappy, apparently, but sexually unsatisfying to both.  Jerry (Ben Stiller) lives with Terri (Catherine Keener), but the relationship seems to be in limbo somewhere, and sexually dysfunctional.  Cary (Jason Patrick) is a friend of Barry and Jerry, holds women, in general, in low esteem, is probably a latent homosexual (he confides that the `best he's ever had' was a locker room incident with a guy named Tim), and has an abusive nature (he tells of appropriating some hospital stationary and sending a letter to a woman who had dumped him, informing her that her name appears on the list of former partners of a patient who has tested HIV positive).  Cheri (Nastassja Kinski) is a lesbian who works in an art gallery, who eventually forms an intimate relationship with Terri. The conversations, apparently meant to be `frank' and `meaningful' discussions of dysfunctional relationships, sexual inadequacy, impotence, preferences and `best of' revelations, comes across as just so much vapid, infantile prattle.  There's not a sympathetic character in the bunch, which makes it hard to identify with any of them, or with anything they have to say.  A more self-centered bunch you'll never meet; they should all have IT'S ALL ABOUT ME! tattooed on their foreheads.  It plays like a version of the television show `Seinfeld.' without the key ingredient that made that show so great, the humor.  LaBute just takes himself, and his material, too seriously; his point of view is subjective, and the presentation is totally devoid of humor and  nothing less than unimaginative.  And what he's done with his actors is inexcusable; he's managed to strip them of their personalities and the qualities that make them distinct, which is to say that he's taken away from them the tools with which they ply their craft.Despite what LaBute has done, there are still some decent performances here (hence the two-star rating), Jason Patrick's being the most notable; that he can come across so thoroughly repugnant is a credit to his ability as an artist.  Keener, as well, does a good job, making Terri, and her concerns, believable.  Amy Brenneman plays Mary with a subtle introspection that works well for the character, and Ben Stiller is solid, albeit unlikable, as Jerry.  The problem with `Your Friends & Neighbors' is that, in the end, it all seems so meaningless; it's like spending time with dull, witless, uninteresting people (and how cute, their names all rhyme).  There's not a memorable scene (or anything you'd want to remember) in the entire movie, and when it's over, you'll most likely find yourself asking, What am I doing here?  And that's one, I'm afraid, I can't answer for you.  I rate this one 1/10. "}{"Title":"Oh look how clever I am!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't think I have ever seen a movie that tried so hard to show the audience how clever it was.  From the cute little trick of never using the character's names (the terms he she him her the wife are used instead) to the trite and unimaginative repeating art gallery scene, this film bends over backwards to appear intelligent.  The contrived David Mamet-slash-Woody Allenesque dialogue doesn't help either.Perhaps what turned me against this movie the most is that there is not one character that you could have any sympathy for. By the time Jason Patrick makes his shocking sauna confession I moved from not caring about the characters to an out and out disdain.  Not only are these people totally self absorbed and warped, they are also quite boring. I give thanks that the characters in Your Friends and Neighbors are neither of mine. "},{"Title":"Who are these people, and where do they live?","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I re-watched this movie because I thought I was being too harsh. Friends, and several IMDb reviewers, have insisted that this is a movie worth watching because it contains truth. They refer to it as honest and daring. I find it to be incredibly unpleasant. The characters are whiny, shallow and self-absorbed. The fact that they may be honest or true, something I don't deny, does not negate the fact that they are also vain and, worst of all, insipid. They could have been funny. The possibility of their realness makes them perfect candidates for a social satire. I almost get the impression that Neil LaBute was aiming for something like that . But the movie takes them too seriously. It tells you how serious it is over and over. It looks at the characters without irony or judgment and yet, by withholding judgment, loses any chance at providing some empathy. I simply didn't want to watch. I couldn't care about them. For a character study, where there is no action to maintain interest, that's the biggest of sins. If that makes me thick-headed, so be it. "},{"Title":"Pretty dang serious . . .","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With two films, this one and 'In the Company of Men' director Neil LuBute seeks to uncover the truth about the lives of disaffected people who's selfish and brutal cruelty toward one another is brought out of selfishness.What I find so interesting about the characters in YFAN is how selfish they are. They all go for their own impulses without ever looking where they leap. Why are they so smug? Probably because they have no idea what a meaningful relationship is all about. Sex for these people is a weapon and they use it to their advantage We get Ben Stiller as a guy who can't have a relationship because he is too ignorant to notice when he is acting like a jerk. Amy Brennemen plays a jilted housewife who can't seem to escape being treated like an object. Aaron Eckhart is the most pathetic character, a man who is more interested then pleasuring himself then his wife. Nastasia Kinsky plays a woman who seems to drift back and forth between men and women. Catherine Keener is a bisexual woman who wants sex but would appreciate her lover would either leave or just shut up.My favorite performance in the movie is by Jason Patric (yes he can act) as a self-satifyed stud who's cruelty sets most of the action in motion. He has the movie's best moment in which he tells a story from his past that is so intriguing that my friends and I were discussing afterwards if it was really true or not.So why see this movie? For the same reason that 'In the Company of Men' was so intriguing. He presents people unvarnished and imagines what cruel things they do to one another. We are allowed to peer inside their lives. He hits hard at difficult subjects and doesn't back away by giving us a happy ending. "},{"Title":"It's good, but should it have been a play rather than a film?","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the last three years or so we have had three memorable nights of theatre at the Almeida in London in the capable hands of Neil La Bute Bash, The Distance From Here and especially The Shape of Things.  We were very much looking forward to this film.No surprise, then, that Your Friends and Neighbors (sic) has horrible people, sexual violence, nihilism and a fine, well-chosen cast. The IMDB jury seems split on whether this is a fine film or a dreadful film; on balance in my view it is a fine film.  However, there is little filmic about it and one wonders whether it should have been a play rather than a film.  Of course there's no money in theatre and Neil La Bute has to pay the gas bill sometimes, but I'm not sure this piece is as strong on film as it could be on stage.  In that regard, it reminds me of Mamet's Sexual Perversity in Chicago / About Last Night - except I really didn't like that film whereas Your Friends and Neighbors kept our attention throughout and got us talking at length afterwards.We thought it was well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Nicely Adult in good sense","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dialogue driven, inter relationships among the chattering classes/ Anything that opens with credits over Alex Katz paintings of the upper middle class party style..... Let's get it on is the mantra. Want that ya got it.  Bit peek a boo quality. Well filmed but looking for the heart of it. "},{"Title":"Great Narrative Film with strict interiors!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Neil LaBute's more lavish but no less vitriolic follow-up to In the Company of Men. Whereas that film had a documentary sense of realism to it, this one feels very much like a play. Although nothing mystical happens, there's a sense of surreality that coats this film. From the opening music, an oddly appealing version of Metallica's Enter Sandman played on four cellos by a quartet called Apocalyptica, to the main titles, which are superimposed over a sedate Alex Katz print called The Cocktail Party, we enter a world of wealth and culture. Only under the glossy surface beats a soulless heart.Witness an early dinner scene. Two couples meet at one's swanky townhouse, exchange pleasantries and share glasses of wine. The women are smartly dressed. The men are too (one of them laments a spill on his new doeskin jacket). But they never connect in a tangible way. Until, that is, an offer of infidelity is confidentially proffered. The movie uses this moment to jump off into a world where everyone (but one) appears stable but all are ineffectual and socially retarded. This point is further driven home by a series of scenes set in an art gallery, where each character uses the same verbatim small talk with an artist's assistant to expose significant aspects of their character. They're artificial moments, but delicately set up the tone of the film. The cast is uniformly excellent, if not overly mannered, which further helps create the feeling that you're watching a play rather than a film. Ben Stiller's character represents this the best, not just because he's a drama professor. He is erudite and articulate when performing, such as when lecturing his students, or giving a tour of a museum. But when he gets into social situations, Stiller fails to complete a single one of his thoughts. Most of his sentences trail off, ending with the question You know? or just a resigned sigh. It's an evocative (if a touch shallow) character trait, but damn if it doesn't get annoying by film's end. I had this intense desire to slap Ben good.Aaron Eckhart sports a $2 haircut, a cheesy moustache, and a bulging gut. He's playing a character exactly opposite to his toxic Chad from In the Company of Men, and it's amazing that one man can pull off both roles. Eckhart has proven himself to be a marvelous chameleon-like actor, easily filling out the pathetic and needy sap LaBute has written for him here.Jason Patric gets the toxic role this time, playing a misogynistic obstetrician (he's prone to playing football with a model of a fetus). His stories of extreme behaviour amuse his friends. One involves sending a retributive note to an ex-girlfriend on doctor's stationary, informing her that she may be HIV-positive. Another, in the scene that the film will be forever known for, involves high school hijinks in the gym shower with a bullied boy named Timmy. Patric wrings every bit of wickedness from this story, told in one incredibly long close-up take. It's a powerful little moment that leaves the audience (not to mention the other characters in the scene) exclaiming, What the heck was that?Catherine Keener, so energetic in Being John Malkovich, is much more subdued here. But you can feel her frustration bubbling up beneath the service (she's Stiller's girlfriend, and is as fed up with him as the audience is). Keener is a very self-aware actress, knowing when to go full throttle and when to pull back. Hers is not the showiest role in the film, but it ranks right up there with the most memorable.Nastassja Kinski is used the least of the six main actors (author's note Come to think of it, there are only six speaking parts in the whole movie, making the theatrical nature of the piece even more profound). And it's probably for the best. She is fetching, but doesn't bring much more to the role than quiet neediness.Amy Brenneman plays Eckhart's wife, and has an affair with Stiller. She stays nervous and reticent throughout the movie, never giving in to her boredom or frustration even when the moment calls for a little blow-up. In the beginning she passes for the innocent moral centre of the film, but by the end she is the one most corrupted. Brenneman does well playing both sides of this coin.Writer/Director LaBute appears to have learned much since Men. He's more confident using close-ups to get in his characters' faces. And the film looks luscious bathed in warm autumnal hues. The story, such as it is, is told through a series of vignettes, each tellingly juxtaposed with the next to subtly portray the differences between men and women. A scene of three women talking about sex over lunch is followed by one of three men in a steam room pondering the same subject, in a cruder manner. And though there is no real narrative thrust, the individual scenes themselves are propulsive enough to keep the viewer interested.9/101998  100 minutes Rated R CC.  "},{"Title":"The point","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has become a movie that everyone either loves or hates.  I think if I made a movie,  this would be the response I would want to receive. However, I find that many of the critics simply miss the mark.  They express leaving the movie feeling like it had no point. To the contrary,  this film achieved every point it attempted to make quite well.  While appearing to be mean spirited at times for no reason, each character is meticulously constructed through each scene,  and done so flawlessly.  Many have said that if these are your friends and neighbors, something is wrong.  Perhaps this is the case,  but I found each of these characters to ring true with people I have encountered, if to an exaggerated degree.  The characters have more in common than names that rhyme with 'airy'.  They are each sexually dysfunctional and desperately grasping for an out.  Through a chain of events set in motion early by Ben Stiller's character, each is forced to confront their demons, with the possible exception of Jason Patrick's character, Cary.  His stellar performance as an unwaivering, arrogant brute leaves him the only one unscathed in the end. Never mind the emotional carnage in his wake (like the poor woman who had the misfortune of beginning her period while on a date with Cary). His collision of power and sex seems to be the only dysfunction that makes it out of this movie alive. It is impossible to watch this movie without questioning those things that can put sand in the gears of a sexual relationship.  It tackles feelings of inadequacy, erectile dysfunction, infidelity, control issues, and all of those awkward moments involved in the flirting process. The point of the film becomes each character's search for contentment in their sex life.  What each has is not working, and as each scrambles to affect change, their reactions to each situation lends more light into their true character,  and aptly describes many poorly lit corners in America's modern psychological terrain.  I think this is where many people find their hatred of this film.  Some simply never meant to look in those corners. "},{"Title":"Well Written, Directed, Casted & Acted  (Mild Spoiler Warning)","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **** MILD SPOILER WARNING ****To ANYONE that might have written a negative review of this film- I say only, Read SULA-3 from Manchester's Review!! All I have to say is DITTO!!!!!! Sula's comments embodied my thoughts on the film perfectly! and the Jason Patric Sauna Scene...classic!! Especially the decision to stay on Patric until he finishes his revelation and then cut to Aaron Eckhart's Reaction Shot!  "},{"Title":"a screenwriting masterpiece!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A brilliant portrait of society at it's most selfish. I could spend forever analyzing this film and it's characters. Neil LaBute is on a roll, and I am one of his disciples (see my comment on In The company Of Men for further proof). Perhaps the greatest challenge surrounding this film is deciding which is the most despicable of the characters. On the surface, Jason Patric character seems the coldest and most hateful person ever, but if you look closer you may see an uncomplicated man who simply lives by a code and only reacts when it is violated.Think about it. But then, you will be thinking after watching this movie. So be prepared. (And don't watch it with a date if you have anything romantic planned afterwards.) "},{"Title":"98's underrated gem","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil leBute is the only US filmmaker who dares to dissect a controversial, sensitive topic of modern relationships without self-censorship, pretentiousness, or falsehood. His work is always in spirit of ultimate realism unflinching and uncompromising.While In the Company of Men, equally brilliant, was a far-fetched, inflammatory meditation on intersexual warfare, his new work is simply a probe into the lives and mores of young middle-class professionals ix men and women. Together they make a disturbing and very familiar mixture of selfishness, greed, apathy and cruelty; a veritable melting pot of relationship problems.While all the characters are quite complex, they can still be effectively summarized. Eckhart (Company of Men's villain) is a disfunctional, bumbling loser; Stiller is an amoral, bumbling adulterer, Patrick a selfish, sadistic bastard, Brennman a scheming emotional parasite, Keener a cold, heartless manipulator, Kinski a miserable failure of a wannabe slut. All this adds up to one inevitable truism lack of communication is the number one destroyer of all relationships. Those who find this film offensive or who claim to hate its cast are likely to be even more self-absorbed then the former, living in a vacuum of denial and refusing to accept the reality of contemporary America's ruthless sexual politics.From the opening chords of Metallica's Enter Sandman in a string orchestra rendition, to the concluding Wherever I May Roam (the only music in the film), YFAN is as compelling and provocative as today's movies can get.  "}{"Title":"Astute Observations On Sexual Relationships","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Adroitly written & directed by Neil LaBute, this film offers up a collage of quasi~satirical snippets regarding seven people's intermingling sexual relationships, focusing on each's cloying little habits, occasionally depraved traits, deceptions and, most importantly, the truths they share with one another although a few of these occur behind others' backs.As well as, of course, the implications of said truths.  And guess what?  The truth isn't pretty.  Hey! Just like real life relationships!  No Jerry Maguire happy endings here.Revising a page from Altman's Images, LaBute's lead characters' names all rhyme Mary, Barry, Terri, Cheri, Cary and Jerry in order, Amy Brenneman, Aaron Eckhart, the amazing Catherine Keener, Nastassja Kinski ~ who, incredibly, becomes more beautiful as each year passes, Jason Patric and Ben Stiller in perhaps his best role.Trivia Question  Whose character's name is ever spoken onscreen?Answer, to the best of my knowledge  None, which is how LaBute gets away with the ploy.This begins as a bitingly satirical comedy, but turns deadly serious by the third reel.Perfect performances by all, but the star here is the somewhat talky but brutally frank and uncompromising script.I liked this a lot. "},{"Title":"If only I loved this film as much as it loved itself","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors is a film that is in love with itself.  Oh how it loves its characters and the situations it places them in.  More importantly, it loves how damn clever it supposedly is.Unfortunately, Your Friends and Neighbors isn't that clever.  In fact, it has an overly contrived cleverness that makes the plot of Wild Things look understated.  See, isn't it clever that all the main characters keep interacting with the same secondary characters in the same exact locations? (Perhaps the filmmakers confused clever with grating and overdone.)I think what bothered me most about this film is its striking similarities to the movie Married People, Single Sex.  Yes, Your Friends and Neighbors is slicker and stars people you've heard of, but they are primarily the same movie.  Your Friends and Neighbors shouldn't be raved about, rather it should be banished to paid cable at three in the morning.If you have to choose a movie, pick Married People, Single Sex or its sequel.  At least those films had nudity. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What we need are new young writers and directors and actors who are not going to do things the good old (Hollywood) way, who are going to explore new areas, expand boundaries, and continue to expand the art of the cinema, not just make the same old movies over and over again.  This film takes so many chances it was at first slapped with an NC-17 rating.  It has its flaws, but still is a pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends & Neighbors Why can there not be more films like this? This was great. Best movie I have seen all summer in or out of the theater. This even bumps Happiness,  my last top pick of the year off the throne. This movie is about relationships. Bad ones. The nice thing about a flick like this is I can come away feeling pretty good about who I am as a person, know matter how much of a bastard I've been. It tells the story of terrible relationships, affairs gone bad, realistic sex, and good friends. This movie will make you uncomfortable it tells it like it is, and holds no punches. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"A good movie to watch","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All in all, I think this is a pretty cool movie.  It is very entertaining the whole way through. It is a look at the lives of 5 people, their ups and downs, and their sexual exploits. There are some really funny bits and the characters are very well developed and acted. Definitley recommended to watch. "},{"Title":"In The Company of Lies and Voyeurism...","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Voyeurism is something we all have probably dabbled in at some time. Whether through eves-dropping, or like Jimmy Stewart in REAR WINDOW.  Neil LaBute, director of YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS, certainly likes voyeurism, and puts the viewer through an almost agonizing voyeuristic trip into sex, lies, and infidelity.  A woman must have really hurt this guy at some point in his life because I have never seen two films where men discuss women with such contempt and disgust.  IN THE COMPANY OF MEN, his first film in 1997, starred Aaron Eckhart, who hates women so much, he plots to destroy the life of a deaf woman with the help of a friend.  He knows he is charming and he knows he can do it.  The truth is no one in both films are friends and with FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS, LaBute eerily puts us in the middle of conversations we are not meant to hear.  They are always sexual in content and the men always come off despicable.  You feel for the poor women in the film.  But even they are not innocent.I'm not sure what it is about the film that appealed to me.  It must be intrigue.  Although no character is very likeable (except for Mary, played by Amy Brenneman), you keep watching the games unfurl.  The 'plot' of IN THE COMPANY OF MEN was the plot itself, to lower and shatter a woman's self-esteem.  Eckhart, who was so ruthless and reprehensible in that picture, is barely noticeable in YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS.  LaBute puts a mustache and weight on him, otherwise you would immediately connect the two different characters.  This works to open up the door for devil #2 of his films, played by Jason Patric.  Guess what?  The guy can act, just one note, but it works.  His creepiness fills the movie and may even serve as LaBute's alter ego.  This is a very personal film.YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS is hard to discuss unless you have seen it.  It is purely situational and its a voyeur's delight.  The conversations may take place in the light of day, but some hit you like a ton of bricks.  An example I need you to think of me as a penis.  I'll think of you as one big vagina.  Just a taste of what to expect hard-hitting, depressing, realistic, everyday immorality in the lives of 6 New Yorkers who really don't like each other very much.  This is a companion piece to IN THE COMPANY OF MEN.  The films together would make quite a film festival for depressed males aged 26 to 40, are angry with women, and have nothing better to do.  Don't ask me why but I give it aRATING 7 of 10 "},{"Title":"More of the same from writer/director LaBute","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to like Your Friends & Neighbors more than I actually did, since I had rather enjoyed writer/director Neil LaBute's last film, 1997's In the Company of Men.  Your Friends & Neighbors, however, is much less plot-driven than In the Company of Men, and this emerges as a distinct liability under LaBute's style.  The film, like In the Company of Men before it, tracks the empty, morally void (some might say evil -- particularly in the case Jason Patric's character) lives of a group of yuppie friends.  The film's chief interest is the blistering dialogue, which drips like poison from the lips of its speakers.  Patric, as the cruel, misanthropic, misogynist physician, stands out -- if only because he is given the darkest of LaBute's scenes to play.  His tirade against a conquest who has stained his sheets with her menstrual blood, as well as his steam room recollection of a high school rape, are unsettling and not easily forgotten. "},{"Title":"One of the best of 1998","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With his second film Neil LaBute more than makes good on the potential he displayed in his amazing debut film In The Company of Men. Like Men Your Friends and Neighbors his an unforgiving, unrepentant, and unflinching looks at relationships. LaBute's script is sadisticly funny and all of the performances are top notch. Aaron Eckhart is particularly impressive in a role that is a complete 180 from his charecter in In The Company of Men. I think that Eckhart is definitely going to be an actor to watch out for in the coming years. Ben Stiller also gives a fine performance, although not nearly as good as his fantastic turn in the highly underrated Permanent Midnight.But it was without a doubt Jason Patric who stole the show. Never having been a huge fan of Jason Patric I was totaly blown away by what he did with this character. It could have been very easy for Patric's character to have been simply a retread of Chad, Eckhart's character in Men, and at first that's what he seems to be. However, by the end of the film you realize that LaBute as a writer and Patriic as an actor have managed to do the impossible, they have created a man worse than Chad. Where Chad was really just a huge jerk, Jason Patric's character in Friends is just out and out evil. Patric's shower monologue was one of the best movie scenes in 1998, and in a perfect world Patric would have been given an Oscar nod for best Supporting Actor. "},{"Title":"Oh, what a lame film","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bad acting, bad writing, bad lighting, bad camera work, and lots of fake humping moments. Ugh! I think this is, perhaps, the worst film I've ever seen and that's saying a lot considering that I am a big Roddy McDowall fan which means that I have sat through a lot of schlock in my time waiting him to show up in the many, many bad movies he made during his later career. I wish McDowall had been in this film, at least I would have some excuse for having sat through it besides the fact that the dog was snoozing on my arm so I didn't like to disturb him by searching in the cushions of the couch for the remote control. Can you tell that I'm just typing away trying to get to the 10, (wait, spell it out, that's more characters) ten required lines for an IMDb review when I really said all I had to say about this film in the first two sentences of this review? "},{"Title":"Um, Mr. LaBute...er, I'm afraid we won't be able to make your soiree.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors is one of those movies which sports a good cast, is well produced, and has few flaws with one HUGE exception. It sucks. Supposed to be a provocative misanthropic study of the politics of sex among three guys and three gals, the characters are obvious fabrications who are doing the director's bidding, behaving in silly and unnatural ways so as to make the flick work...more or less. Some young adults may find a modicum of entertainment in this film. However, those who have been there, done that, will likely find the flick a fraudulent dissertation and much ado about nothing. "}{"Title":"Utterly painful","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can one say about a movie which is simply painful to watch from beginning to end?  The storyline features six main characters, none of whom we really get to know.  Ben Stiller, yet again, plays the please feel sorry for me, poor hard-done-by white heterosexual me.  Please!  Get a grip. Jason Patric's character has to be one of the most obnoxious characters on the screen in a long time, and really, do we have to endure characters like this into the new millenium?  Can't we move on?  Surely pop culture doesn't need to 'reclaim' sexism.  Even the two nicest (albeit weak) characters - the married man Barry (Aaron Eckhart) and lesbian partner Cheri (Nastassja Kinski) - are dragged down to the depressing level of the other characters. And what about the wife Mary (Amy Brenneman)...why isn't her fear of intimacy explained?  or possible reason even hinted at?  What IS going on?!!No performance is particularly good (the best probably being Nastassja Kinski), and the director really should have exercised more control over the performances - the actors are all just doing their own thing with simply terrible results.  As for the scriptwriter, maybe writing an *interesting* story would be good next time, not just more modern relationships dribble.This movie leaps all over the place, never covering any topic in substance, except the real nasty side of people.  And even that is done in a poor manner compared with great movies such as Happiness.  As such, the characters and storyline line (or lack thereof) just grate on you until the celebratory event of the credits rolling.Bottom line if you want to see an interesting or thought-provoking or enjoyable or exciting or clever movie, AVOID this one like the plague. "},{"Title":"A miserable experience I would not recommend...","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Writer/Director Neil Labute's first film, In the Company of Men, was a qualified success. It provided a different look and told an unusual, yet believable story of two men who are so caught up in the appearance of power and control that they deliberately harm someone else.This film fails miserably on all accounts. I read another review that compared this failure to the 'sophomore slump' syndrome. As in Spike Lee's second feature... and so on. This director doesn't have it, guys!The first was clearly a fluke (in that the searing tale was captivating), the second shows his fatal flaw. He hates everyone. If you enjoy the sense of disgust and hate rising inside you, then perhaps this tape has something for you.As for me, I believe in the power of art to redeem and uplift. In many cases (perhaps the most successful) this redemption is found in the slightest chance, the smallest hope, the least suspected place. In Your Friends and Neighbors there is not a single place to search for redemption.A theatre professor who exaggerates his role while having sex with a woman who just wants to have sex without the dialogue; a man who prefers himself over women whose married to a woman who doesn't know what she prefers; and a man who hates woman with such feral animosity that I cringed during his scenes. (This last role, played extremely well by Jason Patric, was the only role of any interest and passion - but without any balancing goodness the film becomes saturated with hate and enmity.)Even the worst films seem to have something to redeem themselves, but this film is one of hate and vitriol. The only comparison I can draw, emotionally, is the fright and sense of uselessness and failure one might feel after watching David Fincher's Seven. But even there the feeling was driven from lighting, pacing, sound - atmosphere. In Labute's tape the same feeling is drawn from the characters disdain for themselves and their friends and neighbors. Seven had a redeeming voice in Morgan Freeman's character. Labute's tape has no redemption.I suppose it's remarkable that a plausible story - Labute's - would give rise to such disgust. The story might have some truths, but they are miserable, unwelcome truths. And they are not the truths of honorable people. They are the truths of monsters and fiends, masquerading as Your Friends and Neighbors.  "},{"Title":"Jason Patric pulls himself from the Speed 2 quagmire","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant is all I can say for Neil LaBute's second feature.  I haven't liked a film this much since I saw In the Company of Men.  There are so many things to praise about this film, mainly the acting and the wonderful script.  It is refreshing to see film makers actually make memorable movies with great scenes that stick in your mind long after the movie is over.  It is so rare to find films that have certain vignettes that disturb and entertain all at the same time.  Like the Scorsese speech given in the back of Travis Bickle's taxi cab while looking up at his cheating wife, the sauna scene in YFAN and the scene where Chad talks to the intern in ITCOM are visions that astonished me at initial viewing and haunted me ever since.  I look forward to anything that LaBute will be doing in the future. "},{"Title":"communication breakdown","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No reviews I have read seem to mention the core of the film -- the impossibility of communication. What LaBute did with Your Friends & Neighbors was create an essay involving the development of these scenarios in which people just did not and more importantly could not communicate. It is from here where the tragedy flowed, not from the striking subject matter of various scenes.LaBute was successful in that he showed how people continue to want or need each other amidst no real connections. Yet this film is ultimately simple. He took one concept and created these simple, offensive situations to catch the viewer. This is a problem affecting many films today. Like Happiness, this film takes the easy way out by shocking without having a layered meaning. "},{"Title":"A shocking, uncomfortable but excellent film.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once again Neil LaBute has a delivered a fine, yet unsettling film. Your Friends and Neighbors, examines human nature, and relationships in a group of six people. Basically a character study of the six leads, this is  a film with a well written script and superb acting.Although all six of the main characters deliver excellent performances the true stand out is Jason Patric. His performance is one of the finest I have seen in a very long time. One particular monologue, is one of the most memorable scenes I have seen in years.Neil LaBute seems to have a fascination with dark, immoral characters. His scripts are realistic in portraying these characters without ever condoning their actions. His films make compulsive viewing, though the easily offended might want to stay away (there were several walk outs of the screening I was at). This is an excellent film with a great combination of a brilliant script coupled with outstanding acting. 9/10     "},{"Title":"hard hitting, quirky, dark comedy about sex and self centeredness","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors was written and directed by Neil LaBute who also directed In the Company of Men.  The film is osten- sibly about sex and who is doing what and with to who. With the assembly of quirky characters including a college drama director and would-be Lothario, his lover, her lesbian lover, and their friends (a married couple), and a friend of the men (an offbeat brooding unattached guy), the possibilities are almost endless. But Mr. LaBute uses sex only as a vehicle.  The film is really about power and self indul- gence.  The film is not only well written but well acted.  The performances by Mr. Stiller, the Lothario, Mr. Eckhart, TRULY self indulgent-you'll see why-, Ms.Keener, who likes QUIET, Ms. Brenneman, the unfaithful wife, Ms. Kinski, the lesbian lover, and Mr. Patric, the offbeat friend are very good, but Mr. Patric stole the show.  His portrayal of a strong brooding and strange man/lover was the highlight of the movie.  I must warn you that even the movie is laugh out loud hilarious even during the sex scenes it is also at times crude and brutal and I don't use these terms in a negative way.  So if you are easily offended do not go see this movie, but if you enjoy a well written and acted dark comedy, you will love it.  Three and half stars. "},{"Title":"An excellent, and very unnerving follow-up to In the Company of Men","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute has an affinity for providing some incredibly heartless characters. The excellent ensemble cast of Neighbors does not give us one redeemable character, each one selfish and cold in their own way. The fun (or lack thereof) is in watching each character squirm and wreak emotional havoc on their supposed friends. The worst of them all has to be Jason Patric, in an incredible performance as a mysoginistic doctor. Be warned his graphic monologue in the sauna is a doozy. I witnessed several movie-goers walk out before he was finished. "},{"Title":"Cynical but thought-provoking look at sex and relationships","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In his first film, In the Company of Men, Neil LaBute took an extreme look at the way men treat each other. The weakest area of that film was the one-dimensional portrayal of the main female character.In this, his second film, LaBute expands his focus to include women. He still fails to make them as well developed as his male characters, showing he doesn't understand what makes women different from men. The picture he does paint is as sour and bleak as the picture of men.LaBute is making a name for himself by making movies with characters that are very stripped down. It's easy to dismiss him by pointing out that his characters are largely caricatures. Such dismissal is a way to avoid addressing the uncomfortable issues he is bringing up. Sex is a difficult issue to discuss, and yet it is an important way in which we relate to one another, especially in the most significant relationships in our lives. These characters spend a lot of time talking about sex, but not communicating with one another. That's the real problem LaBute is showing us. If the characters could risk enough of themselves to attempt real communication they might not end up even more unhappy than they were when the story starts. Instead, when things get difficult they storm out of the room or go silent. Their selfishness and fear makes them continue on, making the same mistakes.LaBute's relevance as a film maker is that he poses some very difficult questions, and then sends the viewers on their way to find answers, or to at least contemplate them. LaBute's film is frustrating in that it offers no closure and no easy answers. He points out problems, rather than telling us how to solve them. Then again, the first step is to admit you have a problem.  "},{"Title":"A Darker Seinfeld","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I was watching this film, I started wondering which character was the most detestable.  In my opinion, it was the character played by Catherine Keener.  She should be married to a deaf mute, since any conversation before, during or after sex makes her sick to her stomach. My favorite scene In the bookstore when Jason Patric confronts her and tells her off in no uncertain terms. These characters say and do what most people only think.  The film was cathartic for me, and an amazing exhibition of acting.  Jason Patric creates a charismatic, fascinatingly vindictive character on par with Chad from In The Company of Men.  I won't soon forget this guy.  I wouldn't mind hanging out with him for the stories, but I'd hate to be on the receiving end of anything he does. This is Seinfeld--taken to the extreme--for nearly two hours.  Not for the squeamish, and painfully real, although we hate to admit these people exist outside the movie theater. "},{"Title":"A GREAT FILM!!!!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best film since Pulp Fiction, Neil Labute rules. The bed hopping ways of the characters and there evilness make it very funny. Carry (Jason Patrick) is the movie best part. I didn't think it was possable but it was better then in the company of men! "}{"Title":"Not MY friends and neighbors","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen, bar none. I had high hopes with the opening credits... Some of my favorite actors and a very good opening sequence.  But it soon became apparent that it was the highlight of the movie.It is painfully slow.  At one point one of the characters asks Jerry (Ben Stiller) if he ever shuts up -- I was wondering the same thing.The steamroom scene left me feeling sick to my stomach.  No matter how you dress it up rape is rape.  These are people with out morals or humanity.Obvious comparisons will be made to In the Company of Men but you feel nothing for these characters except contempt. "},{"Title":"What do women want","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This well-acted piece rich in facial close-ups explores mis-communication between the genders and the problems humans have in finding sexual fulfillment.  None of the six characters are particularly pleasant but the two most direct in their communication seem to get more of what they want.  This  film is no skin show.  Its power comes from the brutally-honest dialogue. "},{"Title":"Neil LaBute is on target--AGAIN","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am again very much impressed by the brilliance and insight of Neil LaBute. His characters are raw and very real. Mind you, I still don't see what anyone would see in the getting-more-simian-every-day Ben Stiller.....but his writing is so on target and so un-pretty, both in this film and In the Company of Men. I find myself hating his characters but loving the movies he creates. Viva Jason Patric for a job well done!  "},{"Title":"This movie could have been good but wasn't.","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What is there to say about a movie that is roughly a low grade porn.   Well one might say that the movie should appeal to a certain audience.   Which this one might have done but is in general just bit.  It took me nearly an hour to figure out waht was a major flaw in the film was THERE IS NO MUSIC. I hated this film with a passion and would not suggest it to my worst enemy.  There is one scene in the movie that is quality Hollywood though, Jason Patric gives a speach in the sauna that is so believable its scary.  Anyhow on the whole the movie just smelled up the place but for the one scene it could be worth seeing, although I wouldn't suggest it.J "},{"Title":"Perverse, creepy ... interesting","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, with all of its perverse subject matter, is a haunting follow-up to Neil LaBute's In the Company of Men - what you might expect from this independent writer/director. Good performances from a solid ensemble cast is the highlight of this shocking and creepy but interesting study of excessive sexual behavior. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but with occasional character development problems","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends & Neighbors is about six people whose personalities range  from somewhat superficial and self-absorbed down to frighteningly  narcissistic.  I've seen movies featuring unsympathetic lead characters  before, but I don't ever recall seeing a film where the director seems to  actively despise each and every one of his characters so much.  A great  deal of what goes on in this film is very funny and quite fascinating, if  more than a little uncomfortable sometimes.  (One scene features what I  think must be the longest awkward silence in recent moviemaking.) Too often , though, the characters' motivations are left entirely unclear to the  audience, and they seem to be pulled about by unseen motivations.  This  seems to be the result of too heavy a hand on the part of the writer /director Neil LaBute, who apparently is out not only to make us hate the  characters, but to be confused by them and alienated from them as well.  On  the whole, though, the interesting and funny parts made up for a lot of the  things that I never properly understood about the characters, making the  movie worth seeing.Overall Rating  7 (out of 10), or 3 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Mean, painful, and funny","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not as brutal as Company of Men, but still a fascinating study  of people and power.  Missing that 'So, how does it feel' sucker punch to the audience; but still, in the end it's the meanest people that seem to win.  Wonderful craft getting there.   "},{"Title":"A fascinating piece about what happens when people take out the intimacy in sex","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A fascinating piece about what happens when people take out the intimacy in sex. While the movie is a funny comedy, it is dark and explores the cast and their sexual neuroses. Not for everyone, but easily competes with Saving Private Ryan as the most important film of the summer.  "},{"Title":"All different, but all the same","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors presents a haunting character study of six people who, though highly caricatured, remind you of someone you know ... which could very well be yourself.  Revolving around the sexual proclivities of these characters, the audience walks away with a stunning portrayal of how in all our differences, we are too often all just alike.  "},{"Title":"A strange film indeed","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While watching this film I couldn't help but get annoyed at the dialog. The movie seemed to drag on and on with little or nothing redeeming about the film. A few scenes were quite powerful, including the steam room scene with Jason Patrick, but mostly the film was boring. After having thought about the film for a while, it started to grow on me. I was getting annoyed with the characters because they were so well acted! It took me a while to realize this but the film was chocked full of characters that were human and flawed. If you are a film buff, definitely worth a look but this movie is not for the mainstream Joe Public. "}{"Title":"A bunch of thirty-somethings explicitly exploring sexuality.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very much concerned with sex and sexuality. While  very few scenes are extremely graphic, some people in the theater I was in apparently were not prepared for the shocking  nature of the script. I, personally, found it thought-provoking, funny, sad, true... in spite of a strong desire to cringe and hide my face at times. Aaron Eckhart is emerging as my new favorite actor. I really liked Company of Men better, but this film is still a lot better than most of the crap available in mainstream theaters. This director has a knack for conveying the essence of different personalities without resorting to endless description/character development. "},{"Title":"Nervous Laughter","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The audience laughs and chuckles to the dialogue simply because the characters say the insensitive and mean things that we think but do not say aloud.A stunning performance by Jason Patric. The confessional scene in the steamroom starts cliche and gradually pulls in until the tight closeup of his character leaves a bitter taste in the mouth. Don't take a first date to this movie. "},{"Title":"What a slow movie!","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie about 45 minutes and then left. I cannot believe Roger Ebert actually gave this movie 4 stars! It took forever to get going and was painstakingly slow. A more dramatic flair for a very promising plot. Anybody who liked this movie must be comatose! "},{"Title":"Interesting but not quite","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An interesting film but somehow doesn't quite hit a home run. In 'The Company of Men' the riveting intensity and humor came from the characters, who while morally hideous, were real and identifiable. 'Your friends' cast seems like caricatures intended to be as wacky as possible...over the top for the sake of being over the top -- and more psychotic than morally flawed. It was still very funny in spots and overall, entertaining.  "},{"Title":"A very unpleasant film","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very unpleasant film. It was well-made, with decent photography, unobtrusive direction, and no glaring plot holes. For analysis, I cannot do any better than MBunge from Waterloo, Iowa, whose comment is four or five below this one. (Chronologically) All of the characters were very unlikeable, extremely narcissistic, and totally self-centered. Ben Stiller especially, seemed to be channeling Woody Allen, with the extreme angst and the painfully awkward way of speaking. Not a slam against Stiller, or the other actors, as I am sure that this was what the director wanted from them. Catherine Keener, whose character was also not all that nice, was at least very pretty, and the best part of the film. I cannot recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are just so many films just like this, that I can't really say much for Your Friends & Neighbors, mainly because it offers very little to make in memorable or distinguishable in any way. A group of people in their 30's spend the film talking about their unsatisfying relationships and sex lives and cheating on each other with each other; it has all the markings of a 90's theater play, and everything it takes to be an indie darling, including a cast of some of the more popular indie-film stars of the time (this at a time when Ben Stiller was still known more for Reality Bites than for comedies like Zoolander). The acting is indeed good - Jason Patric and Catherine Keener especially, and the film does have a few good scenes, wittily written and well delivered. But in the end, the characters are all completely unlikable and forgettable - they're all characterized solely by their insecurities, shallowness, selfishness, delusions and sexual quirks, and there's nothing there to make the viewer care at all about any of them or about anything that happens to them - and not much happens, at that. The film is the very definition of mediocrity and forgettability. "},{"Title":"Was this supposed to be a comedy?","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must start by saying that, perhaps, this would have gotten better after the first 40 minutes, but I was saved from further suffering by a scratched DVD. Normally you can hit the chapter skip button and chance losing some continuity, but I don't think it would have mattered. Perhaps the outtakes could be funny, given the rotten, trite dialog. I'm glad I checked this out from the library, because this would have been a terrible date movie.The incredible creepiness of the male characters struck me as the worst aspect of the movie. I got the feeling that they might work up to physical violence. Hopefully not.Not that the women portrayed were much better people, although they did look good, so it was at least worth the second star for that.Needless to say, there wasn't anything funny in this comedy. We didn't even smile, let alone laugh. Ben's girlie glasses were almost funny, but they didn't play it up.Anyway, if you want to see a sad, pathetic movie about sad pathetic people and pretend that it's a comedy, go ahead and borrow this from a library. Just about all libraries would have it, since anyone silly enough to have purchased this wreck would want to get rid of it somehow. "},{"Title":"I'm awful, you're awful, she's awful....","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Neil LaBute continues his examination of contemporary mores and follies among American couples, and he's helped by a cast of fine young actors on their way up. But he seems obsessed with sleaze -- there are multiple anal-intercourse sequences in the first half-hour alone -- and his message becomes monotonous. He does write good dialog, delivered with spontaneous-sounding readings by this bunch; Jason Patric has a truly remarkable monologue about halfway through. What defeats LaBute, as with so many modern filmmakers, is his relentless battering-ram sensibility. His negativism is so reflexive that finally there's not only no one to root for, there's no suspense. Of course these stories will all end unhappily, because he doesn't believe anything can end happily. That's as predictable as the optimism of prewar movie makers was. Memo to today's screenwriters You really want to surprise us? Say something positive. "},{"Title":"Your Friends & Neighbors and their friends and neighbors and so on and so on and so on!!!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Is there an end to sexual communication? Nope, it just gets more political and extremely graphic in detail. Sex anymore isn't hopping into the back seat of a 58' Plymouth and going to work, it's a lot more complicating in modern times. It's a lot more in detail and there's supposed to be closure to it, there's supposed to be an end, but the trick of the whole thing, or I guess the illusion in a lot of peoples minds as there is supposed to be an end, there isn't an end, because it keeps going on more and more and more.This film spoke volumes to me and if you think that Closer or We Don't Live Here Anymore is the signature of extramarital affair movies then your so dead wrong, this is it, this is the movie that puts those movies to shame(or to me it's more of an inspiration, follow the leader, jump on the bandwagon sort of thing).There's one leader in this film, every film has one and his name is Jason Patric. He is cruel, he is repugnant and he is as derogatory as Divine in Pink Flamingos, but only in a sexual represented way. I loved the Book Store scene where he gets rejected by Catherine Keener's character and suddenly flies into his short little tirades and gets emotionally conflicted and then stabs her deep of what she wants to hear, but what she tries to hide which later I think leads to the breakup of Stiller and Keener even though she is using his adultery as an accuse. But that scene alone is enough to watch the movie and watch him walk away with this harsh, malice look on hi face, it's disturbing, but it's funny as he walks out and checks out a woman before he goes. To think that Patric did not even get a Oscar nomination for his performance made me ill, an nomination for a near flawless performance, and all performances has at least one scene in the movie where they give a long speech or they have a timed reaction(Michael Douglas in Wall Street and Helen Hunt in As Good As It Gets are good examples), Patric brought that in the middle of the film with his best sexual experience(which happened to be in high school with another male, even though he is a womanizer, but go figure, I've seen more complicated stuff).I never quite understood Ben Stillers acting, I still say that he plays the same character in every movie, but that's me, I think I sort of ignored him throughout this entire film or pretended that someone else was playing his part, I have to do that time to time or otherwise I'm going to really despise the movie and turn it off.The other leads , Amy Brenneman, Aaron Eckhart and the lovely and astounding Nastassja Kinski(which for the life of me could never understand why she is never nominated or starring in movies) are very convincing in their own trials and tribulations in the movie. I never understood really why Brennemans character is so hard to pleasure in the bedroom or if she carries this guilt for cheating on her husband when, he himself who thinks giving himself pleasure, finds out he is his own best lover, I just really don't identify her character or understand the grievance, but towards the end of the film it all kind of dawns on me and the nature of her game.This movie is slow paced and it's talky, but when I'm in the philosophical moods, these are my favorites and it allures my attention and helps me rationalize my own sexual demons, politics and tastes that I acquire and I think it's safe to say that the days of showing a girl a good time by going to the movies and then out to eat are over. Sex is just like politics and it's hard to hit the G Spot anymore without having an sexual philosophical conscience!!! "},{"Title":"Whose friends? Whose neighbors?","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If all our relationships are like the ones in this film, we might as well give up. In Your Friends and Neighbors we are introduced to a group of upwardly mobile urbanites who run around a lot but haven't learned how to play well with others. Frustrated desire and strained hopefulness shove the characters around as if some socio-sexual Grinch were gumming up their lives. Watching this movie, you may be tempted to ask if this is the way the world turns or if it is merely the way writer-director Neil LaBute likes to pretend it turns. Produced with an abundance of cool, the film strikes an odd balance between surface and structure. By using a naturalistic veneer, LaBute invites us to accept the characters as if they had been lifted straight from the apartment next door. Wow, we might say, So this is real life as it is lived by real people in today's world! Beneath the surface, however, things look different. If you peel back the actors' performances, you may find yourself staring at some carefully skewed scaffolding. You may even conclude that this picture is more the product of the director's artful calculations than of keen observation into the way people live. Of course there's nothing wrong with a director's offering a vision. Most good directors do. And if you like LaBute's work, you probably won't notice him just off-screen, fussing with his blueprints. An example an important clue to verisimilitude in fiction is the way characters speak. Here they are presented as intelligent young professionals, yet they turn out to be astonishingly inarticulate types who say things like I just&#133;I don't know what to say&#133;I mean&#133;it just makes me feel&#133;even if you&#133;because&#133; After a while this dialog comes off like an acting-class exercise, and while the fractured syntax may be central to LaBute's approach, it can get tedious. One exception stands out Midway through the film, the stutter-speech is interrupted by a remarkable monologue delivered by Jason Patric. Except for this burst of eloquence, however, we find ourselves listening to people who struggle to express themselves as they stumble through days and nights trying and failing to connect with others who are similarly afflicted. (That's the whole point, you say? Well&#133;I mean&#133;it's just&#133;yeah&#133;right.) There are places in this movie where a certain amount of cuteness can be forgiven&#151;as when a patch of dialog recurs several times in the mouths of different characters&#151;and there are other clever touches here and there. But the best reason for watching Your Friends and Neighbors is not the director's vision (assuming he has one) but the performances. The six principal actors make the most of their roles, and it is fun to watch a frenetically unfulfilled Ben Stiller, a romantically perplexed Amy Brenneman, a terminally self-satisfied Jason Patric, a mad but sad Catherine Keener, a well-meaning but clueless Aaron Eckhart and an attractively vapid Nastassja Kinsky wander through a maze that&#151;unfortunately for their characters&#151;leads nowhere. "}{"Title":"Not A Bad Film, Worth Watching","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just rented this film the other day, Not Bad. Some major adult dialogue. Jason Patrick is the best part of this film, he commands the screen when he has a line. Not recomended for anybody under 17. I thought it was original. Well acted and Directed with decent characters. I think the plot could of been done a little better. Check it out. Ben Stiller is in it. But Jason Patrick will floor you with his diologue. Not recommended for anyone without a sense of humor or anyone that can't put things into perspective.  "},{"Title":"Veritable, glossy small-scale character study from Neil LaBute.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Famed for dark satirical styles and cutting edge controversy, director Neil LaBute (`Nurse Betty', `In the Company of Men') has produced an intriguing, though not thoroughly compelling study on human activity and relationships. Subtle in manner and narrative, the main problem is that it lacks bite. Where a different director may have highlighted key moments and plot points, LaBute keeps things at a slow pace for the entirety. While this adds to the realness of it all, it's hard to tell how scenes are to be interpreted. And this superficial presence is hardly felt. Virtually without a plot other than examining people's marital and adulterous lives, it simply doesn't lead anywhere. While similar films are usually given a shock ending to bolster the effect and/or go out with a bang, the overall effect is curiously underplayed. The film starts at a random point and then suddenly ends. That said, there is a nervy authenticity about it that brings humane depth to it all. All is played out in a perfectly sombre and believable manner without taking its material too seriously. And there is also a heavy dose of irony thrown in for good measure. Did you find it strange that none of the characters names were mentioned? There's something not right about that. And I was surprised to see that the characters all had similar sounding names- Jerry, Terri, Cheri, Barry, Cary and Mary. It's hard to tell if LaBute was trying to be symbolic in doing so, as it's hard enough to concentrate on the film at face value. Another case in point is the fact that there are absolutely no supporting characters- the closing thing to represent support are the extras that occasionally stand around in the background. Perhaps this represents the seclusion of suburban life- I don't know. But the exceptional casting certainly pays off as the six characters are brilliantly personified and defined.Arguably the best known of the cast is Ben Stiller. It's surprising how he can blend in with the other `lesser' actors and seem perfect for the neurotic part that he regularly plays. Also very good is Jason Patric who isn't afraid to risk his reputation and play an arrogant misogynist (not to mention the fact that he uses the &#145;c' word). As the only `good' person of the bunch, indie regular Aaron Eckhart is also quite good. Amy Brenneman's persistently nervous and philandering wife is an excellent creation, while Catherine Keener's power b*tch is well interpreted. Also in there is Nastassja Kinski who probably gets the least development. The performance is fine, but the way her character is written is a bit sketchy.Another strange aspect is the repetition in which Kinski attempts to seduce the four other characters, minus Mary. Strange is the fact that they use the exact same dialogue in each of the four scenes. This may represent how all of the characters are alike despite their different personas- who knows? While it is bogged down by the occasional narrative flaw, `Your Friends and Neighbours' is a polished take on modern life. Sometimes confusing and mind numbing, it is best interpreted as a satire. I thought it was generally good and give it an IMDb rating of 6.1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Possibly Brilliant","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film contains no story line whatsoever. Instead, it is one of those artsy-fartsy deals that justifies several couples cheating on each other - with each other. This movie's plot was worse than most pornos I've seen, and the acting wasn't much better. The characters in this movie are easy hate material as I hate every actor in this movie (since I've seen it when it came out) to this day. The movie tries to make a joke out of cheating on your significant other with your friend's lover. The meanwhile, that friend is cheating with another friend's lover, and so on. If you find that funny and entertaining, and possibly brilliant - watch this. If not, don't. "},{"Title":"Even if they were my neighbours, they certainly wouldn't be my friends...","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... for make no mistake, this film contains quite possibly the biggest bunch of social inadequates ever to grace the cinema screen, and that was almost certainly director Neil Labute's intention. It's fun because it's something a touch different from the norm (at least if you haven't seen In the Company of Men) but it never quite elevates itself to the lofty ambitions displayed by its - at times brilliant - writing.As good as the writing is, and as realistically as the characters behave, I never felt as if I'd met these people, or if they even might exist somewhere. Granted, I wouldn't particularly WANT to meet them, but it would render the film's message that much more sharp if I thought that these people were out there somewhere. Instead I got imitations that came off much like the aliens did in Men in Black; they look like people, they behave like people, but there's something not quite right about them...The direction is also occasionally stilted, with not enough fluidity between frames and certain scenes dragging on for too long. The writing and performances often threaten to overcome this, but never quite manage it. There are one or two scenes that demonstrate how this project could have worked if done right; the most obvious being the now-legendary sauna confession. Unfortunately for the viewer, expertly played scenes like this make it all the more frustrating for them to have to sit through the periodic dull spots.Overall, an interesting and often rewarding experience, but not necessarily one I'd want to repeat again. "},{"Title":"People hate this film, because it hits the bullseye.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really about 6 complete strangers. Some of them are married to each other. Some of them are sleeping with each other. Some of them call each other 'friends'. They are all still strangers. Everyone is talking (esp. Ben Stiller's character), but is anyone really listening- to each other or themselves. An old saying reminds me of some of the comments on this film- A shot pigeon flutters. This movie (just like other Labute film's) hits us in that tender spot we like to cover and ignore. But it sure ruffles our feathers when someone pokes through it with red-hot intensity and cauterizes the wound.This movie is a sociological examination of Americans (hell, Western Society at large) in relationships, and how screwed up we all have become at them. That is the root of the infidelity. That is the root of the sex problems. Everybody is just bulls---ing each other and themselves. They just pussyfoot around and no one is getting at the guts of their problems. But then, they don't know how to. I know this scares the s--- out of some people. The people that hate these kind of films. But you have to ask yourself, why do I hate this? When you see these hollow individuals, and then realize that they are you, your friends and your neighbors.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrid!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Definitely one of the worst movies I've seen in a long, long time.  I kept waiting for the movie to get better, and to develop a storyline. It never happened. The characters each have their own issues, but the way they are developed (or should I say non-developed) is boring and shoddy. Avoid this one like the plague.   "},{"Title":"A definite feel-bad movie","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so awful, there aren't even enough words to say why it's so awful. I am not a person who doesn't enjoy arty or profane movies (Pulp Fiction is one of my favorites), but this was just dreadful.  I couldn't have cared less about one character in the whole flippin' movie.  Especially Jason Patric as a flaming misogynist.  How did he say that locker-room crap with a straight face?  I can't believe I wasted $3.69 at Blockbuster on this drivel.   Avoid this at all costs... "},{"Title":"A Failure","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With some elements of a movie, you just think, A swing, but a miss. This movie didn't even bother swinging half of the time.  The dialogue started out making you think that maybe it could someday be snappy or even entertaining, but after about five minutes, you give up on that.  There's one scene in an art house that had such potential to be cute, but after being repeated over and over to darker and darker cynical effect, you just give up on that, too.  This movie is bereft of humor entirely, and if not for a good performance by Jason Patric (everyone else mentioned the monologue, but I have to say that it really was great), I would have burned the video, rental place be damned. "},{"Title":"No friend of mine","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me get this one out of the way sharpish.  It was unentertaining.  Don't let anyone fool you into believing that this is a new In The Company Of Men. It isn't.  It has dulled my wit.Ron "},{"Title":"Jason Patric gives an Oscar worthy performance.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this fairly ordinary film the pace drags and the characters get tedious.  But there are moments of pure gold, and I enjoyed the frank and explicit sex discussions.  But the real gold is JASON PATRIC.  Not only does he look great, as always, but he plays the most horrible person I have ever seen in any film.  Without a single redeeming feature he swaggers cockily through the film and, somehow, is utterly charming.  Ah, the attraction of the devil!  His long speech in which he describes his best sexual experience is worth sitting through the rest of the film for - it is both brilliantly acted and written, and I'm sure will become a regular party piece for auditioning actors.  And that scene in the book-store.  Wow!  Congrats Jason, I'm glad you did receive some award attention for this role - you should have won an Oscar! "}{"Title":"Witty drama with a all star cast! 5/10","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review I quite enjoyed this simple but witty movie about a group of friends who are unhappy with there sex lives. It's very well written and all of the performances are great by the all star cast. The director made it entertaining by intertwining each characters stories with each other. You really don't know what is going to happen from one scene to the next, which made it unpredictable and interesting. It really does show that you don't need a massive budget to make a good movie. Watchable!Round-Up It amazes me how much people can change with a load of money. Ben Stiller has obviously had a severe teeth job and Aaron Eckhart looks much better without that terrible moustache. Jason Patric has disappeared from the limelight since that terrible Speed 2 movie which was such a disappointment. Catherine Keener looked extremely young and her career had been going from strength to strength with movies like Captain Phillips and the Croods. Anyway, the movie has something for everyone, even though it's really old.I recommend this movie to people who are into there comedy/romance/dramas about a group of friends trying to improve there sex lives. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Subterranean Homesick Blues","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like his debut, In The Company of Men, Neil LaBute's Your Friends and Neighbours revolves around several disturbing relationships. David Mamet is again the chief influence, specifically Mamet's Sexual Perversity in Chicago, Edmond and Oleanna. Mike Nichol's Carnal Knowledge also seems to have inspired LaBute.The film charts the infidelities and affairs of six characters, all of whom are in unhappy relationships. Power games are played, dissatisfactions are raised and the the overall tone is one of extreme cynicism. Elsewhere LaBute reverses various gender stereotypes. One woman (Terri), for example, leaves her husband because he's too emotional and too vocal. She wants anonymous, dispassionate sex, and so hooks up with another character. This new relationship also proves unsuccessful. Another relationship involves married man Jerry leaving his wife for Mary, a frigid woman who blames herself for not being attracted to her self-absorbed husband. She then leaves both men for Cary, a misogynist and narcissist who uses and discards women and whose favourite sexual experiences involve the sadistic domination of boys. Again, this relationship concludes on a note of disappointment. Indeed, all the relationships in the film go from a point of dissatisfaction to extreme dissatisfaction. Nobody is content. LaBute's not interested in making a blanket statement, though (ie &#x96; everyone is unhappy and romantic contentment is impossible etc), but is interested in how personal dissatisfactions lead to projection, impotency, disconnection, frigidity and cruel games of domination. Unhappiness, in short, leads to blame and blame leads to either self-punishment or the punishing of others. Everyone in the film is the victim of both somebody else's apathy and (redirected) self hate. While the majority of LaBute's films and plays are attacked for being cruel and cynical &#x96; and perhaps their style/tone does undermine his intentions - the final message is always an appeal to compassion.Your Friends and Neighbours is consistently riveting and features another excellent performance by Catherine Keener. The film as a whole, though, resorts too readily to shock tactics. It's like gazing at a car crash, the film far too proud of its twisted wreckage.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing "},{"Title":"Wanna know how LaBute wound up doing a remake of The Wicker Man?  Look no further.","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that wallows in the ordinary unhappiness and dysfunction of real life. Sometimes those stories can be entertaining, but this film is undone by pretension, an inability to figure out the most interesting elements of its own story and the inclusion of a character who belongs in a completely different movie.Amy Brennerman and Aaron Eckhart play a married couple. They're friends with Catherine Keener and Ben Stiller, who play a couple who live together. Jason Patric plays Eckhart's and Stiller's bachelor friend and Nastassja Kinski plays a museum assistant they all come into contact with. Brennerman's character is what people used to call frigid, greatly frustrating her and her husband. Stiller's guy is an emotionally immature chatterbox who somehow ended up with Keener's angry woman that pushes away real intimacy because she's afraid of losing her individuality. Patric plays a narcissistic sociopath who turns into a human cartoon after a bizarre sauna confession that doesn't fit anything else in this movie. Eckhart is, I guess, supposed to be the relatively normal guy the audience can identify with but becomes strangely passive just when a normal person would start to get angry at the miserable things that happen to him. Kinski plays, well, just a needy lesbian.The pretension of this movie is pretty unmistakable. None of the characters are named throughout the film, but then in the credits they all have similar sounding names (Cary, Terri, Jerry, etc). Eckhart, Keener, Patric and Stiller all play the same exact scene with Kinski at different points. This is very much a film that wants to be thought of as clever, but you usually need to be clever to have people think that.The second problem is that the movie is largely focused on its men, when the most interesting characters are Brennerman and Keener. Brennerman is a basically decent woman who can't have a satisfying sexual experience and feels incomplete without it. You can see how the lack inhibits her and how the need energizes her. Keener is a woman who wants to be in a relationship but is desperate to not be part of a couple. You can see it in how she keeps Stiller at a distance but is heartbroken when she learns of his unfaithfulness and you can see her repeating the same pattern with Kinski, wanting to be together but not wanting to be close. But the story doesn't spend enough time with them and both characters end up being not much more than their emotional problems.And even when the film focuses on its male characters, it gives short shrift to the most compelling facet of their relationships. The dynamic of Stiller and Eckhart living vicariously through Patric's sexual adventures and of Stiller playing the junior partner to the more masculine Eckhart and Patric is only alluded to. We don't get enough of the three of them together and too much of Patric and Stiller on their own.Patric's performance is also wildly misplaced. The movie imagines itself to be about what could be happening with the people who live next door but Patric is like the serial killer who lives down the block. He's hard and cold and sharp and looks like he was teleported in from an alternate dimension compared to the other characters.Keener and Brennerman are quite good and if Your Friends and Neighbors had been more about them, it might have been a worthwhile film. As it stands, I can only recommend it if you can't comprehend how Neil LaBute could go from making In The Company of Men to doing a remake of The Wicker Man. Your Friends and Neighbors might have convinced LaBute and Hollywood that his creative shtick really had nowhere else to go. "},{"Title":"It was like we were on a beach somewhere, just me and him...","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The opening scene's music of Apocalptica(An instrumental Metallica Cover band made up of four celloists), is a pretty good indicator of the film, beneath the venal of classical form polished performance is an aggressive black electric crassness. Like ...(read more)Closer, Hapiness, and Sex Lies And Videotape, this is a film of infidelity, miscommunication, cruelty, and sex. However, this film wants for a clear theme in ways those films never do, but resounds with every bit of intensity and wit as any. Ben Stiller, Katherine Keener, and Jason Patick are great to watch on screen and I hate Ben Stiler. The upper middle class romantic comedy, and story of forbidden passion, this is and isn't at the same time. Jason Patrick's monologue in the sonna is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Decent effort made by Neil LaBute but its not his best work.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil Labute look at relationships is as sharp and as poignant as it ever has been but it lacks the emotional punch and the ferocity of his first effort' In The Company of Men, and his latest' The Shape of Things'. None of the characters in this film is innocent, and they are to be quite honest not that interesting except for Jason Patric, who is playing the character who likes to put all things about the sexes in misogynistic perspective. Catherine Keener, and the great Aaron Eckhart are fine as well but the movie on the whole is not really interesting enough to make you invest your time with them. See In The Company of Men, and The Shape of Things instead. "},{"Title":"Stuff for a sexologist","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is one guy in the movie who is basically good, decent family man, but has a sex problem. Instead of sending him to a sex doctor who would easily treat him, the authors surround him with pretty low characters and create a set of highly artificial sex maniacs. Their clumsy attempt to create an ugly satire of society is a complete failure these are neither our friends, nor neighbors. The bond between the three men in the center of the movie remains a puzzle, they have and never had anything in common. Summary filthy imagination, boring result. "},{"Title":"Just 'Friends'with an explicit script and even less plot","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like TV's 'Friends'this does intially hold the attention. however soon charcters which intially are interesting become boring and irritating and this renains true even when the only subject of conversation is explicitly sexual. Ultimately I didn't believe in or care about the characters and when , not surprisingly the film just ended it was quite a relief. Satellite viewing only when's there's no decent football on!  "},{"Title":"unrelenting","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Glenngarry Glen Ross of relationship movies. I saw this with someone I was sort of dating at the time and I think that this movie  pretty much nipped that right in the bud. An anti-date movie to beat the band. Not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Skilled actors make this a very good movie.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is an actor's movie - the story is entertaining and fetching; drawing you into the characters lives -- all because of the quality of the actor's work. Each actor in this film has their moment of excellence. All of them exhibit very good dialogue and monologue scenes.  "},{"Title":"Muddled Masochistic Mess","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have never so thoroughly hated a film for existing although Neil LaBute's prior film, In the Company of Men, is in a close second. Admittedly LaBute has the skills to etch out revolting characters, put them in the same room and turn the heat up. But why? Just because you can do something doesn't mean you should do it, or that it should even be done. LaBute mistakes his character development skill for storytelling and emotional venom for wit. Essentially there isn't anything compelling about this film, there's nothing to make the audience want to trudge on with these people. LaBute shows us their bad side and then, for contrast, shows us their deplorable side. In typical LaBute style, his characters fall into the categories of either being a closeted sadist or a complete idiot. Audiences are forced to pick Hitler or Pauly Shore as someone they can identify. Either way it's poison.Admittedly there is a place for artist who strip away the cool and calm facade of suburbia. The director of Welcome to the Dollhouse and Happiness (whose name escapes me at this time) is brilliant at creating characters and plots that show the revolting aspect of life, without becoming a revolting story. It's obvious LaBute hates people, which is quite an easy thing to do. There are plenty of reasons to hate man and this film illuminates a few of them, but he never gives us specifics as to how he got there and what's to be done with this bile.Hopefully he can build on his talent in the future. Acquiring the craft is the easy part, now it's time for LaBute to get a heart. Only then can elevate characters and stories beyond this mascochistic wasteland. "}{"Title":"Boring and Fake","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that tries to say something about society--or part of society--as a whole, but ends up being nothing more than a boring, contrived film about shallowly constructed characters, whom we don't like.The flaws emphasized in each character were, indeed, the sort of things that many sexually frustrated yuppies suffer from in real life, but the way they were presented here was so over-the-top, it seemed like they were only there for comedic or shock value.  Sure, a lot of guys out there hate women, but the guy in this movie was ridiculous.  Why did those other guys even hang out with him?  All he ever *talked* about was how much he hated women.  I imagine this character was written in an attempt by the director to be bold and shocking, but he ended up being so exaggerated and false that it was just stupid.The other characters were not quite so overtly repulsive, but they all ended up being that way in the end.  I think we were supposed to like the married couple, but I know I didn't.  The husband was stupid, and the wife was a wuss.Lastly, I would like to point out that I have no problem with movies where everyone is messed up.  Happiness is one of my favorites.  It's just that the characters in this movie weren't interesting, and as a result I didn't really care what happened to them.  They were just a bunch of boring yuppies with boring lives and boring sexual problems.  Why should I care what happens to them? "},{"Title":"critiques bourgeioise values minus strident party line","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a critical exposition of yuppie sexual hunger in the fringe intelligentsia.  While the 3rd world starves, upper class art afficianados move through sexual intrigue like hit and run joggers in heat. The men in these four laboratory relationships are 6 figure jerks with as much partner empathy as a carrot and the semiotic savvy of angry alpha baboons.  This film is x-ray without the lead apron.  Women will justifiably find it poignant.  Men will be ashamed of their species.  There really are guys like this out there and they need to see this painfully perceptive and subtlely moral film.Walter Alter "},{"Title":"Nasty but compelling","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...is a film with great performances from the excellent ensemble of actors involved. Jason Patric especially is compelling in portraying the sort of misogynist, narcissistic psychopath that was Patrick Bateman in Easton Ellis' American Psycho the book. A nasty dissection of interplay and relationships make this a love/hate type of movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"If you're looking for a pat on the head, get ready for a shock...","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How can I best use a metaphor to describe how I felt after seeing this all the way through for the very first time?Let's take Neil LaBute, and a director at the farthest opposite end of the spectrum from his style, say, Woody Allen. Let's say that they both own a puppy, which represents the audience for their respective styles of filmmaking.Allen knows that puppies pee and s**t on the carpet. Bad dog! BAD DOG! He chides and scolds, showing the puppy what a mess he made. But even though he knows the puppy will probably do it again, Allen can still appreciate how cute and cuddly the puppy is, and in the end, after chastising his pet harshly, he'll still wind up giving it a treat and spoiling the hell out of it. Think Neil LaBute is into spoiling his puppy? Hell, no. Neil isn't just going to scold it and waggle a condescending finger.  He's going to grab the little son-of-a-bitch by the scruff of the neck and rub his nose in everything he left on the carpet, screaming curses all the way. He knows that this may cure the puppy of his bad habits, and maybe it won't. And you know what? Secretly, he's hoping that it won't. He KNOWS it. And it makes him happy, because he enjoys the puppy's humiliation at its own inability to control itself or its bodily functions. And he's going to enjoy correcting him again, every single time.And that's what it feels like. Warts and all, Allen can still find redeeming traits in even his most irritating characters, in spite of the human frailties and failings they have in common with Mr. and Ms. Everybody, still managing to bathe them in a warm, romanticized glow.But not Neil LaBute, uh uh, baby, no way, Jose. His characters are never likeable because of those same frailties and failings, and he refuses to make excuses for them; etching them in the harsh light of truth, showing their shallowness, their selfishness, their misogynistic, masochistic, egotistic, nihilistic leanings, their comings and goings filled with an abandon that is both hedonistic and joyless. No rose-colored romanticism here. And because they're a part of the upper-crusty elite in this case, you'd think that the fascination you find in their soul-killing anomie will allow you your wallow in bitter satisfaction at their plight.Which is exactly why you can't enjoy it. LaBute doesn't let you, slipping the scalpel of his sharp craftiness under your skin and peeling back the flesh, to reveal that the rotting decay underneath his characters' privileged flesh is no different from what lies under your own.  These truly are Your Friends and Neighbors, and you, the duplicitous audience, are theirs.  Welcome to the human race. "},{"Title":"As inaccessible as the characters portrayed","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Two couples & two singles cheat with & on one another in a marathon of infantile self-absorption. There is tons of oblique dialogue designed to demonstrate everyone's complete inability to communicate. The levels of narcissism may well be toxic to some viewers.  In fact, it's very difficult to even figure out the characters' names, because no one has the interpersonal skills to have a discussion about anyone but themselves. Sentences that could contain proper names dwindle off into elliptical silences & eventually you conclude that the names are pointless because they are all vacuous reproductions of a type being savaged by Labute. They might as well be numbered egomaniac 1, egomaniac 2, etc. Are these solipsistic nightmares so rare that a whole film explores the narrow pointlessness of their lives? Maybe where you live, but the ubiquity of this type makes this film an endurance test, as if Andy Warhol directed a very unspecial funny-only-in-spite-of-itself 100 minute Seinfeld episode with all deliberate estrangement.  Better to go with the reductio ad absurdum titled In the Company of Men.  "},{"Title":"My Good Points & Bad Points","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was strange. Strange not because of its story or acting, but because it has moments when it's absolutely great and moments when you have no idea what do the director wants.There are many things i liked about this movie. Examples? The name of the characters. Really inspired and funny. Some of the dialogues... you'll laugh out loud. Some scenes the ones envolving Nastassia Kinski, the scene at the art gallery that keeps repeating, the homosexual story of one guy. The soundtrack, featuring Metallica songs performed by Apocaliptica. Very good stuff.But there are also bad things. There are moments during the movie when you have no idea what does the movie want, what's its purpose. There are totally unappropriate scenes and some unexplainable things.But overall it's a good movie. The rating in here is perfect 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"OK...OK,it's funny.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before Kinski made this movie she had a comment in 'Parade'.It went something like this--'It's just a little Blue Blue movie' In reality every character in this movie is a basket case! Kinski does not like this movie. It's been the problem her entire career. She can't find a good Artist to work with!! That's the real story here. Someday Nastassja will find the right artist. And she will make the greatest political movie of our lifetime!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"With anonymous characters, we follow six successful people in two working relationships as they hop beds and destroy each other in the process.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A mini-masterpiece of the way modern socialites use sex to devour each other - out of either a need for power or a need to relieve themselves from boredom.  Brutal to watch at times, but both hilarious and socially trenchant.  Universally well acted, but the performances by Jason Patric - specifically sociopathic - and especially the great Catherine Keener are magnificent.  Well directed and insightful, if hard to decipher at key moments. "},{"Title":"If these were your friends...","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  what does that tell you about yourself. That is I think what this movie is trying to tell us. But this is not what it tells us at all.Two couples and two singles constantly talk about their relationships with the other sex and the same sex as well. This is all well and fine, but Labute just takes it a tad too far. The talking in this movie suffocates any plot from developing and subsequently smothers the entire movie.The acting is all above average. Keener is good as the girlfriend turning dyke overnight and Brenneman is fine as the wife who has a little affair with Keener's boyfriend. Jason Patric is just too obnoxious to watch and be convincing. Eckhart does not show a glimpse of the talent he displayed in the role he performed in Labute's former picture In The Company Of Men (1997). And Kinski is there just for show, she contributes just nearly nothing to the story. Then there is Stiller who, wearing an absolutely hideous goatee, is just pathetic in this role, I could not stand his whining about everything.This movie cannot stand in the shadow of the incredibly biting satire In The Company Of Men (ITCOM). It is never fair to compare a second movie with a debut, but I have to do it here. The talking in ITCOM was for a purpose, you had to have a stomach for it, but it was all for a cause gives these characters a way to express their maleness and feel like they amount to something. In YF&N the characters seem to be constantly talking about nothing, nothing, nothing and nothing.The production values were okay, nothing that really jumped off the screen at me. This is mediocre attempt by Labute to rehash his first feature. I would say better luck next time, but Nurse Betty wasn't that good either. It's incredible that people can be this much obsessed with sex at all.6/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting, and truly abysmal","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Solid acting, interesting writing, okay directing, great soundtrack, good lord a horrid movie. A movie where the people are truly awful, totally reprehensible, and you are supposed to be interested in them and care for them, if that's the one you want, then this is it. Awful people, all of them, disgusting, evil, backstabbing, weak, all kinds of poverty stricken adjectives. And I think the point is exactly that, because the most appealing character, the one who relishes his evil, his lack of virtue, is the Jason Patric character, and it is a delicious descent into evil. Patric does it very well--he's horrible, and the only redeeming thing in this movie. Burn it all out, and feel better, but don't ever think this is something that has anything to do with love. "}{"Title":"It's only life, there's nothing to it.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know this film cops a lot of flack from some IMDb reviewers, but I find it incredibly incisive and sadly reflective of contemporary middle-class mores. Sure, the characters are not sympathetic-but is that a prerequisite of cinematic resolution and enjoyment? Not for me, it isn't. Some people question the point of the film. This film questions the point of life and the way we live it! There are many of us who enter relationships long before we find out who we are and what our true sexuality is. In the process of self-discovery there can be a lot of painful moments and a lot a people can get hurt. There can also be the grinding years of emptiness and disappointment where sex is the only fall back, and when that fails&#133; Neil Labute offers no answers. His characters &#145;prattle' on to each other because they can't communicate and words are the only protection in their selfish lives. I don't want films to serve me up the bleedin' obvious just to make me feel good. At least Neil Labute gets you thinking, analyzing and deconstructing. It's refreshing also to see a film about adults, albeit self-centered yuppies, struggling to make something of their lives rather than the glut of teen pictures about high school kids making out in the back seats of cars. Although his other film In the Company of Men is excellent, it doesn't have the depth or scope of Your Friends and Neighbors. I rate it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SECOND FILM SYNDROME","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a patch on the brilliant In The Company Of Men. It believes itself to be cleverer than it is. Intelligent, unsatisfied middle-class New Yorkers have been better covered by the likes of Woody Allen. The saving grace is the Patric character. Confident nastiness personified. "},{"Title":"interesting, but unsatisfactory movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's an interesting subject, but the characters didn't ring true to me. I can believe the incidents related in the movie, but I can't quite accept the totality of it -- it just seemed force. For example, the Jason Patric character was just too much of an b*****d; I've never known anyone like that who didn't, at least occasionally, break down and complain about how no one liked them. Maybe the character was just supposed to be a sociopath, but the movie seems to hold him up as an avatar rather than a deviant. The ending is also a little bit too neat.The dialogue is clever and I believe that the actors did just what the director wanted, so it's just the sort of thing you'll like if you like this sort of thing. I found more truth in the movie Office Space (having experienced, from a distance, the life of a defense contractor, I can say that there really are jobs and people in them like those in the movie -- although I never saw anyone quite as pretty as Aniston at the local beaneries). "},{"Title":"Slightly disappointing","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a four out of ten, but I really wanted to rate it higher. Amy Brenneman was great in this movie as the deepest character in the movie. I expected a more light-hearted movie.  Maybe that's why I didn't like it, but it just seemed a bit too vulgar.  Maybe if the characters hadn't been so very consumed by sex, and it had just been something that would just keep creeping into conversation instead of being the only subject of conversation, it would have been better.With this minor change, the movie could have been bumped up several notches in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Not as clever as it would like to be","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I watched this film, I noticed the distinct acidity inmy mouth, which I'm sure the director of Your Friends and Neighbors was looking for.  However, I found myself feeling irritated by the clever devices used in the film.  For example, using the artist's assistant scene over and over to tell us a little about each person's character, is a trite and cute trick, employed many times before in films- and better.  Worse yet, the scenes didn't show me anything new about the characters that I > didn't already know.  Worse yet, the Jason Patric character, while well- acted, was a far too obvious one.I already knew what his problem was long before the pseudo-confessional sauna scene.  I mean, what a surprise.  In fact, I was stunned to hear LINES I'd heard and read years ago, in this scene.  This was obviously the big set-piece, the Oscar-baiting scene every actor dreams about, but I was waiting to hear him say something original.  If this was supposed to be insightful, then give me a break.  The characters I didn't understand, were Amy Brenneman and her big, lunky husband.  Since (gasp) Insight 101 was the prevailing theme of this film, what was the deal with this pair?  Eternal boredom, or not enough work-outs at the gym?  Were the pregnant pauses' at the dinner table supposed to remind me of a Bergman film?  These silences held only dead air- not meaning. It didn't take long before I didn't care.  While I'm sure that the director/writer wanted us to know that these outwardly sharp and clever people were dysfunctional in their relationships (surprise)- I wanted something new.And might I mention- La Ronde has already been made, and so very much better.  "},{"Title":"Revolting and Refreshing","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Your Friends and Neighbors has a stellar cast with some biting, caustic dialogue that brings the devil out of you if you ever had a relationship that ended badly.  The manipulative nature of this movie has its great bites of dialogue and scenes especially with Jason Patric's character, Cary.  His dipole, Mary, played by Brenneman, seemed like his opposite in ever sense of the way.  The other characters were fascinating in their own respects, but the entire plot was underdeveloped with many loose ends left untied. LaBute's second effort fails to match his first (In the Company of Men, 5) and there are other movies that investigate relationships on a more optimistic level (Lovelife, 5). The orchestral Metallica score was the only artistically redeeming part of the movie in my opinion.4/10 "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very impressed by LaBute's debut In the Company of Men, and I was expecting great things from this film, especially after the critical praise bestowed on it.  Maybe it's just my personality, but I failed to sympathize with any of the characters in the movie.  This made it impossible for me to enjoy the film, and I felt agonized by the actions and repetitive dialogue of the characters.  This was especially true for the despicable character played by Jason Patric- the kind of person you hope you never encounter in life (the sauna confession sums it all up).  Some of the scenes in the movie worked well and ensemble casts this talented are rare these days.  Despite a fine concept and some great acting, this movie is best left on the rental shelf.  These are not the kinds of people I ever want as my friends or neighbors.   "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hated it it was long, boring and the plot sucked! The only good part was when they were all looking at the painting. Other then that you should not see this movie. It is almost as bad as The Opposite of sex but just a little better because of that painting part. "},{"Title":"TOTAL waste of time","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this film knowing nothing about it.  I was hoping with names like Ben Stiller and Jason Patric, the movie would be good.  I was GREATLY disappointed.  The plot... well there is none.  Despite the amusing repeated lines at the art gallery, the rest of the film is so unbelievably bad, it hurts.  I totally lost interest and wondered why I wasted money on it. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie written . . . and then made?","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seems that these last couple of years (particularly since Pulp Fiction), directors and critics seemed to think that any movie that involved the artsy/independent effect, as well as sex, adultery (as comedy), some black comedy, swearing, etc. would make a film to be grade A.  If anything, that would be the only excuse for the survival and some praise for this movie.  Sure this movie had some laughs, I especially enjoyed Jason Patrick's character; but if you really come down to it, it wasn't worth making.  America would have done fine without it.  I'd suggest to LaBute to read more of Joseph Campbell and put some of his tactics in his writing; because as it is, the movie really doesn't have a valid reason to exist.  "}{"Title":"Good concept, but it never should have left the brain of its creator","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to waste much space to comment on this movie.  It was terrible.  To be fair, there were some good ideas and some good scenes, but it was downright impossible to associate with the characters.  Who wants to see a movie about a bunch of pathetic creatures with no redeeming qualities? If you are into those kind of movies, then you must be from France. "},{"Title":"Not up to Neil LaBute's 'Men'","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neil LaBute's first brilliant In The Company of Men had everything going for it...fabulous acting, mis-en-scene and editing as well as a completely absorbing (though cruel) plot. Your Friends and Neighbors, though of interest, was a big let down about wife swapping and men's locker room banter.  Hope the director isn't a one-liner...his next will probably tell. "},{"Title":"Let's get down to brass tacks, gentlemen","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Roger Ebert explains Second Novel Syndrome in his review of Mo' Better Blues.  When an artist, novelist, or filmmaker makes a big splash with a big debut and gets a lot of critical attention, the pressure to perform a second time often ruins that second time.  Spike Lee made history with Do the Right Thing in '89, and slumped in '90 with ...Blues (he's still a top director, but never mind).This is also the case here.  In the Company of Men, a few drawbacks aside, was an engrossing, insightful little morality tale, with first rate performances and a steady directing hand from Neil LaBute.  Both Siskel and Ebert pretended not to notice the blatant larceny from David Mamet in just about every spoken line, and the film ended up on their '97 top ten list. Many more critical accolades were given to the film, and LaBute was an art-household name.Come 1998, he gathers a few matinee idols like Ben Stiller, Natassja Kinski, and Jason Patric, keeps his pet leading man Aaron Eckhart, gets a bigger budget and (egad!) a music soundtrack.  A great recipe, but the cake didn't turn out too well.Kevin Smith's characters, God love 'em, are so much more articulate than real-life people.  LaBute's actors are much less articulate than real-life people.  Smith's way is better (or just done better)--you're grateful for the chance to see a master banter-ist at work and for actors who know what they're doing.  LaBute's people are certainly in top form, but they can't do anything if they're not allowed to.  Watching Stiller groping with speechlessness (I just, can I, I just, can I, uh, uh, uh...) isn't my idea of a good time, and if we're sacrificing honesty, we might as well have that good time.The other thing that irked me was his (repeated) thievery from the David Mamet encyclopedia.  LaBute uses Mamet's table scraps and passes it off as his own masterful turns-of-phrase.  Sorry, Neil, once is homage, twice is co-dependency--just ask Brian DePalma.Maybe LaBute was corralling together his best lines for Jason Patric, who takes to his character very nicely.  He's the only one who seems to be receiving the correct signals from the director, and as a result, he give the film its only complete performance.  He's a crass brute, yes, but a self-assured one, and doesn't mince words (the scene in the book store with Catherine Keener is a gem, as is his much heralded sauna story of his high school experience). "},{"Title":"A REVIEW THAT MINIMALLY MAYBE HUMOROUSLY FITS IMDb's STANDARDS","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will leave plot summary for others.. Your Friends & Neighbors is simply the best movie of the decade the 80s decade's best was the Dead Zone just to confirm my BAD TASTE in films, I guess ...anyway, a great, enjoyable film despite the occasions when I felt the film was artificial or stagy or a mouthpiece simply hammering home some of the same points ad nauseum. Even when overblown, the film was always more than saved by great wit & depth & mesmerizing acting. Neil Labute, the director & writer (I believe),I praise you (after all, you are a Mormon) you can keep turning out the same morality play/film as long as you keep up the great wit and the camera movement to the left which is very symbolic but I can't say why without spoiling the whole film.  Please forgive my weird, choppy, sloppy film review it's just my style and even has GREAT SIGNIFICANCE if you'll just go out and see rent this great film.         "},{"Title":"Ho-hum, more sex talk","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The men in this film seem to spend all their time discussing their sex lives with each other (don't they even discuss that old man-talk specialty, sports, or even wonder if it's going to rain?).  The women discuss this, and their relationships part-time, when they aren't being turned off by the men (I must say I can't blame them).  The personages are just what you would expect in a with-it film about sex and love in the 90s, and as predictable as the Harlequins and Columbines of the Commoedia dell'Arte; the husband cheating on his wife, the wife cheating on her husband, the woman who discovers she's a lesbian, the jock who discovers he's impotent, etc. etc. etc.The dialog is flat and repetitious, sort of Pinter without the talent.  It takes no mean talent to make sex dull and tedious, but the creators of this dreadful little opus have done just that.For a realistic and witty slice of life, you're probably better off with the Marx Brothers. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe my expectations were too high, after seeing the brilliant In the Company of Men.  In any event, I was very disappointed with this movie (after the wonderful, jarring opening theme music, anyway).  Here's my synopsiszzzzzzz...SHOCK VALUE!!....zzzzz...Snore.....SHOCK VALUE!It was really a very boring movie, albeit peppered with shocking dialogue. The whole movie seems to be about the difficulty in communicating with people around you, but the movie also had these same communication difficulties.I'll probably see Labute's next effort, because he's at least trying to put out something different, but I didn't care for this one.  "},{"Title":"One of the most honest underrated films of the year","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have not seen this ultra hip flick by one of the most brilliant Directors today, Neil La Bute you're missing out! I found it to be a film of great wit, honesty, humor and clearly depicts the bittersweet reality of relationships. Every set on this film is unique and plays a sublime role in depicting the intricacies of each character. A true harmony between art and acting in a setting that is without time or place. It's like seeing a car accident, you don't want to look but feel compelled to and you never forget it.   "},{"Title":"My choice as best movie of 1998.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Neil LaBute improves upon his debut by essentially making a Robert Altman film for the 90's (something Altman has been unable to do)..  Jason Patric is astonishing as a cynical gynecologist, and his shower confessional is one of the most memorable scenes I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Because we'd all had all we were going to take from little Timmy...","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How this movie got so little attention when it came out still stuns me... This was the best movie of that year, and Jason Patric was robbed of an Oscar nomination.Fantastic cast, Patrick, Eckhart and Stiller are fantastic and Catherine Keener is one of the best actresses working.  "},{"Title":"Dull and depressing","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Aside from Catherine Keener, who is always fascinating, I thought this movie was a re-tread of a million others dealing with the same themes.  Jason Patric needs an acting lesson or 100; ditto Brenneman.   "}{"Title":"A forgettable relationship comedy/drama.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Solid, but not more that. Brenneman's and Keener's characters are totally unsympathetic, especially the former's, which is right-out repulsive. Not boring, but I've seen plenty of this type of pseudo-indie relationshit (half-)comedies, and a lot of them are much better than this one. A good cast, but the ending is hollow, and the only bite the film has is its often over-the-top sexual crudeness. Also, a bit predictable; I knew that Kinski & Keener would get involved in a lesbian affair, and I had sensed that Patric would have a homosexual streak in him. How very politically correct to cover both sides of the homosexual fence&#133; "}]