[{"Title":"The Revival of trash! Sweet &#145;n pure TRASH!!","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What Gregg Araki presents to us here is nothing but good old-fashioned trash! Giving us a taste of the glorious Russ Meyer reign during the sixties and seventies, which is a terribly ignored field of cult-cinema. Simply put, this film is extremely COOL to look at! The title is very appropriate because this film indeed leads to nowhere and it's Gregg Araki's view on the subject of teen-alienation. Without even trying, he beats that other overrated director Larry Clark who takes himself way too serious anyway. Nowhere constantly introduces kinky and eccentric characters, each and every one of them suffering from modern diseases and problems like drugs, eating disorders, nymphomania, hallucinations, aggression and even suicide! Araki even touches the more daily problems like popularity and faithfulness. The pivot in this hysterical bunch is Dark, an utterly confused, bisexual young man who's convinced that he's going to die soon. Dark is played by James Duval, an over-talented young actor and building up a solid cult-reputation through starring in other goodies like &#145;Donnie Darko' and &#145;May'. Duval also was the key figure in the previous entries of Araki's apocalyptic trilogy, carrying the very imaginative titles `Totally F***ed Up' and `The Doom Generation'. Both films that come with my highest possible recommendation as well, but I'm strongly convinced that Nowhere is Araki's best and most personal achievement.  It just is a magnificent series of hilariously messed up conversations and actions, leading towards a truly insane anti-climax. I can easily imagine that mainstream film-audiences will absolutely loath this film, but I'm a giant fan&#133;and Araki can be sure of the fact that his film already built up a cult-following by now. It's truly remarkable how Gregg Araki managed to work with such an overly well-known and talented cast. Practically every little role in Nowhere is credited with a famous name of the young and upcoming Hollywood generation. In the tiniest, most meaningless figures, you'll recognize faces like Heather Graham, Shannen Doherthy, Stacy Keanen, Scott Caan, Ryan Phillipe, Jordan Ladd, Mena Suvari and many, many more&#133; The absolute highlights however, are the cameos by multiple veterans like Beverly D'Angelo as Dark's slutty mother and especially John Ritter as a religion guru on TV. You hear it, there's so much to discover in this film&#133;I can't praise it enough! "},{"Title":"you guys missed the point.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  reading the reviews already posted for this movie... I am saddened that so many people missed the point.  it is about nothing and it is nowhere... as is just about everything that is popular now-a-days.  this movie is about the absolute emptiness of pop culture and the absolute emptiness of most people's minds.  I think most of you that didn't like this movie.. are either those being made fun of... or are so far out of anything doing with popular culture for you to get the joke.  secondly - this is a drug movie.  i'm betting the average rating by people who've done acid is about 8.0 and the average for the others is about 3.0 --- check out the symbolism --- check out the colors --- check out the sound.  this culture is absolutely devoid of meaning - and that's all - and that's all. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"35 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This, along with The Doom Generation, is one of my many favorite films. I remember showing this to quite a few people at different times, and two things seem to upset people the most the bisexuality/homoeroticism and the loads of sex scenes that, depending on the scene, serve various purposes. One person I watched it with (she thought she was an intellectual and felt it was beneath her to sit through it) said there was no way this film could be saying anything important and called it a porno movie. Naturally, since this film shows not one exposed genital organ or even a bare female breast, her argument was ridiculous. As for the homosexual things that go on in the film, I think that that makes people upset because it depicts these characters as human beings with emotions (which homosexuals and bisexuals are) and/or because it turns them on. I love this movie for many reasons. It's very schizophrenic, always going back and forth from harsh realities to gutbusting humor, and sometimes managing to blend them together in a strange and equal mix. It seems that Gregg Araki was trying to defy expectations of him here, and that he was trying not to make a film easily judged as exploitation. This movie has more sex scenes than The Doom Generation, but they are not explicit at all. The reasons these scenes are erotic and entertaining is because Araki works with the characters and dialogue to make the sex interesting without showing any nudity other than the occasional male butt. Also, where there would be so many people to call The Doom Generation garbage for its constant use of obvious profanities, the dialogue in Nowhere, if you'll notice, was done without hardly any cusswords, unless you count the myriad of VERY creative slang terms poured all throughout. And as for the gore, there's one big scene and one brief, minor scene. What I find amazing is that even with these differences, Nowhere is no less fascinating and brutally effective than The Doom Generation. I love them both, and, no matter how many disagree, I believe Araki is a very important, skillful, and versatile cinematic artist. I've decided to include no spoilers, but I do want to add one more thing If you don't see any meaning to this, that still doesn't mean that it is completely meaningless and without a point.   "},{"Title":"An artistically exquisite comment on the lives of 90's kids...","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere is the type of film that you either get and love, or don't get and hate.  Aside from it's brilliantly artistic cinematography and art direction, it's a pretty accurate representation of life as a modern-day adolescent.  As strange as this comment may seem, it does hold true.  The events presented are, in fact, realities of the lives of today's young people sex, drug use, suicide, and mental illness are all dealt with in some way or another.  For some, it is truly like being on acid.  For those of us that have blocked out the traumatic parts of growing up, then it is understandable why you don't understand this movie.  The way each issue is presented is the genius of the art  Each character and their emotional impact is presented artistically as well as dramatically.  Although the entire movie is not relevant to everyone, I would strongly suggest watching it for at least the artistic merit.  Even if you don't understand it or it doesn't apply to you, understand that it is relevant to some. "},{"Title":"There's Something About...Nowhere","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gregg Araki can be faulted for not inviting the main stream audience into his vision of the world. But this probably isn't really a goal of his, anyway. As I watched Nowhere in the theater (twice in one week) I was filled with awe that something I had always felt had been so colorfully put on celluloid finding love is all that matters, but the world isn't designed to make that finding easy. So when Dark finds an amazingly true moment amongst the usual Araki violence, hilarity, sex and clutter (a moment to simply relax and hold the person in the bed next to him) it rings true to the heart of experience. The movie ends in the next moment with an equally true touch. So, the sooner we find love, the sooner it can find its own reason to leave us. Araki's best film. If you don't get it, then he probably doesn't want you to. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I caught this film on IFC on some late night where I couldn't sleep. This film is a trip and a half. The colors are bold and the film is really about teenagers figuring out their place in life. The dialog is absolutely hilarious. I, myself, am a teenager and the stereotypical script really seemed to fit. Every character in this film, in my opinion, is just part of a high school stereotype that you get placed into during that age. Whether it be the awkward girl who wants to fit in, sex rampaging freaks or just some young 16 year olds trying to find a hoppin party. I wish I could find this movie on DVD. Really generation defining in my opinion. Try to not listen to the people who bash this movie saying it's trash and all of that. Well ... it is trash but the movie knows it's trashy and low-brow; so I guess it can pull it off. I'm actually surprised I haven't heard of it until now. Find it and watch it. "},{"Title":"life is but a dream","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like an ancient poem the ideas, meaning and even aspects of the plot are left up to interpretation. This is a movie for anyone who has ever been so bored with his or current situation that he or she can just lay back and dream up a world of love, death,sex, drugs and aliens abductions and the end of the all life as we know it. Each character is kind one sided as we see the world through the eyes of Dark, the aptly named lead; these are not representations of all teens but only the annoying stereotypes as they relate to Dark's life. so taking all that in to account this is a great movie to share with friends (and confuse the heck out of them) or to watch when you're feeling a little bored yourself. With sets painted wild colors and out of place visuals it's clear that for Dark-life is but a dream. "},{"Title":"A weirdly cool experience.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nowhere is weirdly surrealistic and weirdly cool. I also enjoyed all the young, now-famous, actors in this film. This is all I really wanted to say about the film, however, since I need more lines, I'll just say certain aspects of the movie are alternately funny, sad, strange and still relevant today. It's hard to 'date' this movie. I'm betting twenty or thirty years from now, it will still seem up-to-date and probably still relevant. James Duval is always good and Rachel True is just beautiful. She's also a very powerful actress, turning in an excellent performance here. The whole weird, detached, alienated tone of the film made it entirely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Teenage alienation 'n' stuff...","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" NOWHERE Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Ultra-StereoDuring the course of a single day in LA, a group of teens have sex, get high, find love, experience disappointment, live, die, and get zapped by reptilian aliens from another dimension. Or something...Opening with a memorable shot of bisexual teen James Duval languishing naked beneath a shower, and ending on an image of TOTAL teenage alienation, NOWHERE concludes Gregg Araki's 'Teen Apocalypse' trilogy - see also TOTALLY F***ED UP (1993) and THE DOOM GENERATION (1995) - a venomous dissection of teenage angst and attitudes. As before, NOWHERE combines parody and surrealism in a freewheeling manner, exposing its beautiful-but-vacant teens as slaves to hormones and commercialism, rendering them impotent in the face of harsh reality. Symbolism runs rampant, and Araki washes the screen in a riot of candy colors, submerging the viewer in the same waking dreamworld inhabited by the film's somnambulistic inhabitants. The late John Ritter plays a smarmy TV evangelist whose broadcasts have an alarming effect on some of the teens, while ex-Baywatch star Jaason Simmons plays a former TV idol whose 'nice guy' exterior masks a snake from the pit of hell...Typical of Araki's output to date, the movie aligns its gorgeous young cast alongside a range of celebrity cameos, including Beverly D'Angelo (as Duval's bitchy mother), Charlotte Rae (a fortune teller), Traci Lords, Shannon Doherty and Rose McGowan (as three Valley-girls who get zapped by the aforementioned alien!), and Lauren Tewes as a terminally cheery TV news reporter. Ryan Phillippe and Heather Graham are a couple of wild-eyed teens who live for sex and speed, while Guillermo Díaz and former pop singer Jeremy Jordan play star-crossed lovers torn apart by drugs and suicide, and Botticellian beauty Nathan Bexton (SANTA MONICA BOULEVARD) becomes an object of desire for Duval and several other cuties. Look fast for beefcake studs John Enos III, 'Playgirl' centerfold Brian Buzzini, and the Brewer twins (shirtless, natch). For all its eye-candy, however, NOWHERE has been criticized in some quarters for signalling a curtailment of the gay content in Araki's movies (there's plenty of hetero sexual activity, but the gay characters barely even touch each other), and there's a bizarre moment when Duval finds true love in the arms of someone who turns out to be... well, something REALLY unpleasant (I'll say no more). Adventurous viewers will get their money's worth, but it feels like a compromised effort, powered by the expectations of a multiplex audience.The movie is pointless and juvenile and silly and sexy, but it's clearly the work of someone both fascinated and repelled by the subject matter (Devon Odessa and Stacy Keenan appear briefly as a couple of airheads named 'What' and 'Ever'!). Araki followed it with SPLENDOR (1999), a frothy Hollywood-style comedy in which Kathleen Robertson enjoys a three-way relationship with the astonishingly beautiful Johnathan Schaech and Matt Keeslar, though gay viewers drawn to Araki's movies by the uncompromising attitudes of his earlier achievements (cf. THE LIVING END) are hoping for a return to Absolute Queer Anarchy with his upcoming adaptation of Scott Heim's ultra-serious novel MYSTERIOUS SKIN (2004). "},{"Title":"That's Cool, That's Trash.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, I love trash! Serve me up Russ Meyer, Roger Corman, Ed Wood, Psych-Out, Rock'n'Roll High School or Angel, Angel, Down We Go and I'm a happy camper. But it's not so easy to make successful SELF CONSCIOUS trash. Troma try it and rarely succeed. The Chiodo brothers pulled it off with Killer Klowns from Outer Space, but Gregg Araki not only succeeds with Nowhere but takes it to the next level. Nowhere is the 90s Beyond The Valley Of The Dolls and then some. I can't even begin to tell you how cool this movie is! Look at the sensational cast which includes the debut of Mena Suvari, a couple of Bradys and best of all the wonderful find of Sarah Lassez. Add a spot on soundtrack of Sonic Youth, Elastica, JAMC, Portishead and Stacey Q(!) Plus Gibby from the Butthole Surfers, John Ritter playing a televangelist, an alien with a zap gun and Throbbing Gristle jokes! What more can you wish for?The future is NOW, and Nowhere is THE place to be. "}{"Title":"Nice freak show, but eh.","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Think of it as Earth Girls are Easy meets Eraserhead.Don't believe the people who have written that this film is about typical adolescent experiences. It represents a certain SEGMENT of kids, but they are by no means typical of ALL kids.And frankly, it's dated already. Anyhow, there's something hypnotic about watching shallow, self-absorbed, assholic kind of people taking drugs, having sex and having interesting hallucinations, but don't expect a point or a plot. Except maybe that the point is there IS no point, which is boring, because it's been done so many times.And I would love to know why the hell Dark is the only one who sees the Alien. Or why he sees the Alien at all.Or maybe that's too much to ask for in this gleefully debauched little flick. Maybe worth watching just for the whole stupidity of it all, but for God's sake, don't rent. Not worth the $4.50 "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those few films that builds up a wall of atmosphere around you and doesn't break it down until the movie's over.  The lighting for Nowhere should have won a damned Oscar, and the performances are just how they should be so by-the-numbers that they create the plastic, artificial/superficial feel director Gregg Araki was obviously striving for.  This one is so cartoonish you'd think Ralph Bakshi made it at times, never letting anyone truly act, simply saying their lines with smarm and bravado. This flick also represents the uncertainty that exists when teenagers go out at night.  It seems that everyone is being pulled in by the magnet of a party, but the roads which may or may not lead them there are the fun in watching.  Araki effectively builds up a strong cast of aquaintances, making you want to see such characters as Dingbat and Dark in everyday, artificial, bubblegum high school class.  The bizarre alien subplot is a daring direction to go in, but it is forgiven when as the credits roll, all you can think about is the seemingly endless haze of moody aura that entranced you for eighty two fascinating minutes. "},{"Title":"Trippy, yet very good","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As was said above, this is basically 90210 on Acid. From the very beginning one can tell that this film is going to be a major head trip, and would likely be best watched while high on some manner of substance. Still...I'm no stoner, but was able to watch and enjoy it without difficulty. The movie chronicles a typical day of the average 90s teenager, but with perspectives from all orientations and view points lesbians, gays, bisexuals, stoners, drunks, the whole nine yards. The acting was excellent, and the plot, though difficult to see at points, was quite good. The thing that threw me was the addition of the alien that apparently only Dark can see. It seemed to simultaneously interrupt and fit the story line. Conclusion this is easily one of my favorite indie films, and I hope I can find time to see it again. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies with an all-star cast.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The trailer to this movie looked like it offered something new, but it was awful. WARNING!!!!!!!!!!! SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!!!!!! You feel a bit different about Heather Grahm after seeing this movie, since 9/10 of her screen time she is having sex with Ryan Phillipe. Gregg Araki seems to do whatever it takes to prove how original his movie is, but it just ends up being stupid. One guy explodes, and when the blood settles, a giant beetle is in his place.(The beetle even talks)A guys nipple rings are torn off. James Duval is the main character, Dark (As in absence of light he points out) and he is a terrible actor. Rachael True is his girlfriend, and she talks like shes trying to create a new accent or something, and that's irratating. The good parts of this movie( there are very few) are Mena Suvari(her debut movie, she wasn't that great but I'm a fan) Chistina Applegate with braces, a spanking scene, and John Ritter as a preist who sends kids messages of suicide. This movie was awful.  "},{"Title":"Terrifically Suicidal","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" How ironic. I've never given out a legitimate indication of a perfect score before now. Before today. So it definitely goes without saying that I enjoyed watching this movie. It was emotionally powerful, empty, and so...stale...It's literally nothing, but a nightmare -- an infinite melancholy of terror and confused poetry. It's contagiously devoid of the spires of purpose and self-fulfillment...dead before you can squint... It's a terrifically suicidal film that will keep you suspended in the midst of curiosity and perplexity. An absolute masterpiece.Nowhere literally goes nowhere. You're not a true critic, if you can't recognize its genius. "},{"Title":"Talk about a movie that makes you say wow.","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked this film, pretty much because of how out there it is. Gregg Araki created a trippy tale of teen angst that is so over-dramatized that it actually makes you feel drunk while you're watching it. The aliens were a nice addition, but certainly a very random one. I probably haven't seen this much drug content involving teens since I saw the film Kids. Trust me, Nowhere is a movie worth watching. Expect to be feel weird after you have viewed Nowhere, because you most likely will feel very strange-- talk about Beverly Hills 90210 on acid. The whole atmosphere of the film is reminiscent of such dystopian society displayed in movies such as A Clockwork Orange, but I'm sure it probably wasn't intended to be that way. Nowhere has it all, including its share of sexual tensions between all of the characters, as well as random outbursts of insanity (at one point involving a character being brutally killed with a can of Campbell's tomato soup). Nowhere just might frighten you at the most unexpected time, and even if you aren't frightened or disturbed, you'll still be thinking WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?. Beneath all of its extreme oddities, the movie is pretty much a coming-of-age film that depicts the liberal youth's urge to party like an animal on a Friday night. This, of course, is no regular Friday night, for the party of the year is supposed to take place. Some party it was, for it was near-literally the end of the world for some characters. You've got to love the touches of strange science fiction to Nowhere, and of course I am referring to the trippy (and corny in a cool way) alien abductions. Also, here's a word for you that relates to the movie bisexuality. Yes, bisexual tensions, and just enough of them for you not to say I can't take this anymore. Despite relationship dramas throughout the movie,Nowhere stays away from too many romance factors to stay true to its rather avant-garde-esquire nature, which I found very pleasing. As far-fetched and messed-up the movie sounds, Nowhere is an entertaining movie experience. Before you watch any other Gregg Araki movies (such as the amazing Mysterious Skin), watch Nowhere because it relates to his other films and really gives you a good idea of his film-making style. Watch Nowhere, chances are you'll think it was worth the time. "},{"Title":"Wholesome Family Entertainment Part 8 The Doom Generation","Date":"9 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" What the hell is this? Beverly D'Angelo? John Ritter? Guillermo from Weeds? What, are you people lost? This is Exploitation Country. Nowhere may or may not be one of those modern-day indy films, but anyone who's seen Gregg Araki's previous film, The Doom Generation, knows that this guy caters to the B-movie crowd. It may be the 90's, but Gregg Araki keeps the Drive-in alive with his Generation-X-ploitation.We follow the gloomy shenanigans of a whiny fellow named Dark (James Duval). Dark is depressed because Beverly D'Angelo wants him to get out of the shower. Dark is depressed because his ex-girlfriend only wants to have sex with him (no-strings-attatched), although, she has a new girlfriend named Lucifer. Dark is depressed because he has has a crush on some kid named Montgomery. Dark is depressed because his friends think playing hide & seek on Ecstacy is a good idea. Dark is depressed because he's always IT. Dark is depressed because he thinks he's dying and/or the world is going to end. And I would imagine Dark is depressed because he thinks no one understands him. Oh yeah, plus there's an Alien about, and Dark is also a little down about that, you know how it is.Party at Juji Fruit's tonight!!!Nowhere is a mean-spirited, yet trippy look into the lives of confused, drug-addicted over-sexed L.A. teenagers. We follow Dark, his ex, Mel, Lucifer, Montgomery, Jordan Ladd, Ryan Phillipe, Kelly from Married With Chldren, some dude from Bay Watch, and a bulimic named Egg, as they anticipate tonight's big shin-dig. Why everyone cares so much about this party, I'll never know, the whole movie is sex, drugs, and rock n' roll from reel to reel. With all the fun to be had, there's still a strong apocalyptic feel in the air, like something bad is going to happen, which Dark finds depressing. It seems like everywhere you turn, there's either someone who is famous, someone who used to be famous, or someone who will be famous, it's just weird. For a movie like this, it's just all the more surreal. I mean really, the middle kids from The Brady Bunch, and Mrs. Garrett from Facts Of Life is certainly the last thing I expect in my B-cinema, or at least pretty close.Despite the A-stars, this is a real trash-fest. A raunchy, dismal B-Dramedy that would no doubt make John Waters proud. Oh yeah, and Rose Mcgowan drops by for a visit, which is always fun. Certainly a more colorful movie than The Doom Generation, not to mention more daytime scenes, but Nowhere is just as Dark, some might say darker. These movies introduced a new generation to the world of low-budget exploitation films, and I wish there was more of them. For anyone who has seen both Nowhere and The Doom Generation, you may have noticed that it would be a much better fit if the titles were switched, or is that just me? 8/10 "},{"Title":"you have to look deeper into the movie","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Nowhere' is definitely among my favorite movies of all time with the likes of '2001 A Space Odyssey', 'Eraserhead', Pierrot le Fou' and others. It's sad to see that many people have misunderstood it, but then again, it's certainly not meant for everyone. People think it's thrash, just a fun flick like 'The Evil Dead' or the Troma movies. This is actually ART made to look like thrash, because it brings the audience closer to the characters. In my opinion the movie is totally impressive, both both visually and thematically. I love the dark and apocalyptic feel to it, this definitely looks like the generation that's gonna witness the end of everything. Araki is a MASTER and 'Nowhere' is his MASTERPIECE. "},{"Title":"I'm 70 years old and think this film is an unrecognized masterpiece","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm 70 years old and think this film is an unrecognized masterpiece. For full disclosure, I am Gay so that may account for part of my admiration. In any event, it's a tantalizing, very sensual film. Not for all tastes of course and it would frighten some immature minds and presents some possibly-dangerous ideas in the wrong hands. But so did Gone with The Wind for that matter. I had to watch it twice to try and understand some aspects that most will not get. Perhaps having dropped acid back in the day did help my getting at least some of the film's possible meanings. One might be tempted to draw some comparisons to Penelope Spheeris' The Decline of Western Civilization which is an American documentary film filmed through 1979 and 1980&#x85; about the Los Angeles punk rock scene. "},{"Title":"A bizarre masterpiece! Bravo!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third and final chapter in Araki's Teen Apoloclyspe Trilogy consists of sexual discovery, graphic violence through religion and alien abduction. The style is truly innovative and moving with an ending so bizarre it lives up to the tag-line 90210 on acid. Some people may say that it has no plot yet I disagree. The film consists of a day in life of teenagers facing everyday problems yet with a quirky depiction. I highly recommend this film, but be warned it is filled with plots and structures that people may find either downright weird or disturbing. Gregg Araki brings us yet another fairy tale of doom in this epic. "}{"Title":"A kid's Magnolia that REALLY doesn't make sense","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is the reason I was hesitant at all about seeing Magnolia.  From the gossip I heard of Magnolia, I thought they could have been describing this movie.  This is about the lives of LA kids that are confused in every possible way about violence, sex, love...  There lives are going nowhere. I would have enjoyed the film on some level, only something happened.  Some apocalyptic force came and did something I won't disclose.  However, it didn't work or make sense.  It didn't fit with any theme, except for anarchic pessimism.  I like it when film-makers take chances that work, but this one falls flat on its face.  To anyone that didn't understand Magnolia, see this movie and then rewatch Magnolia.  I guarantee PTA's movie will make perfect sense.  Nowhere Rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"An entertaining, but not always effective Generation X-satire!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just saw this movie and my first thoughts were Better than Kids, but not as great as Trainspotting..!. Gregg Araki´s film appears like an MTV-documentary (or an episode of The Real Life) about an MTV-generation, whose imagination of life exists of sex, drugs, party and Playstation - a lifestyle which is fast and exciting, but after all also very surface and empty! Shot in the style of video clip the film makes a satire from the daily life of some Generation X-kiddies, which is often too loud and too exaggerated to be really effective! However, it´s like a small wonder not to be entertained by this movie! Even actors that I normally used to dislike, in the first line Ryan Phillipe or Denise Richards, don´t make bad impressions! And the rest of the supporting cast is really de luxe Christina Applegate, Heather Graham, Beverly D´Angelo, Traci Lords, Shannen Doherty, Rose McGowan and especially John Ritter as television preacher refine this strange but quite enjoyable shot! I´d give 7 out of 10 for a funny bubble gum-satire, that nobody should take too serious..! "},{"Title":"I think I may be less intelligent because I watched this film...","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WOW, first off this movie is nothing but a big excuse for alot of sex and second, this movie is nothing but a big excuse for alot of sex!!! I watched this flick because it had so many great actors I thought  THIS HAS TO BE COOL...NOT. After many a twisted sex scene and some down right horrible acting, I began to get the sinking feeling that this movie really was going NOWHERE. Its totally unrealistic which can be fun if there is a plot and some decent dialog...this film has neither. We as a generation might be a tad confused about life but not this confused . I honestly felt like I was watching some late night skinamax softcore, what a waste of time! "},{"Title":"oh my!  the Worst!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In a word... terrible terrible terrible!  This thing looks like it's shot on videotape and edited like the filmmaker was trying to cover up his mistakes or something.  I don't know what else to say.  It sucks.  I almost feel like you need to see this just to prove my point.  Also, it's like the director just tried to put Every famous young person in the movie he could find. Except even the actors don't seem to believe what they're saying (and they're supposed to be the age to relate to this.). "},{"Title":"mtv meets requiem for a dream","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie was terrible but in a way that allowed me to see it through to the end. think ed wood. i swear the whole flick was an out of control eye candy piece with little or no substance. the characters were a mess and i really couldn't care less what happened to them, their minds were already deteriorated to the point of no return. pseudo-symbolism at its worst. "},{"Title":"Somewhere","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Life is not easy for an angst-ridden bi-curious teenager and his fellow high school students in this uncanny early career film from 'Mysterious Skin' director Gregg Araki. The film opens with a striking scene in which the teen pleasures himself in the shower while conflicting thoughts of beautiful women and a boy who he fancies flicker on screen, signifying from early on his sexual confusion. 'Nowhere' is not, however, just a tale of a young man realising his latent homosexuality. Rather, it is about how he perceives his whole universe collapsing as a result of this realisation. As the film progresses, increasingly weird things start happening. There are UFO sightings, encounters with alien beings and one character gets abducted... but does this really happen or is the apocalypse merely in his mind? While often baffling, the sci-fi angle provides an unexpected edge, and frustrating as the weirdness may well be, there is never a boring with the idea of aliens just around the corner. What the film does not do so well is juggle all of its many subplots. James Duval is engaging as the protagonist, but no other character is fleshed out in much depth, and only one subplot (a date rape victim coming to worship a televangelist) really stands out. The film is riveting though whenever Duval is on screen. He brings a simultaneous confidence and vulnerability to his character, acting all cool but deeply worried just beneath. What exactly the aliens are meant to signify is anybody's guess, but this is a film that does not need to be understood in its entirety for its central human story to resonate. "},{"Title":"Teenage depravity in all its innocence","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just finished watching this movie, which concludes Gregg Araki's ''Teenage Apocalypse'' trilogy. For me, it was the best of the 3 movies ('Totally F***ed up' and 'The Doom Generation' being the first two). I considered this a fortunate example of a movie-director who evolves and consolidates his method while working on a trilogy.I very much enjoyed this movie and felt close to it. The plot revolves around the everyday lives of teenage groups in '90 L.A. But it's not a movie focused on a 'plot' per Se, it rather operates on pop-culture and sub-culture references and related-imagery. I think the value of this movie resides in its underlying themes of vulnerability(frailty) and continuous search for answers and love that characterize the teenagers. Craving and pointlessness are constantly intertwined, shaping their behaviors and leading to a train-wreck kind of living that points nowhere.I didn't judge the characters on a moral stance; there is a specific light cast on them, which is also a key for understanding them. This kind of light is naturally built by Gregg Araki, who mixes quirky imagery, intimate portraits of youth and its 'shocking' practices. Taking the shocking side out, you have no Araki, no rawness and no honesty. Depicting youth without its dark side is hypocritical and enforces a double-standard. Probably that's why the tangent appearances of adults in this film mark them as overtly disturbed and alienated, compared to the teens, who seem to be struggling not to reach the same end as their parents - even if that means burning out on a road that seems to be the only alternative.For me, this was a movie about innocence. Not innocence lost, but innocence kept alive in the ones that are living on-the-edge. "},{"Title":"Valleydolls and videowalls","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Day in the life of a bunch of LA teens smashing against the walls of their 90s dystopia, finding the pain meaningless, numbness its own reward. It's vibrant, a bit like dusting off an old Skinny Puppy album to listen to; endearing, dark, dated in the repetitive buzz.The urges are fluid, confused, sexual, as in the opening shower masturbation where the boy's mind flicks from a gay spark, to vanilla sex to being dominated by two women. The film attempts all three, fluid confusion around sex. The superficiality of image as a blonde TV hunk sweet-talking a gullible girl into his living-room where he rapes her.But see now we need to be reminded that he was then a Baywatch idol. That among the three vapid valley girls being evaporated by an alien lizard is a 90120 star and Traci Lords. The protagonist, an aspiring filmmaker, is the only one coasting through looking for more than this, love; too bad, his newfound soulmate explodes into a hallucinated bug.So as these things have faded from TV so has a lot of the immediacy. To have seen this at the time and being able to bring it up in discussion I suppose must have been like wearing a tshirt of this and not just any other band, token of having dived to know eccentricity. But right now it seems empty. The dilemma is anything but; the film hankers after meaning in life, redemption. But it struck me as still too jaundiced, complacent in its angst, only anchored in the TV satire.There's a scene where the girl who was raped watches sobbing as a TV evangelist preaches salvation, if only 'we believe and accept the light'; but that's also seen as only another TV lie, instead of in spite of it (seeing past the fake culture of money) an opportunity to reflect on something more than just splinters of image. So in the end it's a snapshot of that videotape and MTV culture that thought had seen the end of meaning; yet look at us still finding meaning and stuff. So it's both sad and sweet in its way. I see this as our own generation's Week End of sorts but in place of a mock revolution in the woods the violence erupts around a pool party.Gummo was in retrospect the more eloquent question that year. "},{"Title":"An imaginatively nightmarish teen movie from Gregg Araki","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A real aesthetic triumph, what Nowhere lacks in narrative it more than makes up for in imagination. Certainly an acquired taste, Gregg Araki's film is bitter eye candy. One could describe it as Kids (1996) meets Natural Born Killers (1994), Dazed and Confused (1993) on acid, Beverly Hills 90210 meets Requiem for a Dream (2000). Each shorthand description is apt.Running barely 75 minutes (without the credit sequences) this modestly budgeted film is pure trash art. With a loose plot thread taking our teenage protagonists through a single day, culminating in an obligatory party, Nowhere is essentially a series of deranged vignettes. Each offsetting its sickly sweet colour schemes and whatever dialogue with a bleak undercurrent. Punctuating the tragicomic melodrama with moments of extreme violence.Araki struck gold when he assembled his cast.Headed by indie favourite James Duval as a pretentious and melancholy Keanu Reeve's-type, each beautiful young performer gets a chance to shine in this deranged neon nightmare.Here are just a handful of examples. Christina Applegate is brilliantly cast against her Married&#x85; With Children sex bomb stereotype. One-time Baywatch teen idol Jaason Simmons bravely presents himself as a less than desirable dream date. And teen icons Shannon Doherty (loathed TV icon) and Traci Lords (one-time underage porn idol) are zapped by an alien after some inane chatter.What is interesting is how time has changed perception of the film. Whereas once we watched unknowns and marvelled at the subversive presentation of pop culture icons, such as John Ritter as an evangelist, now we see a film cast with movie stars. Post-Nowhere ascension to stardom from some of the ensemble and subsequent turns in more typical teen movie fare reinforcing the film's off-kilter themes.The final part of a trilogy, following Totally F***ed Up (1993) and The Doom Generation (1995), Nowhere benefits from a decent budget which allowed for not only a high calibre cast and a decent glossy look but also for impressively rendered set design. The bedrooms in particular are exaggerated to reinforce the fantasy of the world presented. Each with a motif entirely impractical in reality.The L.A. of Nowhere is a disturbed worldview. He uses subversive signs, such as seen in his other films, in the background to clarify the fantasy. A convenience store has no name &#x96; merely the word CONSUME and posters with BUY and MORE on the windows. Next to a nervous young characters a sign on a bench says GOD HELP ME.Much of the modest production value is achieved through creative design and colourful lighting used in otherwise bland sets. It's clear Araki had very little to work with and invested money where it was needed most. There are no elaborate visual tricks such as in the similarly themed Spun (2002) (which features Mena Suvari &#x96; making her debut here), Natural Born Killers or Domino (2005).As twisted as the far less polished Tromeo and Juliet (1996), Nowhere is a fantastic subversion of the teen movie. With less emphasis on homosexuality than Araki's earlier films, except for gratuitous posterior shots and a sensitive romance unfolding though the course of the film, Nowhere is certainly more accessible to mainstream viewers. Something of a prototype for his bi-sexual romantic comedy Splendor (1999).Like Larry Clark's borderline mainstream endeavour Teenage Caveman (2002), Araki's film world is a comical yet disturbing extreme. One in which escapist indulgences both sexual and narcotic lead to no life lessons. Love does not triumph and there is no hope for the future. They go nowhere and the nightmare never ends. "},{"Title":"It's like Clueless, with nipple rings","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nowhere is the appropriate title for this eccentric, cynical film from Gregg Araki. It takes you through a series of numerous, strange tales of bland yet comical characters and how they all intertwine in the end. It's pointless, but in the end great fun for how ridiculous it is, and a lot of people enjoy those types of films.With juicy dialog of how people can get blood poisoning and die from popping zits, brief mentions of testicle and ingrown butt hairs, how dogs eating people is cool and the captivating scenes of people being killed with tomato sauce cans, homosexuals bursting into alien bugs after being abducted, people wanting to die while they're getting a blowjob and people committing suicide to an aired preach about how Jesus can save you this movie is one big joke and an excellent one at that from beginning to end.It can be quite sexily perverse at times, too, and the atmosphere through out the whole film is on the trippy side. It's filthy, entertaining, weird, witty humor and material just confuses the audience to the point where you're staring at the television, mind blank, mouth wide open and wondering, Why am I still watching this? You're still watching it because of how absurd, senseless and comically amusing it really is folks, that's the deal, don't try to make it anything more or anything less. There are tons, tons of enjoyable, fun cameos and supporting performances by Christina Applegate, Scott Caan, Beverly D'Angelo, Shannen Doherty, Heather Graham, Christopher Knight, Jordan Ladd, Debi Mazar, Rose McGowan, Ryan Phillipe, Denise Richards, John Ritter, Kathleen Robertson and Mena Suvari as well as incredible (for this type of movie) main performances by James Duval, Rachel True and Nathan Bexton.Though Mysterious Skin is definitely the better Araki film by a long shot, I suggest anyone who can take this for exactly what it is see it; it's fun. Just don't be expecting a masterpiece, or vice versa, be completely open minded, for trust me, all I just stated in this review is only the beginning of Nowhere. It's complicatedly simple, end of story. "}{"Title":"And Elvis Beats Handjob with a Can of Tomato Soup","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hunky eighteen-year-old James Duval (as Dark Smith) has homoerotic fantasies about pretty blond boy Nathan Bexton (as Montgomery), but wants to be true to bisexual girlfriend Rachel True (as Mel). She is also seeing purple-haired Kathleen Robertson (as Lucifer), and tells Mr. Duval they should have sex with as many people as possible, before getting so old and ugly nobody will want them.Gregg Araki's Nowhere is mainly Duval's story, but other friends and acquaintances have sexual subplots.Witty airhead pal Christina Applegate (as Dingbat) likes stoner Scott Caan (as Ducky), who appears and disappears. His sweet sister Sarah Lassez (as Egg aka Polly) meets teen idol Jaason Simmons (of Baywatch), who shocks her with rough sex. Rocker Guillermo Diaz (as Cowboy) has trouble with masochistic boyfriend Jeremy Jordan (as Bart), who is unable to moderate his drug use. Get in line.As Mr. Jordan's parents, Christopher Knight and Eve Plumb get the best of several cameo appearances.Shady dealer Alan Boyce (as Handjob) cuts bad dope for biker Thyme Lewis (as Elvis), who is driving it home with cute Jordan Ladd (as Alyssa). Her brother Ryan Phillippe (as Shad) licks off Heather Graham (as Lilith), and visa versa. Relatively young Joshua Gibran Mayweather (as Zero) and girlish Mena Suvari (as Zoe) want in on the action, which cumulates as most of the gang gather for a big party.An alien abduction threatens protagonist Duval's chances for happiness. To the point, the ending bites.****** Nowhere (5/9/97) Gregg Araki ~ James Duval, Nathan Bexton, Rachel True, Jeremy Jordan "},{"Title":"Why was this movie made?","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was quite possible the worst move I've seen made in the last 5 years, with the possible exception of Baby Geniuses. First of all, kids don't have this many nicknames. It became annoying after about 15 minutes. Although there was a surprisingly good performance by John Ritter, the rest of the acting sucked.The plot was pretty terrible too, with only minimal points of interest. The ending of the movie was simply terrible. As you can see I have very few good things to say about this movie including it's director, Mark Araki, who attended film school for 7 years. Perhaps he needs a few more semesters? This movie was critically acclaimed, once again killing all faith I have in critics.1/10 stars. "},{"Title":"sex, drugs and angst, California youth style","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Typically overbaked Araki, a silly but visually lush exercise in adolescent existential chic. Like declaiming the emptiness of neon in neon - aren't all his films? - this one moves at a decent pace, and there are momentary pleasures to be had, provided one can suspend one's disbelief and enjoy the humor. Nowhere, indeed. "},{"Title":"I'm watching this movie as I write this...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The writer and or director of this film were obviously trying to say something.  What that something was, I do not know, but hopefully they succeeded at least in their mind(s).  At least if they were able to do that, I might not feel so dumb for wasting the last hour watching this awful movie. It looks like a bunch of up and coming actors trying to act shocking and they all succeed... in looking like they are ACTING shocking.  I swear, I could get 10 kids off of the bus stop by my apartment to do a better job. Don't think I'm entirely blaming the actors here though, because the director and the writer are truly to blame. I think they and the cast sat down and watched a bunch of cutting edge movies from different time periods and said, now, lets do something like that... it'll look really cool and we'll get rave reviews.  Needless to say, it didn't work.I don't want to be too hard on anyone here because like I said, maybe somebody was trying to have some artistic integrity, but it's made plainly simple here, artistic integrity does not = a good film.  I mean, I see actors that I actually like making fools of themselves, and doing so while trying to be cutting edge.  I think on the actors part, it stems from the fact that they all look like they are all in on the joke(whatever it is...). The best comparison I can make is one to the Airplane and Naked Gun movies that did a great job of making people look stupid without making them look like they were trying, as opposed to movies like Hot Shots part II(or whatever it was called).I've wasted enough time writing about this truly bad film.Rachel True, if you ever read this, I apologize for it, because I've liked you for a while now,,, but this was BAD!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"sex, drugs, and the apocalypse","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a fitting end to a funny yet dramatic trilogy.  nowhere is the least serious of the three, and yet the ending was saddening.  an all star cast, featuring sexy heather graham, carried this movie to greatness.  director araki concentrates (as always) on backgrounds-especially colors, so be sure to take in the different surroundings while viewing this.  one should also have a sense of humor as all kinds of teens are bashed with the witty araki trademark dialogue.  dark is a true anti hero and while i personally believe the doom generation is the better film, james duvall's role as dark here has much more depth than the dopey jordan in tdg.  enjoy it and laugh a little, can't you take a joke? "},{"Title":"What a waste of film","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh, Nowhere started off with great intentions... a film trying to make a statement about the end of the world, a statement about the hatred and self-centered living of mankind.  This statement was never defined because of the garbage that was presented.  If I had to see one more pretty boy and his little prep girlfriend playing tonsil hockey, I would have punched by screen.The acting in this movie was horrible.  The themes were never properly presented.  The themes were never good in the first place.  The characters were never given more than one dimension.  I didn't give a damn about any of them.  This movie attempted to be Kubrickish in presenting the horrible possibilities... but, at least Kubrick films are written and acted by members of our society that contain intelligent thought and feeling.Yes, my word to you... stay clear of Nowhere... all the title does is explain where the plot goes.  It's a nonsense piece of crap.  Go rent A Clockwork Orange.  Now, there's a shocking movie with a clear cut message "},{"Title":"But I wanted to like it soooo much...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere is one of those movies that strikes me as kind of a paradox something that I want soooo strongly to like because of its aesthetic merit, but so void of any real substance that I end up sitting there, saying to myself Ya, OK, and that was because...? With all his other films, Gregg Araki has not struck me as someone with a dire message to tell. It's been like he's trying to shout some kind of warning at us at the top of his lungs, something he's trying to dress up with lots of drugs and violence and funky color schemes so it looks like art. Sure, polka dots are nice, but in a 90-minute movie we expect something a little more happening. At least with Splendor he exerts himself in a different direction, lending his bright noise to a really bizarre love triangle story. But in Nowhere, re-heated leftovers of Araki's previous two films, we get a blindingly confusing mesh of a bunch of L.A. teens and all their sex, booze, and drugs. The center of all this seems to be one guy, Dark Smith, who apparently likes his video camera and wants desperately to run away with the bi-sexual, bed-hopping Mel. This is the extent of the emotional depth in this movie. The teens in this movie just kind of bounce around aimlessly, skipping classes, doing nothing, and wearing funky clothes. The climax (or lack there of) is supposed to be at some party, I think, that almost all the characters show up at. So, where's the plot, Gregg? We get lizards with lazer guns, some cute cameos from the likes of Beverly D'Angelo and John Ritter, and even Traci Lords, Shannen Doherty, and Rose McGowan as some braindead valley girls. Nice. Props to the Araki-meister for injecting a garbage bag full of style into this thing, with lots of bright colors and artsy camera angles. But out side of that, what are we looking at here? A metaphor for the decline of the morals of the youth? A comment on the effects of drugs and suicide? Raving lunacy? Probably that last one. I wanna say I have a very high tolerance for movies with no point (i.e. the amazing Magnolia), but this is just stupid. Nowhere has a great soundtrack and some cool art direction, but as a teen myself, I'm more than a little repulsed and a lot bored with this waste of talent (hello Mena Suvari!) and un-inspired, un-imaginative writing. Sorry Gregg. I tried.1/2* out of ****  "},{"Title":"This Movie Says A Lot Without Saying Too Much At All","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gregg Araki called this movie 90210 on Acid.  Well, in some ways it is, but it really has a point.This movie has a most impressive cast, including James Duval (Independance Day, GO), Rachel True (The Craft), Nathan Bexton (GO), Christina Applegate (Married With Children, Mafia), Ryan Phillippe (I Know What You Did Last Summer, Cruel Intentions, 54), Olivia D'Angelo (National Lampoons Vacation Movies), John Ritter (Three's Company, Bride of Chucky), Christopher Knight and Eve Plumb (Peter and Jan Brady), Jeremy Jordan (Never Been Kissed), Shannen Dogherty (90210), Traci Lords (porn star), Rose McGowen (Jawbreaker, Scream, The Doom Generation),and the Brewer Twins.Nowhere follows the lives of wacked-out teenagers roaming around LA doing stuff, including having sex, taking E's, and gossiping.  And even though teenagers really aren't like this in real life, it does give teenagers a good template what to be and what not to be.Take Dark (Duval) for example.  He wants true love and a monogonous relationship.  His girlfriend Mel (True) is a bisexual slut who cannot cement herself to one person, so Dark eventually falls in love with the angelic and innocent Montgomery (Nathan Bexton).  The only problem is...Aliens also seem to like Montgomery.  So you see....the morals are there, they just aren't displayed in your stereotypical Hollywood kinda way!The movie is laced heavily with trippy imagery....not too disimilar from Araki's The Doom Generation.  Bilboards and park benches have prophetic lines....each characters' room is painted like a work of art, and the clothes...well...let's just say these kids don't go for Abecrombie & Fitch. )Anyways, throughout this ditzy story, you feel happy, sad, surprise, and doom.  Duval is great, but the real surprise is Nathan Bexton!  He is destined to be a big star someday, and after seeing Nowhere (and GO), it's easy to understand why!I recogmend this movie in the most excellent way! "},{"Title":"Shock schlock","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The opening line to this tepid film is L.A. is, like, nowhere.  Everyone who live there is lost...  Please!  Greg Araki must be some 14-year old member of the trenchcoat mafia with way too many goth posters in his room.  Mom, you just don't understand me.  My bleak existence lives for film.  1/10 star "},{"Title":"Gregg Araki delivers again!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Followed up from The Doom Generation (but not the same story line), this movie is also made up of the bizarre qualities just like The Doom Generation. With an aimless plot, this is one movie that you can't stop watching. It represents what's going on in the world with today's youth. Things just aren't what they used to be. It's a messed up world out there, and this movie captures it best. "}{"Title":"Astonishing Apocalyptic Odyssey","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The absence of meaning, the hollowness of events and character, the lack of caring and the sublime artificiality all speak of a world where the spiritual apocalypse has already occurred... An astonishing film colonised by aggressive and uncaring memes. "},{"Title":"Video-art or literature ?","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere is a surrealistic piece of video-art. The story makes little sense if any and is far from real. Like everything in the movie is far from real, but rather close to an LSD-trip.One could say, the lack of message and meaning makes it pretentious and useless, unfortunately some actually did. They came up with different movies and meanings to compare it with, as well as theories. They wonder why the story of the movie has no direction, just as the lives of the main characters. Never considering that 'Nowhere', the pointless movie, was the origin and mother of all those thoughts.The movie lacks any kind of arrogance, and simplifies things. Of course we would expect some message. Of course we want the story to make more sense than our average life does. Nevertheless, I've enjoyed this movie up to its fullest.And for those who are still deaf and are wondering when they see people dancing.... 'Nowhere' is about the direction-less kind of life and thinking, people in general, have. They feel their choices are motivated, and logical, just as any of the characters in Nowhere. But like the story, their lives have no special meaning, no deeper context. Just like us people have the arrogance to assume we are different, better and unique than other animals, most movies and books share this same kind of endo-centric thinking. And 'Nowhere' simply makes fun of it. "},{"Title":"My comments are highly recommended to be listened upon. Nowhere is a good film, believe it or not","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere is a great movie about drugs, the party scene, and a group of people, who I might want to add are in *COLLEGE*, not high school. Come on now people, some of the characters portray high school characteristics in their personalities but they are obviously more intelligent than that. It's too bad a movie like this doesn't get higher ratings or more reviews. This movie was well put together, and I was surprised to see so many big names in it compared to the Doom Generation. I think Greg Araki is very talented and has a complex mind in film.. and as you can see by the contents of this film, many other things. It's too bad Dark had to be so f****d in this movie, his girlfriend could have been a little more understanding too his needs ) Anyways, I've seen this movie well over twenty times and I could ramble on about it. Either way I voted this movie a 10, my vote would have been higher if I could vote higher. Thank you for your time ) "},{"Title":"It's nowhere near as good as it could have been.","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere is obviously the work of a director who is certain of his own greatness.  There is only one problem...he never checked with the public to see if they agree.  Nowhere is visually flashy, surreal, and nihilistic. However, it is also pretentious, incomprehensible, and poorly written.  If Fellini had seen this movie, I believe that he would have said, yes, you can create an inventive visual image, but what's your point, dear boy?...though he probably would have said it in Italian...This film is Clueless, with more violence and sex, but less warmth and humor.  And it's not even that Clueless was such a wonderful movie in the first place.  I suppose that Araki is trying to say with this film that kids are lost and that our hedonistic lifestyles are bound to destroy us. Unfortunately, I do believe that he has already said that in film, as have many other directors.  Fast Times at RH and Kids had essentially the same message.  The only difference was that those films actually used realistic characters and expressive scripts to deliver the message.  Just when Nowhere gets going, the Alien comes back or something equally stupid happens.  There is no momentum, no message, no memorable dialogue, and by the end of the movie, more than half the characters were ignored.  What happened to Heather Graham, or the younger couple, or the murderer, or ANYONE aside from Dark? I have no idea, and I doubt that Araki would either.  Because these characters don't exist...they have no motivation and no soul.    "},{"Title":"Sexual rapport doesn't exist","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" James Duval once again plays the role of a sexually confused teenager named Dark. He has a very outspoken mother who requests of him but one thing to stop the self-abuse. Indeed, in the opening scene we find Dark in the shower ardently stroking his penis as he reimagines some of his sexual encounters with Mel, his bisexual girlfriend, and particularly a moment he shares in the locker room with Montgomery (played by Nathan Bexton). Just like in Araki's Totally F***ed Up (part of the Apocalypse Teenage Trilogy), the story revolves around a cast of troubled teenagers. This is a generation of youngsters that take the imperative of joy to the extreme, they live their lives as if the world is about to end, and everything they do is of the utmost intensity. There is sheer perversity in Shad (played by Ryan Phillippe) and Lilith (Heather Graham), both devotees of bondage and sadomasochism. When Shad is all tied up and about to be dominated by Lilith, he adopts a particular position in the sexual structure here the subject makes himself the instrument of the Other's jouissance. The pervert is the person in whom the structure of the drive is most clearly revealed, and also the person who carries the attempt to go beyond the pleasure principle to the limit he who goes as far as he can along the path of jouissance.Sadism motivates the Teen Idol's actions as he seduces a girl who is totally infatuated by his specular image (namely, the notoriety and fame derived of his TV appearances). As a sadist he locates himself as the object of the invocatory drive, not only brutally hitting the girl but also raping her.The imperative of joy also takes its toll on the homosexual couple formed by Cowboy and Bart; Bart is a drug addict beyond recovery, despite all the efforts his boyfriend does to help him. Perhaps the only normal couple, albeit in the making, would be formed by Dingbat (played by Christina Applegate) and Ducky (Scott Caan). But everything is sort of in the making, as these college kids can't seem to make up their minds. For example, Dark confronts Mel as he is uneasy with her promiscuity (and bisexuality). Sometimes I feel so old fashioned, he confesses. It would be fair to state that theirs is a case of sexual failure because the object of desire, insofar as it is incarnated, never accedes in turn to the Other sex. And this is a translation of Lacan's proposition there is no such thing as sexual rapport. Dark expresses a restrained concept of what is properly sexual. Thus it concerns the rapport to the Other sex, to the Other body as sexed, and specially as sexed differently - body to body, sexed body to sexed body. In so constricting the range of sexuality, in focusing on corporeity he demonstrates that sexuality is utterly undone or not constituted. At the time of sexual jouissance, the rapport one counts upon, the rapport that should be there takes the form of failure. That is why Dark grows more and more comfortable with Montgomery's presence; Dark's object of desire is shifting towards a sexed body that mirrors his own a male body. Lacan's expression of corporeal excerpt serves to qualify what he calls the object a. It entails a debasement of the Other, having it demeaned from the status of Other as such to the rank of the object a of drive. And this is the path Lacan follows when he announces that there is no such thing as sexual rapport. Every couple in the film is a living manifest of this sexual failure, unable to connect to the other, they live desperately and on the verge of destruction. It isn't surprising, then, to witness the suicides of two characters partly prompted by religious zealousness. Suicide here is also a successful attempt of the real to break into reality which coincides with the constant irruption of the alien, not only as a headline that proclaims that space aliens are kidnapping children but as a very 'real' manifestation of an alien monster that only Dark and Montgomery are able to see. The alien serves as a metaphor of the uncanny double, originated as the mortifying aspect of narcissism when it is not limited by castration. Narcissism presupposes to mask death itself. Nevertheless, here the alien is responsible for the death of a few college girls, and once Montgomery disappears Dark fears the worse. When something of this object a (id est Montgomery) of the phantasm appears in the real, on top of the frame, disrupting it and therefore disrupting the 'scene' that so far has contained it, the effect that ensues is marked by angst. Such is the case of the alien monster who appears always between moments, between sequences, almost taunting Dark, on the fringes of reality and the real. Araki's masterful representation of the manner in which the phantasm is framed reveals the importance of what many viewers might consider random and capricious appearances. When Montgomery shows up in Dark's room, stark naked, they start talking. Montgomery affirms I got kidnapped by space aliens. It's not long before they decide to share the bed (yet another hint pointing out the sexual failure). Dark and Montgomery move through a difficult zone, they can't pull it out, they're doomed to let go of the conceptual inveigling that Lacan has accomplished, and that always articulates jouissance with castration, that is a phallic function. When Montgomery experiences an abnormal seizure Dark asks him Tell me what it is, which is an impossible question because, after all, the real exceeds language. Whatever is wrong with Montgomery, no language could express it. The after credits final scene is the perfect closure for Araki's narrative, as it reinserts again not only the failure of sex but also the complete failure of language. "},{"Title":"State of Mind","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can only imagine the plot from the director's point of view. It did not play out well on film. This movie is one of those which may only affect one of an altered mind, as those on-screen. I also managed to make it through the end. The characters had little or no depth whatsoever. The acting was less than acceptable. Even though there were plenty of big name actors in this pic, it seems they left their talent in their trailers. Surprisingly, the only impact this movie had on me was the televangelist and the subsequent actions to follow. John Ritter's was really the only believable character. Even Donnie Darko's own James Duval (Frank the bunny) was terrible. Makes me wonder... "},{"Title":"Nowhere but Here","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nowhere is an exceptional, wild and trippy ride. Like Terry Gilliam, Araki delivers a fantasy type realm intertwined with our own reality. Yet, just like reality, the movie is chock full of drama, comedy, violence, tenderness, craziness and the unexplained.With great acting and on-the-mark dialogue, as well as wonderful sets, you should enjoy ninety minutes of Dark's life as well as his platoon of friends.The sad thing, however, is that the DVD has not been released in North America. Hopefully, this will change sooner than later. VHS copies are still available and the movie has appeared on IFC. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I get the teen angst feel that the producers are striving for here but this movie is just bad. If you enjoy movies with plots involving surreal and suppressed homosexuality, this flick will still suck.Watching Dark wag the dog in the shower while a whole spectrum of bizarre fantasies cross his mind was just creepy. Maybe that was the point of this movie but it doesn't make for very good cinema.The mom was right on, though. She was banging on the door with her green facial mask while Dark was in the shower flogging the puppy. But, she has bright red lipstick on at the same time which just ruined the whole moment. This is a great movie to watch late at night if you are really stoned and have repressed homosexual tendencies. Otherwise, you may want to pass. "},{"Title":"A surreal apocalyptic film of teen angst.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Greg Araki is quite a unique director. Not many gay directors have his edge. Like John Waters and Derek Jarmon, he throws gay stereotypes out the window with an in your face style of directing. Out of Araki's Apocolyptic Teen Trilogy, Nowhere seems to be the best. It's like a generation X Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, with its bright color sets, crazed sex, drugs and brutal violence. Did I mention, there's also a space alien? The story takes place in L.A. ... We meet a cast of assorted characters; some straight, gay or bisexual. It seems these teens are unhappy, but instead of confronting their problems they indulge in kinky sex and drugs. Besides, it's the end of the world. James Duval plays Dark, a lonely bisexual teen caught up in the madness. All Dark wants is to be loved. Whether it's by a guy or his permissive friend Mel, played by Rachel True. Some people complain about Araki's earlier films not having much character development. Who cares?, Nowhere is stunning and features an all star cast of celebrities behaving badly. Look for a young Heather Graham and Ryan Phillippe as a horny couple with a fetish for death. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and weird","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie despite all the strange violence, deviant sex, and the sadness of the main character.... i actually feel kinda warm and fuzzy after i watch it. James Duval character Dark is so lovable and so easy to identify with even if you aren't a lonely teenager. I think this movie contains great commentary on todays fast and twisted society. It is genius. Even though it has shocking and sometimes stomach turning scenes, it can still be funny and make you laugh. I think a good movie is about sending you through a wide range of emotions and this movie meets that criteria. My friends and myself have assembled our own cult following for this Gregg Araki trilogy (inculding Doom Generation and Totally F***ed Up). If you like this movie i suggest you watch the other two. For sure this movie isn't for everyone but if you watched it once and hated it for its graphic nature i suggest you watch it again a pay attention to the lessons and social commentary. "}{"Title":"Not bad until the ending...","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dark (James Duval) and his friends live in an LA with drugs, sex, suicide, murder and such running wild. Dark just wants to find somebody to love and who loves him back--male or female. Oh yeah--there are aliens wandering around too (!!!???) Other than that there's no real plot--just a bunch of teens on drugs and their various adventures. Full of hilarious one liners or lines that make you just howl with laughter. Incredible set design, lighting and directing (check out the wallpapers on various characters' bedrooms). Duval is excellent (and has plenty of casual nude scenes).Always interesting and very well-acted by a VERY interesting cast. Not as good as Living End or Totally F**ked Up but well worth seeing. The sequence that ends the film is a laugh riot--unfortunately it's not supposed to be.SPOILERS IN NEXT PARAGRAPH!!!! WARNING !!!!!!!!One guy is telling another in bed that he loves him and just got back from being kidnapped by aliens (no kidding!) Then he came out with All I thought as I was being put into the space pod, is how much I loved you. I saw it in a theatre and the audience started giggling--me too (for the record, I'm gay). It just was SO stupid...the acting is very good but the lines are horrible. Then he transforms into a giant bug and says I'm out o' here and leaves. By the time that came on, me (and the rest of the audience) were in hysterics. What the hell was Araki trying to do with that? So, a very interesting good film until that really stupid ending. Also it has Ryan Philippee in an early role. "},{"Title":"Last in the teen apocalypse trilogy","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even better in depicting the nihilistic lifestyle of a group of teens than DOOM GENERATION, this flick has all the same type of story elements.  Still a lot of sex, drugs, and music, although this time there is a sci-fi theme, and even more bizarre happenings.  When I first saw this movie, it screwed with my head badly.  Not neccessarily in a bad way though...it just made me think.  Too bad many movie goers don't even want to think when they go to the movies anymore.  Anyway...if you liked DOOM GENERATION or GO, you'll dig this one with a cast of people, many of whom are now stars in Hollywood. See if you can spot them all. "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I recall accidentally seeing this bizarre movie on TV in March 2001, and what an incredible waste of my time.  The movie had little or no plot, was extremely bleak, and was offensively violent.  I did find the acting of John Ritter to be good, but that was the only bright spot in this film.  I do not feel that our teenage society acts this way, and I somehow sense most teenagers who see this film will be totally turned off by it.  I think GoodFellas used less blood than this film did. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has got to be the most directionless mess I have ever seen. Sorry to burst the bubbles of those lucky few who actually enjoyed this movie, proclaiming that it wasn't meant to be taken seriously. It's painfully obvious that the director is desperately *trying* to convey some sort of dire message about the wasteland encountered by today's youth. That's a pretty serious message and every scene *tries* to make it clear, TRYING being the operative word. But without a cohesive plot, without rational portrayal, without sympathetic characters, without any logic whatsoever, this film goes nowhere fast.The problem of this film can be summed up in one question Why should we care? Why should we care about Dark and co.? Why should we care about their problems? Why should we care about the sex and violence they encounter? Are we supposed to relate to this? The film doesn't give us a reason to care. And while the point of the film MAY have been just this -- to show a bunch of alienated kids without a reason to care about the world -- the directors forgot that they had to give the audience a reason to care about the message they're trying to give. Rational thought eludes every scene in this movie. Oh yes, there's a lot of clever symbolism and allusions, but they're like little islands in a sea of garbage. The movie just tries too hard to shock the audience a la Andy Warhol and it simply falls flat without ever accomplishing anything.The acting is awful. The characters are supposed to be exaggerated but all we see are actors TRYING to play exaggerated characters. And James Duval's sopoforic doesn't look like it's on purpose, either. The guy just cannot act. A future Keanu Reeves, I'm sure. The only interesting performance was that of John Ritter. His character was about the only good thing in this movie that actually made sense from an artistic perspective. That and the color imagery & the music found throughout the movie. Although, the use of Stacy Q's Two of Hearts is odd. I thought this movie was about teens in the 90's, not the 80's. But other than that, the music did accompany the scenes appropriately...something to be appreciated in an otherwise dismal film. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie because I've heard overwhelmingly positive things about this filmmaker... what movie did THEY watch? This movie repulsed me with its lack of realistic or even interesting characters. After the first five minutes I was wondering when it would end. It fails on all levels -- as a satire, as a teen film, as a Los Angeles film, and as a stylistically accomplished film as well. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad Stuff","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this last night on Sky because I thought it might be good because of all the familiar faces in it. But I was wrong. This film has practically no plot and it is pretty insulting to the teenagers of today. No teens I know behave this way, sure, some have sex and do drugs but really, you'd think the teenagers in this film were more like college kids not 18 year olds.  The acting was pretty poor and the pop culture decor totally sucked. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is not only bad, but actually one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The characters in this movie are unlike most on film.  I hate the way he tried to make teenagers appear to be.  It's like he (Gregg Araki) has no concept of how teens really are.  And the ending is not spooky, or even wierd in my opinion.  It just plain sucks.  It's retarded.  I must say that I couldn't believe that the same person who wrote this film wrote Splendor.  So if your looking for a good Gregg Araki movie; watch Splendor.  While it's not perfect (Splendor), it's much better than Nowhere.  Save yourself from this mess of a movie; it was too late for me. "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Greg Araki is known for his movies. Their all different in their own little way. And I have got so much respect for that. Watch Nowhere, and I guarantee you have never seen anything like it before. It's definately not some teeny-bopper film. In fact, I found it even more enjoyable, since I had never seen anything like it. The photography and cast were all so enjoyable. I happen to be a huge Rachel True fan, so this film was a must see. But the thing is, your bound to have someone you love in this film. Almost every starlet in Hollywood makes an appearance into this film. Rose McGowan, Traci Lords, Shannen Doherty, and The Brewer Twins are just some of the many cast members.Rent this film, and watch it with your friends, I certainly think that you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure of the nineties","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dja hear about Marcus? His butthole fell out and he needs an operation. Ohhhh, Henry. The day Gregg Araki gave up his mixture of Godard and Bauhaus, and admitted he's really a fan of Hard Candy nail polish, Aaron Spelling television, and the colors of the 7-11 candy rack--well, he didn't contribute anything to Western culture, but he did bring one more bead of honesty into the world. NOWHERE, endlessly described by its author as 90210 on acid, is more like a just-before-the-teenquake Russ Meyer movie on Ecstasy. Comic-erotic bulimia scenes! Heather Graham as a Nietzschean nihilist! Traci Lords getting zapped by an alien! Nazi strobe-light castration scene! (No, that was a different one.) NOWHERE is the work of a posturing skeezix, but it's fun. And it has more cute youths in various states of undress than any studio movie of modern times.  "},{"Title":"Movie should have been called Nothing","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nowhere completes Gregg Araki's vision of having teens walking around like complete morons, taking drugs and having sex with anything that moves. James Duvall leads an all-star cast but sadly, nobody can rise above the material they are working with. I found some of the scenes entertaining but the majority drags on and has no point. The aliens coming down bit was the highlight of the film. I'll admit that I own the Doom Generation but thats just because I have a thing for Rose McGowan. This movie is the Doom Generation set in Beverly Hils. Araki should find a purpose to make a story, then and only then, he should attempt to film whatever he comes up with. The film wasn't terrible but I doubt I'll ever rent it again. Go see it yourself just to form your own opinion. The saving grace is the beautiful female cast. Rose McGowan has a small small part as does Denise Richards, Heather Graham, and Christina Applegate. ** out of **** "}{"Title":"Art, twisted & morbid visions, drugs, sex (straight & bi) & social critic all put in a blender...","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My goodness !....This simply phrase resumes my impression after seeing Nowhere. Totally shocking. Totally raw. Totally freaky also. But i liked it a lot. As a comic book in motion, Nowhere captures this essence also with shades of Pop art of the '90, a lot of the MTV culture ( reminds me a band called The Dandy Warhols, that could fit perfectly in this film) & a lot of other insinuations & links that could fill a very large trivia page about this movie. A lot of very known actors here appear playing some good but short roles (John Ritter, Beverly D'Angelo, Heather Graham, Christina Applegate, etc.), as well as some fetish people from media (Tracy Lords, the vocalist of the Butthole Surfers) & some other guys like the Brewer brothers or that guy that makes videoclips, Stephane Sednaoui. The plot is a little confussing, and, sometimes, childish & nonsense ( just check the final sce ne with Dark & his loverboy on the bed or the whole appearing of that saurus doing nothing) but also there are some great, great scenes like Bart crying in front of the TV meanwhiles Egg is doing the same, all bleeding. As i said, i liked this movie a lot, specially for all its visual features. I give it a 7. It's a cool movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just got done watching this sorry excuse of a movie titled NOWHERE. This is the first time I have watched a movie that was so awful that it made me angry it could actually be created! I am baffled that this movie had so many big name actors, what were they thinking when they agreed to take part in this film? The premise of the movie is a teenage male who is living frustrated with his love life. He is surrounded by a bunch of perverted individuals who try to act like they are really trendy and prolific but really they are a group of wannabe intellectuals. Whoever wrote this movie did a horrible job of giving the characters individuality. All of the characters seem like the same person. They all seem to be bi-sexual, very fond of hedonism and bondage and they all act like they are on Ecstasy throughout the whole movie. Throughout this movie characters are paired of into scenes where they spanking each other, tugging on each others nipple rings, and taking designer drugs. The main character is always dwelling on the fact that he is an old fashioned type of guy living amongst a bunch of people who prefer to have multiple sex partners. In every scene they are in some wannabe sheik yuppie house. For instance one guys bedroom is covered from floor to ceiling with large words that read a bunch of depressing sentences that are supposed to be edgy or poetic. Another guys room has a large mural of himself holding a gun up to his head, totally corny and unrealistic if you ask me. The main group of characters are about to attend some trendy party, before they go they all take Ecstasy, which looks nothing like the real thing, it honestly looked like they were popping Mentos breath mints. When they arrive at the party they are surrounded by a bunch of pale women in tight latex, or mal-nourished boys with body piercing and cheesy haircuts. Some guy named Elvis gets into a fight with a drug dealer, claiming he sold him some bad drugs, Elvis ends up killing the guy by beating him in the head with a can of tomato soup, and the party dwellers barely seem to be phased, like they are too trendy to care that someone just got bludgeoned to death with some can goods. Like I said, I cannot understand why all the big name actors took part in this movie. Some of the actors include Shannon Daugherty, Christina Applegate, Ryan Phillipe, that girl that played Mary Jane in half baked and the Mexican guy from half baked, the girl that played Claire in Beverly Hills 90210, Traci Lords, it even had the middle son from The Brady Bunch actor Christopher Knight. The only person I can honestly say I liked in the movie was the sixteen year old boy named zero, he almost seemed like a believable character who didn't act all artsy fartsy. This movie is garbage. While watching this movie I tried to envision the person who created it, and this is what I came up with. Some rich yuppie in Southern California gave there son or daughter a bunch of money to make a movie that they thought would appeal to the youth of America. This spoiled boy or girl must of been heavily into the rave/club scene and thought they could come up with an abstract movie that would be groundbreaking. The were given an unlimited budget and hired a bunch of there favorite actors that didn't have anything better to do in 1997. This spoiled kid thought they were a talented writer and they wrote the script in a hurry, thinking they just created a script that cutting edge. They threw together this cheesy movie and decided to title it NOWHERE, thinking they were illustrating the hardships of being spoiled perverted brat in Southern California. All they really did was make a movie that leaves viewers with the feeling that they wasted 82 minutes of there life watching a movie that required no creativity to put together. Anyone who can honestly say that they liked this movie must have a very dull personality and a warped perception of they people are in Upper-Class California. This movie is crap, its confusing and awkward, watch at your own risk!!! "},{"Title":"flashy teen garbage","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (some spoilers) I saw this annoying and pointless film yesterday after few friends told me it was great. I don't share their view point at all, maybe I didn't understand the  message Araki wanted to get through here. It's just non sense and stupid dialogues, and it's just amazing how he could get such a B-cast for such a bad movie. If ever you're compelled to see this trash, press forward to the scene where Elvis runs amuck and smashes time and again a guy's skull with a tin can so that you'll realize how silly this awful flick is. No plot, no acting, no ideas, just a total waste of time. Fortunately it lasts only 1h15 but it seems much longer. Good score though. 1/10 stars "},{"Title":"Araki's lowdown film","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the superior, The Living End and Totally f**ked up, Araki's two next films spiraled, this one a more desperate attempt on the last, until he redeemed himself with Mysterious Skin, probably his best ever. Take strong reference to the title. This is a going nowhere movie, though, like The Doom Generation, you can't deny it's color, and enthusiasm, in it's over the top characters and situations, where even a couple who were once the Brady kids appear. One shock moment I recall, was the hot shot actor, raping a female fan. This movie has no direction, it's messages unexplanatory, only there are a lot of f**ked kids in L.A. burdened with their usual baggage and angst. This is just another movie of put together out there scenes, a few familiar faces in this too. This is the prime reason, this falls even weaker than The Doom Generation. One good thing out of it was hottie, Menu Suvari in what is another Araki mess. You could almost make a film like this, by going out on the town with your friends, or at their parties, where the rest you could script with some out there stuff to give it some flavor. "},{"Title":"omg","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a devoted Direct TV customer brings a strange and questionable benefit.Each year there is a 2-month free access to Showtime, including IFO, an acronym for It's !&%#!! Obscene--not in the sense of pornographic, rather an obscene waste of time and resources.I'll admit to being over 70, therefore way beyond the age of understanding the nihilism of today--or was it yesterday? Whatever. The sheer idiocy and self-involvement of the characters, the sloppy editing, pretending to be edgy, the predictable twists and turns, make this the perfect movie to watch during the endless commercial breaks in football broadcasts. The romantic encounters can only be described as reptilian; it's like watching the courtship of iguanas.As an artist/photographer, with a few surviving friends, I have always enjoyed meaningful cinematic innovation. This film ain't it! It brings to mind a TAXI episode, a flashback to Ignatowski's days at Harvard in the 60's. A young Tom Hanks does a great turn as a stoned classmate. He's lying on the floor of Iggy's room, entranced by a lava lamp. In disgust, a pre-drug Iggy pulls the plug. Hanks looks up in dismay and anger, asking Oh, and now what? My feelings exactly, about Nowhere. "},{"Title":"Humanity at its rawest truest form!","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie knocked me off of my feet. It is truly a masterpiece. Incredibly entertaining and will delight anyone with an adventurous spirit. This movie is about souls and emotions and the twisted splendor of the imagination. Although I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who is faint of heart or square. Those who are judgmental will never be able to be open enough to understand and be moved by this amazing film. It is truly one that I will always keep in my collection and never forget what it meant to me when I first watched it. I could watch it a million times and never be bored. It is as great as the person watching it's interpretation of it and willingness to see people and love for what it is, without all the structure and stereotypes that society attaches. "},{"Title":"Araki is god","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am of the opinion that it'll take Hollywood (and everyone else for that matter) at least ten years to catch up to what Gregg Araki is doing. His films are the most progressive, challenging, cutting-edge, darkest being made.Nowhere is one of my favorites. I also love Doom Generation and Mysterious Skin (Splendor isn't bad but it isn't one of my favorites). Nowhere is essentially (for me, anyway) a simple story about high school life among a bunch of kids told through hyperbole. Everything is stretched out, exaggerated, hyper-exposed and drawn out and revealed. It is very much like high school as I remember it. Colors are three times as bright, everyone moves three times as fast. Cars fly everywhere. The music is bright and loud and jarring. There are lots and drugs and drinking. Everyone is constantly going somewhere or coming from someplace. It's a world on the brink of total disaster. And a world that is desperately searching and aching for love and tenderness. Someone else was correct when they said it was like an LSD trip. Video visions of an LSD world. The basic plot is simple. Four or five different stories involving teens who know each other play themselves out over a 24-hr period, American Graffiti-style. Bart and Cowboy are a queer couple who are also in a band together. Bart's spiraling heroin use threatens their relationship. Egg and Dingbat are nerdy best girl friends. Dingbat is in love with Egg's virginal brother Ducky. Egg has a chance encounter in a cafe with a television idol dreamboat that seems too good to be true and, in fact, is. (encounters in this movie begin innocently and turn nightmarish). Dark is a brooding young video-obsessional (and the film's main character) who wants simplicity in his relationship with girlfriend Mel, a raving hedonist who pursues sex with anyone, including vicious lesbian Lucifer. Dark secretly has thoughts about anxiety-ridden schoolmate Montgomery, who seems to like him back. Mel's younger brother Zero is desperate to impress his girlfriend Zoe, and assures her he knows where the big party all the high schoolers are going to that night (Zero and Zoe seem to be junior high age). It starts with everyone ditching school and going to a sleazy cafe where there are foreboding whispers of that day being the predestined date of the apocalypse. There's also talk of the big party later. Then everyone goes their separate ways and has adventures (most of which are fairly grim in a cool way). Recurring characters pop in and out - the drug dealer who supplies Bart as well as the two ultra violent S&M girls he pimps (Dark fantasizes over them), a giant scaly alien from outer space with a ray gun who wanders in to blast teenagers from time to time (this also may be the key to the apocalypse talk), and a soapy televangelist with an 800 number who actually becomes the key to the film's point. That is another matter. Some will say this film does not have a point. I disagree. The point to this film is in its texture and in the ultimate fates of Bart and Egg. I believe Araki is making a statement about modern kids. I don't believe this is lost among the nihilism either. It also has to do with the song that is played over the end credits. That is my take/. I'm not sure what high school was like for everyone else but for me it certainly wasn't anything like 90210 or Gilmore Girls or Dawson's Creek. Not AT ALL. I remember intense fights and disappointments, intense romances. Heartbreak. All of the stuff that is covered in this movie Plus alien abduction!!!!!!!!!!!! What more could you want??? "},{"Title":"Would like to see it again, sober!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A friend and myself were watching the rented tape. After starting the tape and watching the trailers of several movies. We thought, what a long and confusing trailer this is. It took us about 15 minutes before we realized we weren't watching the trailer. The movie already started!After that, it only got better. A very nice confusing and hilarious movie. Great characters. Great dialog. Great stupid story.See it.Summary We were smoking a lot of home grown herbs at the moment. But that didn't affect our judgment at all! "},{"Title":"it's weird, but i couldn't help but love it","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  it's the rawest indies film that could be said to be scraped off the bottom of the indies barrel with it's extremely exaggerated dialogue. it's great. all of the events (especially the ending) are so humorously exaggerated that it leaves you with your mouth hung open. it's shocking. to some it might be appalling. if you love the rawness of indies films, you'll love this one. gregg araki is an amazing director. this movie is beautiful in a disturbingly real way. depending on what you can stomach and what you look for in movies, you will either see a terrible nightmare or a beautifully tragic dream. to me it's both. and like i said, i love it. just don't expect an extremely well made Hollywood movie.  "},{"Title":"Pointless, but strangely intriguing","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a strange film, it doesn't really have a plot, just lots of little sub-lots.  The main reason to see this film is for the before they were stars element.  There are heaps of famous faces in this mind-bender of a film.  The ending is really quite odd, and there are some particularly nasty scenes along the way.  It's watchable, but for all the wrong reasons.  After the event - this film really has little merit.  However, the shock value is magnificent (if you are into that kind of thing...) "}{"Title":"Gregg Araki is one of the best film makers in some time; at least in my mind.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one beautiful work of art.  Gregg Araki amazes me so, from his bizarre but great style of screenwriting, to his awesome settings.  His gloom and doom characters are so perfect to represent the lives of teenagers.  I think this film carries a lot of emotion in strange ways. The cast is phenominal.  James Duval has to be one of my favorite actors because of Araki's films.  All i have to say is Araki is one unique human. "},{"Title":"Catch something new every time","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my 3rd time to see this flick and I catch some little detail I missed the first couple of times. This movie was full of up and coming stars at the time and a few of the older ones that made cameo appearances (Eve Plum, Christopher Knight, Beverly D'Angelo, David Leisure, John Ritter, Lauren Tewes, and Charlotte Rae). This is one of those movies where you just HAVE to watch cause you're NOT believing what you're seeing. It is just one weird thing after another and it continually builds on that. They have all this weirdness going on and then they throw an alien in the mix as well, what can I say???? The over acting is so funny that again, you just can't look away. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie.","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If I HAD to choose one movie to be my all time favourite, this would be it. I love the nature of this youth driven film. The movie is dark, erotic, and a pleasure to watch. I love the fact that the characters have these interesting names. The actor James Duval (Dark) has become one of my favorite actors after discovering him in this movie. I also discovered the director, Gregg Araki, who has become one of my favorite directors. I can't wait until he makes another movie. "},{"Title":"Araki's best...","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For one to really understand what Gregg araki is trying to do in each of his films, you have to have seen them all, but Nowhere is a decent place to start. Firstly, the cast of young up and coming stars, some of whom are now much bigger (Mena Suvari, Christina Applegate etc) will keep the average watcher interested long enough to get lost in the film, which is actually really sweet. The dialogue first and foremost is young and surreal, but it gives the film a feeling all of its own, and the young cast really do pull off good performances in difficult roles here.Whilst most movies like American Pie and Road Trip try to take on the trials and tribulations of teenage life with a comedic slant these days, Araki keeps the humour there, but lets his creation sink to much darker levels as well, and includes everything. Alcohol, drugs, sexuality and all are dealt with in a very disturbed way, allowing the film too ooze originality too.Nowhere is as infinately watchable as it is entertaining, and is a must see for any teen, anywhere. Give it a go, and if you dont like it, watch it again... "},{"Title":"A regular Gregg Araki Film full of strange stuff!!!!!!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This kind of films are hard to find,gregg Arakiuses all kind of teen icons to show everyone how the future of the Gen-x is happening Now. We get the same guy he uses all the time James Duvall and a lot of Known actors like Ryan Phillippe and Heather Graham doing it on every scene they´re on,The love fest begins,We have new kids playing Kick the can and doing drugs at the same time, we have some new kind of teen suicide that makes them cover their rooms in blood,aliens invading earth,gangs using weird names like ATARI and Drag Queens and Underage sex and drinking,Twin male models that talk at the same time,anorexic and bulimic chicks,Renegade lovers,guys without shirts just with suspenders on the street,barking drunk guys,gay references all over the place,It is not a morality tale...just a simple story about weird people doing stupid and weird stuff,I already have it on my collection because the sexy scenes are darn well good. I´ll give it a nice 9 out of 10 on weird films. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is definitely not for everyone. I showed it to a group of people and none of them have ever spoken to me again. Some people are too delicate to handle the harsh nature of several of the scenes...and unfortunately for them, they don't understand the artistic tone of the film. This film(and Araki's other films) has a great cast, strange(but entertaining) dialogue and a look all it's own. Araki uses sets and locations that would normally be overlooked. There are some really funny one-liners in the diologue too. Yes, it's violent and graphic but why should all films be sugar-coated?  "},{"Title":"Peppy wit filled fun.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fun piece of indulgence from Greg Araki. This is the first film that  he perfects his style of filmmaking. The leap from Doom Generation to this film is quite a large one. This piece has a fun cast, vivid settings and characters with a sexy and sassy overtones. Cool ride. "},{"Title":"the feel weird movie of the year","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was great. It had all these semi famous actors in it, before they were famous, or after they peaked. Where else are Mena Suvari and Christina Applegate going to appear in the same movie. I recommend it for a date when you know the person well and you just want to laugh at the overall weirdness of this piece. ...what was with the roach? "},{"Title":"look into jon moritsugu","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that Gregg Araki is a good director and he does a good job of making fun of a group of people and sending a message, but he is not as good as Jon Moritsugu.  He is too mainstream and he isn't as funny.  If you like Gregg Araki films you will LOVE Jon Moritsugu.  But his films are much harder to find. "},{"Title":"It's grrrrreat!","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh, man I love this movie. I would have to place it as one of my top 10 all-time favorites. Anyone who's anyone makes a quest appearance. (I love the cameos by Rose McGowan and Traci Lords as valley girls.) Full of symbolism, sexy scenes (the kiss between Nathan Bexton and James Duval still has me drooling), and a wicked plot, I highly reccomend this movie to anyone. "}{"Title":"if you cant appreciate it, youre an idiot","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the movie might not have been a completely realistic social commentary, but it speaks of the pop culture in extremely few words, keeping things just realistic enough to be understandable, but also making it far enough away from the truth to be comfortable and entertaining.  the movie had a very certain style to it, but it comes across as entirely intentional.  if you think its just bad acting, youre an idiot.  the colours where incredible, the cinematography conveyed the moods well, and the camera shots were impeccable. whats the problem? the movie wasnt meant to be taken seriously. just relax and watch, man. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy about a group of US teenagers","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very funny. Pretty accurate, though obviously slightly exaggerated, representation of a generation of white middle-class teenagers in the US. We are talking about a comedy though, and not about a sociological study of teenage angst. I laughed and thought it worked. In my opinion it deserves higher ratings than the current 5.7, say 7. "},{"Title":"a complete waste of time","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  since this was the first Greg Araki movie i had seen i expected it to be strange and obscure, but i did not expect it to suck so bad!  it was just plain weird! there is absolutely no plot and no character development. nothing is clear.  there are aliens, rape, suicide, too much sex and blond valley girls getting annihlated.  the fact that araki got such a stellar cast to star in this movie is a mystery to me.  Shannen doherty, rose magowan, denise richards, mena suvari, heather graham, ryan philippe, christina applegate and many other pop-culture icons all appear, including a Brady!  i was very disapointed because i had heard many wonderful things about him.  it just goes to show that teenagers have bad taste in film now-a-days. "},{"Title":"a different kind of movie...","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  most people would look at this movie and think ok, this so isn't how teenagers are. Blah, blah, blah, etc. and they'd be right. This film is not meant to show people how teenagers are. It's meant to show what these teens are like, and they're played out to the extreme to get a point across. To make the movie more interesting, who knows? but there's a futuristic vibe to the film so maybe, what it's trying to say is this is our fate. or maybe i'm reading into it too much and it's just a no-brainer movie. But Gregg Araki has always got his wheels turning behind the scenes. So everything's gotta mean something, right? ) "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has the perfect title. It really does go nowhere! The all-star cast is the only remotely impressive thing about this film. The movie presents us with a bunch of unlikable teens who take drugs, abuse people and pretty much come off as a bunch of idiots we couldn't care less about. And along the way we are treated to some nice scenes of poeple throwing up and going to the bathroom. Thanks a lot!This was basicaly a movie that tried really hard to be an art film, but just couldn't pull it off. And what was the deal with that ending anyway? Overall, this movie was pretty much a bad acid trip on film. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Film","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I adore this piece of cinematic treasure, probably more than I should. I dyed my hair purple and sometimes use the name Lucifer. Is that too extreme? Oh well, as I was saying, this is an amazing work of art. Harmony Korine doesn't hold a candle to Gregg Araki.  "},{"Title":"nightmarish","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i began watching this movie with a much needed open mind but, i wound up being completely horrified by the movie! this movie was full of drugs,violence, violent sex, twisted pleasure scenes, and awful deaths. i almost turned my TV off when i saw one of the characters brutally murder someone and then, with blood splattered all over his face and torso, laugh, and just laugh. this movie was a nightmare! but, at the same time i must admit, it did give me some insight into a world i do not often see or don't often wish to see!p.s. if anyone has insight or ideas about the Jesus TV commercial in the movie, please feel free to contact me, i am very curious! "},{"Title":"appauling","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This alleged film, is the most ridiculous waste of money I   have EVER seen.  The plot is pointless, the dialogue banal, and being a teenager myself, I find it an insulting portrayal of my generation.  I'm all for teenage angst movies, but not when they are of this poor quality.  If this could be rated a 0 I would give it that.  The only word I can use to describe this movie is TRASH.  Complete and utter TRASH.  DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!    "},{"Title":"A desperate attempt to win over the Gen X kids","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is a sad attempt to use the trendy but taboo actions of the younger generation to make a movie with no point.  By the end you are wondering what you just saw and it simply becomes a matter of whether you really even care about what you saw or not.   "},{"Title":"Pure schlock for the feeble-minded no matter how you look at it...","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" JAMES DUVAL, looking very much like a less interesting version of Anthony Perkins, has to carry most of this schlock and, considering the script is totally inept and all of the characters are stereotypes, he does a fairly good job of holding things together. But, let's face it, it's really a mess of a film, the kind only someone tripping on acid could possibly enjoy or call a masterpiece.Just happened to catch this one on IFC (they sometimes have some great independent films), but this is from the lower tier of their product.This is the lost generation--and testament to the old saying that youth is wasted on the young. Interesting only for catching a glimpse of a few names that became popular later on--JOHN RITTER, Christina APPLEGATE, RYAN PHILLIPPE.Summing up A total waste of time. And I'll say it again--YOUTH is wasted on the young if this film is an example of Los Angeles teen-agers. "}{"Title":"Now Here!!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I quite like this.  I caught it late one night on Satellite TV, fortunately videod it, and watched it again later on.  It's kind of quirky, but how accurately it depicts US teens I'm not certain.  I'm firmly placed in the don't-take-it-too-seriously camp, unlike a lot of the other posters around here.  There acting was pretty good, but better dialogue could've helped it's young cast.  SPOILER ALERT!!! This film, along with The Craft, made me fall in love with Rachel True.  And I wasn't surprised when she dumped that poor man's Keanu dumb looking-talking dude played by James Duval.Watch it if you like the odd quirky movie with a twist at the end. "},{"Title":"Total waste of celluloid","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Terrible, terrible film. Total waste of celluloid, with no reason at all to watch the film.It's as if the makers of Beverley Hills Snores 90210 were suddenly given dramatic licence to put in lots of underage teasing and sex, and throw in some non-heterosexual sex for no good reason other than to show how cool they were and annoy the moral majority of America. To do this, they took out any semblance of plot, action, characterisation or any other reason to watch a film. And even the sex scenes weren't much cop.And then just when there was a plot point, and something interesting happened, the credits rolled! "},{"Title":"That was 90 minutes of my life I'll never get back.","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Worst movie I've ever seen in my entire life. My summary says it all, but the system requires more text in the actual comment section, so here it is. Good grief, they want a minimum of 10 lines? This movie requires but one line (that which I said in my summary). I suppose I could repeat myself 10 times, but that wouldn't be nearly good enough for the sheer hideousness of this movie. Okay, fine. I risk this being rejected from lack of significant content, but as I said previously... That was 90 minutes of my life I'll never get back. That was 90 minutes of my life I'll never get back. That was 90 minutes of my life I'll never get back.  "},{"Title":"...and that is where this movie leads to","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Araki's previous film The Doom Generation, I didn't understand it. I don't know what his approach was or his look. Instead what I saw was random crap happen all the time that just seemed to go....nowhere. Much like it's sequel of sorts, aptly titled Nowhere, which expands it's cast of characters to make them more obnoxious and stupid than ever before. I don't know if there's a vision or just a bunch of different scenes slapped together, but this really has no point. Araki may be an observer of teen life with his themes that study sex and drugs, but to really study those themes, you actually need a well written story, of which this has none of that. Instead it perpetuates stereotypes of teenagers as outrageously horny, arrogant little sob's. Don't get me wrong, a lot of them are the same things but Nowhere ends up amping that up a little too much than it should've been. "},{"Title":"Propaganda?","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The whole time I was watching this I kept thinking that there is no way someone really tried to make a fun film which just came out terrible.  I know that this sounds like a conspiracy theory, but, this film comes across as right-wing propaganda to show the evils of drugs, parties (raves), sex, homosexuality, and aliens. "},{"Title":"This what cocaine does to your brain.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" People may regard the psychedelia in this movie positively but it is really square. This movie does not embody the love that one can sometimes find at a really good rave or party. No, this is what happens when people who use ecstasy get into drugs like cocaine, ketamine, and heroin. It turns them into reptile-brained harsh negative violent losers and people who write shallow films. That's what amphetamines do, turn off the mammalian brain capable of higher-level conception and instead enhance the functions and drives of the reptilian and neo-mammalian lower brain functions.Ecstasy, conversely, helps people to attain higher levels of consciousness and to experience oneness with the universe. An intelligent person might simply benefit from the experience and then go on with life without it. Unfortunately, long term use of ecstasy, like with cocaine, causes depression. This movie is obviously the negative world view of a chemically clinically depressed amphetamine and ecstasy abuser. Apparently this mentally ill person thinks rape, murder, and suicide are cool and fun to goof on while religion is for the stupid. That's just typical of a reptilian-brained person incapable of feeling empathy with fellow humans or subtle energies.This movie does not embody the true rave aesthetic or PLUR. It is not a movie for people who live love. This is one for the morons who show up at the party just to get high. The ONDCP might want to buy it and use it for propaganda. It glorifies negativity.I feel like cleaning my brain after being exposed to this utter trash. I think I'll go to YouTube and type PLUR. "},{"Title":"I have to speak out against this film","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I didn't get what the point of the violence was (the head bashing scene was unneccesary), what was going on with that alien, and why so many celebrities signed on for such a forgetable and career-breaking film. This movie was pretentious and was just a sad attempt at art for the sake of art. Put this movie right down there with Made and Mullhouland Drive as the worst movies of all time. "}]