[{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"50 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Kull The Conqueror is cinematic cheese, and knows it.  The actors know it. The director knows it.  Certainly the person responsible for the inclusion of the constant heavy metal guitar solos know it!  Which is the best part of the film, the constant screams waaaa-wa-wa-wa-wa!!! of that heavy metal guitar, briefly punctuated by your standard grade-Z fantasy film dialogue. I laughed my arse off throughout the entire film and had a great time. Anyone who takes this film, or themselves, too seriously, will hate it. Anyone who knows how to kick back and enjoy fluff, will have a grand old time. "},{"Title":"More TV's Hercules than a cinematic swords & sorcery epic but still entertaining at the former's level","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Former slave and pirate, Kull is now a great warrior but can't seem to fit in with the army because he is one of the few who does not have noble blood. When he stands up to the King for slaying his relatives, Kull is forced to fight and kill him and, as a result, the King sees the light and passes the crown to Kull seconds before dying. The Princes don't like it and the court officials are pretty unimpressed but the law is the law and whatcha gonna do? When he starts to free slaves, treat lesser as equals and generally be a nice king, the Princes plot his removal but when assassins fail they go to a wizard to breathe life into a demon in a ginger wig in the form of a gorgeous woman.I must admit that, when I recorded this I thought that it was Krull from 1983 simply because I had misread the television guide. Never having bothered with Xena, Hercules or any of these modern swords and sorcery television series and movies that tend to clutter some cable stations in the UK because they all seemed of very low quality to me, but I still decided to watch this anyway. Perhaps it is because the lack of development and character isn't a major problem for me over 90 minutes whereas it is over a 22 week long series but I actually did enjoy this even if it just plays like an extended version of one of these shows &#150; all rock music and modern humour.The plot is very simple but is enough to allow for the basic fighting and swaggering that the audience would demand. It isn't that well written of course and simply has lots of mystical nonsense in the place of narrative while the characters could only be more one-dimensional if they had been painted onto a wall. Likewise the cast don't do a great deal but at least they seem to be having fun and at least not take it too seriously. Although I'm not about to claim he is anything other than a muscle-bound cable television actor, I was quite won over by Sorbo's charisma and good humour &#150; he makes a good lead for stuff at this sort of level. Despite being stuck in a silly red wig that does nothing for her looks, Carrere enjoys overacting in a vampy role which is good even if she has little screen time. Lombard has a plainer, less fun role but I did enjoy her and she worked well with Sorbo. The princes are quite fun, in particular Griffith and, as always, Fierstein camps in up in the way only he can. None of them are great but at least they make the film seem like a bit more fun.Overall this is not the film to come to if you don't like the genre or have standards higher that daytime television (Hercules is now a kids TV filler on channel 5 here) but if you like that sort of thing then this does just about enough to be an entertaining little bit of modern sword and sorcery in the mould of, well, everything else Sorbo has been in! "},{"Title":"Sinbad with more muscles and less charm, still not all bad","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The screenplay writer must have read Howard's book, since there are literal quotes like `By this axe I rule!', which Kull exclaims during the coronation, yet again, this movie is no serious attempt to capture the raw, barbarian spirit of Howard's heroes. `Kull the Conqueror' reminds me of `Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger' rather than `Conan the Barbarian' or `Hercules'. Exactly like Patrick Wayne, Kevin Sorbo has to sail to the Land of Ice to find a solution to his problem the evil witch threatening the once peaceful kingdom. `Kull' is nice, colourful adventure, Sinbad with more muscles and less charm, nothing special, but not as bad as some reviewers wrote, either. I'll watch it again on a rainy day. Of course, if you expected another `Conan the Barbarian', you'll be disappointed, but `Conan the Destroyer' and `Red Sonja' were no match for this masterpiece in the past, and `Kull' is at least a bit better than these two.Tia Carrere as the red-haired witch Akivasha who cannot be killed, for she is living in a fire, is brilliant. Her immediate transition from the enchanting beauty to screaming rage compares to nothing. I still didn't figure out why Sorbo chose the same profession as De Niro and Dustin Hoffman, but he's passable here. Give it a try if you like the genre.       "},{"Title":"Kevin Sorbo is Herc-Kull-es!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok ok, I know, you're not supposed to compare this movie to the Hercules series, but please, Sorbo's acting style is unchanged. Kull kills people in this movie and he's not a half-god, but that's where the differences end. This movie even has a Salmoneus-clone played (hilariously) by Harvey Fierstein. Watch it, enjoy it, but don't expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"Much confusion it would seem.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let me get one thing straight. Kull never is, never was, and never will be a relation of Conan's. He existed way before Conan. The Cimmerean's (Conan was Cimmerean) were descendants of the Atlanteans, but there does not appear to be a direct link between Kull and Conan.*phew* Glad to get that out of the way! So much for anyone who knows anything...*raises eyebrow*Anyway, Sorba is pretty much what I imagined Kull to be; not as muscled as Conan, much more wiry, and a little less Me hit thing hard with big sword (OK, Conan not think but...you get the general idea...). The film itself is done in that Hercules style, typical of American S&S at the moment, but it doesn't lose the idea of the originals. OK not as much sex involved, and certainly a lot less violence and misogyny (to a certain extent), but it stil makes for a great brainless piece of fun, much like Conan The Barbarian (I try and forget Destroyer and Red Sonja...definitely not up to scratch).The soundtrack wasn't as inspired as the Conan films (I mean metal in the Hyborian age? Please?!), and kinda took away from the flick in a way. Then again, it did come across as an extended Xena program...no bad thing.I suppose it depends on what you want out of the film. If you want to relive the early 80's S&S stuff...maybe this isn't for you. If you just want some brainless fun...sweet. Give it a try. For those, wanting a bit more, keep your eye out. Arnie has confirmed he has signed on for King Conan (or Conan 3 effectively)...could be a good return to form here!7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Eh, it's watchable","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" I like Kevin Sorbo, so I watched the film. It wasn't mentally tasking and it never set out to be. The movie was designed to be campy and it said so. You heard the rock music in the background during the trailer, so why are people so disappointed with it? I still enjoyed it for its dry wit and simplicity. It was a nice flashback to those old Conan movies. I've heard that Kull is Conan's father, and I don't know much about this character from the Conan films, but I dug him. I found him charming. The Conan movies wasn't much in the way of smart either, but people still enjoy it. I liked the combination of modern themes and music with the extremely old school nature of the film. It was like a land before time or something. Watch it if you just wanna watch something and don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Funny stuff","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" KULL is not to be taken seriously, even though it is derived from a serious book by the author of the Conan stories, Robert Howard. Kevin Hercules Sorbo plays Kull, a warrior in search of a kingdom in a time long forgotten, in a breezy, off-handed manner -- and his refusal to take his character too seriously works in favor of this low-budget quickie. The ever-delectable Tia Carrere plays a witch who plans to take over the world, and she is absolutely delicious as a supernatural villainess. The fights are clumsily staged, the sets are from hunger, but the dialog is a lot of fun and everyone would appear to be having a good time. A rainy day pick. It certainly kicks Red Sonja's butt. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fantasy Flick","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" On the scale of sword and sorcery flicks, this ranks below 'Conan The Barbarian', above the dreary 'Red Sonja', about on par with 'Conan The Destroyer'; which is to say that it's an energetic fantasy film that doesn't take itself seriously and can be a lot of fun if you let it be.Kull of Atlantis seeks to join the army of Velusia, but instead, through an unexpected turn of events, he finds himself proclaimed king of the empire instead. Holding onto his new throne will be much harder than taking it, as the blood heirs to the empire make a deal with a wizard to revive a 3000 year-old demon who seeks to kill King Kull and claim the empire for herself.'Kull the Conqueror' originally started out as 'Conan the Conqueror', but after Arnold refused to reprise the role, the script was changed to accommodate Howard's other barbarian hero, Kull. As such, much of the story is actually taken from the Conan stories ('The Hour of the Dragon' in particular). Interestingly, the first Conan movie took most of it's story material from the Kull tales. A little bit of irony for you.As for the film itself, it does enough things right to entertain; Sorbo fits Kull role perfectly (actually truer to the source character than Arnold ever was), Griffith is an effectively grim villain and Tia Carrere hams it up nicely as the evil Akiavasia. The locations and sets have a wonderfully fantasy feel to them and the assorted fight scenes are well choreographed and fast paced. Given their age, the FX and make are good without ever looking terribly real. One thing I found very enjoyable in the film was the liberal dose of humor; not lame one-liners or goofy antics, but some solid humor that compliments the scenes rather than ruining them.The biggest problem the movie has is the damn PG-13 rating; it keeps the movie from really delving into adult fantasy the way you want it too. Both 'Red Sonja' and 'Conan the Destroyer' suffered the same problem. Another issue is the generic butt-rock music that accompanies the fight scenes; the music for the rest of the film is epic and fits the period nature of the film, but the lame guitar riffs that get churned out during every fight is just annoying. Also, many of the supporting actors just aren't any damn good at acting and tend to injure many of the scenes. Lastly, the script is a little lean for an epic adventure film, clocking in at just 90 minutes, almost no time is spent getting to know the characters any better than is necessary to drive the plot.All told, this is a fun, fast, fantasy film meant to be enjoyed rather than analyzed. It makes a decent entry in the Howard film canon (the best way to watch it is part 4 of a Howard marathon; Conan 1 & 2, Red Sonja, Kull). The film made no money in theaters, which is too bad, as we aren't likely to see any more of these any time soon.Energetic, humorous, and full of action (though not without some issues), a solid sword and sorcery flick.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the movie on television yesterday evening. When I had looked into the tv magazine I saw that the movie is rather new (1997), but I had never heard of it, which means nothing good. Then I saw that Kevin Sorbo starred in it. I don't have a problem with him, but he's absolutely fixed to that Hercules-role, so I knew exactly what to expect. But it wasn't THAT bad. The plot was mediocre, but not ridiculous. The special effects weren't too good, but some looked nice. The scenery looked extremely fake from time to time, but there also were some nice backgrounds and such. It's not really a bad movie, I was not bored when I watched it. If you are a fan of such medieval settings and lower your expectations a bit it might be worth a watch.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Rock music. Fantasy realm. Cool battle scenes. Okay, not the most perfect movie in the world, but still a good movie. Kevin Sorbo plays Kull a barbarian from Atlantis. Wishing to join General Taligaro's Dragon Legion, he is rejected at first for not being noble blood. When the King decides to slaughter his entire family, so his life is not endangered later on when they challenge the throne. Kull (Sorbo) is kills the King and takes his place, as is the law. When the threat of an evil demon queen comes knocking, Kull takes one last adventure to destroy the queen who is trying to take his kingdom, while also falling in love along the way.Kull the Conqueror was actually meant to be Conan 3 (Conan the Conqueror, and was based on the first Conan story The Phoenix on the sword), but due to Arnie not wanting to reprise his role and Kevin not wanting to redo a character already played. (Note however that a Kull story entitled By This Axe I Rule is very similar to the story line of this movie, and is a more likely basis for the movie.)After all is said and done though, this fantasy movie mixed with a great soundtrack of heavy rock music, we have a superb movie made to entertain us on a rainy day. 2/2 for the actors' roles. 2/2 for the excellent scenery. 4/4 for the storyline. 2/2 for the production, directing, script and overall areas of the movie. "}{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't understand all the bad reviews for this movie. So it's not an oscar winner. BIG DEAL. It's just a fun action movie. I thought the mixture of fantasy and rock music made the movie seem more fun. Also, who couldn't enjoy a movie with Litefoot? This guy is totally awesome! I bought it recently after I saw it in theaters. Man, I could watch it for 24 hours straight and not be bored! "},{"Title":"Fun to watch because it doesn't take itself too seriously...","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Unlike the Conan movies of the 1980's which were MEANT to be taken seriously at every turn and were UNINTENTIONALLY funny, Kull never attempts to be more than what it is  an action film with a healthy dose of humor, nice effects and nicely choreographed action sequences.This isn't King Lear and it isn't meant to be.  Just sit back and have some fun. "},{"Title":"It looks like Robert E. Howard but it isn't.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" First the good news. This picture has production design worthy of Conan creator Robert E. Howard's legacy. Everything else is bad news. The script is allegedly a many version hand-me-down re-working of the never made third Conan movie, the film in which Conan would finally win the throne of Aquilonia. Instead we get Howard's backup hero (Kull) who takes the throne at the beginning of the film in an un-stirring, non-epic little battle and then loses it quickly to Witch Demon Akivasha (played to the hilt by Tia Carrere who obviously had rare fun as a bad girl). Kull then kills an hour on a very routine quest-to-find-his-right-to-rule and finally returns for the classic Howard showdown between good brawn and evil sorcery. The main problem is Kevin Sorbo, who got so good at playing Hercules in self-spoofing post-modern fashion that he simply doesn't resonate with the necessary authentic bronze age thuggishness of a Howard hero. Here was a chance to play a variation on his usual screen self and he punted it. Too bad. The set decorators captured the proper essence of Robert Howard... "},{"Title":"Great Music!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film's quality, in terms of performance, script, special effects or whatsoever is open to discussion. I did like it though. I wish there were more movies in this genre. They rarely make these sort of movies, so when I see one I try to take as much fun as I can, and try to ignore some not so good parts. If you are into this genre, and can do this, you'll enjoy it. The strongest part of this movie is, its music in my opinion. The music is by Joel Goldsmith (son of legendary Jerry Goldsmith, who is probably most familiar to us with Star Trek's music) and the work he presents is the work of an absolute genius. The music filled with thrilling male choir parts, heavy and screaming guitars and wonderful string arrangements add a real dimension and believability to the movie. Often such experimentations of heavy metal and classical music fail, and it takes a serious dedicated effort to make it sound natural and not forced. I enjoyed every bit of the score and recommend anyone to watch this movie and experience it for themselves.  "},{"Title":"This is the reason people thought the fantasy genre was dead","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a text book example of how not to do a fantasy movie.  Sorbo is wasted..and its a sad comment that the writing for his hit show Hercules is 20 times better than this dreck.  From the cheesey rock music sound track at the opening credits you realize they are not going to give the genre any respect..and great movies like Army of Darkness..can make fun of the genre while still respecting it.Kull is nearly devoid of any intentional humor.  Though you will find yourself laughing out loud at various points due to the incredibly lame dialogue and ridiculous performances.  I think this is also a film that clearly had no art direction and it offends the chronological senses even worse than Hercules and Xena to the point at which you began to think the entire thing took place in a world of cheesey movie sets instead of some time in our distant past.No effort is made to build any characters or make us care about anyone..and no one is likeable or cool enough to care about them at first sight.I'm not even sure this would be good WITH the MST3K crew riffing on it. When its not being stupid ..it just drags. "},{"Title":"good enough","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" I didn't see Kull when it first came out, not a fan of the Hercules TV show, or all the over-ironic self-parodies of the time, save Scream. But after becoming a fan of Robert E. Howard, and reading the original Kull stories, I decided to check it out.Dare I say it, I liked it better than the John Milius Conan the Barbarian. Kull the Conquerer, parodic though it was, still used more elements from the actual Kull stories, right down to character names. Taligaro, Zareta, although no Brule, maybe they were saving him for a planned sequel. Plot elements were there as well, including the famed line 'By this Axe I rule!' The characters speak in hip modern dialogue, part of the joke. Usually, this kind of thing gets on my nerves. But thinking about it, in Howard's stories characters were always articulate. In the John Milius/Oliver Stone scripted Conan movie it was apparently decided that because the characters were barbarians they...must...speak...very...slowly. At least in Kull we have complete sentences.Kull is still a very loose adaptation, but I found myself having fun during many of the fight scenes. From what I've heard, the new Conan movie in development is to be more loyal to Robert E Howard's work. I hope so. Until then, Kull, surprising as it is, will have to do. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Kull the Conqueror is nothing short of awesome! I could watch this movie over and over again and I have been. The story, acting, special effects, humor, sword fights, setting, characters, all are breathtaking. I would recommend this movie to any sword and sorcery fan. I love the heavy metal music sound track during some scenes. There is a awesome sword fight in a icy cavern which worriers are frozen by the breath of an idol god. The witch transforms into this demon, the best demon I have ever seen in a movie. This movie has it all, romance, adventure, evil, sorcery, battles, soldiers, modern day issues. Kevin Sorbo is a star. The hummor is great. My favorite line Your bride over three thousand years old. She told me she was nineteen! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought that this movie was great. It has a lot of action in it which made me want to watch more. Kevin Sorbo is great in this movie and also Tia Carrere is. The only reason I give it a 9 is because some parts of the movie were hard for me to understand. But overall it is great. "},{"Title":"Back to my Childhood!!!","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sine I was twelve years old (and now I'm thirty-eight years old)I'm a great fan of the stories of Robert E. Howard, the unforgettable creator of Conan, The Barbarian. Howard was a great storyteller and the imaginary world where he develops his stories and heroes, mainly during the Hiborian Age, has a notable charisma. This movie is based in one of the Howard's most famous heroes along with Conan Kull, the mighty Barbarian who rules over Atlantis. Maybe because of this special interest that I have for Howard's work, Kull makes me remember of the paperback books of my youth. In a critical mood, I know this movie is not a great deal. But I have to say I was tighted to the screen and had a great time watchiong this. For me, even Kevin Sorbo was good and convinced. Sorry, fellows, I'm back to my childhood!!!! (3 of five). "},{"Title":"One of my best friends played a small role in this one","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked this film and it is very funny to see some of our locals to play in an American film. Quite the entire film was done in Slovakia (the sea scenes were done in Croatia), better say it is very funny to see a big flame rising out of Devin castle which is one of our national symbols (actually I am a tourist guide in Bratislava, and sometimes I take tourists in there, it is in suburbs of our city). I remember when the long haired people were taken as background into this film. So our guitar player got a small role in this film. He was telling us funny stories about the filming. Like he was running around with a bird cage full of chickens and he accidentally hit a donkey which started to act like crazy and the people had to calm it down. Or he told like they took a local homeless man to play a role so they didn't need to make makeups then ) . Really crazy stuff. U remember the the red haired twins in the crowd. U can meet them in the streets of Bratislava very often. To the film - it is a B-film but I liked it a lot. Good Howard S&S stuff. Kevin is the real person for this role and suites him well, he is more savage type than Arnold and if U read the Howard's Kull stories U can know that he is savage and strong, which doesn't mean that he has to be Mr. Olympia. Kevin is huge man (around 2m high) and is of good muscles enough for Kull. This is no Conan. Conan was more adventurer than Kull. Kull is more a king than that. Actually there are not many stories about his life before he became a king of Valusia. He is a strong person but not only in physical strength but also in decisions and ruling (By this Axe I rule) and is despising all what is modern and civilized. Kull is a part of every man. He is our savage part, when Conan there can be only one. Thatis why I liked this character so much. The other actors were quite good for a B-film, but were just playing background to Kevin Sorbos character. "}{"Title":"Ouch!  This Is Brutally Bad","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" The only thing slick about this film is the video box cover. The movie is strictly Grade B material, although there are some nice special-effects and color to it. The lead actor is probably what gives this movie such a lower-grade feel to it. Kevin Sorbo, who has not exactly become a household name among movie actors, shows why as he plays Kull. He doesn't look and he doesn't sound like a man from the medieval ages. Only his acting is medieval!The stupid dialog didn't help him, either. The sorcery with stupid doses of political correctness made the whole thing ludicrous. The leading lady wasn't any better a broody, unlikeable Karina Lombard. You'd be better off with the horrible Steve Reeves Hercules movies of the 1950s - similar sort of thing. "},{"Title":"A sword and sorcery fantasy... or axe and sorcery actually...","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" While this movie is no Conan, it still was rather entertaining, and even more so if you enjoy the fantasy adventure genre.Story-wise, then the movie was quite stereotypical; a conflict of good versus evil, an underdog that will rise to be king against every possible odd.The story is about Kull, a former pirate slave, who happens to earn the throne and Crown to the Kingdom of Valusia. But dark things stir beneath an otherwise calm kingdom, and a wretched wizard brings back to life an ancient and long dead sorceress queen. To save the kingdom, Kull embarks upon a treacherous quest to the frozen north.The costumes and props were quite good in the movie, and really helped to bring the fantasy world to life. And I must say that I really liked the designs of the armors in Kull the Conqueror.The music was adequate. Most of the time it was suitable and fitting for a sword and sorcery fantasy movie. But there were times where the music took on a heavy metal twist, which was really awkward and misplaced.As for the cast, then I will admit that they actually put together a good ensemble of acting talents for the movie. Kevin Sorbo is cut out for the sword and sorcery genre, no doubt about it. But Tia Carrere really brought something good to the movie with her usual charm and also with her portrayal of Akivasha.If you enjoy sword and sorcery and the fantasy genre, then you should sit down to watch Kull the Conqueror, because it is an entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Kull Doesn't Conquer.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Kull the Conqueror (1997) Dir John Nicolella / Cast Kevin Sorbo, Tia Carrere, Litefoot, Thomas Ian Griffith, Roy Brocksmith Pathetic fantasy about overcoming trials, although viewers may find the trial of sitting through this embarrassing film difficult to overcome. Kull is destined to become King. His enemies raise a demon Queen from her tomb and Kull chooses her as Queen but that night he ends up in chains. He frees himself and sets out seeking destruction of his enemies. While production is fine the story is lame. Director John Nicolella is no road map either. Kull instructs people to serve any God they wish. Kull sounds like the type of warrior who would bow down to a toilet if he had to crap bad enough. Kevin Sorbo must be proud to play a character this dumb. Kull is basically a rags to riches character who falls for his foe like a naïve child coaxed into a stranger's car. Tia Carrere puts in an effort as the demon Queen who proves to be a worthy opponent to our knuckle headed hero. Litefoot was much more interesting in The Indian in the Cupboard but here he is Kull's sidekick and little else. Thomas Ian Griffith is also featured among the cast. Apparently this was suppose to be Conan the Conqueror until Arnold Schwarzenegger read the script and realized that it would conquer his career. Pointless mayhem that showcases senseless violence and a complete lack of intelligence. Score 2 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"It's entertaining.","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" If this movie were made today, it would be classified as a cheesy SyFy channel caliber fantasy movie. The story is generic, the acting is generally terrible, the sets are fun, the score is pretty silly with its hilariously bad rock segments, etc. For me this is a prime example of the old So bad it's good saying. It's a movie that has a great deal of imperfections, but still manages to entertain from beginning to end.This is a movie that clearly knows it isn't trying to be anything more than what it is. If you're a fan of the sword-and-sorcery genre, give it a try. "},{"Title":"Not exactly good, but easy to sit through","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's entertaining enough in spite of being pretty dumb, but I can't quite give it a good rating. I haven't seen much of Hercules The Legendary Journeys, but I've seen enough to know that Kevin Sorbo's performance in that show is identical to his performance as Kull. The acting is about what you'd expect it to be in a mediocre sword & sorcery flick, Harvey Fierstein is particularly amusing. The makeup and costume design is good enough (save the final expensive Halloween decoration that is Akivasha's final incarnation), but nothing to write home about. Tia Carrere is a pretty generic antagonist, and she almost exactly repeats a line from The Empire Strikes Back - I have altered our pact. Pray I don't alter it any further.Silly as the movie is, at least it doesn't drag with its 95 minute runtime, something several fantasy films in recent years are guilty of. "},{"Title":"That's how a barbarian fights.","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Around this time Kevin Sorbo was starring in the fashionably popular TV series Hercules, so I guess it was only natural that he would go on to find himself starring in this sword-and-sorcery romp that's a cheesy, water-down version of Conan the Barbarian that felt like it was made for straight-to-TV. It uses the same world brought to us through the novels of author Robert E. Howard, as this was meant to be a Conan sequel; Conan the Conqueror but was changed to Kull for Sorbo when Schwarzenegger turned down the role. Kull a lowly born barbarian inherits the throne of Valusia and becomes a real favourite of the people. However the king's sons believe the throne to be theirs and conjure up an ancient spirit of darkness to rid Kull of their kingdom. However she has plans of her own. There's some mindless fun abound and Sorbo makes for a comfortable heroine, but it somewhat plods along and is fairly unimaginative with it being limited in most aspects. Namely its use of bland visual effects. Although we do get to see Sorbo smack lips with a hideous rubber looking demon. Then throw in the beautiful ladies Karina Lombard and Tia Carrere in her seductively villainous role. Thomas Ian Griffith plays it mean and Sven-Ole Thorsen chews up the scenery in the small part he has as the king Kull inherits the kingdom from. Sorbo actually brings a considerately articulate nature to his part. Stagy sets, cheap costumes and mechanical direction. It knows what it is and doesn't try to be anything more, but it just lacks energy despite barbarian smashing, corny dialogues and howling guitar score. My whole life has been a quest. "},{"Title":"That stupid, that it gets good!","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie has enough dumbness, that it either is really bad, or that bad that it turns good.Fortunately the dumbness is a fun warrant. There is even this feeling the actors knew how cheesy this whole thing is, and played along with it, which makes it more fun.They have Kevin Sorbo in that movie, who is perfect for charikaturs of honorable heroes in the ages of swords and dragons.The chicks are awesomely how.Overall a 5/10, for the undeniable mind-hurt of stupidity and fun. The chicks, hmm, o.k. a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Oh my word","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I thought you'd have to motor in order to come up with anything cheesier than Arnie's 3 sword and sorcery outings (2 Conans and a Red Sonja), but Kevin Sorbo's Kull the Conqueror manages to do so with a minimum of trouble.To be fair, the sets and costumes are OK, and the cast give it their all. But the special effects are a bit naff, and the special effects make-up is super-naff.And the script, plot, and characterisations are not only naff, but also cheesy (and when I say cheesy, I'm talking Gorgonzola).It passes the time if you're not feeling fussy. "},{"Title":"Kull is a fun-tastic fantasy movie!","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Being a huge Robert E Howard fan, Kull the Conqueror isn't quite the literary version of the character, but all in all, it's nice seeing Robert E. Howard getting some screen time! (Conan fans, yes even Arnold's Conan barely resembles the literary version so relax a little). This movie is nowhere near as bad a some make it out to be. Kevin Sorbo, fresh from TVs Hercules fame, does a good job as the title character. The movie plays more like lite fantasy than epic fantasy, but still has some awesome moments. For some reason I love the scene at the end when Kull destroys the stone wall with the old laws written on it with his Axe. I've seen the movie probably a dozen times and it doesn't get old. Karina Lombard is gorgeous as Kull's love interest, and Tia Carrere does a fine job as the villainess. (Ironically, the Conan movie with Jason Mamoa (2011) uses the same villainess and a similar plot of resurrecting her.) Thomas Ian Griffith as Taligaro also does a good job as Kull's warrior nemesis. He should get more roles! Rounding out the cast with Litefoot as a priest of Valka and brother of the love interest, and you have a quest plot that resembles something like Jason and the Argonauts. Sit back, relax, and enjoy the action and the humor of Kull the Conqueror! By this Axe I rule! "},{"Title":"An awful turd","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Some films are mediocre, some films are bad, but still other films are so misconceived and poorly executed that the film-makers should be embarrassed of themselves. Kull is exactly that film, and it's more fun to laugh at its unintentional idiocy than to make any attempt to take it seriously as fantasy. At any rate the film-makers also took care of that possibility by filling the sorry affair with so much contemporary humor in a pathetic attempt to imitate the formula of the Hercules TV show that starred the same actor who appears in this film, Kevin Sorbo.It didn't have to be this way. King Kull is one of the more interesting characters created by the legendary 1930s pulp writer Robert E. Howard, famous for Conan. Howard's writing has been mostly insulted and degraded by these film versions -- but this one is so awful it makes Conan the Destroyer look like Lord of the Rings. It makes Red Sonja look like Jason and the Argonauts. And it makes Conan the Barbarian look like Citizen Kane. I actually paid to see this in the theater because I'm such a big Robert Howard fan. It was so disappointing that I had to give it a spin on DVD just to see if it could really be as bad as I remembered it. It's far worse than any memory can convey. Right away, you have probably the worst music I've ever heard in a film, a combination of mock-Wagner and mock-Megadeth. Electric guitars on the soundtrack are an especially poor harbinger for a film supposedly set in ancient history. Then you start to notice that all the characters look like roadies for Spinal Tap, and the main villain dude has a mullet that would make Billy Ray Cyrus jealous. So maybe it all makes sense in a twisted way... apparently this was a demographic they were shooting for; perhaps they even advertised this film on WWF smack-down.There's no getting around what limits the movie the most -- basically the entire cast is wrong and incompetent. Kevin Sorbo always seems like a nice guy, and little else. He's all wrong to play a sadistic barbarian, but the film-makers have solved that problem by removing all traces of Kull's personality and all signs that he was created by Robert Howard, or you could say all signs that he was created by anyone other than a market research survey group. He's polite, soft-spoken, respectful of women, and he wants to free all the slaves. He's a hero -- a character who has no business in a Robert Howard story. Just once I'd like to see this great writer's stories rendered in a way that isn't just to turn all the characters into generic knights in shining armor. Doing that to his world and his characters is like making a Disney movie about the Donner Party. I can understand why a lot of people look down on writing like his, because they assume it's actually junk like this movie.It doesn't stop there, but I get too tired of thinking about it to go on. Sorbo is the least of our worries in the cast actually, considering that Harvey Fierstein is painfully hammy (and his character seems modeled on a dull character from the TV show), and the director seems to have thought it was a good idea to give all the heavy acting scenes to Tia Carrere. Her misbegotten performance lends the movie most of its laugh factor. This movie is cheap and ugly looking -- I would guess that they spent more money on the lame Merlin miniseries in the 90s than they did on this movie which was foisted on theater audiences. Not only that, but the director has no taste and no talent for cinema at all. Everything is shot in a bland and generic way so that none of it seems infused with any kind of power or majesty. Whatever the faults of Milius' original Conan film, and there are many, at the very least he attempted to get the dark atmosphere of Howard's world right and to convey some fraction of the characters' fatalism. Unless the new Solomon Kane film is a huge surprise, it will be the only example of somebody even attempting something different of this type in a fantasy movie for a long time. "}{"Title":"i wasn't too impressed with this","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" i wasn't too impressed with this movie.it is in the style of both the Conan movies,but i didn't like it anywhere near as much.there was lots of action,but i still found it to be slow and boring.it becomes a bit more interesting from the halfway point on,but barely.i didn't find the acting very good,although Kevin Sorbo was good as the title character.but it was Tia Carrere who i thought was very impressive as the evil Queen.however,the only real reason i stuck it out was i noticed that the beginning credits listed Harvey Fierstein in the movie.he doesn't show up until about halfway through,but i liked him in his role.otherwise,the movie is tedious and very hard to get through.for me,Kull the Conqueror is a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Kull The Conqueror","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" A barbarian named Kull unexpectedly becomes a king after an old king (unexpectedly goes insane and tries to kill every one, mainly his heirs and the only way he is stopped is by being killed by Kull) gives his crown to him, mainly he does this to spite the remaining heirs. But the remaining heirs of the king are jealous, and try to topple Kull, so they can regain the throne for themselves. They do so by bringing an old demon witch-queen; Akivasha back to life. Their plan backfires, however, as Akivasha plans to raise her old kingdom which she and the demons of (as I get it) hell once ruled over. The only thing that can stop her now is the breath of the God Volka. "},{"Title":"'Conan 3 The Conqueror","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am aware that Robert E. Howard created all three 'characters,' CONAN, RED SONYA, and KULL. However, if you research deep into the making of KULLThe Conqueror,the movie, not the character, you might be surprised to discovered references to 'CONAN, and how this movie was Originally supposed to be the third chapter in the CONAN-Movie Series. However, after many years of waiting for 'Arnold S. to wear/put on the wig and carry on the sword, they rewrote the story for Kevin Sorbo to carry the torch.  "},{"Title":"Sure it's a Conan rip off, but it's still fun.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While I've seen just about every fantasy, action, and sci-fi movie ever made, and I realize this is just a rehashing of plot from a dozen or so other films(including Conan the barbarian), I still found it quite enjoyable. While it is no masterpiece, it is at least as good as the best of the Hercules series that Sorbo(kull) does. Some people just don't appreciate the cheesy movie. If you do, then you will enjoy this film as much as I did. If you have seen Hercules and you like it, you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Decent Conan-like movie. Better than Conan the Destroyer.","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The plot actually makes some sense. They don't take themselves too seriously. Kevin as Kull is a little darker than Hercules, but of the same mold. Tia Carrere makes the best bad girl. Decent effects, plot and characters. Any Hercules fan will like this one. "},{"Title":"This was a fun movie!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed every minute of this tongue-in-cheek spoof of the Hercules genre. I think Kevin Sorbo had some pretty good comedic timing and Tia Carrera seems to have inherited her mother's talent for playing the sadist type with humor, as in Never Say Never, Again. All in all it was fun to watch.  "},{"Title":"Whats so bad with this?","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I dont understand such bad reviews of this movie.I rented it a few days ago just to see how bad it was and i was surprised.Nothing worth mentioning,but nothing worth butchering either.I think Sorbo is a good enough actor for his kind of films and Tia Carrere...well she's worth watching even if she isnt among the best actresses today.She looks interesting with light hair.So,i would say this deserves at least 4 out of 10.If you are absolutely bored,this cant hurt to watch.Didnt hurt me. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in the sword-and-sorcery genre","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I felt a strong urge to write a comment of my own when I read the other reviews about this movie. In my opinion, you are rating this movie way too harsh. I had a GREAT time watching it, and I think it's one of the better movies I have seen in a while. I dare to go so far as to say I liked it better than the Conan-movies. I think it had beautiful sets, lighting, music (if you are into big, orchestral powermetal) and special effects, and a plot good enough for this genre of movies (i.e. not too complicated). I agree there are flaws in it, for instance It's hard to imagine a barbarian being so EXTREMELY courteous to women as Kull, and I think Kevin Sorbo was not muscled enough to play a barbarian (especially when thinking of Arnold Schwarzenegger). But if you like sword-and-sorcery movies, then this is one of the best in the genre. "},{"Title":"There should be public apologies for films like this","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My Dear. What has happened here. I am one of the greatest fans of Sword & Sorcery films ever (I can enjoy almost all of them). I have seen all the sword and sorcery films I can. I even liked Wizards of the Lost Kingdom! ALOT! But this movie was a complete waste of my time. I bought it for $2.00 at a local video sale and after watching I felt ripped off (and went out and sold it) The main reason for me getting it was that the script was by Charles Edward Pogue, a man who I have alot of respect for after The Fly and Psycho 3 But I could'nt see a trace of his usual good work here. Was it producer interference??? I wont bother with the plot or the acting or lighting and direction except to say that they are all terrible. This feels like a movie done by a bad commercials director (e.g No understanding of narrative or character). But I guess what I find most objectionable about this film is that there was no entertainment value or originality whatsoever. Even in some of the very worst films there can be weird or inventive or hilarious sequences just due to experimentation. But there was nothing here. Im sorry to be so critical but really please avoid. "},{"Title":"so bad, but so fun to watch, it'll leave you in guilty stitches","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  You almost feel bad for laughing at it, but with this sort of movie, that's kind of the idea. The acting is barely par (if that), the plot is just plain silly, the dialogue is right down there with *******, and the characterization is so typical of the genre that it's sad. I LOVED it! One of the first big name barbarian movies in quite a while, it's based on a series of books written by the same poor sod who did the Conan series about 60 yrs back (in the 30's, I think). It's stupid, but hilariously so, and makes you just sit back and have fun with it. Plus, it's got Sorbo for the ladies, and Tia for us guys. If you're in to the whole barbarian genre, or you just like watching bad movies for fun, you'll love it, and have fun watching it (great special effects). If not, avoid it like the plague. "}{"Title":"Just watch Hercules The Legendary Journeys","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Back in the 1990s, there was a syndicated TV show called Hercules The Legendary Journeys. It starred Kevin Sorbo as the demi-god and followed the light hearted adventures of the son of Zeus as he and various companions wandered through the world of ancient myth, punching evil in the face. The shows blend of action, humor and moral earnestness was so popular it spawned a companion series called Xena Warrior Princess. Unfortunately, it also shaped this sub-mediocre entry into the sword-n-sorcery genre.Kull is another creation of Robert E. Howard, the mind behind Conan the Barbarian. Kull is also a barbarian, but one who lands on the throne of the kingdom of Valusia. In Howard's short stories, Kull must defend his land from external enemies and his crown from treasonous nobles. This movie has only the barest of those details in common with Howard's writing, and I'm not sure why they bothered. Kull the Conqueror has very little to do with the spirit or substance of Robert E. Howard. It's basically a more generic and inferior version of Conan the Destroyer, which was itself a huge step down from the original Conan the Barbarian.The first half of the film deals with Kull's (Kevin Sorbo) ascension to the throne and the plotting nobles led by General Taligaro (Thomas Ian Griffith). Kull meets a beautiful fortune teller (Katrina Lombard) and the nobles enlist the help of a wizard (Edward Tudor-Pole) to resurrect an ancient demon queen (Tia Carrera). His enemies seemingly kill Kull, but then he turns up fine and teams up with the fortune teller and her priestly brother (Litefoot) as the story becomes the exact same sort of quest we've seen a jillion times before in these films.The first thing to know about Kull the Conqueror is that is has a cringingly bad hair metal soundtrack. The overblown guitar riffs here make the soundtrack of Ladyhawke seem like the greatest music ever made. The second thing to know about this movie is that all the action and comedy are virtually identical in tone to Hercules The Legendary Journeys, except dumber and without much of a moral center. That vacuousness joins hands with a grating sense of modernity in everything the characters do and say to create a doubly anachronistic feeling. This thing comes off like a lame 80s action movie playing dress up. The third thing to know is that Sorbo gives the best performance by far with an indifferent version of the same exact stuff he did as Hercules.All I can say about Kull the Conqueror is that it won't make your eyes bleed. There's nothing here that could even be charitably described as good, but you won't feel like you completely wasted your time if you watch it. "},{"Title":"Not a truly bad film but lacks the quality that Schwartzenegger could have brought to it.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" I tend to come down from my enjoyment of classical films on occasion to watch films in this sword and sorcery genre. I greatly enjoyed the first two Conan films, mostly because Arnold Schwartzenegger gave the right feel to the character of Conan. I was aggrieved and feel that he made great mistake in turning down further roles as that character, which might have been created just for him. Kevin Sorbo is well...too 1980s-1990s for the character he plays here, and I have been offended in the trend of turning legendary fantasy characters into the California surfer dude kind of creature that exists today. The one bright light in all of this is the always hilarious and way over the top Harvey Firestein as Juba. He always adds a new dimension to every film project that he is a part of. The kind of scripts that these films have are absurd to begin with. If the actors cannot immerse themselves in the characters they are playing, as was the case in this film, then it comes off as a little more than slightly ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Alright but not great","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" In the very beginning of the movie, Kull (Hercules) is attempting to join an army, but fails. This is odd, because he seems to be a foreigner since he seems to know nothing of the local culture. Therefore, why would he try to join an army of a country he's never heard of? The King has gone mad and is killing all his sons, and Kull stops him by killing him. The army I already mentioned were all made up of men of royal blood (I.e. the King's relatives) so, since all the Kings direct heirs are dead, there is some confusion as to which one of the soldiers is the rightful heir. It's most likely one of two of the soldiers, and of course they themselves are somewhat bias as to which one it is. However, the King, with his dying breath, decrees that Kull is the next King.And that's the first three minutes of the movie. (Or might have even been the first MINUTE).This is basically a low-budget sword-and-sorcery movie. The culture isn't established enough, Nothing's really explained about Kull's motives other than liking axes and not liking slavery, and basically the whole movie is alright but not great. See this movie if you just wanna see some low-budget sword-and-sorcery, or if you like to watch movies for the purpose of laughing at them. If you like GOOD movies, I suggest Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deliver on it's promises.","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Viewed 28.3.05.I know nothing of the literary provenance of this movie, Sword n Sorcery not being my thing. But I do have the necessary ability to switch off reality and overlook the silliness of all the made-up names and fake mythology. This particular foray seemed glossy, glamorous and to promise much.Especially when the wizard shows us the cave full of ancient mummies of dead demons that one imagines are going to come back to life later on. For a starter he resurrects the boss-witch who passes through some great metamorphoses before wisely settling on the form of Tia Carrera. as ever, ineffably gorgeous dominatrix diva. Alas, she didn't get to torment men much and that orange hair-do was a total distraction.Lot of scrapping, well choreographed but not my cup of tea, passing by way of an ice-God's magic breath to a fiery showdown. Then I realise, where are the demons? Mashabasha or whatever her name was had kept harpy-ing on about her Hellish court on Earth but she just didn't deliver. a pity, because the static mummy-dummies in the cave looked very promising.There is one ape-man-thing in a very minor role. Not even a villain, so much as an incidental character.Maybe they mis-spent the special effects budget putting demons off the carte.Is Kull meant to sound like Cull, as in, killing surplus livestock? "},{"Title":"Hey, Hercules is on....no....whats this?","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, I didn't really expect much from this film but I found myself watching it all the way through. The whole feel of the film is a culmination of a typical Conan rip-off and the Hercules TV series that Kevin Sorbo starred in, and as much as he tries old Kev will always be Hercules. Though I have to say, there are a few features to this film that rescue it to just above watchable. Number one being the soundtrack, not only is there the typical orchestral score behind every dramatic scene and/or plot revelation but we are actually treated to some rock music during the occasional fight scenes. Now, being a man who believes that the soundtrack is integral to any great movie (Come on, you all remember the theme/soundtrack to all your favourite films) I felt uplifted to hear some heavy guitar music over the fights. What a great idea, it works well and I wish we'd hear more of it in bigger Hollywood productions. But on to the rest of the film. Performances - average to just above average. A little disappointed with Tia Carrere but to be honest I doubt there was much more she could have done in the role. Maybe someone else would have been better for the job. Everyone else was OK except for Thomas Ian Griffith who absolutely blew me away. To start I was kind of annoyed with his character but as he got more and more evil I found his time on screen to be entertaining. His lines and performance were delivered perfectly, best performance in the film. There were some OK-to-low scale special effects in this but nothing that can't be forgiven on something of this calibre. Most of the fight scenes I found to be very entertaining making you follow each swing of the blade/axe, and they were carried through the film by the rock music I mentioned earlier. Better fights that I expected. Lastly but not least, even for a fantasy film the costumes were just bizarre and I think I should leave it there. The less said about them the better.Overall, a surprisingly entertaining movie but I wouldn't recommend you to go out and buy it unless you are a fantasy junkie or really enjoy seeing Kevin Sorbo on screen a lot. "},{"Title":"He ain't no Conan","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like most reviews in this file I agree that this film is basically Hercules with Sorbo using another name but not really changing the character.  He starts the film as a barbarian for Atlantis and not 5 minutes later he's righting the political wrongs of the world like slavery.  I'm sure most of your everyday barbarians wouldn't turn down a harem of women and get rid of all the forced help.  The film has its good parts (not great and their far between).  Some effects are better then you'd see on TV but their placed next to a scene with a bad effect.   The soundtrack even mixes in rock music for the fight scenes.  People, this is the reason Ladyhawke isn't remembered in a very positive light.Some research of mine indicates that this script was written quite a few years as the third Conan film.  Arnold didn't want to do another one so it was shelved until some bone head thought they could re-tool it and make some money.  Maybe they should have let it gather some more dust.  "},{"Title":"Cheese, cheese and more cheese","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you're a fan of the original stories, you will not enjoy this movie. If you're looking for something to make fun of on a dull night, this one's for you!Kevin Sorbo plays Hercules, only they keep calling him Kull.  The sets, extras and special effects are leftovers from Hercules & Xena.  Everybody wears a curtain.  There's a plot in there somewhere, but you'll forget it before the tape rewinds.  Did I mention everybody is wearing curtains?  "},{"Title":"Robert E. Howard must be turning in his grave","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why!!! It has to be illegal to do this with one of Robert E. Howards characters. This movie is totally crappy. It's even too bad to laugh at. Do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is so stupid and senseless, I could not stop laughing at it's mediocrity!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie twice, and both times I just sat there and wondered why they even put this movie in to production.  It's totally a brute force type movie with tiny bits of emotion, and Kevin Sorbo is not a great actor, he's just strong and has a good voice.  Tia Carrere (who is Miss I-have-no-career-since-I-am-no-longer-in-Wayne's_World) does not give a very good performance either, and is not good for a mean bitchy character.  The movie is so typical of most action movies these days, and the only thing that sets it apart from those is that it is set back in time.  Kull the Conqueror is a wannabe movie of Hercules.  I'm guessing they didn't have the rights to make a Hercules movie, so they took the same premise of sorts (big strong guy kicks the crap outta bad guys in medieval times) and made this awful movie.  I just laughed at it's mediocrity.  The lines are so typical, and so are the fights.  I give this movie a 4, only because the special effects weren't too bad. "},{"Title":"Hercules, Is That You?","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"      I've never been a fan of the Conan pictures or it's rip-offs, but this movie does hold my interest. Maybe it's because Tia Carrera looks sexier than she's ever been, but the script and plot are a bit hard to follow and Kull seems to be more of a big budget Hercules. Sorbo has been playing a good guy so much he can't really pull off Kull without thinking he's really Hercules. Litefoot is in this movie, but in a really wasted role who does nothing much than act as a glorified tagalong; this is not up to the man's talent and heritage. He was much better in The Indian in the Cupboard. Harvey Fierstein has a bit part in this that he shouldn't have gotten; he can do comedy, but not action. I gave this movie a seven for it's production values, but it is not quite a ten. "}{"Title":"PLENTY OF SWORD AND NO LITTLE SORCERY.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The merchants of woe are at it again and nearly every one badmouths KULL. They are wrong as usual;this is a fun ninety minutes of anyone's time and is packed with action and good if not wonderful special effects.If anyone ever deserved a crack at big time stardom it is the personable Kevin Sorbo who does all that is expected of him here.The movie was not a success and at present it seems that Sorbo will main primarily a TV star.He has nothing to be ashamed of here and it is only to be expected that those who flock to see STAR WARS movies and their silly torch waving fight sequences wouldn't recognize a good sword and sorcery flick if it hit them in the face.I did recognize one,it was KULL and I would choose this over THE PHANTOM MENACE every time. "},{"Title":"Your bride is over 3,000 years old - She said she was 19! Not too bad actually.","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Kull the Conqeror begins with the following on screen text accompanied by a narration at the dawn of time the world was covered in flames and demons ruled over men. It was the time of Akivasha Sorceress Queen of Acheron. A Kingdom of Hell on Earth. Then the great God Valka destroyed Akivasha's evil empire, but left a single flame of Acheron to burn for all eternity. From the ashes of Ancienet Acheron rose the great Kingdom of Valusia, where the flame still burns as a reminder of Godless times. After some bad rock music & the opening credits we are introduced to Kull of Atlantis (Kevin Sorbo), he is being put through his paces by General Taligaro (Thomas Ian Griffith) with the possibility of Kull joining the Dragon Leigon, whom are lead by Taligaro. After some fancy sword fighting with flaming blades a message is delivered to Taligaro. It turns out that King Borna (Sven-Ole Thorsen) has gone mad & slaughtered all of his heirs to the throne. Everyone rushes over to the Castle & in a fight Kull kills the King, in self defence of course. Before he dies the King gives Kull his crown which automatically makes Kull the next King of Valusia. However, the dead king's two sons & General Taligaro aren't happy about it. After some rather mundane attempts to kill Kull fail an evil wizard named Enaros (Edward Tudor-Pole) resurrects the ancient evil Sorceress Akivasha (Tia Carrere). Akivasha introduces herself to Kull & within a few minutes they are both to be married. Akivasha plans to kill Kull after they are married, rule the Kingdom herself & generally do evil things to pass the time of day. Kull has other ideas & along with a fortune teller named Zareta (Karina Lombard) & her brother Ascalante (Litefoot) sets off on-board a ship to find the 'Breath of Vulca' which can put the evil flame out, or something like that anyway. Will they make it & put an end to Akivasha's dark magic once & for all? Directed by John Nicolella, who died about a year after Kull was released, I thought it was a decent enough way to waste 90 minutes. The script by Charles Edward Pogue, based on characters and worlds created by Robert E. Howard, is all rather brainless & predictable but after a slightly slow start moves at a fair pace. Kull is portrayed as a nice guy who doesn't have unconsensual sex with women, lets people worship whatever Gods they please & abolishes slavery, wow what a guy! The script has a bit of comedy thrown in, some one-liners & a farting camel come to mind. Generally speaking it's quite lighthearted & the fight sequences are extremely tame & feature no blood, gore or violence that would worry anyone these days. Even the inevitable sex scene is tastefully done so not to reveal any naked flesh. Kevin Sorbo as Kull is rather one dimensional but then again Sorbo ain't going to win any Oscar's anytime soon is he? We should be grateful for what we get I suppose. The delicious Tia Carrere as the villain is criminally underused throughout, she just sort of stands around for the majority of the film & tries to look, act & sound evil talking about taking over the world & other such nonsense. A waste of a fine looking lady methinks! Everyone else is acceptable I guess, but also rather forgettable too. Overall Kull the Conqueror is quite well made & on a technical level is fine. Except the special effects which range from OK to awful, bad CGI just looks so cheap & nasty! There are not enough monsters in it either, just two. To be fair Kull the Conqueror is the type of film that is perfectly suited to a lazy Saturday afternoon when you've got nothing better to do for an hour or so, just don't expect too much & you might gain some entertainment from it. "},{"Title":"pathetic tripe which can't even be appreciated as camp.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  the acting is atrocious, which is fine. the story is a rehash of every barbarian flick ever inspired by r. howard fine. the real problem is huge holes in the story, uninvolving characters, boring 'action' sequences and an absolutely pathetic retro 80's glam rock score, which would be fine if the movie was kitsche, or could be appreciated as camp. camp would entail some sort of emotional responce to the film i.e. that was so bad it was funny! this is just pure drivel. as the previous reviewer indicated, this is a boring movie, which is the cardinal crime of narrative filmmaking. the opening sequence looks like a rip-off of the video for 'rock you', by the london ontario based crap-rock 80's band Helix. niiiiiiiiice. "},{"Title":"80's D&D cheeze nearly 2 decades late!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie exemplified everything that *should* have been in the 80's Sword & Sorcery flicks.  The heavy metal soundtrack, the anachronistic one-liners and non-pretentious cast make this a film that, unlike its predecessors, doesn't take itself seriously and doesn't ask that the audience take it seriously. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I particularly enjoy fantasy type of films that are set in medieval times and these films are so rare in todays market, that I forced myself to enjoy this one. It's not really bad and I love the performers individually but something just doesn't quite happen with this one. The effects are OK, the soundtrack is very good (very interesting heavy metal & orchestration) and reflects the mood pretty good. But overall, the films is definitely very far from where it could be ( "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, unless you like Xena Warrior Princess","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this movie JUST to make fun of it... and mock it I did. This movie didn't even show signs of excitement or good special effects. It was like a very long episode of Xena Warrior princess, with all the bad acting and computer effects to go with it.  "},{"Title":"Most Laughable Turkey Of The Year","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I never had such a good time making fun of a movie until this feature-length Hercules episode came along. Everything seemed to have been fished from the bottom drawer lame flaming swords (gosh, could those be their attempts at light-sabres?), scrap-metal artifacts, second-rate hell-beasts, and an ensemble of clowns. All thrown in with that wannabe fantasy-epic intro. My friend  and I were left with eyes watering and bellies aching from almost non-stop laughter. One of those flicks which are so bad they're actually good. "},{"Title":"A really bad movie","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Bad acting all around.  Bad fight choreography.  General contempt for consistency and logic.  Two references to Star Wars which don't deserve to be called homage (more like ham-handed rip-off); see if you can spot 'em. Bad script.  Senseless mediocre mismashed plotting.  Tinfoil special effects.  Everyone is too clean.  (It's the medieval age for crying out loud!)  Hero is never in any danger, never really has to do anything, everything falls into his lap.  Badly-ported cliches up the yin-yang.  Too many acteur extras.  Connect-the-dots emotional displays.  Kevin Sorbo. Need I go on?  "},{"Title":"Stick with Hercules","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an avid fan of fantasy and adventure, I had extremely high hopes for Kull. I went in, with the thoughts of Willow (Arguably the best fantasy film ever made), and discovered two things. One, the theatre charged way too much for crappy movies and two, the movie's horrible. Kevin Sorbo plays Kull of Atlantis who joins a noble army and ends being King and also ends up being part of an intricate plot to revive some ancient demoness. I read somewhere that Kull, before its release, was edited countless times from a new director. Well that basically destoys the movie. There were more holes in the plot then there are in the Moon and none of the characters really develops in the movie. Tia plays an unconvincing villain, with little depth, and with cliche lines. The rest of the cast just drags along with the boring and overused plot. The only redeeming quality of the film are its sets. Otherwise I would give it a 1. The movie more than deserves my 3 rating. "},{"Title":"Scrapes the bottom of the barrel of stupidity","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *minor spoilers*This movie is heinous beyond words and expression. Sure, no one is expecting Citizen Kane, or maybe even another Conan, but this is supposed to be entertaining with swords and magic. We have plenty of cartoon characters running at each other with swords, but absolutely zero entertainment to speak of. The dialogue is atrocious and hilarious together. When it tries to be serious, forcing cartoons like Sorbo and Tia to act, it becomes comical and humorous. This is actually good fodder for MST3K. Too bad they don't exist anymore.The story was basically written by a group of kindergarten kids. Big evil person wants to takeover the world. Enter reluctant hero who happens to dig heavy metal and rock. That pretty much sums up Kull the Conqueror, heh.If you really want to laugh with your friends, by all means watch this.1/10 "}{"Title":"Kull isn't Hercules? No sh**!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had SO much hope and hype over this film. Watching it finally nearly drove me to suicide. What in the name of the planets is this? I thought they were playing some kind of 80 minutes episode of a parody of Hercules. The plot of the film is absurd. Some unknown barbarian who hails from Atlantis (yes, Atlantis of all places) tries to join a noblemen's army, gets rejected and humiliated, and ends up being their King because the dying King thinks its comical that a barbarian should take a crack at it? We get to see the real Kull now after he gets the crown. The typical and oh so unoriginal hero who has no flaws, treats women with respect, thinks there should be no slavery and he makes it a point, and gives an occassional grunt to remind he is after all under all that heroic visage, a barbarian. Gimmie a break. The dialogue is hilarious when the movie builds. Some good moments when Herc.. I mean Kull insists there is no Island of whatever the frozen wastelands is and Ascalante with a quick retort, yes there is! Or, the excitement and the adrenaline building up in your body watching Kull clumsily trying to escape from the guards and mouthing the infamous word, S**t. Needless to say, when any of the characters begins to talk, it kills them right there.  "},{"Title":"Blatant rip-off of the Conan franchise.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Television's Hercules (Kevin Sorbo), makes his feature film debut in Kull The Conqueror. One has to wonder how a film so terrible could even be put into production. However, when the film was made back in 1997, Hercules was still a popular television show, there must lie the answer to this film being made.Kull is a barbarian, who becomes king of a mythical land after he kills the real king. This in itself is extremely stupid. The king himself hands the crown over to Kull, just before dying. Who in their right mind would give someone so much power for killing him? Makes absolutely no sense. Jealously brews through the kings real heirs, and they invoke the evil demon queen (played by Tia Carrere), to help them get rid of the barbarian king.I have always been a fan of fantasy films and stories, however, this one is just plain bad. It is a complete and total rip off of the far superior Conan franchise. The special effects in the film are not even B movie quality, and the acting is just terrible. Not even having a good looking woman such as Tia Carrere in the film can help out the cause.And let us not forget the soundtrack! How in the name of God can you put a hard rock soundtrack to a fantasy film? The pulsating guitars just do not work in this film. And to think that I love heavy metal music!The only plus that I can give to this movie, is choosing the beautiful coastal region of Croatia to be used in the sea sequences.Do not bother with this laughable film when there are true fantasy films out there. Rent yourself the Conan films, or better yet, go to the theatre and see Lord of the Rings. These films will show you how a real fantasy film should be made. "},{"Title":"So bad even a tiger from Atlantis wouldn't eat it.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Perhaps people who are fans of the Hercules/Xena/Queen of Swords line of TV shows will be able to sit through this. I only did to see if there was any way the movie would redeem itself. It didn't.My first complaint is simply that the screenwriters/director/producer seem to think they are better storytellers than R.E. Howard - they aren't. Howard was a legend from the pulp era, and any of his characters and settings can stand alone without modern tinkering for plot.My second complaint is in the dialogue and the execution of the dialogue. No one involved in making this movie seems to have heard of having their actors deliver their lines with any sort of cadence. They all sound like bored airline ticket agents. The characters also all speak in a modern dialect, with contractions and words that would have no place in 20,000 BC. Even the opening voice-over is lousy. In this they follow in the footsteps of the TV shows, which also take bad teen melodrama dialogue into the sword and sorcery genre. "},{"Title":"So, so, so ba-a-a-a-d","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Where on earth did Kevin Sorbo come from? He's better in Andromeda, but not much. Why, why would anyone cast him in any heroic role? He's nasally, dull and has a Midwestern accent absolutely identical in everything he does. And that can NOT be his real body - which would at least explain why he can't act. He's at Gold's gym night and day. Tia Carrere, however, is so beautiful, and so understated as the seductress - really, it's almost worth the agony just to see her in her pale blue gown. Anyhow, for god's sake don't rent this. I'm just stuck with it on the Sci-fi channel. Battlestar Galactica, here I come! I'm not even sure I can get 10 lines out talking about this. Have I made it yet? "},{"Title":"Rather Average For Its Genre","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" Sword and sorcery is a genre that never rarely gets pass marks from voters at the IMDb . Ironically enough the only movie I recall topping the IMDb top 250 movie chart is LOTRFELLOWSHIP OF THE RINGS and maybe this is where the problem lies in that Jackson's vision of the Tolkien story urinates upon the worthless pretenders like HAWK THE SLAYER and BEASTMASTER . KULL THE CONQUEROR is another movie that suffers in comparison What Jackson did - And the reason his trilogy was so successful - was make a totally Anglophile story where you can believe the characters are of one ethnic group / culture . With KULL THE CONQUEROR like so many American produced movies we see people who are supposedly of the same tribe speak with entirely different accents and in some cases are of obviously different racial groups . Now let me just say I'm not being racist in pointing this out I'm just stating that there's a total lack of internal continuity involved . For example we're introduced to several characters at the start of the movie who all have American accents then we're introduced to more some of whom have obviously American accents and some of them have obviously English/ British accents and these accents really jar . I also noticed that the villainess has a Japanese sounding name and is played by an Asiatic actress but then the hero's right hand man is also Asian looking . Would this multicultural ying and yang be caused by not wanting to upset an American studio that's been bought by the Japanese ? Anyway even if you ignore this lack of continuity / logic then you won't be be able to ignore the soundtrack . Yeah what every movie set in ancient times doesn't need is a heavy metal soundtrack . We had a disco soundtrack for HAWK THE SLAYER and we've got a heavy metal soundtrack for this . Why ? Your guess is as good as mine and thankfully when Howard Shore scored LORD OF THE RINGS he didn't feel the need to out do Michael Jackson on the cheesy pop dirge . The music heard in this movie belongs at a mid 80s rock concert and is really quite intrusive Despite the drawbacks ( Perhaps I'm taking things too seriously ) the story is a familiar one of  Commoner is made king and his pure bred rivals want the throne  and is entertaining enough though perhaps a little too episodic for its own good . One thing I will congratulate the movie on is that it doesn't look like it was filmed on Hollywood like the BEASTMASTER movies or ARMY OF DARKNESS were and the ending is rather scary as far as demonic monsters go "},{"Title":"A sad day for fans of the genre","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Anyone who knows anything about the history of Conan the Barbarian knows that Kull is supposed to have been his relative, father in fact if I am correct, Kull in this film is the anti-thesis of what Conan was. The worlds and characters are from the same stories/writer that gave us Conan the Barbarian, Conan the Destroyer, and Red Sonja. This movie pales in comparison to those films, there is no doom feel, there is no hero with a bad side, there is no mythical atmosphere (well there is if you could call it that) or developed characters, most importantly (and what distressed me the most as I was thinking it would look like the other films) there was no blood. I repeat, I've watched this movie several times and to my dismay there was no blood, no graphic slashes from a sword, no nothing. It was a sugar coated fantasy designed not for the more mature audiences of the other films but for the little bitty children. If they had stuck to the orignals this film would have been extremely better, instead you've got a main character whose son would kill him and not only not be sad about it, but would do it within a matter of seconds. "},{"Title":"Kull isn't Hercules? No sh**!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had SO much hope and hype over this film. Watching it finally nearly drove me to suicide. What in the name of the planets is this? I thought they were playing some kind of 80 minutes episode of a parody of Hercules. The plot of the film is absurd. Some unknown barbarian who hails from Atlantis (yes, Atlantis of all places) tries to join a noblemen's army, gets rejected and humiliated, and ends up being their King because the dying King thinks its comical that a barbarian should take a crack at it? We get to see the real Kull now after he gets the crown. The typical and oh so unoriginal hero who has no flaws, treats women with respect, thinks there should be no slavery and he makes it a point, and gives an occassional grunt to remind he is after all under all that heroic visage, a barbarian. Gimmie a break. The dialogue is hilarious when the movie builds. Some good moments when Herc.. I mean Kull insists there is no Island of whatever the frozen wastelands is and Ascalante with a quick retort, yes there is! Or, the excitement and the adrenaline building up in your body watching Kull clumsily trying to escape from the guards and mouthing the infamous word, S**t. Needless to say, when any of the characters begins to talk, it kills them right there.  "},{"Title":"What A Stupid Movie","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" I just watched this movie on Movie Time and not even Kevin Sorbo could keep me watching this waste of film. All this movie is is a lot of testosterone mixed with pretty women. Jesus if I wanted to watch a pretty boy killing people off I'd watch The Legend of Hercules not this atrocity. Please ladies if you see this movie in the stores RUN. RUN hard, RUN long, and RUN fast because I wasted about 10 minutes of my otherwise active life watching this movie and I feel like it was a really big waste of 10 minutes of my life and 3.5 hours of their film.It was really stupid and machismo stuff aimed at 15 year old boys and if I had a 15 year old boy I certainly wouldn't let him watch this. "},{"Title":"An Arrogant Dog who would be King","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":" whoever cast Harvey Fierstein as a baddie/action figure was either bribed or blackmailed. What were they thinking of? This is a pitiful excuses for a film, it makes Red Sonja look good. A terrible script, embarrassing stunts and a cast to cringe for... and a no-money for special effects either. I can see where the Conan rewrite comes in. And i can see why Arnie declined it. Maybe it was written by someone's 14 year old after one too many games of D&D. Beware girl magic users in ridiculously skimpy clothes, a celibate monk and our all shouting, all hamming, fighter-barbarianFRom a political point of the view, the 'woman as a passive vessel for the breath of god' is dodgy as hellConquerer DeathMatch result Conan 5 Kull 0 "},{"Title":"Hokier & hokier","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen, for poor acting and unbelievable plot.  A lot of the acting is like watching a bad TV show, and gets extremely hokey at times.  The film starts out OK and gets progressively worse, with the climax being the last scene in the movie. It might be a good movie to watch if you were extremely intoxicated for sheer comedy value (although the movie isn't supposed to be comedy).  "}{"Title":"Downright awful","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie plays like a 90 minute TV show. You know the kind of TV I'm talking about. Crap stuff that plays on cable trying to cash in on old themes, crap like the Conan and Robin Hood series, and yes Hercules and Xena. The acting is crap and the characters all act and talk like modern day Americans, thanks not only to the writing but the TV quality actors. The problem with stuff like this is it makes no real effort to transport you to another time and place, because costume and set design alone doesn't work. Instead it's just a bunch of everyday modern Americans playing dress up. You could have the biggest budget in the world and the greatest attention to background detail, but having a main character who's basically a walking anachronism will make it all null.If this was actually the script for the third Conan film, it's easy to see why Arnie said no. The story is dreadful. Everything about the film is dreadful. I really hate the theme of setting things right in ancient times. Their beliefs and their laws suited the people of the time. It's so bigoted (and American) to say this is how you ought to be. This film is so formulaic and stupid that I couldn't help but laugh at every predictable plot development and piece of dialogue.The biggest star in it, aside from Sorbo who's career has basically died since, is Tia Carerre playing a really stupid but typical female villain. Come to think of it, she doesn't have much of a career anymore either.Gah. There's nothing to redeem this film at all. It even has ROCK MUSIC during one of the battle sequences. It's even worse than Christopher Lambert's Beowulf.2/10 "}]