[{"Title":"A Very Subtle Character Study","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How is it possible for a boy, whose parents are devoid of normal humanity, to grow up to be loved and respected? The film, Character, presents a credible demonstration. It has the darkness of Ingmar Bergman or Charles Dickens, is slow-moving, thoroughly engrossing and it left me emotionally drained, which always elicits a high rating from me.Dreverhaven is apparently an evil man a bailiff who is quite willing to evict people in a terrible storm. He embodies two Nietzschean concepts 1.the will to power (he entered into power struggles with anyone whom he felt he could dominate) and 2. that a life becomes better by becoming stronger through adversity (he did everything in his power to bring adversity to his son, believing that that would strengthen him--and in many ways it did). His internal struggle between the will to power over his son and his desire to strengthen him is the prime mover of the film; his son's reactions to that are the core. Dreverhaven is also totally fearless; the question arises whether it is caused by bravery or just being tired of life.The film opens with his son, Jacob Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huêt), coming home, all bloody, only to be arrested as a suspect in the murder of Dreverhaven. He then tells the two interrogators a most amazing story. Since he is describing his own life, one might suspect that he is embellishing the story in his own favour but I believe that he was totally candid. The story is too complex to dwell on but certain aspects must be mentioned. Jacob's mother, Joba (Betty Schuurman), was a servant to Dreverhaven. On one and only one occasion he may have raped her it is not made clear if she resisted. As soon as she discovered that she was pregnant, she left him and tried to sever all ties. For a long time, however, Dreverhaven repeatedly proposed marriage and was refused. His motivation is ambiguous (propriety or affection) and Joba was apparently determined not to allow Dreverhaven to beat her in a power struggle. Because of his Mother's silence, young Jacob believed that she did not like him and, being a pariah because he was illegitimate, he turned to books for solace. Through this he developed a love of learning and a willingness to work hard and he advanced rapidly in a law firm, winning the respect and admiration of most of his colleagues, especially De Gankelaar (Victor Löw), who hired him. De Gankelaar, a man with a huge underbite and a heart to match, became Jacob's mentor, adviser and protector.Denied access to his son, Dreverhaven began a game of terror against Jacob through legal channels. The film is a study of character and characters. Their motivations are subtly hidden by consistent and superb acting. In my attempts to understand this dysfunctional family (if it can be called a family) I was forced to think. The slow movement allowed time for that. I want to see the film again, expecting that each viewing will bring a closer understanding. Even the evil Dreverhaven was more an object of pity rather than despicable; his actions were caused more by ignorance of human sensitivities, a dogmatic respect for the law and an unusual philosophy rather than by malice. The film is open-ended. What will Jacob do with the rest of his life? "},{"Title":"In this film we are confronted  with a perfect script if there ever was one!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In this film we are confronted  with a perfect script if there ever was one! Once again, talented screenwriters have proved that a fine novel can be transformed into a great film, without losing any depth in philosophical understanding or psychological subtlety. In 'Character', the paired tension between pride and guilt, as well as between pride and love, or guilt and love, or love and power, gives birth to an astounding and magnificent lesson in human character and behavior. The fact that Mike van Diem and Laurens Geels, two of the film's three writers, were at the same time -respectively- its director and producer, plays no small role in the success of the script, since the novel by Bordewijk was read -and rewritten- from the perspective of cinema, and not the other way around. The psychological themes are treated as variations in a symphony, presented in one of the characters and later developed in another, or presented in one form and then transmuted into another, as the brilliant treatment given to the self-destructive tendencies in the Dreverhaven character, or the extreme laconism in the mother-son relationship. Seen at a tropical country as Ecuador (my own), surrounded by a teenage audience that was led to expect something else; an audience which was only very slowly won by the tense and restrained 'northern', 'iceberg' pace of the film, 'Character' transformed the screen into a gigantic and painful mirror filled with reflections of the sorrows and sufferings of human nature. And finally those teenagers stopped crunching chips and sipping sodas, and started thinking. A '10' by any standard. "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Karakter is quite stunning on several levels.  The cinematography is gorgeous - without the use of any noticeable special effects or surrealistic dream sequences. The quality of the filming surpasses that of most movies.One of the best things for me (as an American) about watching foreign films is not knowing who most of the actors are, and this makes it easier to completely accept them as the characters they play. The two leads were outstanding, and the supporting characters (particularly Betty Schuurman as Joba, and Nans Kesting as Jan Maan) were very effective.I found the story to be engrossing and - more than anything, the pacing amazed me.  A person accustomed to reading classic novels would probably appreciate the way this film unfolded. There is a desire to reach the end, but no hurry.For sure, this film wouldn't interest everyone, but I rank it among my favorite films.  It deserved to win the Academy Award for Best Picture last year for the story, for the performances, for the direction ... it's rare that one finds a movie so well-put together.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling and amazing drama-thriller!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that I've seen till now. I was reluctant at first to see this movie, because it was not a Hollywood product, but after so many times seeing the trailer at the theater it picked my curiosity.The story was set in Netherlands, and it develops unfolding the relationship between a father and his son. This was one of the best movies I've seen in a long time, because it touches the bottom of our hearts making thinking us (the public) about our own -sometimes- conflictive relations with our parents.The two main stars gave us a duel as I've never saw before in a film, and to top all of this, the supporting characters were all believable as well as the magnificent locations.This films really told a story, reflects well its age and overall has a well developed timing so you'll never lose interest in what is next, and has so many twists that your interest never decays. But I really liked the final one. This one only scene pays all the money and time you spent seeing it.OUTSTANDING!! "},{"Title":"A very good film!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Character is one of the best period films I have ever seen, and the enormous quantity of very interesting aspects in it make it worth watching.I saw this film with the natural curiosity that a best foreign film Academy Award arouses in many people, and I was really delighted and surprised (Altough, I must admit I had hoped Spain's Secrets of the Heart would win). The story is quite beautiful, and Mike van Diem created a very solid screen play based on well known Ferdinand Bordewijk's novel.The film has some extraordinary moments; I must say that the one that impressed me most was the final scene of the film, a scene of great visual impact and also of an incredibly big narrative content; it is the scene that reveals the mystery behind the cruel A.B. Dreverhaven's behaviour.The performances given out in this film are simply spectacular especially Jan Decleir's as Dreverhaven. I also think Betty Schuurman as Jacob's mother and Victor Löw as De Gankelaar are terrific. One more thing, the art design is beautiful; the image the film gives us of the 1930's Amsterdam is very powerful and very beautiful.Not only is it a great film then, but it is a story that carries a lot of feelings, and will take you on quiet an emotional ride. I can only say this enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Perseverance","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Many people describe the movie as distant and cold. But that's exactly what the makers were aiming for to stay congruent with the 2 novels of Bordewijk where Karakter / Character is based upon. Bordewijk's style is often described as Nieuwe Zakelijkheid (best translation New Objectivity, think Sinclair Lewis), a counter movement to the upcoming Expressionism in the 20s of the last century. Instead of the idealism of Expressionists more emphasis was put on reality, objectivity and facts in a sober and distant form with little room for frivolity, superficial beauty, sentimentality or explaining behavior. Not only does the style of the novels reflect this, the world the characters inhabit has the same characteristics. Viewed from this standpoint they made an amazing adaptation from a novel, correct in both style and content. But the movie defines more than an art movement, because the characters portrayed tell a lot about the Dutch in general, and this in a way also defines Dutch national identity.The story itself is about perseverance. Jacob is the son of a relation without love. His parents never marry, the mother leaves soon after she finds out she is pregnant. His mother is stubborn, his father a man without compassion working as a bailiff. Both parents push their son in their own way, his mother almost drives him out of her home, his father lends him money thus starting a battle over the upper hand in their relationship. The father brings adversity to his son in the hope to make him stronger. In line with the style of the novel none of the characters ever experience love. In fact the whole movie contains not one passionate scene. The only character showing emotion (De Gankelaar, an excellent role played by Victor Löw) leaves the country. It has a Nietzschian philosophical angle with the debate of lightness and weight Jacob's burdens give his life a meaning, but are the sacrifices worth it? Location scouts did a wonderful job here, because Karakter recreates pre-war Rotterdam, a city almost totally flattened by the Nazis (There is a harrowing photo of the city after the bombardments with only the main church still standing). The production and art departments made the sets with their darkish colors fitting the form and content of the movie. The camera is used in a way to create some fluidity in the scenes It almost never is static as with so many character dramas.Fedja van Huêt as Jacob and Jan Decleir as Dreverhaven seem to understand what's going on here and act accordingly. Tamar van den Dop as Lorna is probably the greatest weakness in the movie, with a terrible diction and limited body movement she's miscast here.Mike van Diem makes only one movie, wins an Oscar, and disappears almost from the earth. Although rumor has it he does some script doctoring in Hollywood, with his current production rate he will surpass even Malick. As for now, this is by far the best Dutch movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly beautiful character study","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a movie that grips right away. While it has a dark setting, sparse but classic, the characters are rich. The love and care that Mike van Diem and the actors put in this film is visible. Thanks to significant contributions from both Dutch and Belgian TV stations, this movie is a rare treat, which is for once not spoiled by overly commercial requirements from demanding advertisers... As i understand, the film company First Floor Features had this film for decade(s?) in the planning, and it is a happy coincidence that it was realized the way you can enjoy it now. It has thus become a monument honoring the fabulous writer F. Bordewijk, the Dutch life and mind of the beginning 1900's, the craftsmanship of a dedicated cast, and a generous producer. Jan Declair as the stony-hearted usher Dreverhaven is a character you won't forget for a long time. His softer side is time and again rejected by taciturn Joba, his former housekeeper who became pregnant in one lonely weak moment of them both. For several years, he offers her to marry her, or at least to contribute for the upbringing of his illegitimate son Kattedreuffe. She as many times rejects 'We do not need anything.' On a precarious occasion, Dreverhaven denounces Jacob Kattadreuffe nevertheless, and from that moment on, father and son have a harsh relation as well. -Masterfully, fate intertwines their lives, as the story unfolds. Real gems are present everywhere, the scenery is breathtakingly picturesque, partly filmed in Rotterdam harbor, and in other places like Poland. The movie constantly plays with time, but in a plausible way. As an example, when Kattedreuffe has an appointment at a bailiff's office after being framed into bankruptcy, the name plate blinks at once with his own name on it. And indeed, he starts a career in this very office that same day. For a while, the lives of father and son seem only occasionally to coincide, but it is a silence before the storm. Every picture draws to the dramatic end which was glimpsed as the opening scene Did Kattadreuffe murder Dreverhaven? Many instances shown would allow this conclusion, as the two fatally attract each other to fulfill their inner tragedy. Dreverhaven as this hard and desperate 'keeper of the law' who can not express love, and Kattadreuffe as the one who had to fight his whole life to arrive in a higher position, and then stands empty-handed, his love unreturned through his own stupidity (even his mother sees that Lorna Te George / Tamar van den Dop was an exquisite relation missed). To kill (!) each other would suddenly seem like the best possibility and a liberation in such a dark hour, but the end has a surprise. The last minute smooths all the giant waves, and allows for a satisfying and ingenuous end scene. - Maybe you have to see this movie more than once to uncover the many hidden treasures, i strongly recommend to get it for yourself on DVD. The music of 'Paleis van Boem' enhances perfectly the impressive scenery. It is an artwork that has more than earned the Oscar it has got as best foreign film in 1998, along with several other awards.And i am proud to have been asked to participate with calligraphy and handwritten material, although it is only clearly visible in the last half minute when (my) hand writes the last words of the testament, undersigning with - (see for yourself!). "},{"Title":"Stunning Dutch psycho drama","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's no wonder that this Dutch drama got the 1997 Academy Award for the best foreign country movie in the year of Titanic. It tells the rise-and-fall-story of a young man in the Netherlands of the 1920's who's working hard to escape from the ghetto and to become an idealistic lawyer. Unfortunately his brutal an tyrannic father fights against him in any possible way, and at the end father and son are facing in a hard fight for life and death.The story is great, the characters (sic!) of the plot even more, and the acting is pure adrenaline-driven. The whole atmosphere, supported by the dark filming locations of Amsterdam, Belgium, Germany (the Speicherstadt in Hamburg) and Poland, is disturbing and depressing. A great psycho drama and insight into the human psyche with a powerful performance by Jan Decleir as villain Dreverhaven that can easily compete with Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lecter movies!  "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed 1920's Rotterdam","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is not too frequent that we get Dutch programmes of films or TV-minis in this corner of Europe, and when they do appear it is thanks to the regional Basque TV Station `EITB'. Indeed over two years has passed since seeing the excellent mini `Charlotte Sophie Bentinck' (1996) (qv) and seeing the very interesting `Karakter' recently. Set in the 1920's this film has excellent mise-en-scéne wonderfully photographed, mostly in Holland and Belgium, but with some scenes shot in Wroclaw, Poland, with street-cars of the times, in which the darkened almost greyish brickwork of the tenement buildings and the industrial port areas takes on an intense protagonism in the film's development. Palais van Boem's musical contribution is mostly just right, though at times seemed to be a little boorish.A young, illegitimate boy grows up with his unmarried mother, whilst the father, Dreverhaven, continuously appeals to her to marry him, but always rejected. However, the father seems to do everything possible to disrupt the young man's life, as his mother becomes more and more detached and uncaring. It would seem that Dreverhaven is playing out a real-life game of chess around his son Jacob, as if trying to corner him into submission and apathy, but which the young man manages to survive. The psychological impression is that one or the other would undo his `bitter foe', but that despite the father's vast fortune and power the struggle of will would rebound against him.But as the Dutch saying goes &#145;De één zijn dood, is de ander zijn brood'This is no `thriller' in the ordinary sense, more a psychological suspense which requires attention throughout. The acting is magnificent both Fedja van Huêt and Jan Decleir play out their parts with just the right touch, especially Decleir, and Lou Landré as Rentenstein is almost spellbinding, not to be missed.Here is another example of the unarguable fact here in Europe we make cinema, not blockbuster box-office hits.   "},{"Title":"A very pure and powerful piece of cinema","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Character is what it's about, all right. That commodity which will be obsolete in the coming century/millenium. The mood and acting are as near to perfect as can be conceived. There were scenes that evoked the best of Murnau, Pabst and Lang. Movies like this don't come around much any more.  "}{"Title":"Needy of Fatherly Love","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In the 20's, in Netherlands, Jacob Willem Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huêt) has just concluded the law school and has an argument with the High Court Enforcement Officer Dreverhaven (Jan Decleir) at his office. Katadreuffe leaves the place covered in blood. On the next morning, he is arrested by the police for the murder of Dreverhaven. He claims that he is innocent and discloses the story of his life to the Chief of Police. His mother Joba (Betty Schuurman) was the maid at Dreverhaven. One night, she is raped by him and a couple of weeks later she learns that she is pregnant. Dreverhaven proposes to marry her but Joba quits her job and leaves his house. Along the years, Katadreuffe is bullied at school and called bastard by his mates and his mother never talks to him. One day, he is involved by other kids in a theft of bread and arrested by the police. When he calls his biological father to help him, Dreverhaven tells the police that he does not know who Katadreuffe is. The boy is intelligent and learns English reading a superseded and incomplete edition of encyclopedia that was left behind by the previous tenants of his apartment. Katadreuffe is also ambitious and asks for a job in a law office, where he becomes the protégé of his mentor De Gankelaar (Victor Löw). Soon he falls in unrequited love with the secretary Lorna Te George Victor (Tamar van den Dop). Along the years, Dreverhaven uses his power to harm him. When he concluded his course, he decides to pay a visit to Dreverhaven to tell him that he has wined their dispute. May Katadreuffe have killed Dreverhaven? Karakter is a dark film about a young man needy of fatherly love. The intercourse between his parents is never clear whether it was a rape, as per the trailer, or consensual sex. In the view of Katadreuffe, his mother has always been mute. But maybe it could be a trauma for her only intercourse since she is a stubborn woman. Dreverhaven is a mysterious and ambiguous character. Is he only cruel or is he trying to harden his son to face the challenges of the brutal society where they live and be a winner? The screenplay is very well-written and keeps the attention of the viewer until the last scene. The cinematography, set decoration and art direction are perfect and bring the viewer to Netherlands in the middle 20's. The cast has magnificent performance highlighting Jan Decleir. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Caráter (Character) "},{"Title":"dig deeper for treasure.","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  is a real shame that this kind of movies have to be discovered 3 or 4 years since the release (most dont find their way to theaters) i know that people in the entertainment business are in just for the sake of money, but if they dont want to invest in producing quality movies (books,music etc) at least have to be more open in let these great movies have a decent distribution in the states.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot. Sometimes i'll come back and refer to this movie when talking to well mostly my father. There was something about this movie that captivates you from the start. Your thrown in halfway in the movie without Much of knowing what's going on. The story slows down and you get to see struggles with a father and son story. This movie has a wonderful script, and very good lines. It is a very smart film that i think is just really good. It gives you a sense of how things were there, and how you can love someone and hate them at the same time. Or how you can love someone but never tell them of that love and yet they know. It's sad letting go and when bad things happen to you, you eventually are left to face the love in a form of anguish and hate.  "},{"Title":"Very Moving","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One morning very early, I couldn't sleep, Karakter was playing on the Sundance Channel.  My first thought was, it being 3am, what the heck is Robert Downey Jr. doing in a foreign film?  I watched until 5am and sent for three copies of the film the next day.  I had to FORCE some people, to watch a foreign film.  I loved the film and am still ordering copies, giving them away.  The film affected me so much, because I had grown up with someone very similar to the father in the film. "},{"Title":"A face like no other","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Jan Decleir's Dreverhaven is wonderful, as is the oddly sensuous Lorna te George (Tamar van den Dop). The faces in this film are especially marvelous, such as De Gankelaar (Victor Löw) and even the unmoving Joba (Betty Schuurman).The plot twists nicely in this very Dutch unreligious tale of sin and redemption. The pitiful Jacob Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huêt) is a failure forever, to this father (who nonetheless gives him his fortune) and especially to his mother, who at last speaks in a flash of passion.Even if the story were not as good as it is, the spectacular locations (especially the shots in Utrecht along the canal) are captivating.I started watching out of curiosity to see a film in Dutch, and ended up discovering a well-wrought and convincing production of life between the World Wars -- where the ominous cloud of the second one could be felt infusing Katadreuffe's hope and te George's face. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Once again we were up late flipping channels when we came across this. My 19 yr. old brother (with the urban flare) watched this movie and enjoyed the heck out of it. As a matter of fact I am ordering it. I want to see it again and again. Its dark, and really sad, but nonetheless a GREAT movie ) Well Done! "},{"Title":"Far from Hollywood","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is almost too non-sentimental and too strong to be viewed in one sitting. It held me in an irongrip very second, from the very beinning.To watch one of the maincharacters - the icecold executor of goverment authority and of the capital, shoving people from their homes in the cold winternights without mercy - it was a mix there between Charles Dickens and Karl Marx. But without any Dickensisk warmth and humanity.Dreverhaven showed no mercy for anyone, not even his only child. The little boy getting spat at in school, being called BASTARD from his very childhood, the silent overly proud mother, never showing any love or affection. What bleak upbringing.No wonder his workplace meant so much to Jacob - it was the only place he was treated as a human being. There were also many good people, focus on his goodhearted mentor Stroomkoning and the sweet miss te George.But Jacob is, because of his heritage, driven  to compete with his father - why he had to loan money from the bloodsucking vampire is not quite comprehensible to me. Jacob probably could have borrowed money from others - but NO! he had to make a as bad deal as possible.If you can stomach poverty and hearts with no love in them - watch this film - a gripping fantastic story - I´d say it needs several viweings, for full understanding of the story. SO much is said in the film without words nor great theatrical gestures. 10/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is a showcase of the most extreme father-son relationship one can think of.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's not the only good thing about this movie, but it definately is what makes it stand out.The son (Katadreufe), who wants to be independant of his father, to have nothing to do with him. Yet, and this is a paradox (in the sense of the looks like a contradiction but actually isn't), his motivation for this is to show his father he can stand up against him, trying to make his father proud of him, getting acceptance.And at the same time his father (Dreverhaven) wants to make his son strong, and this is also a paradox, he does this by opposing him. I'll strangle him for 9/10ths, that 1/10th of him that survives will become stronger of it. The son will only be worthy of his pride, will only be accepted once he can stand up against him. But what's the price of all this? What will be left for the father, who made his son hate him to get him where he is?Nietsche might get credit for the that which does not kill makes you stronger philosophy, but I think it's actually a very basic male instinct; just about every father/son will recognize it (I don't say it's an instinct to be proud of, though). Maybe that's why males give this film significantly higher votes? Because they can relate better to the material? But I digress.The movie starts in a such way that it makes you choose the side of the son. It's only natural, since the father takes on the role of a tyrant. So according to the classic stereotypes, he must be evil, which implies that the son must be the good guy. But as the movie progresses, as you get to see more and more of the personalities and the motivations of the characters, you will start to doubt those assumptions. And when it ends, when the whole story is told, no plothole is left and everything makes perfect sense... you'll still be left wondering.There are only two flaws this movie has. The first is that that it'll probably be lost on those who aren't through their growing pains yet. Father-son relationships aren't even fully understood by those who have been both, let alone by those who are still struggling with their own personality. The second flaw is it requires its viewer to think (and I mean THINK) about its the story and characters. If you don't do the latter the slow pace will bore you to death. But if that's not a problem for you, it's actually a boon, and you'll greatly enjoy the movie. A masterpiece (Especially for Dutch standards. Granted, those are quite low). "},{"Title":"Finally saw it, and so should you","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Five years after it was first released, I finally say 'Karakter' and I  must agree with most of the stuff that's been mentioned above. This IS a good , dark, gloomy film with amazing acting and stunning subtitles as director Mike mentioned when he received his Oscar. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Creating a character","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Karakter embarks on the ambitious project of creating a universal character, in the sense given to that term by Don Quichotte, Pickwick Le père Goriot, or Madame Bovary. One may credit the book for that, it does not reduce the quality of Van Diem's pictures which do create a balance between psychological realism and classic literature narrative devices (love / hate, abandoned mothers; ambitious young men). Dreverhaven is an archetype aimed at functioning as a deforming mirror of human soul this only makes the film highly memorable. "}{"Title":"An edge-of-your-seat thriller.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If not the best foreign film to be released in 1998, perhaps the best movie *in general* to be released  that year, because there were so many duds in the Americas at the time that it was difficult to salvage anything redeemable!You have a simple story; Circa The Netherlands, 1920s; A young man is accused of killing his father, and the story does a flashback from when he a was a child; Was this dad really a fatherly type, or a cruel, greedy baliff? Lots of twists; Sticks to the period, but also had a bold, Hichcockian feel. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a delight.  The screenplay was well written and filled with realistic odd characters.  Well worth seeing.  It was not only a study of Jacob Katadreuffe but of society in general. Well filmed and acted.  See it. "},{"Title":"this isone Dutch movie to be proud of","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Normally I do not watch Dutch movies because they are very boring most of the times. Oh yes they contain a lot of vulgar language and a lot of sex and if you are lucky some humour. But that is not enough to keep you entertained. Karakter however is a good movie who got an oscar for best foreign movie. And now after seeing it I agree. It certainly is keeping you on your toes, and the story about the main character who has this conflict with his father is very interesting. The main characters put on their best show, since you really can imagine what they are going through. There is some humour in the movie which is very subtle and not very typical Dutch humour. This is one Dutch movie to be proud of.  "},{"Title":"Twisted Dickens","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with the comments that praised this film's characterizations, acting and script and compared watching it to curling up with a good classic novel. In fact, it struck me as an odd version of The Christmas Carol. Scrooge and his Xmas past self are the father and son.  Instead of the love of money, there's a love of power.  There's the same self-loathing and bitter memories, but no warning spirits and little redemption.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"An amazing foreign film, even for a first-timer. 10/10","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have never before taken the time to watch a foreign language film. However, from the opening scene of Karakter, I was enthralled. Fedja was amazing. His performance kept the movie flowing seamlessly and I almost felt I could understand him, although I was doing no more than reading the subtitles. This is a definite must-see, in any language!  "},{"Title":"Pretty Impressive...","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I Just saw this movie two days ago. I don't think I had ever seen a Dutch film before this one, which a friend of mine told me to watch and I was pretty impressed. I had heard of it thanks to its Oscar, but I didn't expect much from it. My bad. The acting was excellent, the story captivating. It definitely became one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Go see this movie","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being a filmfreak i'm normally not very thrilled about Dutch movies from my one country the Netherlands... But this movie changed everything ! The dark styled Rotterdam (a bigcity in the Netherlands) in the early 20 of this century are superb visible it's a lifelike experience to see this on bigscreen. The actors do a wonderfull job, especially Katadreufe and Dreverhaven. A real emotional, dark and exiting masterpiece ! Go and see it. AND PLEASE TRY TO SEE THE (ORIGINAL) DUTCH SPOKEN VERSION, WITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES ON, and not the (shitty)english spoken version!!!  "},{"Title":"a character that shocks","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Karakter is a above average movie incorporating a great scenario and excellent acting. However, it's length of two hours is a little bit more than the movies potential capacity. If it would have been 90 minutes it would be a 9 or a 10 on my scale because of it's originality. Being 30 minutes longer than the healthy standard for a movie based on a psychological trauma it bores from time to time. On the other way, the roles are preciously detailed and the feelings very visible which makes it a definitely worth-to-see. "},{"Title":"Powerful drama, highly recommended.","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This compelling film brilliantly tells the story of driven, damned people, unable to escape from the destiny determined by their character.The characters are portrayed with great depth so that their behavior, though sometimes predictable,often surprises us and increases our understanding of their nature.The acting,cinematography, and music score are all first rate. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful movie","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  1.  One of the most bizarre collections of characters I've ever seen;2.  An intriguing plot, plenty of drama and suspense;3.  Great performances by all the actors;3.  Beautiful to look at.  "}{"Title":"So Glad I Stayed Up To Watch It!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was flipping through the digital cable guide and saw that this was coming on in 5 minutes. I had read and remembered a review from years ago. I said, hmmm....I'll check it out for a few minutes. See if it grabs me. An hour later I was enthralled, but terribly sleepy! I popped in a tape and finished watching the movie the next night. Wow. What acting. That guy with the underbite turned out to be so sweet and caring. The woman at his office.....her acting was evocative. She was in love with him! And he with her! So who was the guy at the beach? Why didn't she explain earlier? (I think it was her brother...) Rent this or even buy it. It's a keeper. There's another good Dutch film about a boy and his father who look for work on a farm. The name escapes me, but it, too, was excellent. "},{"Title":"Whoa!!!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie brought me in with Fedja's eyes.  After seeing those big brown eyes I just had to stay and watch what happened, and I was not put down.  Great movie.  See it.  The struggle with father and son might just remind you of something....  It did for me. "},{"Title":"What's Wrong with the Europeans?","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Character is another excellent drama from Europe. Its been rightfully lauded with awards in both Europe and America, but gets very little theatre or airplay on this, the left-hand side of the Atlantic. I'm a schlub, but don't mind investing a couple of bucks and a few hours of my time with thought-provoking movies like Character. What father or son couldn't relate to the two protagonists? How touching, how sad, how human. But these movies sink like stones in America. Why? There's an audience for this stuff and not just in the cities. European and American distributors have just fallen down on the job. "},{"Title":"Character has it all.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise! Karakter (Character) has so much going for it. There is a great deal of tension in the love/hate relationship between young Jacob and Dreverhaven (his biological father). There is a soupcon of romance (although un-requited) between Jacob and Lorna te George and even some action scenes. One never knows what will happen next. Will Jacob's real father kill him? Will Jacob kill his father? Will Jacob marry? Will he have a second bankruptcy? I know this sounds rather snide, but it is not meant that way at all. This film has a great deal going for it. Beautifully filmed on locations in Holland (mostly office interiors). If it comes your way, don't miss it. "},{"Title":"I was drawn to all the characters ... well done!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with earlier comments about the film.  It's a very well crafted drama.  I found myself quite drawn to all the characters in the films, even the minor ones.  I also enjoyed my virtual visit to historical (pre war) Rotterdam as captured in the costumes, buildings, and everyday streets scenes.  It's a bit of a feel good film mixed with a touch of tragedy and mystery.  I would certainly recommend the film to a friend. "},{"Title":"Like curling up with a good book","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a rich, full movie; that tells an intriguing story and is populated with memorable characters. "},{"Title":"Light in Darkness","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I liked this in spite of itself, and you probably will as well.The story is completely unrewarding, a bleak tale of relationships unmended, unformed.But that gives the creative team an excuse to make a Dutch film after the manner of Dutch painting. The theme of the story is light in darkness and the presentation complies.The handling of light in this project is remarkable. It is not arty or self-conscious. It is in fact hard to notice because it merges so thoroughly with the way the location is photographed. That location is so enchanting you should see this in spite of the unrewarding darkness, the unuseful hopelessness.It is set nearly a hundred years ago in Rotterdam and is able to use a whole strip of waterfront buildings from that era. It is hard to see how they have done what they have because so much of is real location. But the sense of gloom in the story comes from the intrusion of a mean God into the space of lives. And that's how these buildings are photographed.See it for the architecture. Except for a final scene where a man falls down a shaft (which is too silly), this is as good as it gets without a good story.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Character","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I unexpectedly became engrossed in this film that took place with a certain time period and the triad between a Father, Mother and son- decisions they make, unconscious feelings and assumptions they do not speak, the sacrifices they make and the ironies of life- especially when we assume, esp when we fear- and we live out of that fear and survival- i will need to watch this again- for there were so many nuances and other possibilities that I could not grasp from one viewing- an incredible film that spoke volumes without actually verbalizing much- so en-wrapped in the scenes, acting, music that I forgot I was reading subtitles- I saw myself in this period piece. "},{"Title":"I'll strangle him for nine-tenths, and the last tenth will make him strong.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the second Jan Decleir film I have watched today. It was the Best Foreign Film winner at the 1998 Oscars.The age old story of the hatred between father (Declrir) and son (Fedja van Huêt), a man easy to hate as he was totally without compassion.Katadreuffe, the product of a one-nighter between his father and mother, grows up and makes good, but it is only to spite his father.If watching this film reminds you of a classic novel, it is it's Dickensonion mood, where we are focused on the poverty of the city, and the cruelty by government officials.Beautiful cinematography by Rogier Stoffers and Mike van Diem's direction and screenplay are almost perfect. "},{"Title":"Highest Possible Recommendation","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Operatic. Shakespearean. Greek Tragedy. Complex. Moving. Unflinching in its depiction of human relationships. (I hesitate to use that phrase as 'human relationships' make me want to run.) But as I just wrote, it is classic dynamics of a distant father and a son. A boy becoming his own man. The harsh expectation of Northern European culture.Beautifully shot. I tend to think of this as the Dutch 'Godfather' in its look.Not 'realistic', but as in all great drama it is -true-.It can also be tough to watch... bad decisions. Occasional mis-guided 'heroism' which can lead to self-destructiveness.I hate this review... all talk about 'themes' and 'meaning'. More than anything? It is beautiful and tragic. "}{"Title":"Clash of characters.","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was profoundly impressed with this Oscar winning Dutch movie. It features a strong and greatly compelling story, strong characters, fine acting, great production values and whatever more. A true masterpiece in my book!It's mostly a story and character driven movie. This might sound boring to some but let me tell you that Karakter is anything from boring, unlike most other Dutch productions within the same genre. It's a real exciting psychological thriller, without really featuring any action or much dialog in it. Mike van Diem does an amazing job telling the movie its story. He just doesn't only did a great job with its story but also with the movie its look and atmosphere and he got the best out of the actors.The movie is also really made by it's acting. The acting was surprisingly great within the entire movie, which already is a big accomplishment for any Dutch production. Fedja van Huêt, despite his young age, carries the movie really well and he has probably already played the role out of his career in this movie, even though his career obviously isn't over yet. Same goes for Jan Decleir. He plays one of the most complicated and memorable villain role out of movie history, I kid you not. Even though he is not the type of movie villain who kills or uses violence, he is more ruthless in the way his personality is and how he subtly moves around and is important throughout the movie, by giving his son a hard accomplishing anything in life. An even bigger accomplishment from Decleir when considering how few lines he actually has throughout the movie. Yeah it might sound weird but he reminded me a lot of Darth Vader from the Star Wars movies. He's just as cold and ruthless, doesn't show any emotions, walks around with a long cape and in the end his character seeks redemption with his son.The movie is set in the the 1920's Rotterdam. The movie has a nice impressive historical look over it and does an amazing job reconstructing Rotterdam of the 1920's, even though the movie didn't got filmed in Rotterdam itself, which isn't anything too surprising considering Rotterdam got bombed heavily during WW II and almost all of the old city heart is completely gone now days and the city is filled with modern buildings and skyscrapers now days. Normally it's very small scaled and perhaps even a bit embarrassing to look at a Dutch movie that tries to recreate a different much older time period. Mostly they'll trow one old car in a sequences, with 10 people walking around in old clothes and that's it. But Karakter is however very detailed with its look and overall atmosphere.Besides the movie its look and overall cinematography and directing I also really liked the movie its editing, which kept the movie going at all times. It uses some nice cutting tricks to achieve this and it really helps to make this movie an exciting one to watch.It's a movie that sucks you right in its story and doesn't ever let you go. You'll forget everything around you and won't be able to get your eyes of the screen, or even blink for that matter. The movie doesn't feature a story I would normally like within a movie, especially not from a Dutch movie but Karakter just does basically everything right to grab you and suck you right into it. An haunting, beautiful, impressive movie, that you'll won't easily forget.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A chess game between father and son","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Karakter is an awesome movie with an ingenious plot. During the film you end up repeatedly wondering why certain characters behave the way they do, and with the help of marvelous actors (especially Jan Decleir/Dreverhaven), the resolutions always surprise you and leave you pondering. The magnificent cinematography deserves a praise, too, and despite the prolonged chess-game quality of the battle between Jacob Katadreuffe and his father, everything that happens regarding this has a curious thriller aspect to it.Victor Löw's appearance as De Gankelaar is very impressive (perhaps in some ways comparable to Brando's Don Corleone in the Godfather, although these characters are not alike). Also the ethereal beauty (in my opinion) of Tamar van den Dop as Lorna te George didn't hurt my enjoyment of this film at all.Altogether, don't miss Karakter if you ever have a chance to watch it! "},{"Title":"Walking out the cinema, still caught by what you have just seen...","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ... that does not happen too often. But this movie is able to catch you. The story, a whodunnit at first sight, but in the end a story of a family, but not one you dream of. The way the lifes of father and son come across through the years, in surprising ways sometimes. The actors are impressive and well cast, just the sort you do not forget quickly. The locations are well chosen, give the movie its atmosphere. I would not know what to criticize, so it´s recommended to everybody, but not really middle of the road. "},{"Title":"The almost PERFECT movie","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of the best 10 movies I've ever seen, it's an exquisite, dark, perfect piece of art. It's really hard to describe how really wonderful this film is, beginning with the first scene, where Mr Dreverhaven, pulls out, without mercy, the old lady, that was just about to die, and left her lying on the street; I mean, that is a very powerful beginning, its a very crude movie about the relationship of a bastard son, and his grosse, bad ass father.The ambientation and the photography are excellent, and really, WHOEVER READS THIS PLEASE! watch this movie, you know  its gonna be hard to describe this movie, is really shocking, dark, almost the perfect movie, believe me it is... "},{"Title":"best dutch movie ever made","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie really deserved the oscar it received in '98. The movie is based upon a famous book (Karakter) written by Bordewijk, sometime in the early 20's. The book was already so good, and yet Mike van Diem makes it worthwhile to see the film even if you already read the book. That is not a surprise if you look at the skills of the actors. The role of the father is practically made for Jan Decleir, and also other roles are filled in perfectly. The good thing of this movie is the relation between father (Dreverhaven) and son (Katadreuffe), a relation which is the cause of the ambitious character formed of Katadreuffe. While you see the movie, you know it all leads to the end when it becomes clear what exactly happened on that night (did he kill his father yes or no?). And then it all makes sense, and yet it comes as a surprise.The structure of the movie reminded me of Forrest Gump, it is told through the eyes of the main character, and in the end the story becomes present time. That is also a plus; the structure is good.Finally, this movie is so good because it gives a realistic picture of how the people lived in the Netherlands approximately 80 year ago, it is clearly visible what the norms and values were. (for instance, as Dreverhaven left his wife (Joba) and son, Katadreuffe was considered a bastard, and therefore they were scum of the society)Bottomline See this movie -no matter where you live- and vote for it so it gets a firm place in the imdb top 250! "},{"Title":"When?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When is this movie going to enter the IMDB Top 250? After reading nothing but positive comments about this Oscar-winning performance i decided to watch it myself, and i could only say When does it enter the top 250 because there are a lot of USA's, Brittish, French, Hong-Kong's and even Swedish in it and no Dutch ones. It is about time that a Dutch movie enters it because (with the current score of about 8.5) it could even beat The Godfather #1.  "},{"Title":"Karakter -- A Review","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Karakter is one of those films that if you don't understand it, you will never learn to appreciate it. Essentially, it is about Jacob Katadreuffe (Fedja van Huet) who was forsaken by his formidable father Dreverhaven (Jan Decleir) when he was only a baby and used his own talents and hard work to attain a higher station in life. But it is about much more than that. It is about real human beings who struggle with themselves and with each other in order to make sense out of their own lives and to find their place in dynamic, puritan universe that is Holland.Dreverhaven hates his son Jacob, because the latter reminds him of the one great sin he committed in his life -- namely, having an affair with a woman who was not his wife. This may seem surprising, because Dreverhaven had a fearsome reputation for physically throwing out tenants who could not pay their rent and taking to court those who defaulted on his loans. Yet, Dreverhaven lived in a puritanical world where making wealth by hard work, discipline and sheer ruthlessness was considered a virtue, while having children out of wedlock was not. Since he succeeded in that world more than most other people, he was changed by it in a more profound way. But Dreverhaven was also capable of changing more positive ways. He develops a respect for Jacob, when his son triumphantly overcomes the challenges he puts before him. Dreverhaven's respect for his son conflicts with his hatred of him and he never seems able to reconcile the two emotional impulses.Then we have Jacob Katadreuffe who knows what grinding poverty feels like, especially when his mother (Tamar van den Dop) decides the time has come for him to move out. As it turns out, his mother was on the right track. Jacob was cleverer than his peers. He learnt the English language simply by reading books he found in his new house. Informed by a friend that the Communists were gaining new members, Jacob observed that unemployment was up as well -- he obviously knew that most people would leave the Communist party once they found jobs that paid the rent and other living expenses. After a business reversal (which taught him how businessmen cheat each other), Jacob Katadreuffer finally begins his meteoric rise to prominence only to come into conflict -- by a strange and unexpected twist of fate -- with his father Dreverhaven.Finally, we have a murder mystery. Dreverhaven was found in the basement of his wear house with a knife lodged in his stomach and his estranged son, Jacob Katadreuffe, was the last person known to have seen him.Over the course of the film, director Max van Diem brilliantly interweaves these three strands together. He is assisted by a very capable group of actors. Jan Decleir is absolutely brilliant as Dreverhaven, who is a special kind of villain, because he has depth, a soul and inspires a certain degree of sympathy. Dreverhaven is probably one of the hardest roles to play, but Jan Decleir pulls it off without a hitch. Fedja van Huet is also impressive as Jacob Katadreuffe, a man so consumed with ambition that he makes no room for any real personal life. Towards the end, one feels he may become the same man his father was. Van den Dop also gives a fine performance as the reserved and quiet mother to Jacob. Finally, Paleis van Boem's riveting score really contributes to the plot and the general atmosphere of the film. These days, it is rare to see a film about real people trying to work out their own internal and external conflicts. They do so without special effects, without explosions and for the most part without violence. This is one of the most interesting and intense films I have seen in recent times and it is tragic that Hollywood does not make more films like this one. "},{"Title":"Run to your video store and rent this 10!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie grabs you at the start and doesn't let go until its finish, although it is such an outstanding film that you wish it wouldn't end. Superior writing, acting, directing, and cinematography. If you like foreign films, this one is a guaranteed winner.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Glimps of Dutch 1920s","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film starts on the waterways of the Netherlands. Jacob Katadreuffe is a young man born to a single mother. His mother had a brief stay as a housekeeper at the home of a disreputable local official. She became pregnant with his child and left him, whether rape or not is unclear. She raises her child, Jacob, alone. He has a hard time growing up as a bastard child, even being swindled at one point when trying to buy a cigar shop. This endeavor gets him into serious debt, that and his attempts to get himself a law degree, bring him into contact with his estranged father, Dreverhaven. Despite his father's conniving attempts to prevent the young Jacob from doing well, Jacob is able to get his degree. His success and previous altercations lead him into physical conflict with Dreverhaven. He's under suspicion for the murder of Dreverhaven, but it's never clear if he actually did it to me. In any event he's found not guilty and ultimately inherits his father's fortune.It's amazing to get a fresh view of Europe. So much of modern cinema focuses on WW2 or the Cold War, that we're led to forget that there are other stories to tell. I like this take on capitalism and ethics without going so far as to bring in the Soviet influence. There was a lot of controversy all through Europe at the time that focused as much on urban life as ideology.The interaction of the youth in school is also very good. The clothing, the muddy streets, and the fighting amongst the kids paints a vivid, if not realistic image, of life at the time. I particularly liked the school yard fight.I wasn't crazy about the narrative; it seemed like his interrogator would have had less patience otherwise it would be 10/10.I'd recommend this to anyone, but especially if you liked Angela's Ashes. "},{"Title":"Karakter is a solid, dramatic and very well-acted father-son study","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Karakter is one of the best Dutch movies i ever saw. The main reasons are the classic theme, the good script, and the superb acting.What i especially like (and obviously will appeal only to Dutch speakers) is the well-balanced use of old fashioned Dutch phrases from time to time. I think this really works here and adds value to the historic atmosphere of the movie. Based on the novel Karakter by Dutch novelist Ferdinand Bordewijk, the story is set in Rotterdam during the 1920s and early 1930s. The love-hate relationship between the father Dreverhaven (played by the Flemish actor Jan Decleir who gives a great performance) and the son Katadreuffe (very well acted by Fedja van Huet) works very well. Both have strong characters and their ambitions make them blind for the possibilities of love. Katadreuffe, for example, resists the love he feels for Lorna te George (played by the lovely Tamar van den Dop). Despite the numerous clashes between father and son, their mutual bond is stronger than they want to admit. This inevitably leads to a dramatic climax. I think this is one of those movies where everything just works very well together and i strongly recommend it.  "}{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  His mother ignores him. His father denies him and makes life unbearable for him. Yet, Jacob Katadreuffe courageously faces whatever hurdles are placed in his path. The odds are certainly stacked solidly against him. Will he win, or will the abuse eventually take its toll and destroy his life? This is the question that permeates the movie.Very good story with solid performances, and a great score. Fedja Van Huet is almost hypnotizing in his performance, presenting us with a balanced portrayal of almost childish vulnerability and sheer determination. "},{"Title":"solid production","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I was in secondary school, I read the book Karakter and short story Katadreuffe en Dreverhaven by Dutch writer Bordewijk in literature class. Although the film Karakter was made already more than 5 years ago, I saw it only yesterday for the first time. I think they did well. It has something slow, dark hanging over it, yet manages to run smoothly.Rating from the Dutch judge 8 (out of 10).  "},{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  stunning photography, shot outdoors in old Rotterdam and beautiful indoor wood-clad business offices of the manufacturing era, this motion picture is different.  Will see it again to grasp more details on the decoration side and set preparation.  Now I must go sightseeing Rotterdam and see for myself the urbanscapes portrayed in this film. "},{"Title":"slow and heavy","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" My Dutch friends will forgive me, but I cannot share their enthusiasm for this film. I am not an action movies only fan, and I am well accustomed with European and art film styles. However, during the whole uneasy experience of watching this film I had a strange feeling. On one side I was watching an obviously well constructed and solid story, with good characters development and well acted - especially Jan Decleir in the principal villain role. On the other hand the story and moral seem so Dickensian in nature, the whole atmosphere is so rigid, the location so dark and cold that they seem to belong not even to the first half of the 20th century but rather to the 19th. The main story line is of a love-hate relationship between a father and his natural son. The naturalistic approach to the subject built no empathy with any of the characters. I did not understand well their motivation, but I know I have reasons to hate them - these are the feelings the film left me.Over all a heavy and not so easy cinema experience. Worth watching for some of the acting skills. 6 out of 10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Great movie  &#x96; pity about the story","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is stunningly made, has great acting and wonderful cinematography - what a shame all this talent is wasted on such a moronic story. I am struggling to find a single scene in this movie that made any sense what so ever. Everything every character does in this movie is absurd. The story concerns a boy who has the misfortune to have not only the most bizarre father in the world but also the most bizarre mother in the world. The father is a sociopath of the first order and the mother is just plain away with the pixies. It is unclear if the mother was raped or not, but whatever, the mother is happy enough to stay with the father for 6 weeks, then leaves when she finds she is pregnant, as you do. At their new house they find some old books, which the boy reads and becomes a genius, as you do. Despite being a genius when the boy gets older he buys a cigar store (as you do) way down an alley &#x96; clearly Marketing 101 was not included in the books he read. Despite the fact that it seems to be constantly raining, it is not apparent that the cigar shop floods every time it rains. Bizarrely, the previous owner of this shop, volunteers his contact information (as you do), so they can get his help if needed. Of course, this address is a fake. What is the point of that, apart from filling in a few minutes of the movie? Our hero is now in big trouble, he has taken out a loan to buy this ridiculous shop &#x96; obviously the Bank is as idiotic as he is. He finds to his horror that the bank is owned by his father. For some reason this is seen to be bad, although quite frankly he owes his Father a big thank you for funding such a ridiculous investment. He fronts up to the lawyers and in a spectacular travesty of optical theory is almost blinded by the reflection from the nice shiny brass name plaques. Here he meets a guy with a pronounced underbite - the point of this abnormality is a mystery - is it supposed to be funny? On his way out some English visitors arrive. Since our hero has read a couple of random English books he is a whiz at fluent spoken English in any situation. Despite the fact that the Dutch and the English seem to be communicating fine without him for some reason the boy's wondrous command of English saves the day and he is immediately given a job. Notwithstanding that his father is supposed to be a raving maniac who throws sick women into the road, he allows his son an incredibly generous repayment scheme. Despite this generosity for some reason we are supposed to think the Father is treating him badly. The son duly pays off his debt to his father and blow me down if he doesn't immediately take out another, larger loan from him, under ridiculously draconian terms. Apparently this is to prove something, but all it proves to me is that the boy is an idiot. Yet again we are supposed to think that this act of stupidity on the part of the son is another demonstration of the evilness of the Father. The son works his way up the firm and finally gets his legal degree. There are various diversions along the way. Some flossy is hanging round him in the office but because the boy has the emotional age of a 2 year old he doesn't do anything about that. This flossy invites herself back to his place (as you do) and immediately finds a door that the son had never noticed. We are introduced to a guy called Jan, who is a communist, but he does nothing in the movie apart from adding 10 minutes of padding. The bizarre father attempts to evict someone in the middle of a battle zone, as you do. For some reason a man steps out to shoot the father. For some reason he misses, from a distance of about 3 feet. A soldier then shoots this person. The boy randomly meets his father in an alley. They fight. The father throws a penknife, as you do. Evidently Rotterdam is a very small place, possibly about 100 square meters. The son and father just happen to meet in an alley. The father just happens to emerge from a canal opposite the mother's house. The son just happens to run into his flossy on the beach. He just happens to run into again later on in a park with his mother. The only scene in which we might get some insight to the Father is in a dream. Ultimately it means nothing. The father visits the mother and implies he is being mean to the son to build his character. Yes, that's right, after being brought up in poverty, being abused all his life for having no father and with a nut case of a mother for company, we wouldn't want him to be soft would we? Eventually the son leaps over a desk at his father (as you do), his father beats the living daylights out of him, and later kills himself with a penknife that would be lucky to penetrate his coat. The son is brought to the Police Station and interviewed by two of the nicest, most trustworthy men you could hope to meet. Our hero regales them with his life story, as you do in this type of situation. Eventually the son is proved innocent using forensic evidence the technology for which didn't exist in that era. I could go on, but you get the idea. "},{"Title":"The life of a Dutch usher","Date":"15 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frankly speaking, the film karakter gives me an uneasy feeling. Perhaps it would help to read the book, but unfortunately the necessary time is lacking. My problem is not in the cinematic part of the film. The actors do a great job, while carving their characters without using excessive dramatization. The dialogs and the story are easily accessible. And the costumes and the set give an accurate portrayal of city life in the Netherlands at the start of the twentieth century. So basically the film outperforms many Hollywood and Bollywood products, and is worth seeing. My perturbation stems from the unwillingness in the narrative to weave some kind of message. It seems as though the narrative tries to please as large an audience as possible. As a result we have a film that is nihilistic it could equally be claimed as an advocacy of liberalism, fascism or religion. Of glorifying the family or a promiscuous life. Since I fail to grasp the essence of the film, I will simply recount the events. The main character is the usher Dreverhaven. He is a man of extreme dedication and formalism, which is interpreted by some people as lacking sense. One day his housekeeper Katadreuffe lures him in her bed, without any exchange of words. It is a one-night stand, and afterwards life continues as usual. However, she becomes pregnant, and resigns. From then on the usher sends an envelope with money enclosed, and a note When will we get married? After a year she writes back Will always be returned. She contends that she doesn't need anything from him. Her son is born, and he educates himself by using an English encyclopedia. Eventually he becomes employed at the office of a lawyer. His employer becomes a benefactor for him, which allows him to finish a study in law. Of course this is highly unusual at the time, because of the contemporary class society. In the mean time we see the usher Dreverhaven, expelling laborers from their houses. He even becomes the target of Bolshevist agitation, and is nearly shot dead. There are whispers, that he has become an alcoholic. Decades later, he personally visits Katadreuffe, and again asks When will we get married? She replies I will never marry you. But there has never been another. Which actually is not true, because another man had proposed to her, and she had pondered over his offer. Dreverhaven contends that he will squeeze ninety percent of life out of their son, and the remaining ten percent will make him into a man. Perhaps this explains his zeal for his profession? Soon Katadreuffe dies because of a fragile health, and Dreverhaven is present at her burial. Several months later, her son obtains his degree in law, and visits Dreverhaven. The son reproaches Dreverhaven his opposition, and vows to expel him out of his life. Which is rather strange, since Dreverhaven has supplied several loans in order to support his sons studies. Anyway, the son attacks his father, they fight, and Dreverhaven loses. The following day he is found dead, fallen from the top floor of his warehouse, with a knife in his stomach. It is assumed that he has killed himself, and in his will he has left his impressive wealth to his son. The will is signed with Father. Basically this film contains no evil people - except perhaps the Bolshevist's, who ignore law and order. The birth of the son seems a sheer coincidence. Is the film a criticism of the capitalist terror against the people? Of the getting loose of your parents? Of the need to get forward in life? Note my guide on literature suggests that Bordewijk likes to portray characters that take their features to an absurd level, becoming inhuman caricatures. His stories integrate clarity into a nightmare. "},{"Title":"An example of what Drama genre should be..","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You will enjoy this movie if you really into drama. One might confuse of why this movie categorize as mystery at first from reading the plot of Karakter. The plot has said it all, young lawyer, mute mother, ruthless father, both tormenting the protagonist all his life, but the young lawyer turn out to be successful.This is one of the best drama that based on ordinary circumstances, but the way it presented makes it an interesting story. The truth is I have known what was happening in the film, because coincidently it's similar to my personal situation. Nevertheless, the movie still captivated me until the end.Now where is the mystery in this film? You will know later that the mystery is the two characters. His father and his mother. They both will makes the film interesting until it finish. This is the type of mystery, where you know who are the mystery, but the mystery itself is inside them. Thus, this is why the film is an excellent drama.If you to watch movie that both entertaining and have impact to your real life, then this is for you. This is a movie that can relate to your life. It will bring out only the positive of you. "},{"Title":"Dad is the Boogie Man","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is Shylock, Iago and the Wicked Witch of the West but they're all sissies compared to Dreverhaven. You've just never seen a more evil vile character exist on film. If he were coming to my house to collect I think I'd soil my pants and offer him my first born.From a learning point of view the depiction of urban life in Holland between the wars was truly enlightening. While being told the Dutch were stern bean counters, we're usually shown life in the Netherlands as tulip frolicking with windmills in the background. CHARACTER can function as an enjoyable study of a culture fixed on hard economics with passion smoldering underneath (same with GIRL WITH A PEARL EARING, which you shouldn't miss).But Baliff/Dad Dreverhaven should've been allowed to repo a personal Oscar. The scenes were he evicts the dying and suffers a nightmare were worth an admission price. Not to mention the most miserable mother you've seen on screen this side of Grendel's nanny. I enjoyed the Dickens-like life of our young protagonist but his parents steal the show. "},{"Title":"The best of what the Netherlands have to offer","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dutch Cinema isn't really something to be proud of as a Dutchman. The Movies are often low budget and rarely watched in the cinemas. However Karakter is a true masterpiece. The story is fascinating, the 'ambiance' is dark, 30's industrial and grotesque and the music is very impressive (if you are in a cinema). I think that even the foreign 'moviewatcher' should go and see it if you have a chance. "},{"Title":"'Character' keeps your interest but its 'characters' remain unconvincingly defined","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Character' is a Dutch film which won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1998. The film begins as a young man, Jacob Katadreuffe, has been arrested on the suspicion of murdering Dreverhaven, a powerful and much feared bailiff in the city of Rotterdam. Katadreuffe is interrogated by the police and the recounting of his story forms a voice-over narration for the rest of the film.We flashback to the early 1920s as Katadreuffe relates that his mother, Joba, was Dreverhaven's housekeeper. They have a very brief affair but she decides to raise the child on her own since he is a cruel man who she cannot relate to. Nonetheless, Dreverhaven is persistent in trying to get Joba to change her mind. He sends an emissary laden with cash begging her to marry him but each time she rejects his entreaties.Finally Dreverhaven gives up and Joba is left to raise little Jacob on her own. Oddly, she has no fondness for the boy and throughout his childhood and adolescence she hardly says a word to him.'Character' has a few powerful scenes in its expository sequences. First we discover just how cruel a man Dreverhaven is. When he comes to evict a family who are behind on their rent, he finds an extremely sick woman inside the apartment and ends up dragging her out of bed and throws her out into the street. In another powerful scene, Katadreuffe is arrested with a group of other boys for stealing some bread and is almost raped by a pederast police officer inside a juvenile detention center.It should be noted that when Katadreuffe is detained, he tells the police that Dreverhaven is his father. But when questioned, Dreverhaven denies knowing the boy. Hence, at the outset, we wonder why the Dreverhaven rejects his son. Is he trying to get back at the mother who won't marry him? It's never really explained.Katadreuffe's 'call to adventure' begins when he finally becomes a young man. He's still living with his mother and decides that he must strike out on his own. He takes out a loan from a credit company and impulsively buys a cigar shop without checking the inventory. He soon discovers that the inventory, boxes of cigars, are filled with nothing but straw. One wonders why Katadreuffe didn't bother to inspect the inventory before purchasing the business. After this fiasco, Katadreuffe is forced to go back to live with his mother.Katadreuffe keeps pushing forward. He manages to land a job as an assistant to an attorney, Stroomkoning, at a law firm utilizing his English skills which he learned as a child studying an old encyclopedia. Soon after, Katadreuffe discovers that the credit company he borrowed the money from belongs to Dreverhaven. Katadreuffe is now in debt to his father who interestingly enough allows him to pay off his debts in installments. During the first go-round, he proves to his father that he's an honorable guy and pays off the debt as money is garnered from his pay check.Most of 'Act 2 of 'Character' deals with Katadreuffe attempt to better his position within the law firm. He's attracted to Stroomkoning's secretary, Miss Te George, but due to his bitterness over the poor relationship with his father, he never works up the courage to hook up with her. The film's B story doesn't seem to go anywhere when Te George eventually leaves the firm and nothing comes of their relationship.Katadreuffe is eventually offered the position of office manager within the firm. Inexplicably, he asks Dreverhaven for another loan which he uses for tutoring to become a full-fledged attorney. The loan has one proviso Dreverhaven can call it in at anytime. He does so just as Katadreuffe is about to take his exams. To Katadreuffe's horror, it's revealed that he failed to pay an earlier debt consisting of his 15 guilder collection of old books (including the encyclopedia). Stroomkoning comes to his rescue, convincing the bankruptcy court that the debt was merely a gift.Meanwhile, Dreverhaven, the cruel, obsessed bailiff, has never given up hope that Joba will accept his proposition (why he still wants to marry her after all this time is never explained). He visits her again after all these years and she turns him down on cue. This fuels his monstrous rage and he's off evicting as many poor tenants he can find. He's so obsessed that he serves a notice of eviction to a Communist who's in the middle of firefight with the police.In her old age, Joba becomes a little more talkative and chides Katadreuffe for not going after Lorna Te George. Joba soon dies and Dreverhaven has a soft spot in his heart and attends her funeral.The climax of 'Character' is unsatisfying. We expect Dreverhaven to do something shattering that leads Katadreuffe to confront him in the final scene. But it's nothing more than his graduation from law school and acceptance into the firm that propels him to the final confrontation with his father (Katadreuffe remarks that he knew all along that his father had been waiting for him).Father and son are both bloodied as they duke it out at Dreverhaven's place of employment. Dreverhaven ends up dead but the police conclude that Dreverhaven committed suicide and let Katadreuffe go.'Character' is fairly absorbing until the Third Act Climax. The film is helped immensely by the brooding, noirish musical score. Although we never really find out what makes Dreverhaven tick, it's suggested that he was merely using 'tough love' as a means of building his son's character (Dreverhaven ends up ceding his entire estate to his son and signs his will Father to boot). Character' is a melodrama with a nice look to it which will keep you engaged for most of its two hours. But the motivations of its 'characters' (especially Dreverhaven) are not always convincingly defined. "}{"Title":"exceptional throughout","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a great film and was also my first exposure to Dutch cinema. The film is sort of like a combination of David Copperfield, Les Miserables and a murder mystery! The film starts with an argument. You have no idea who the two people are and it culminates with one of them being accused by the police of killing the other. I was completely taken by surprise by the direction the movie took from there as was told in a series of flashbacks and it became like a Horatio Alger film about an ambitious but poor man working hard to succeed. One of the other main characters is an apparently sadistic and rigid man (who seems a lot like Inspector Javert from Les Miserables). Throughout much of the movie, he appears to be quite misunderstood by the ambitious young guy (who, it turns out is the bad guy's bastard son). To me, this disturbed and bitter old man was the most interesting element in the story. The young guy was driven by success and anger towards his biological father--that is clear. But the complex and odd motivations of the father are much less clear and open to debate--and THAT'S what helps make this a stand-out movie to me.NOTE for parents. This movie is rated R--mostly for some violence and a brief distant shot of a naked man. I would not have been surprised if it had been rated PG-13, as the violence was not that intense and the nudity was neither gratuitous or overly explicit. This film would probably be okay for a mature teenager to watch. "},{"Title":"To Surly Without Love","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I wish this film were called Karakters as we really could use an in-depth look at more than just the one. As a child, our hero had a less humane upbringing than Tarzan. His story is one that is entwined with (and battled against) his father.As an American, while I am not well versed with this root story, many other elements of the film feel very familiar. The device of reflecting back during a police interrogation, the good cop/bad cop operation and an excellent sweeping score. And as someone else commented, the lead bore a more than passing resemblance to Robert Downey, Jr.The cinematography is outstanding, albeit consistently leaden. I found a red dress striking not only due to its attractive inhabitant, but largely in juxtaposition to such stark scenery. As others have mentioned, how is it that Mike Van Diem does not seem to have anything else going on after this? Is something rotten in Rotterdam??The silence and surliness of many of the characters made this 2+ hour film feel even longer. Yet paradoxically, it felt as if it  were a miniseries of misery that had suffered itself to be reduced down to this running time. Again I think many other characters would have been well-served by more inspection aside from sneers, scowls and other face dances.That being said, the casting is superb. A gentleman with a pronounced underbite at first was hard to stop staring at because of his physical features. Later I found myself constantly on the look-out for him, as he injected some of the precious little compassion into the film. The film cries for him to yell out, and when he does it is one the more powerful and more satisfying moments.Cruelty abounds, but I found myself hoping for a look into, or a monologue from, the evil father. There is a striking dream-sequence that suggests more profound depths to his despicable nature. Other actions suggest his loathing may be at its most extreme when aimed at himself. Afterwards I found myself wondering about a chicken/egg dilemma involving the parents; is it that the mother denies the father what he denies others and himself as well? Charity. Humanity.This is a film devoid of those aspects of life, and thus moralistic...like a novel you would read in 8th grade. Gritty and gripping. And not for everyone, and not on Friday nights typically. It is telling that despite children being beaten, the intellectual torture is really what resounds in this film.If you don't mind such a Grimm tale, then you will likely enjoy the meticulous construction of this story. Interlocking plot elements are introduced with the subtlety of a chess match.If I had to come up with a one-word review, I'd say this film is unremitting. That along with the fact that we did not get to see inside the fascinating father/foe made this ultimately an unsatisfying film for me. A repeated issue for me in films from all over the world arises when evil and good are clearly separated.Of course there's always the notion that subtitles distract and detract from a film. It was telling that at times when the father was attacked, his assailants would scream (well in words on the screen) Bastard. Maybe a Dutch audience would have heard more, especially in a pivotal (and problematic for me) scene involving the mother and Lorna.6/10PS For some reason, I keep thinking of the monster from Hal Hartley's No Such Thing in conjunction with the father in this film. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, mannered ramble","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Katadreuffe is the illegitimate son from a one off liaison. His mother's a working class woman whose only characteristic is her inscrutability. His father's a bailiff and money-lender who's a wealthy and powerful man, sadistic to those he deals with through business. Katadreuffe was conceived when his mother was working for his father as a housekeeper; she left as soon as she realised she was pregnant and refused to see the bailiff again, despite the letters proposing marriage. Katadreuffe is caught between his mother's seemingly total indifference, and his father's resentful attempts to bankrupt him. Yet he is bright, ambitious and becomes successful. The film asks why. Unfortunately it also has a mannered visual style, pseudo-Kafka jail scenes, a dull love interest, a corny mentor figure and hordes of evicted workers with torches and red flags. "},{"Title":"An heavy saga that lacks subtlety","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is the long saga of a son fighting against the father he hates. Since he lacks the love of his father, the young Katadreuffe is ready to do anything to be linked to him, even if this link is that of a financial debitor. He needs to place himself under the power of the egoist, brutal man that life had given him as father. However, this movie is based on characters that look like caricatures, and there is no subtility in that plot. Though the beginning of the movie looks promising, one is quickly bored by an unbelievable plot. "},{"Title":"Well made movie with a dubious message","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A generally well made movie with a very dubious message the best way to raise your children is to treat them like garbage. This movie is based on a 1920s book, and that message might seem resonant with the values of that era. But it's strange to listen to this kind of litany in a contemporary movie. To summarize the plot a bit, the film is about a young man, son of an unwed and stern woman, whose career is made almost impossible by his natural father, a thoroughly repellent individual, whose job seems to be to evict the poor from their homes when they can't pay their debts. The father tries every tactic to harass his son and to bring him into bankruptcy. What is most shocking is that the movie seems to imply that the father really loves his son, and all the wretched things he does to him are in order to build his character (hence the title) and become a successful person in society. Summing up, a well made movie with a message that seems a relic from a previous era. "},{"Title":"Character isn't everything.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Character is a dark, almost Gothic tale (circa early 1900's) of the rise to adulthood of a bastard boy raised in spartan emotional and economic austerity by his mother while under the distant foreboding eye of his wealthy martinet father. A much lauded Oscar winning psychodrama out of the Netherlands, Character studies a child growing up and struggling for financial success through adversity while foresaking those things which make life most worth living Respect but no love, associates but no friends, and money but no happiness. Overlaying this plodding drama are encounters between the boy/man and his father which are somehow necessary for both though each seems to loathe the other. Many will find this film tedious, unrewarding, and lacking in entertainment value. Only for those with a taste for deep psychodramas. "},{"Title":"Don't know why it won best Foreign Film","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film to be mildly interesting, wondering why it ends the way it does (as it starts with the ending first).  However, I thought it was slow, depressing, and at times, I wondered why I was continuing to watch it. Given that the pool of Best Foreign Language nominees is usually high quality, I wasn't sure why this one took home the trophy.  "},{"Title":"Ayn Rand in Holland, by Steven Spielberg","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watching this sludgy, portentous tripe was torture. Any relation between these characters and real human beings is purely coincidental. Example the main character is supposedly in love with a woman who works in the office, though he's been too shy to do anything about it. At the beach with friends, he meets her by chance. She invites him to her cabana, where, shockingly, there's another man, never seen before. She introduces them. Lover boy is so angry he leaves, and then won't speak to her at the office. He never asks about the other man, she never tells him anything, and the other man is never seen again. Later she marries someone else. His mother says, you let her get away, you're an ass. Best line in the film.The film at least sparked a good discussion afterwards. We came to see that it's a pro-capitalist, or anti-welfare state, allegory. Both the father and the mother, in their ways, torment the son, and in the end we learn it was all done out of love, tough love to make him tough. Only then can he inherit the money. The father is a monstrously unbending bailiff, charged with defending property rights by repossession and eviction of those deadbeat lower classes. The kid shows grit and ambition by pursuing legal studies and paying off all his debts. One slight softening he learns, one time, to accept a gift. Otherwise it's straight Ayn Rand capitalism is tough to keep society tough. Rely on yourself, don't get soft, climb the ladder and pay your debts, and you'll reap your reward.The style is copied from Steven Spielberg. Same kinds of shots, rhythm, shoving the obvious in your face, lack of interest in real character. Standard Hollywood period piece photography subdued hazy brown-gray-blue. Excuse me, I have to run to the video store to rent an Eric Rohmer. "}]