[{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"34 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When I first watched this movie I only watched it for Sarah Michelle Gellar. But after seeing it I loved everything about it. And I came on here expecting at least a 6.5. But a 5.2? The story is original. Four teens are in great danger one year after their car hits a stranger whose body they dump in the sea. Everyone gave great performances, esp. Sarah Michelle Gellar. On top of that, this movie was frightening. This movie is great and I definitely recommend it. It is definitely a movie you should watch for both entertainment and originality purposes. It is definitely one to see if you enjoyed 'Scream'. The many plot twists and the many scares it will give you makes it an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Everyone should love this film!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"48 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Exactly, everyone should - but why? Because it is an excellent film, containing a good storyline (though not one of the best) and some promising new actors and actresses. In regards to the storyline, not many viewers realise that the film was actually based on a novel written before Kevin Williamson even thought up the idea to create another horror flick - therefore the general outline is not his, and so some people's comparisons between this and Scream can be considered as wrong. However, they are right in the sense that the typical horror elements are all there, and some are similar to Scream. I feel that the statement on the video cover scarier than Scream is to some extent true, especially the climatic ending (I won't spoil it for any of you left to see the film)!I enjoyed the acting performances, though sometimes the screams did get slightly out of hand - near the end, one popped up every other minute or so! Despite this, the characters were portrayed very well, and you could really notice the distinctions between them, and which characters you were likely to prefer. However one drawback to the characters was how obvious it was to spot who was going to bite it - all my sister had to do was look at the characters in a group and guess straight away.On the whole though, I found it to be a good horror film, done proud by the talents of writer Kevin Williamson and of the cast. If you are looking for a good scare, or simply taste other films after experiencing the wonder that is Scream, then IKWYDLS should be your first choice - with its many 'jumps' making you enjoy the ride all the way!ENJOY, and most importantly, SCREAM ON!!! "},{"Title":"True, it's another teen slasher flick","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the late 90's, there had seemed to be a trend of the Dawson's Creek meets Halloween slasher flicks, some had big hits like Scream, and some kinda missed like Urban Legend, then right in between came I Know What You Did Last Summer based off the book of the same name and I do mean just based on the book because the book and the movie are two entirely different tales. The book was more of a moral story while this was just a plain slasher teen flick, but over all I would say that I Know What You Did Last Summer was a decent horror flick. It starred the biggest stars of it's time Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Jennifer Love Hewitt, and Ryan Phillipe, and surprisingly they clicked pretty well, but I think that's because they just all have to play pretty white kids with problems, lol. But it's all good, this was a fun little horror flick.Four high school friends have graduated and are celebrating the fourth of July. They all have big plans Julie is planning to go to Harvard, Helen is going to New York to become an actress, Ray is staying in town to help with the business of fishing, and Barry has a wrestling scholarship. They all are just having a big party and while driving home they accidentally hit a man, killing him. Freaked out and scarred for what might happen since alcohol is involved, they dump the body in the river hoping that it'll go away. But a year later when the friends re-unite, they are receiving letters claiming that someone knows what they did. Barry is then hit by a car, Helen's hair is chopped off, and Julie gets bodies put into her car trunk; they all must face the fisherman who is after them with a big hook and it seems like he does not want these kids to live.I Know What You Did Last Summer has typical Dawson's Creek drama, but it's all good, I mean it was written by Kevin Williamson who wrote the series. But the cast did click very well and as cliché'd as the movie was, it's still good for a scare. Sarah does have one of the best damsel in distress chase scenes ever, that was pretty intense I have to admit. I Know What You Did Last Summer is a fun flick I would recommend to watch at midnight in the dark, you're gonna get jumpy a few times.7/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing special here...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"38 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Four teenagers celebrate their last days in a small fishing town and end up on a beach, drinking heavily. When driving back into town they hit a man crossing the road and decide to dump the body in the sea rather than risking their futures on a manslaughter charge. However when dumping the body the man turns out to be still alive. They drown him and vow never to speak of it again.  However one year on someone is stalking the four and begins to take revenge for the previous summer's actions.This was made once Scream made teen slasher movies cool again. However here there is none of the ironic humour or self-referencing that made Scream good. Rather this is a straight up horror thriller that lacks anything to make it special or standout from the rest. The plot revolves around a murdered fisherman, with several red-herrings thrown into the mix. The red-herrings don't really work and to be honest you pretty much don't care about the ins and outs of who's doing the killing. Really however the plot is a bit of a disappointment and it doesn't really involve you.The biggest failing of the film is the performances. The murderer is not as effective as ones like Ghostface or Freddy - partly because he lacks screen presence but also because we all feel sorry for him - after all he's not crazy, he's only taking revenge. The teens in question make it worse - with the exception of Love Hewitt and maybe Prinze they are pretty unpleasant people - spoilt brats mainly. From the start onwards you want them to be killed - it makes it even harder to care about what's going on when you don't care if the characters live or die.Overall this is a rather tame horror movie - low on bodycount and gore, only some action scenes are tense and exciting but most things you can see coming a mile away. The red-herrings are left unexplained at the end (why is Ray the only one not targeted?) and the end is both lazy and insulting - and of course leaves it open for a sequel. Great. "},{"Title":"A classic, very underrated slasher","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" WARNING I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this comment.When the era of teen slashers started to arise from the incredible success of Scream, it seemed a lot of them were just so not up to par as Scream was, and still are not to this day. Scream was a fast paced, amazingly well crafted classic with excellent characters and acting, and a wonderful plot. However, there are quite a few slashers in that time that have cult followings from horror lovers for they are very enjoyable slashers, that tried their best to conquer Scream implacably. I Know What You Did Last Summer falls under that category for me. True, this movie did also help in the creation of the disastrous string of teen horrors we have nowadays, with cliché plot twists and face-palming character actions at every turn, but it is arguably the most successful and recognized Scream cash-in, and there is a reason for that.I especially love the cast. Though Jennifer Love Hewitt is no Neve Campbell, she and the rest of her co-stars, Prince Jr., Phillipe and the ever so wonderful and amazingly talented Sarah Michelle Gellar all try their best to make the film work for what it is and accomplish that perfectly. Sarah Michelle Gellar's character Helen actually has a very wide fan base, and I am a considered fan as well. Her character was superb; too bad she was overshadowed by the film's genre by a lot of critics and was ridiculously killed off quite aggrivatingly. Anyway, stopping the drooling and praising over Ms. Gellar, the plot is fun and probably my favorite we make a pact plot that I have seen. It has some nice kills, and though Ben Willis is no Ghostface, I make these Scream references for the screenplay was by Kevin Williamson and we all know that is what this film tried to be, he is not a bad killer, just not a memorable one. He is not as memorable as the film itself, for me at least.Anyway, the movie is just pure fun with characters that you actually care for and hope to live; surprisingly deep characters in fact for such a short running time and the genre-based film that it is. It was a box office success and I can see why; definitely one of my all time favorite slashers, even if it's not one of the best, and does not receive the appreciation it deserves at a lot of times. I assume it is mostly criticized because of the genre it is in, like I mentioned, and not many critics and general audiences are open to teen slashers, I can see why with the ones we have nowadays, but this was the 90s; an excellent decade for films of any genre, and many people should acknowledge that. A classic, very underrated slasher that I loved and enjoyed greatly. "},{"Title":"Happy Birthday Sarah Michelle","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I haven't seen a whole lot of teen slasher movies. In fact this may be the only one I have seen, and it is a fitting tribute of the genre for our birthday girl, Sarah Michelle Geller.Writer Kevin Williamson follows up Scream with a serious example of just how effective these movies can be if they're well-written, directed and acted.Sarah Michelle Geller (Buffy, TMNT) and Jenniver Love Hewitt (Ghost Whisperer) fit perfectly together and are supported by Ryan Phillippe (Crash, Breach, Flags of Our Fathers) and Freddie Prinze Jr. Why does that sentence sound naughty? If I had to watch one film of this type, I'm glad this was it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is an obvious attempt to cash in on the big success of the Scream movies. Compared to them and many of the other horror classics (Halloween most notably), this movie just does not measure up, but it is still entertaining. There is a sense of mystery here that really hasn't existed in slasher movies since the first Nightmare on Elm Street. You don't know who the killer is and he's always hiding in the shadows until... you know. This movie is far from perfect but entertaining. "},{"Title":"A decent teen slasher film, but one can't help feeling that Kevin Williamson missed a big chance to send up traditional horror archetypes once more...","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer It's the Fourth of July, and Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt, TV's Party of Five), Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), and Barry (Ryan Phillippe) are intent on celebrating their graduation from high school, which, for them, means driving to a secluded beach, getting drunk, telling ghost stories and making out with each other. But later that evening, on the way back to town, they accidentally hit a man with their car, apparently killing him. After thinking things through, the group reluctantly decides to dump the body in the sea, and swear to take the secret of what they did that night to their graves. One year later, a still guilt-ridden Julie returns from college to her hometown, and finds an incriminating message in the mail somebody knows what they did last summer. After rounding up her circle of former friends, she tries to figure out who alive could have seen them leave a man for dead. But the events surrounding the accident may be more complicated than any of them had originally thought.Last year, screenwriter Kevin Williamson came out of nowhere with 'Scream, a self-referential satire on the teen slasher oeuvre wrapped warmly in classic Wes Craven thrills. Unexpectedly, but deservedly, a surprise runaway box office success followed. Based on the reception of his feature debut, and before Craven and the folks at Dimension came knocking for a 'Scream' sequel (due out this winter), Williamson took it upon himself to bring author Lois Duncan's novel 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' to the big screen. The end product is a decent teen slasher film, but one can't help feeling that Williamson missed a big chance to send up traditional horror archetypes once more.As the world of 'Last Summer' wasn't originally Williamson's own creation, it's to be expected that the film not be strung through with the same knowing streak of humour that was the driving force behind 'Scream'. Or maybe it's just that Williamson had grown tired of the same old jokes, and opted to shun them out of 'Last Summer' altogether. But through opting to stay within the lines for his latest film, Williamson has gutted what made his first so special. Sadly, 'Last Summer' does not stand apart from the crowd of horror films that Kevin Williamson so skilfully mocked ten months ago. That said, this is perhaps the first slasher film to come out since 'Scream', and, against the odds, this serves to the film's advantage, as it's almost quite enjoyable watching the clichés play out in front of you exactly as predicted.Ironically, British director Jim Gillespie ('Joyride'), in his first Hollywood production, has made a good effort to mimic the works of Wes Craven, specifically with the commanding score by John Debney. Marco Beltrami's work on 'Scream' is the template used by Debney here, and the versatile composer manages to accentuate the tension well, despite signalling some of the scares. However, Gillespie makes the mistake of depicting the death scenes too graphically. Gore could have been used well in 'Last Summer', but Gillespie leaves the camera rolling for too long during the vicious attacks on the killer's victims, which end up more repulsive than anything. Gillespie ain't no Craven, that's for sure.The cast (or should I say group of attractive teens that are waiting to be offed?) also seem to be taking this project a little too unsmilingly, with actors Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillippe more concerned with trying to see which one of them can ham it up the most than actually developing characters worth caring about. Jennifer Love Hewitt is decent enough here, but her performance never fully convinces. It's up to Sarah Michelle Gellar to strap ably into damsel in distress mode (something that the actress should know about, starring on Buffy the Vampire Slayer week after week), and does more than necessary to make the audience truly feel for Helen Shivers as she laments her shattered dreams. Jamie Lee Curtis, you might want to keep an eye on your Scream Queen coronet.The final act of the film is hard to resist, as it stages a series of nice set pieces that keep you close to the edge of your seat at all times, right up to the agreeably trite, sequel-friendly ending. But Williamson needs to learn how to wean the parody away from his screenplays without completely robbing them of any innovativeness. I admire the man for not repeating himself, but he seems to have progressed right into a career corner with 'Last Summer'. 'Scream 2' will most likely return him to the top of the pyramid once again, but I'd rather not think about what might happen after that.~ 7/10 ~ "},{"Title":"Had Potential, But Fell Short","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In the wake of the incredible success of Scream, writer Kevin Williamson decided to craft another teen slasher film, this one called I Know What You Did Last Summer. The film revolves around four teen best friends Julie, Ray, Barry, and Helen (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Ryan Phillippe, and Sarah Michelle Gellar) who are involved in a hit-and-run on the 4th of July. When they run over the pedestrian on the road, they ditch the body to protect their futures. A year later, when they reunite over the summer, they all must face the secret they hid last year. Because someone knows what they did and is out for revenge.When thinking about it, it is surprising that the writer of this film was the same one who wrote the wildly creative and suspenseful Scream. In all fairness, I Know.. is more of an adaption than an original screenplay. It is actually based off the book of the same name. I've read that book, and it was an awkward translation into a horror film, considering the book is actually quite different and more of a morality tale. In the book, the characters are stalked by the mystery man, but none of them are ever killed or even threatened with death. Honestly, this book was not supposed to be made into a horror film. Kevin Williamson is very talented, but I think he cares more about the Scream series (especially since Scream 2 was released the same year as this film) and got lazy.Another reason why IKWYDLS didn't work was the lead actors, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. To be fair, Hewitt isn't the worst actress ever. She's had a few good roles, but is more eye candy than leading heroine. It seems like she's more suited to comedy, because she stumbles at times in this film and doesn't make enough of a emotional connection with the role to make us root for her. While she isn't winning any Oscars soon, she's better at acting than Prinze Jr., who is most of the time very stiff and forced (which ultimately effects he and Hewitt's on-screen chemistry). Every time he came on screen was cringe-worthy, and while he's very good looking, he was unfit to be the lead male.Ryan Phillippe and Sarah Michelle Gellar, however, do a very good job with their supporting roles. As an on-screen couple, they have good chemistry and rapport (which they proved 2 years later in the edgy film Cruel Intentions). Also, they stand well on their own. Ray is somewhat of an arrogant asshole, and Phillippe plays him very well. Gellar manages to make her role as beauty queen with the shattered dream Helen also believable, and her chase scene with the killer is arguably the best part of the film. One has to wonder if the film would have been different and more enjoyable if Phillippe and Gellar were cast as the leads, and Hewitt and Prinze were given less screen time.All in all, it's not the worst horror film I've ever seen(that title belongs to 1999's The Haunting). You might even managed to be entertained if you can turn off your brain for awhile, ignore some of the glaring plot holes, and sit through Jennifer and Freddie's awkward acting. However, in terms of horror films, there are plenty of better ones out there. "},{"Title":" Awesome slasher movie!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is completely brilliant! Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jr., and Ryan Phillipe are great in this movie! It did have it's share of blood and gore, but it was very enjoyable! I highly reccomend this movie! If I had to grade it, I'd give it a A+! "}{"Title":"Apparently too underrated","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, this isn't a masterpiece of the kind, however, it has atmosphere, something that is just as important as a good plot. Having stated that, everyone knows that I mean to say that the plot is bad. It is. The main offender is simply totally unbelievable a middle-aged fisherman of an exceptionally good physique that accounts for his übermenschlich capability to survive (1) being run over by a fast moving BMW (2) being drowned (3) being dismembered and spectacularly thrown of a ship Hell ya, this guy's a cat man with his nine lives ready at stake when two couples of airhead teenagers meet up with him. He's simply Jason, Michael Myers and the Boogeyman all in one.Anyway, IKWDLS is well-crafted, has decent portraying of the two of the female protagonists and their family, a reasonably thorough depiction of a fishing hamlet, good music, a solid base in the 90s adolescent subculture, and atmosphere.The opening sequence is a beautiful sweeping footage of a seashore in the sunset followed by a number of suspenseful scenes that adds to the atmosphere that I'm talking about. The entry of the killer kind of destroys it, knowing that he will arise from that dead (and the bottom of the sea) quite soon.The title unfortunately refers to the unbelievable nicely hand written short messages that the killer (after all he's gone through) miraculously succeeds to distribute to the protagonists. I especially dislike the part of 'Missy' (a misplaced cajun type of a woman that lives in the woodlands, a kind of in-breed that appears only in order to prolong the picture) standing in her backyard chopping chicken, and then reveals her brother's alleged suicide note (written by the killer previously to the pertinent plot) from a shed just behind her! Now, why would anyone be expected to accept that someone living in a freakingly huge house would keep such a sensitive document in such a place???Another disturbingly stupid sequence is when Jennifer Love Hewitt's character discovers a body together with some crabs in the trunk of her car, runs to fetch her friends, and when they all return the trunk is as neat as ever, despite the mess that was in it just a moment ago. Simply, an unnecessary scene that doesn't add to the story a bit.In spite of the partly severe arguments against this picture, I still like it enough to watch it from time to time, and get nostalgic about the carefree (?) 90s... "},{"Title":"At least it's better than the sequel","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I like Kevin Williamson.  Scream was a brilliant parody of horror films while being scary in its own right and Dawson's Creek is a great television show.  But this film is just not that good.  It's not scary.  It's not well written or well thought out.  There really was no reason for guy from Rosanne to get killed.  He had nothing to do with it.  And it is the same thing in the sequel, most of the cast has nothing to do with it either.  I didn't find this flick scary in the least although the story at the beginning was interesting.  It is blessed with a cast of incredibly good looking people but that does not make it a good film to watch.  If you really enjoy seeing Love Hewitt running around with her breasts half exposed, Gellar looking particularly sexy, Phillipe trying to box, Prinze Jr. looking silly, stupid characters that do stupid things, unconvincing deaths, a trunk full of fish that conveniently disappears (smell and all) when it is required to, someone get a hair cut in their sleep without knowing it and a plethora of other really bad scenarios, then this is your movie.  However, if you want to see a good horror flick with teenagers getting killed, rent the early Fridays, the first Halloween, the first Nightmare, the first Texas, the first Evil Dead and even Scream.  But for God sake, stay away from this one.  It is quite bad.  "},{"Title":"Well, the title's pretty good","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer joins The Spy Who Shagged Me and The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover as being yet another film that doesn't even come close to living up to its inspired title.  All are bad enough to make me angry at the thought of a good title being squandered.Kevin Williamson's script suggests nothing so much as a man trying, and failing, to capture the charm of the first couple of seasons of Buffy, the Vampire Slayer - this is more obviously a good description of Scream, but Scream, and this may surprise some people who've seen it, is better.  -Or maybe he wasn't even trying.  I'm not sure which is worse.  I think Williamson WAS trying for a quality we might term cred, by having his central characters bitch and squabble all the time.  Friends in Buffy, on the other hand, genuinely support one another.  That's a large part of the show's charm.  It's a  charm that could only have helped Williamson's script, if only by making it more realistic however much his central characters might have fought amongst themselves in the ordinary course of events, faced with a powerful EXTERNAL threat, they would surely have closed ranks.Neither this nor Scream is particularly bad.  The main trouble is that I Know What You Did Last Summer, as well as wasting a good title, also wastes a good premise.  Some teenagers feel guilty after their car accidentally knocks someone down; they hide the body and then they THINK they can just safely sneak back to their old lives ... the story could have gone in many good directions from here, and it's a pity all that occurred to Williamson was to head for regions slasher-horror so well travelled I'm surprised they don't sell souvenirs. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Post-Scream Slashers","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997)*** (out of 4) Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze, Jr. play a group of friends who are drinking and having a good time but on the way home they accidentally run over a man and kill him. They decide it's best not to go to the police fearing murder charges so they dump his body but a year later they begin getting harassed.Thanks to the success of Wes Craven's SCREAM the horror genre got a boost and soon after one slasher after another was being released. Out of all of them this one here is the best in my opinion because Kevin Williamson's screenplay goes away from all the self-mocking and instead delivers a very good story that works perfect as a drama but it also features the horror elements that slasher fans would come to expect. Throw in a very good cast and some likable characters and we're left with one of the better horror films to come out of this period. If SCREAM was a classic like HALLOWEEN then this here is more like a good stepchild in the same vein as a Friday THE 13TH.The thing I enjoyed most about this was the actual personal story of these four people who find their lives changed over a bad decision. The set up itself is pretty simple but it works extremely well because we've all been young and made foolish decisions and one of the best moments in the film comes when the four teens must decide whether or not to go to the cops. Their reasoning behind it is interesting and their thought process is something you don't typically see in a slasher. The damage that their decision has on their lives is something else brought up in the screenplay that works extremely well. All of this happens before we even get to the horror elements. The mystery surrounding the killer keeps you guessing for certain.The horror elements are all extremely good. I know some make fun of the Captain Gordon outfit but I thought it was rather effective and brought back memories from the giallo days of the 70s when killers wore nothing but black. Another thing that works are the actual chase scenes, which director Jim Gillespie manages to build up some nice tension. It also doesn't hurt that you actually like the characters, can connect with them and you don't want to see them killed. Hewitt, Gellar and Phillippe are all extremely good and believable in their roles as is Anne Heche in her supporting bit. Prinze Jr. is probably better here than anytime in his career, although that's not too much support I'm giving him.I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER certainly has a few flaws including the movie getting dragged out in the third party but overall it's a highlight of what the genre had to offer after the success of SCREAM. "},{"Title":"Reasonable teen slasher movie","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" During the 4th of July holidays, four teens Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry William Cox (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.) are driving after drinking on the beach. Barry distracts Ray as he runs over a guy on a desolate road in the middle of the night. They argue convincing Ray to dump the body. Max (Johnny Galecki) drives by but Julie lies to him. The body has a hook for a hand but he's not actually dead as he makes a final grab at Helen. The friends agree to keep it a secret after dumping him in the harbor. Then one year later, Julia comes back to town from college and she gets a note with I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER! Helen is working for her sister Elsa and broken up with the jerk Barry. Barry suspects Max as the one who wrote the note. Ray is now a fisherman following his father's footsteps.The movie has some of the best young actors of Hollywood at the time. Kevin Williamson works over the script. It's a pretty simple teen slasher movie. It has some psychological aspects and mystery of the note. In the end, it's slash and splat. It works well and gets a couple of passable scares. It never really gets truly gritty or realistic. It's just an old fashion slasher flick. It's all about the old fashion 80s kills. "},{"Title":"Exciting slasher flick!","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The 1990s was known for its teenage and young adult horror/slasher movies and I Know What You Did Last Summer is what I think one of the more memorable and exciting slasher flicks from that decade.Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddy Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillippe star as four friends who, after a wild night at a Fourth of July outdoor party, accidentally hit a man on a road at night with their car. They dump the body in hopes of covering up the accident and try to get on with their lives afterward. A year later, one by one, they start receiving notes with the words I Know What You Did Last Summer written on it, and soon, a terrible course of events start happening to them.The acting is pretty good, believable and emotional, but not over-the-top, although Freddy Prinze could have used a little more emotion and tension; he seemed a little too monotone and stiff. The plot was fast-paced and exciting, keeping the audience entertained, especially in the parts where horrific pranks and deadly events take place around the four teenagers after they discover that someone learned of their hit-and-run accident the year before. How the accident made a negative impact on their friendships were also brilliantly acted out in the movie, and then when the teens had to put their differences aside to take on the menace is intriguing to watch.Many horror movies get by with excessive gore, blood, killings and campy acting. This one actually has a story, suspense and descent acting. It's a good one to enjoy on a Friday night, on Halloween or a horror marathon.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer is an exciting, tense, breathtaking film","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer or IKWYDLS from hear on out is an outstanding slasher film in the Post-Scream era.Plot Four teens are driving down the road and accidentally hit a man and fearing manslaughter charges they dump the body in the nearby ocean. A year later each one of them receive notes stating the somebody knows what they did last summer and as seemingly harmless jokes turn into bloody murder they have to figure out who could've seen them that night and maybe the man they hit didn't die and he's back for bloody revenge.What a film! I remember I was at Hollywood and I had to chose between this movie and Friday the 13th The Final Chapter so I picked this movie and as I pulled out of the parking lot I felt I had picked a dud so I put off watching this for a while and then one morning I decided to check it out and stuck it into by DVD player. From the first shot to the last shot this film is beautifully shot and directed. You get to know the characters and feel like you want to reach into your T.V. set and pluck the characters out of harms way and a lot of that is due the performances of the actors. Jennifer Love Hewitt was the perfect choice to play the heroin and Sarah Michelle Gellar delivers a heart wrenching performance and the audience really gets to know her more than the rest of the cast mostly to Mrs. Gellar's talent. Which brings up Sarah's chase scene. Words cannot describe the shear terror eating away at your body as Mrs. Gellar runs for her life from the killer. The director did an outstanding job with this sequence and it goes down in Chase Scene Hall as number 1. Remember the chase scene in Prom Night? Expect that and much, much more and you will be no doubt satisfied. Freddie Prinze Jr. is likable as Jennifer Love Hewitt's character's boyfriend and serves as a great red herring twisted around into s great fake reveal and Ryan Phillipe proves he can make the most unlikeable character likable and you can feel for him when he meets his demise. The rest of the cast are great and are there for fodder or red herrings. The only thing I have to say now is if you haven't seen this go check it out and you will now be disappointed. IKWYDLS gets 10/10 "},{"Title":"How was this movie ever such a big hit?","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You got some kids cruising in a BMW sport coupe at night on a very dark road, they hit a pedestrian.  It could happen to anyone.What?  There was no such thing as cell phones just 3 years ago in 1997?  Obviously, these are public school kids, because no one taught them what to do in case of an emergency. Dial 911.  Movie over. "},{"Title":"I Wish I Knew What I Was Doing Watching This","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  MINOR SPOILERSWhat a Dull Film. I Know What You Did Last Summer had a good idea. 4 teenagers run over a person one fateful summer night. They dump the body and vow to never speak of it again. One year later, they break the promise - for a good reason. It seems that someone knew what they did last summer and is out to get them. So they all get killed off, one by one. It's formulatic stuff, poorly executed formulatic stuff. There is no thrills, I'm not scared at any point in the movie, for a horror - that is sad. No one in the cast gave a truly memorable performance, so it is truly a poor film. I'll admit that I liked the ending, the only true saving grace of this movie. I'm surprised that I actually watched to the end. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Surprise! It's another teen slasher flick","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Four students out for a summer party accidentally run down an old fisherman, in the panic they decide to dump the body in the sea rather than report the accident. After swearing never to mention that night again, but one year later someone else is not letting them forget about it.It's a fairly typical teen slasher flick, beautiful girls, shallow plot, cheesy dialogue; you know the usual stuff. It's formulaic and clichéd, but who cares it's great fun, it has plenty of action and thrills; and the cast are pretty good.Not as good as some films in the genre, but it certainly entertains.6/10 "}{"Title":"Not the usual thriller slasher movie","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is not the usual thriller slasher movie. Usually in thriller slasher movies there is nothing but gore and blood. But this movie is different, it has a an excellent story and instead of there being seven eight main characters where everyone dies there are only four main characters with a completely different story. Plot Warning MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS. Four friends are driving drunk after a party and hit someone. Afraid that the police would believe that it was an accident, they dispose the body in a abandoned dock. One year later the events of last year start to haunt them when they find out that someone knows and is coming back for revenge. Flaws none. Story is very different and absolutely flawless. Just the acting could have been better. Otherwise there are no flaws.Acting Jennifer Love Hewitt is brilliant. She is the one of the main highlights of the film. Sarah Michelle Geller is okay at first but slowly moves into her character, especially during the final scenes. Ryan Phillipe is excellent. He is the star of the movie and plays his character with excellence and efficiency. Freddie Prinze Jr could have done better and was okay.Overall this is a very different thriller slasher movie which makes you jump up and down and has a excellent story "},{"Title":"Mildly/somewhat entertaining","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I know what you did last night (1997) is a somewhat entertaining teenage slasher film that follows the story of 4 different teenagers and how they accidentally hit a man on the road, kill him, and because they don't think the cops will believe them, they dump his body in the water. They swear never ever speak of it again, and just move on with their lives. Well, first of all let me just say that I loved Jennifer Love Hewitt in this film, I thought she really fit her role well. I also really loved, probably loved more than all of the characters and actors playing them, was Sarah Michelle Gellar. Sarah Michelle Gellar really did do a great job portraying her role in the film. Then, there's Ryan Phillipe, who I disliked the most of all the actors and characters in the movie, he just was not the correct choice for the role, and basically all he did was just overact and be wayyyyy over the top, it didn't work for him. The plot is interesting and intriguing, at least to me it is. The scare factor is there at certain times in the film, but some jump scares were just dull and boring. But the action and the chase scene were high octain, fun and cool to see, and entertaining. So overall I'll give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"I Know What I Did Last Summer...I Watched This Film.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997) Dir Jim Gillespie / Cast Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Anne Heche We have all heard the term regarding our sins finding us out. Here is a horror film about a watchful presence out to advocate that term. It regards four high school graduates who are out racing and drinking until they hit someone. They dump the body to avoid a manslaughter charge then make a pact for secrecy. A year later they all receive notes that say, I know what you did last summer. Jennifer Love Hewitt discovers a body in the trunk of her car. Sarah Michelle Gellar wakes up with her locks sheared. Ryan Phillippe is nearly hit by a car. This leaves Freddie Prinze Jr. to take the blame. Anne Heche makes an appearance as a nut case. This is generally an effective horror film with an interesting theme but unfortunately the killer is someone who had no previous screen time. The third act boils down to the standard chase and slash with that ever familiar cheat ending that opens a sequel but director Jim Gillespie presents an eerie atmosphere that works in its favor. We can understand the dilemma the characters face even if our circumstances are greatly different. We have all tried to hide something at some point. The past can haunt us like a hangover on the dawn of a heavy drinking night. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"The guilt will haunt you and maybe even KILL you","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Released in 1997, I Know What You Did Last Summer takes place in coastal North Carolina where a group of just-graduated teens experience a tragic event and compound it by foolishly reacting. They swear to carry the secret to their graves, but the next summer it becomes clear that someone knows their secret and murders start piling up. The teens are played by Sarah Michelle Gellar, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. Also on hand are Johnny Galecki, Anne Heche and Muse Watson.This movie is full of slasher clichés, like the killer who's always in the same garb (this time a fisherman's slicker outfit), the slow-methodical walking of the killer (never running) and the undead dead. There are also two blatant Yeah, right scenes (noted below). Thankfully, it makes up for it by the stellar coastal locations (strangely shot on BOTH East and West coasts), a quality cast, some effective sequences and the potent moral on haunting guilt that slowly kills ya. The immediate aftermath of the opening accident is particularly well done.The film runs 99 minutes and shot in Southport, North Carolina, and Jenner, California, and nearby regions of both coasts.GRADE B or B- (6.5/10 Stars) ***SPOILER ALERT*** (DON'T READ FURTHER IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM) Here are the two eye-rolling scenes 1. The sequence where Max's corpse is found in the trunk with the crabs. It couldn't have been an illusion since Helen didn't yet know Max was dead, so it must've really happened. If so, how would the slicker-killer get the trunk cleaned-up so quickly with no one seeing him in a neighborhood in broad daylight? Also, how did he even get into trunk? Did he have his own personal key? The sequence is just too far-fetched.2. After Barry is murdered by the killer at the pageant how does he know that the cop and Helen would be driving down the alley by-pass an hour or so later? (I realize the street was blocked off and he might've been the one who set it up, but how did he know this would be the precise route taken by the cop and Helen? And how would he even know Helen would be riding with the cop? It's not like she wouldn't have other friends & family in town with whom she could ride. Anyway, wouldn't people living in the downtown area or other passersby notice a man in full-slicker garb working on his truck? Sequences like these take mature viewers right out of the story, which explains Roger Ebert's response After the screening was over and the lights went up, I observed a couple of my colleagues in deep and earnest conversation, trying to resolve twists in the plot. They were applying more thought to the movie than the makers did. "},{"Title":"Ben the Bream.","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Kevin Williamson, hot off of the success of his screenplay for Wes Craven's Scream, here adapted the Lois Duncan novel with mixed results.A bunch of pretty teenagers in a coastal fishing town run over a man in the road and try to cover it up. Not a wise move at the best of times, even more so now as the victim, a hook wielding fisherman, is coming to get them.And that's pretty much it. Williamson adds some humour into the play, while director Jim Gillespie plays his shock tactics well and keeps the pretty young cast annoying enough for us to want to see the fisherman guy enact revenge.It sadly gets away from itself in the last quarter once the stalker is revealed, and in truth there's very little imagination gone into the whole pic. But it's a decent night in with beer and popcorn for those after a short sharp shock type horror. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Empty, predictable and even humorous.","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In this film, a group of teenagers commit a crime and decides to keep that secret forever but someone knows what they did and decides to punish them. From the same writer of Scream (Kevin Williamson), this film is directed by Jim Gillespie and features Jennifer Love Hewitt as a protagonist.Teen movies usually go up in college or the end of high school, and show plots with stereotyped groups of adolescents (sexual perverts, idiots, nerds, dumb blonde's and others). This film starts from that and introduces notes of suspense a crime, a secret, several murders throughout the plot and a busty girl playing the damsel in distress. This would make an excellent comedy (who doesn't like to see stupid teenagers to die horribly in movies?) and there are several moments that are deeply hilarious and predictable. The creation of suspense fails repeatedly for that reason.Jennifer Love Hewitt is a satisfactory actress, but fails to convince the audience. The problem may not be the actress but the plot, the script and the way her character was planned. The actress tries at various times to reach a higher level of psychological tension but ruins everything with theatrical moments and hysterical screams. The rest of the cast doesn't matter, are there to die or kill. The best of the film is to discover the killer's identity but, unfortunately, if we just want that, any CSI series or similar can give that even better. "},{"Title":"A Big Horror Flick In The 90's","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is a horror mystery slasher film based loosely off the book by Lois Duncan of the same name. The film stars Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr., and features Anne Heche and Bridgette Wilson in supporting roles. The screenplay was written by Kevin Williamson and directed by Jim Gillespie.During the annual July 4th festivities in a North Carolina fishing town, Helen wins a local beauty contest and departs with her boyfriend Barry and pals Julie and Ray. On their way back home, Ray hits a fisherman with her car. The teens panic, drop the body in the water, and abandon the scene. Many months later when Julie returns from college, she gets an anonymous note,I know what you did last summer. The four teens suspect the note was written by their classmate Max, but then Max is murdered and the terror begins.Teasing and taut, I Know What You Did Last Summer is a teen horror flick with a different kind of kick to it.It is a smart, sharply drawn horror genre film with a moral center and a solid cast which provides a fun, energetic and scary movie.No wonder it was a big hit during the 90's. "},{"Title":"Recently Watched It!","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 15 years after this movie came out, I watched this movie. Not out of fear, if anything scared me, I was afraid that this would be Dawson's Creek with serial killers and on a personal note that is scarier that ANY horror movie icon could ever be, but I digress, let's get to it.Basic Story Guide (contains a few spoilers) After attending a beauty pageant, Julie James, Helen Shivers, Ray Bronson, and Barry Cox, are driving home after celebrating their last year together. As Barry's drink falls on Ray (who is driving), they all hear a THUD! the sound of a high velocity impact. Upon inspecting the car, and suspecting that it may have been an animal, Julie makes a horrifying discovery a boot. A few feet away, they find the mutilated remains of a man. After debating on going to the police, the four decide that the best course of action is to dump the man in the river, and NEVER speaking of this again.One year later, Julie receives a message that only contains seven words I know what you did last summer.Before I give you the verdict I will say this, I am fan of 90's slashers and 90's horror movies. The Craft, The Faculity, Sleepy Hollow, Urban Legend, Scream even Scary Movie (a parody of 90's slasher movies so I love it), etc. So my opinion of this maybe a little bias but I will give you my honest opinion from how I feel about it.Verdict Other than a few plot holes and numerous clichés, over all it's a solid 90's horror movie. Well acted, and good energy between four main characters. Descent tension but a little weak on scares. And it contains one the best chase scenes. Sarah Michelle Geller sells it well.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Trendy horror","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's no doubt that writer Kevin Williamson has a talent for this genre. Although he he describes cruel murders much better then he describes characters, that can' t be contested. Williamson is not able to to unravel the story as well as he has done before - and after this movie. It started out well, but was taken down to earth too quickly, director Jim Gillespie it not too known to me, so I can' t really on his abilities. This seems to be the perfect movie for young people who love horror movies. It looks like this particular resipe has became a trend in the last years, just like in the 70s and the 80s. Pretty young people in a horror scenario of dimensions, a mad killer on the loose with his bloody hook. The movie is realtive creepy, and has several hard hitting surprise along the way. There may be too many stereotypes though, and the young cries vigor related to an extreme evil murderer wasn' t especially credible - nor original. But the plot and effects still kept it interesting and tense - so I couldn't expect more from a movie in this genre. Good horror, but the characters were disappointing. "},{"Title":"Phillippe is Funny","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Given the sheer amount (and just as importantly, style) of parodies/references to 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' over the last decade or so, one can conclude that a) the first half is quite memorable, even if you hate the movie; and b) the second half is rather forgettable, even if you love it.Ryan Phillippe's performance has a lot to do with this, I feel. He drives the crucial scenes and plot elements; the film most definitely runs out of puff whenever he's not on screen. His character's foul-mouthed, confrontational college quarterback ass (as Johnny Galecki's character phrases it) is so over the top that it's funny (kind of like a French actor), and at the very least, warrants the movie watchable. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When this movie came out, I desperately wanted to see it, but for the life of me I cannot understand why. Thirteen years later, I finally got around to seeing it. It was NOTHING like I was expecting.I Know What You Did Last Summer was a teenage psychological thriller written by Lois Duncan, but Columbia Pictures turned it into a slasher movie on screen. This infuriated Duncan, whose teenage daughter was brutally murdered in 1989 (as of today, the case remains unsolved). It's a shame, because these changes hurt an already effective suspense thriller.Four high school friends, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) celebrate their last summer together. On the way home, they accidentally hit a someone. Not wanting to give up their promising futures, they dump the body into the water, intending to carry the secret to their graves. One year later, it becomes clear that someone knows what happened.People have been calling this a slasher film, and really, this just isn't the case. For a would-be member of this genre, there's surprisingly little violence, and almost no gore to speak of (the film still deserves its R rating, however, because what violence there is, is pretty intense). The film fits better into the psychological thriller genre, and that's a good thing, because the story is the strongest part of the film.The acting is surprisingly good. All the actors are able to show the effects of keeping a secret like this. None of their lives has turned out the way they thought they would, and their friendships are at best estranged. It's an interesting exploration that is often left ignored in most films of this ilk, especially ones geared towards teens. The actors are good enough to make this credible, and as such, it adds a level of verisimilitude to the film.I was surprised at how effective this film was. Based on his later film, D-Tox, Jim Gillespie appeared to have absolutely no talent in creating tension. This movie is consistently suspenseful, and the ending surprised me (then again, I am notoriously bad at guessing whodunits beforehand).I Know What You Did Last Summer has been compared to Scream, which was also written by Kevin Williamson (this film was written before Scream, but was only put to film after Scream's blockbuster success). Altogether they are different movies. Scream is a horror movie through and through; this is a suspense story with horror film elements.Because of the film's other successes (such as the aforementioned exploration of the characters' relationships post-trauma), I was going to give the film an 8 despite the suspense not being as high as some other films I have given the same rating. But the final scene is horrible. Not only does it not make sense, it completely abandons the credible mental stress that was present throughout the previous 90 minutes.Still, I highly recommend the film, even if you're not a slasher film fan.Rated R for some Strong Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer is a different style of horror that  works!","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" With Jim Gillespie's direction and Kevin Williamson's screenplay, I Know What You Did Last Summer proves to be a successful piece of work that utilized with style. With a cast of talented actors Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Anne Heche. The idea of mixing an urban legend in with the story of four high school graduates who are keeping a secret of a fatal accident they were involved in (loosely based on Lois Duncan's novella of the same name)is an idea that is both good and clever. The film mostly avoids typical horror films which just revolve around sex, drugs, and excessive gore. It does however include one of the best chase scenes ever to be filmed in a horror movie. Although the main idea is not original and has been used as the plot for other horror films such as Prom Night, it still works. Fun, entertaining, and suspenseful I Know What You Did Last Summer is yet another film of this genre that slides under viewers radars. ***1\2 Stars Out of ***** "},{"Title":"Cashing in on Scream...","Date":"8 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...and not doing a bad job of it either.It's 1997. Wes Craven and to a lesser extent Joss Whedon have just reinvigorated the horror genre with the film Scream and the television show Buffy the Vampire Slayer. So what to do if you're a big movie studio wanting a fast hit? You make a horror movie and cast Buffy herself, Sarah Michelle Gellar, as one of the leads. The result is a nice little film, borrowing from the Scream formula of winking at the audience and MTV casting.The plot four friends, played by Jennifer Love Hewitt (Julie), Ryan Phillipe (Barry), Buffy (Helen) and Freddie Prinz Jr (Ray), go out on a boozy evening drive following 4th of July celebrations in their sleepy little city. On the way home they accidentally hit a man with their car, killing him, and then dump his body in the ocean. A year later Julie starts getting mysterious messages reading I know what you did last summer. As the bodies mount panic increases as Julie, Ray, Barry and Helen try to find out who it is that knows. The cast Phillipe and Gellar are the best actors in this movie and unsurprisingly, it's their scenes which generate the most emotion. Phillipe in particular, you'll feel like strangling as his macho stupidity gets the team in trouble at every turn. Gellar starts off as a selfish character but her plight does generate some sympathy. Hewitt plays a stereotypical horror heroine, while Prinz puts in a typical Freddie Prinz performance, for what that's worth. Johhny Galecki drops in for his typical odd ball effort and actually adds something to the film, while Muse Watson, the villain of the piece is not given much to do.The script again it follows the Scream formula of not taking itself too seriously. There are many scenes which are purposefully ridiculous, such as our very slowly walking villain gaining ground on our sprinting heroes, and a silly resolution when we find out who the killer is.Overall this is a genre film that offers nothing new and is far from essential viewing. Having said that, it is entertaining in spots with some nice kills. I know what you did last summer, while not quite standing tall, does stand as a solid example of late 90s slasher film making. There have been many worse. "},{"Title":"i know what you did last summer,Ryan's review","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i thought that it was a very suspenseful and scary movie,but the only thing not good in it was Jenifer love Hewitt her performance was bad and she just did not suit the part of Julie.the best person in it was Sarah Michelle Gellar because of her brilliant acting and amazing chase scene,her chase scene has got to be the best chase scene i have ever seen in a slasher movie,plus Sarah Michelle Gellar is my favourite actress.Freddie Prinz Jr was amazing in it to because he did suit the part,plus he is my favourite actor and Ryan Phillipe was good as well.the movie was well thought out.the scariest bit for me was when Sarah Michelle Gellar was getting chased and when she was in the shop and got speared that is what made me jump. "},{"Title":"Great for its time and the genre","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer.While the movie itself may not be one that everyone has seen, you can probably be sure that almost everyone has heard the title, either in passing reference or a joking manner. Julie, Ray, Barry and Helen are recent graduates of their local high school, and it is quickly conveyed to us that all of the characters have something great going for them-the beauty, the football star, the brain, and the cute, sweet, sensitive guy who is trying to fit in with the group. So, naturally, this being a horror movie, everything is bound to go wrong sooner rather than later. Driving home from the beach they accidentally run over a man in the road and seemingly kill him, and then dump his body in the ocean. A year later they've all tried to move on with their lives, until Julie receives a letter in the mail-I know what you did last summer.It's 2010 and when watching this movie you have to recall that it was made in 1997. So expect to see bad clothes, not so great hair, and not so great music. The plot itself holds up really well, and is really engaging. It appeals to the what if sense-that sense that everyone has- this is so far fetched, but what if it happened to me? For a 1997 horror movie, it was really well. There wasn't much blood, meaning you aren't going to get nauseous watching this film. Most of the characters are likable enough, and your heart pounds as you watch the chase scenes.As for a thriller/suspense/horror movie, it was pretty original. Watching this type of movie, you sort of expect to see something unoriginal, something you've seen before. But this movie gives a fresh twist to things, and keeps you guessing till the end. Bottom line, it's worth seeing just to keep yourself occupied for 100 minutes.You'll get quite a few jumps and scares out of it and won't feel like you've wasted your time. "},{"Title":"It Will Hook You!","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A quartet of teenagers in I Know What You Did Last Summer go for a joyride after dark on July fourth, accidentally hit a pedestrian, and then try to cover up their crime. This refreshingly well-written but grisly thriller about a sadistic slayer, the hapless teen victims, and a bloody fishhook has more going for it than you might expect. The success of Scream has whetted the appetites of both movie makers and audiences for more entries in the teen slasher genre. Happily, I Know provides all the usual thrills and chills of Scream, but bristles with better plot twists, more calculating characters, a dynamic villain, and a slam-bang finale in the tradition of Brian De Palma's Carrie. Unhappily, first-time feature film director Jim Gillespie suppresses the more literate points in Kevin Williamson's inventive, psychological script to promote the more commercial elements of guts, gore, and gruesomeness.Set in a cozy North Carolina fishing hamlet, I Know chronicles the exploits of Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry William Cox (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) on a final summer fling before they either leave for college or get real jobs. Leggy, good-looking Helen wins a local beauty pageant, and the teens party hardy on a lonely stretch of beach with the surf crashing in the background. When they aren't concocting campfire tales about a vicious killer, they're making out in the dunes. Binge-drinking Barry gets too sloshed to drive his shiny new BMW so Ray&#x97;a non-boozer&#x97;takes the wheel. On the way home, Barry's berserk drinking antics distract Ray. Suddenly, before Ray can swerve, a man steps in front of them. Smashing into the guy, the car careens to a halt, and the teens find his bloody body in a ditch. Too freaked out to verify his death or alert the authorities, our protagonists argue briefly before they dump the body in the briny deep. They hope for the best, but their efforts only yield the worst.Julie, Helen, Barry, and Ray make a pact they will carry their secret to the grave. Little do they realize how deadly such vows turn out for them. Gradually, these best friends drift apart. A year after the incident, Julie suffers the most trauma from the collision. Reluctantly, she comes home for the summer and receives the shock of her life. An anonymous letter addressed to her contains the simple but devastating message I know what you did last summer. Guilt grips her like an icy cold fist. Julie wants to call the police despite the consequences. Instead, she allows herself to be argued down, and she fears now that her life may be the price for her silence. Scary things start to happen. Helen, who treasured her long blond hair, awakens one morning to find her golden tresses shorn and a threat scrawled in lipstick on her bedroom mirror. The cocksure Barry loses his football letter jacket, and the killer runs Barry's automobile down into the jock's own house. Finally, Julie discovers a body packed in the trunk of her car. Barry suspects that Ray is the villain.Meanwhile, the clear-minded Julie tries to identify the guy they hit. Helen and Julie take a trip into the sticks. They visit Melissa Egan (Anne Heche of Donny Brasco) who lives alone and spends most of her day carving up dead farm animals. According to newspaper reports, the body of Melissa's brother washed up not long after the hit and run, but the police attribute the boy's death to drowning. Our heroines want to find out if Melissa's brother might have had a vigilante for a friend. Once again the incriminating finger points at Ray. If I Know appears to imitate Scream, scenarist Kevin Williamson receives both the blame and the credit. After all, he wrote both movies. He has as much fun here bashing those eerie old campfire tales as he had busting slasher movies in Scream. The film opens with a legitimate, real-life predicament before it degenerates into an adrenalin gouge-and-gut thriller. These teens worry more about contacting the authorities than they do about disposing of a body. Not only has Williamson penned a tense, entertaining script, he has also pressed a few politically correct buttons. The movie suggests that only the worst things can happen when teens drink and drive. The peer pressure that teenagers endure is rampant, and they must take responsibility for their actions. Director Gillespie pushes most of these worthwhile didactic themes into the shadows.The I Know villain dresses in high sinister fashion as a fisherman. Attired in an oilskin slicker, rubber boots and a southwester, the villain looks like a duster-clad cowboy from a spaghetti western crossed with Star War villain Darth Vader. The chilling quality of the masquerade is that we never see whose face lurks behind the disguise, and we never hear his voice. The huge diabolical fishhook that our fiend brandishes makes lugging corpses around on its curved, wicked point makes it look easy. Williamson has created an original killer with a theatrical sense of style. Many slasher movie villains have their own musical theme that announces their presence. The I Know villain fiddles with one of his villain's trinkets. The distinctive sound that it produces not only serves as the killer's leitmotif, but also apprises us of the fiend's presence.If you enjoy good scary movies, I Know What You Did Last Summer holds its own with the classic slashers, so you shouldn't be disappointed. Enough surprises occur in the story to keep you guessing when you aren't feeling paranoid. The dastardly fisherman is destined to take a place in the pantheon of movie murderers. Homicide has acquired a fresh look! In the tradition of Friday the 13th, Halloween, and the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, I Know What You Did Last summer unleashes a shocker ending that paves the way for an inevitable sequel. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a decent movie, good acting, and as a horror movie, it was pretty thrilling, but not extremely scary as with some other horror films. 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' would be pretty mild compared to them.Though the only thing that really bothered me was how it was so hard to understand. By the end of the movie I still didn't know who the guy with hook was. I watched it two more times and still did not understand. Hmm... I suppose maybe I'm just bad at following the story lines of movies, but even more friend did not understand the hook guy was. Some other parts of the movie were a bit unrealistic too. Though I still think it's an okay movie. It's good to watch, I guess it's not something you are supposed to really analyze, because I do that a lot with movies. "},{"Title":"A very well made teen horror film.","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Clique film? yes, done a million times? definitely. But that's why we go too the movies, we go to seen cheesy plots and stories & gorgeous women. But this movie side steps a few of those problems that almost all movies have. I know what you did last summer has a very intricate and well thought out story and plot, but to a very avid thinker this movie's plot will feel like it was shot full of holes, this films story is derived from the book of the same name. As we all know the movie is never like the book, but this film comes pretty close. Also allot of people and critics look at four main details about a movie. plot, acting, direction and story. These four details make up a film and this movie has three of these four details and that's good enough for me. I know what you did last summer stars Ryan Phillips, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddy Prinze Jr. & Sarah Michelle Gellar as four teenagers who while celebrating the fourth of July go for a drive and accidentally hit a man with there car the four panic and dump his body in the ocean and swear never to talk about it again. Four years pass and the incident has took it's toll on Julie( Jennifer Love Hewitt) she has become reclusive and quiet ever since, the others have gone on with there lives. But what they did four years ago has come back to haunt them, a man with a hook has come back for revenge and it's possible that he's the man they hit four years ago, now with time running out they have to figure out if it's him or somebody else come to avenge his death. I know what you did last summer is a roller coaster ride of thrills and chills that won't let up till the very end. I highly recommended this movie. "},{"Title":"Long.","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A group of students hit a man with their car. They dump him in the water and decide not to tell about it for anyone.One year later one of them gets a letter, that says L know what you did last summer. Maybe there is someone who knows what they did last summer.A rather impressive horror-movie. It is really worth seeing. Jennifer Love Hewitt acts very well in this film.The other actors act very well too. Horror-fans should see this film which is both amusing and terrifying.You must see it! "},{"Title":"I really like it and I don't think it deserves only 52%.","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have seen quite a few horror movies in my lifetime, and while some are awful beyond reason, the good ones make the genre well worth watching.In this film, we see four teens who get stalked by a hooded figure exactly one year after they accidentally hit someone with their car.The films storyline is good, and quite well executed, the feel of the storyline is used well with the different characters that appear in this film. The film itself is quite good as well, it is fun, thrilling and sometimes, really clever. The acting performances are quite good in this film, the best two of the four were Jennifer Love and Freddie Prince who seemed to make this good movie better.Overall, the film is something to be enjoyed not taken seriously, It is definitely for fans of horror and is quite a good movie on its own. The only thing that brought my personal rating down was the alcholic, I felt the character was boring and predictable. I rate this film 64%. "}{"Title":"Fun and eye appealing, but that doesn't  save it from being typical.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Plot-Four teens (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe and Freddie Prince JR.) accidentally hit a local man on a winding ocean side road after a night of partying and fun. They dump the body and decide to never speak of it again...but the past doesn't stay buried as one year later a mysterious killer dressed in a slicker begins to kill them off one by one looking for more than an apology...Thoughts-'I Know What You Did Last Summer' isn't a great film, but it's not terrible. I think the problem is that while it's fun and entertaining it has lots of cliché's and what I call 'Dawson's Creek' dialogue, which makes it sometimes play out like an after school special. But there are some good moments the film has to offer such as a breath taking opening shot of the ocean and cliffs around it, a very good chase scene involving the lovely Sarah Michelle Gellar, and a good and attractive cast, and some good atmosphere. Yet sadly,it plays out in the typical slasher formula making a predictable film. We've seen most of this done before. Director Jim Gillespie could have treated the viewer to a bit more gore instead of not that bloody deaths. You get a nice good chase scene with Sarah Michelle Gellar but then we come to the ending sequence, which was really cliché.Really, in all honesty, it's no where near as good as 'Scream' or 'Halloween' but it proves to be an entertaining film, despite some of the draw backs. It's not great, so I might as well say it, it's a guilty pleasure of mine, but I'm not guaranteeing you'll like it. I think most will find it average or below average, because as much as I find it entertaining and eye catchy, it is average or below.Overall, worth a watch, recommended if you like teen slashers. However, if your a die hard horror fan this may not be for you.My personal rating-7/10The rating it probably deserves-4 or 5/10 "},{"Title":"Same Old Slasher","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There's an undeniably strong style to this sleeper 90's slasher flick, but it fails miserably to truly scare the audience in the wake of Scream. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar were the temporary scream queens under the hand of Jim Gillespie and Scream writer Kevin Williamson. Despite his ingeniously dark, witty and scary script for Scream that launched him to horror movie fame, Williamson's script here is simple and clichéd, with predictable scares and dialogue that do nothing to honor Lois Duncan's tense teen fiction novel. Barely following the plot of the book save for the title, I Know What You Did Last Summer follows a group of teenagers who accidentally kill a man and try to cover up their secret... but of course, Some Secrets Refuse to Stay Buried and a year later a masked man in a fisherman's slicker and bearing a hook is terrorizing the teenagers in their Dawson's Creek-like Southern town during their summer break. Nothing is surprising, the sequence of deaths is fairly easy to predict, and there's barely any suspense besides a truly engaging chase scene between Sarah Michelle Gellar and the killer. Jennifer Love Hewitt and her glossed over costars are adequate as the victims in despair, but there is barely any depth or fear conveyed in the story. It's a shameless cash in on Scream that just fails to hit the mark, especially the corny and totally unbelievable ending. If you're into gore and mediocre teen slasher movies this film has your name all over it, but if you're looking for something intense you might as well read the book or watch Scream instead. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Horror Flick","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997, Dir. Jim Gillespie) When four friends accidentally hit a kill a man on a road at night, they start to panic and decide to dump the body into the sea. A year later, they all try to settle down again, but one of the friends, Julie James receives a note in the post, with the words 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'. As each friend gains their own reminder, they finally accept the one thing they feared the most; someone knows what happened that night, and now their out for revenge.Of all the movie icons that exist, one of the icons who is never remembered as much as they should be is 'the fisherman'. The villain who is brought to life here, is one of those villains who could actually exist. The horror movie follows the usual horror routine, where one incident sets it all off and the film follow a group of young adults who try to not only escape but to also find the killer. The cast is headed by a good strong cast, with all four bringing good performances. The story is a well written piece and gives you a lot to think about. Although rated R and is violent, the movie does limit itself on gore, but this cannot be noticed, and makes it still affective. It will not a classic like 'Halloween', but gives it a good try.Wait a second. I remember he had her name tattooed on his arm. I saw it. - Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) "},{"Title":"Creepy atmosphere + Great cast = I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't count all the slasher movies that were produce during The 80's and 90's and I don't remember half of them. Some were good... a lot wasn't...Do I really need to summarize the story, I mean, almost everyone know it. The story is about four teens who got an accident and unfortunately killed a man. One year later, they receive strange letter telling them that someone know what they did.The movie create a great and creepy atmosphere that will captivate you until the end and maybe more. It's not just murder from the beginning to the end with a lot of gore. No, it's more psychological. I saw this movie for the first time when I was 9 or 10 years old and today, I'm always scared when I watch it.Another important element is characters. I must admit that at some moment, they can appear a little cliché but we really care about what will happen and if he or she will survive. A key element in horror movies.What can I add except that the cast is great, specially Sarah Michelle Gellar. A movie that really deserve to be watch. A classic! "},{"Title":"Brilliant horror flick","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Julie James and her three friends Helen,Barry and Ray are celebrating graduating and decide to have a party on the beach.Whilst driving home very drunk their car knocks someone over on the road.They freak out and decide to dump the body in a canal/river and vow never to speak of it again.One year later Julie returns home from college and gets some shocking information which tells her that someone knows about what they did last summer.The friends start to panic and realise that a killer is hunting them down.About a year ago I saw the sequel to this but that was before I saw this for the first time.I thought this was a quite good slasher flick with excellent acting especially from Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar. "},{"Title":"You are about to be hooked, beware...","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is not that scary, but has it's moments here and there. Still it's worth watching for fun. The plot is good and the actors have done their jobs well. A good teen-slasher movie of 90's. It's a classic one.It would have been much better if the murders were made much darker and much gorier. Though, there is one good scene. Sara Michelle chase scene is very intense. The slasher was not scary enough. This movie would qualify for PG-18 certificate but, surely not for R rated movie. Watch this movie. You won't regret it. It's an entertaining movie.For Story, I give it a 3... For Actors, I give it a 2... And, for scary part, I give it a 2... So, total 7/10... "},{"Title":"A Really Interesting Movie","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When watching this movie I did not have high expectations, maybe a typical teen horror flick. Don't get me wrong it certainly had those moments but we finely acted. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillepe I think did the best and there death scenes do go down in history to be later spoofed in Scary Movie showing that they are recognized. Jennifer Love and Freddie Prinze Jr. do surprisingly well in my opinion It had its boring moments Il admit especially the fight scene on the boat which could have been better. I screamed quite a lot in the movie mainly in Ms. Gellars death scenes which were amazing.I definitely think this is not a movie to be missed if you have the opportunity. "},{"Title":"Average Slasher Flick","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Ever since Scream turned out to be a massive hit we got lots and lots of slasher rip offs, this one being the first, The first murder happens after about 40 minutes into the movie, just like it should in a slasher flick so that we get some back-story on the characters and so that we have just enough time to root for them. Now, this wasn't very well received by the critics as they called it a pure rip-off and completely unoriginal. Well, maybe that's true and maybe the script was written in only a couple of days, but this slasher flick is still a great timewaster. There's really not much of a story in this one, a bunch of teens get stalked and killed by a disguised killer, very by-the-books but there's one thing that many people seem to forget; slashers do not have to be original to be entertaining! The movie moves quickly forward and even though the body count is relatively low, there's always something there to keep us interested in the story.Just like in Scream we have a big name cast with Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddy Prinze Jr. Naturally we get great performances from all of these actors. What most people don't seem to remember is that these actors really became big AFTER this movie. I guess most actors start out in horror movies though as it is a good and easy way to get your name out there. The directing is also very nice and you can tell that they spent a whole lot of money making this flick which is nice since I love high budget slashers. This is one of those slashers that will go to the history so this should definitely be in your collection by now.All in all A slasher that will probably never be forgotten. I'm almost positive every horror fan has seen this movie and I sure hope you have. It's clichéd, it's unoriginal and it's uninspired but damn is this flick entertaining! Especially for a slasher fan such as myself. "},{"Title":"Fun, Entertaining And  Scary!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This has to be one of my favorite horror movies, it's very unique, scary, entertaining, and most of all, original. The cast is very hot, and act very well in this film. It packs a lot of thrills and chills! I was never bored by this story, since it unfolded as it went, and allowed the viewer to continually keep guessing on the perpetrator's identity. That puzzle was fun, as was the costume in which the murderer exterminated his victims (fisherman's outfit, complete with hook...always seemed kind of eerie to me).The down side was that much like in SCREAM, the murderer did just seem to be around when the main cast was present, and always seemed to disappear (a bit too conveniently at times) when anyone else appeared. That aside, the movie intensified as it went on, charged through a quick 90 minutes, and left enough room for one and all to look forward to another hip, young sequel in the future, tentatively entitled I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a great scary horror flick, definitely worth a rent! "},{"Title":"No  Big  Deal,  Just  One  More","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is just one more film about a bunch of youngsters chased by a psycho killer in the line that Brian de Palma started with his interesting Halloween and was followed by other titles such us Prom Night, Scream, Urban Legend, the recent Wax Museum with the can't-act-at-all Paris Hilton and many others (sequels included).The point with those titles -Halloween aside in which terror comes other way- is that, at least, the murderer was someone related one way or another with the victims; that is the killer was one of them so you could entertain yourself wondering who and why (this not meaning that they were great movies). But I Saw What You did Last Summer doesn't even has that; the psycho is somebody we don't know or better someone who saw the kids do what they did and comes for them, but there's no surprise on who he turns out to be or why he kills them. He could have been anyone and for any reason.The only acceptable performance comes from Anne Heche in a not very demanding secondary role. The rest of the acting, Jennifer Love Hewitt included, is really poor. Some acceptable killing sequences don't raise the product that stands as a totally average and standard one, just watchable for fans of the genre and no mmore than a copuple of times. "}{"Title":"An Edge-Of-Your-Seat Horror.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had only seen I Know What You Did Last Summer in the past year. I remember faintly being over at my cousin's house, looking at the video covers, and being freaked out. So when this movie came on TV, I thought I should see it. Unfortunately, it came on around 12, and I couldn't stay up to watch it. This didn't leave me, and the next day, I borrowed both I Know and I Still Know from my cousin.To say the least, I was impressed. It had good acting, Jennifer Love Hewitt as the guilty main, who isn't doing that great. Sarah Michelle Gellar as the has-been pageant queen. Ryan Phillippe as the cocky and angry jock. And finally, Freddie Prinze, Jr. as the loner of the group, still too attached on last summer.The plot itself was unique, based off of Lois Duncan's novel of the same name. Granted, most of the movie came from Williamson, Duncan only provided the names of the characters (Helen Rivers was changed to Shivers), and the basic plot. The suspense is great, and there is a VERY low gore rating, which works with this movie. The killer is somewhat creepy, and the movie makes you think it's other killers before the real one is figured out. There was a bit of comedy in it too, mostly from Ryan Phillippe's character.Over all, despite the very FEW flaws, it still deserves a 10 star rating. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" *I Know What You Did Last Summer... I Read The SPOILERS* Four teens (Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Freddy Prinze, Jr and Jennifer Love Hewitt) hit a fisherman on the road after having partied for the 4th of July.They decide to selfishly hide the body, and then finish the man after he shows he's not dead, promising to each other never to talk about this with anybody.Cut to a year later, one of them receives a note, with written only 'I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER'. And for the four teens is the beginning of a nightmare...This movie, inspired both on the book of the same name and the movie 'Prom Night', is pretty flat on the suspense, gore and drama ratio, the actors seem to have a contest of who's the worst (Prinze and Hewitt win), and the reason why the heroine doesn't get into the action until the end is ludicrous, but still manages to be an entertaining movie, though a little insipid.I Know What You Did Last Summer 7/10. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Really enjoyed this movie. I think that it had a great cast and the plot was interesting. Kevin Williamson, also the writer for Scream, does an excellent job of capturing your attention. Total teen flick, although anyone would enjoy it. The plot is about four best friends who just got out of high school. While they celebrate, they end up in a horrible situation and ends up accidentally killing someone. After they decide to run from their mistake...one year later, they soon realize that someone is stalking them and knows about their last summer. The only bad part is when Sarah Michelle Gellar dies in the movie, other than that...see it. "},{"Title":"Slasher Film Class Act.","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is about a group of four teenagers, Julie, Ray, Helen, and Barry. One late night on the 4th of July, the teens are partying and driving recklessly along a cliff side near the ocean, when they accidentally hit a fisherman walking across the road. In fear and confusion, they dump the body off a secluded dock and vow to never speak of it again. But the following summer, they begin to get strange letters and people within the small ocean-side community begin to die. It seems that someone knows what happened that night one year ago. Their friendships torn apart after the gruesome accident, the distanced group of once-close friends come together to try and discover the killer's identity, before they become his victims.Honestly, I really enjoyed this movie. After Scream, a whole slew of mediocre to bad slasher movies were released in the '90s, and out of all of them, this is definitely one of the better ones. It's loosely based on Lois Duncan's novel (which I have read), and is much, much different than the actual book was. The writers obviously re-worked the story quite a bit, and while it's nothing like the original story, it is still pretty decent. The novel revolved around some teenagers who accidentally killed a young boy on a bicycle, so this film was quite loosely based on the book. The film has some surprisingly good performances from a slew of upcoming teen actors, including Jennifer Love Hewitt as our lead, Sarah Michelle Gellar as her best friend, and Ryan Phillippe and Freddy Prinze Jr. as their boyfriends. The acting was much better than you'd expect. I'd also like to make not of some great chase sequences that occur in this movie as well. The killer in this film wields a sharp fishing hook (which is a rather original choice for a murderer's weapon) and a creepy, black rain slicker topped with a hat that covers his face - a rather original but menacing costume for a horror villain. The violence isn't gratuitous either - this film does make an attempt to become more of a psychological slasher film than most of them. The New England fishing-town atmosphere works well here, too.Overall, I Know What You Did Last Summer is a pretty good slasher movie, considering when it was released and the slew of slashers that were put out during the '90s. It's clichéd in some instances and isn't nearly perfect, but in the world of slasher films, it's a class act. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Not Like The Book","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What you did Last Summer is a good movie for what it is. I was disappointed that it wasn't like the book. So this is the type of movie where if you are the type of person who reads the book before watching the movie, I wouldn't bother. But, it is a good book except do not expect it to be like the movie. It is a good movie though, my mother would have peed her pants. You see in the book, they run over a little boy, but in the movie they hit a grown man. In the book, I do not remember anyone dieing. The brother of the boy who was killed is the person who threatens them, not the complicated relationships that are in this movie. "},{"Title":"Works only because of it's visual attractions.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Another slasher involving 90's pretty teens who get murdered one by one by a demented killer who was believed to be dead. The plot reminds me of Friday the 13th part V A New Beginning. You should understand why at the ending. Jennifer Love Hewitt is the best thing about the movie because she's super hot and has some acting skills. She's way too cute to escape from a maniac. Sarah Michelle Gellar (a little chubby) just stands and looks pretty. The rest of the cast is just okay.The movie has some interesting parts and suspenseful scenes but not enough to make it a solid Horror movie. The premise is really good and was well performed.The death scenes are really good and are among the best of 90's slashers. Give a chance for this movie and you might enjoy it. It's an okay way to kill 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Can't really make up my mind!!","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When i first saw this movie i was 8 years old, and afterwards i made my dad sit in my bedroom with me until i fell to sleep. But that was a (very) long time ago and when i recently watched it again it failed to scare. Sorry i lied,(got a habit of doing that) it made me jump once. Obviously when it was filmed the script must have looked decent because it pulled in at least 4 famous faces. Either that or there careers needed a revive. they have the totty for the guys, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love-Hewitt. And not forgetting for the girls there is the devilishly handsome Freddie Prince Junior and Ryan Phillipe. Unfortunately though even the good looking cast couldn't save it from being tossed into the bargain bin at the first opportunity. Fine for a 14 year old girls sleepover any older and you'll find it's just laughable!! "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard!","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" i mean the premise and story line of the movie was so bad and somewhat confusing that it made it so good that it was so funny. i mean yeah i guess a guy with a rain coat and a hook can be pretty funny but somewhat scary then its a good movie, i gave it a 5 because a 5 usually means mediocre then it was worth watching but worth watching at home. I thought the movie was funny i mean some of the situations that happened and then they had to make a even more poorly done and bad sequel i mean i hate how you know he does not die and you know hes coming back but you wanna just kill him. its one of those movies that you scream at it while you are watching it you can not help but want to jump into the movie and tell the people to move out of the way or want to tell them the killer is right there! i mean its one of those movies that are funny but keep you on the edge of your seat because you wanna scream and tell them the killer is right there? "},{"Title":"Good movie poor acting","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was a good suspenseful movie. I did watch this on T.V and was a little unsure if SMG and RP died but when i saw it with my dad he explained it to me. I don't think JLH is a very good actress, but the others were pretty good.One thing that bothered me was that it wasn't good acting. JLH is not a good actress. SMG isn't so great either but better than JHL. This also was very unbelievable at parts. I know that if any of my friends were in the situation they were in we would be out of our minds. Overalll though this was a great movie.I would definitely recommend seeing I Know What you did last Summer. I enjoyed it a lot. I think the plot was great and think you should see this movie "},{"Title":"An Unforgettable 4th of July Event","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie begins as a group of 4 friends were celebrating after a party on the beach in which on of their buddies just won crown of the city. This starts as the guys were on a deserted mountain rode when a pedestrian tries crossing and something terrible happens. 1 yr. later they forgotten about that horrible night on that rode. Everything seems quiet until the pedestrian comes back and tries to ruin their lives. The man seems to try to get rid of them one by one just like the movie Valentine but not a cupid with a arrow but with a large nail. Do you think that the girls could have been more careful on that mountain rode because things like this would never have happened so bad. If you are curious go out and rent it or buy it. "}{"Title":"A well crafted horror thriller!","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Coming in hot off the heels of the 1996 success that was SCREAM, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, is a fun horror film, that, although in my opinion was not as good as SCREAM, still should provide horror fans with fine time. Four teens driving along a deserted stretch of road one night, accidentally hit a man & assuming he's dead, dumps his body into the lake, now after spending one full year in utter torment over the deed, the four friends start to receive notes that states I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. Soon the kids are being stalked by a maniac armed with a hook who's looking to even the score. Horror film packs quiet a punch, The characters are all well written & the film keeps tightening the screws on suspense (The stalk scenes were well written) but once the film reaches it's climax, it's a bit of a disappointment, which is a shame, since the first half is such a fun & very well crafted horror tale! Followed by two sequels, starting with, I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER **** stars "},{"Title":"The Rocky Coastline of North Carolina?????","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is something that has always bothered me about this movie.I am from the Southport, NC area, where the movie was both shot and set.When I saw in the previews for the movie that the scene where the kids run over the dude takes place on a rocky coastline, I figured that they had taken a trip together to California because nobody would ever try to portray North Carolina with rocky coasts. (FYI, there is not a single rock anywhere near any part of our coastline)But sure enough, when I finally watched the movie (long after it became such a surprise hit), there the kids were, driving along the rocky coastline of Brunswick County, North Carolina! Does Hollywood think that the American people are that stupid?(Answer Yes, and they are right, too.) "},{"Title":"My Favorite Horror Flick, Read Why!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As we all know, the four teens Julie James, Ray Bronson, Helen Shivers and Barry Cox all run over a man and dump is body in the ocean. (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddy Prince Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Ryan Phillippe) And of course there is the pretty but more of a book worm, Julie. The queen of the beauty pageant who is obsessed with her hair, Helen. The hot jock-ish jerk boyfriend of the hot beauty queen, Barry. And the hot sweet boyfriend of the smart chick, Ray. Yeah, so they go out to a beach, drink, make out and then hit a guy with their car...sound stupid? Yeah, but it wasn't to me. I first saw this movie on TV when I was 10, and I had trouble sleeping! And I know what your thinking, Well yeah, but...you were 10. 10 year olds can get scared really easily... NOT ME. I was pretty young when Jurassic Park came out, and I could watch the dinos eat people with my eyes open. On Halloween, my best friend came over and we watched it on TV and laughed at the crappy editing (Stuff you, man!) and jumped at the thrilling scenes. Yeah, sure the movie can be a bit predictable at times, but the killing scenes were scary and creative as well as the chasing. The plot was good and I don't care what you say. I was surprised when they found out who the killer really was. I highly recommend this movie, it's my favorite. It's both thrilling and can make you laugh in some parts! *SPOILER* I didn't want Helen and Barry to die!...Barry was hot... "},{"Title":"9/10","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1997)starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Johnny Galecki, Birdgette Wilson and Anne Heche.plotJulie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), her boyfriend Ray (Freddie Prinze, Jr.), and her best friends Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Barry (Ryan Phillipe) accidentally run over and kill a man after a night of partying. Not wanting to ruin their futures, they decide to dump the body in the ocean and never speak about these events again. One year later, Julie receives a letter saying i know what you did last summer. She then reunites with her friends, whose dreams have all been broken, and tries to discover the culprit. Soon, the woman/man, wearing a slicker and holding a hook, begins to kill off the friends and those around them one by one. Who is the killer?the goodThis movie sported an awesome cast with developed characters and beautiful directing. You just know it's going to be good as soon as you see the opening credits, showing a windy ocean by the mountains while the song Summer Breeze by Nype O-Negative plays. Then from there we have the effective accident scene showing each of the character's vulnerabilities, then we see their lives ruined. The fun really kicks in a year later when the murders happen, and we see the creepy Fisherman killer, disguised in a slicker (clever, he/she fits right in in a fishing town.) The cast was great too. Jennifer Love Hewitt as the not-so-virginal heroin, Sarah Michelle Gellar as the pretty blonde who cares more about her appearance than her brains and ability, Ryan Phillipe as the pissed off jock who cares a lot about his girlfriend (Helen), Freddie Prinze, Jr. as Julie's ex-boyfriend who acts way too suspicious, Johnny Galecki as the pissed off loser in love with Julie, Bridgette Wilson as the bitchy sister of Helen and Anne Heche as the sister of the dead man whose life was ruined.the badThe only thing is, it's not exactly original, it's been done 17 years before in PROM NIGHT.9/10 "},{"Title":"The movie is better than the book, which is not saying much.","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I had the opportunity to read the book that this movie is based on, thinking the book would be better than the movie. I was wrong. I couldn't read more than a little of the book before putting it down. The characters were even worse in the book and it didn't come with the Jennifer Love Hewitt's cleavage, the one redeeming part of the movie.The movie itself is basically filled with the same kind of plot as a B-movie. I would have thought with Scream coming out that things would be a little better. So basically this movie is only for those looking for cheesy horror. "},{"Title":"I'm scared of horror and even I watched it!","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This must've been a pretty bad movie, because I hate horror films, and even i managed to watch it. It might as well have been called a spoof.In all fairness, Sarah Michelle Gellar's acting was fair, but seriously, she could do better than be in this. It was a very predictable film in itself, and that really didn't reflect well.The storyline was pretty shaky, as was a lot of the acting. None of these 4 work well as horror actors. I'm glad they improved their acting even slightly in I still know what you did last summer. That was actually even slightly scary.Basically, if you want to watch a movie to scare yourself, I would seriously NOT recommend this. It's the dullest thing. Ever. "},{"Title":"Interesting Piece of 90s Horror","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A killer fisherman with a hook! Sounds like something from an 80s slasher, but here it is.Hard to believe this came out in 1997. I remember hearing about it, and it doesn't seem like seven years. Anyway, it uses the old bloody hook urban legend and creates a sweet picture. Although it lacks some logic and substance. (some of these things are vital to the plot and can't be told without spoiling), it still packs in some suspense and has some creepy atmosphere, especially in the ending dock scene and at Sissy's house. The killer is somewhat like the black gloved killers of Italian giallo. He is seen, but kept in the dark. Much better than showing nothing like Friday The 13th (which still was a good flick). The weapon is also unique, a hook. However, it seems odd for someone to be holding a hook, something you normally think of as a prosthetic for pirates or something. Would've been a little cooler if it was attached to him. Anyway, the teens are your usual f--- f---! type that get drunk and do supid stuff. What a freaking stereotype! Gets a little old. It's funny when the macho guys make fools of themselves, though.So it's a pretty good horror film. Rent it for some fun and a bit of suspense. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Horror Flick","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer was a pretty good horror flick. It wasn't the best but it was good. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe were the better actors in the film. It is a lot more down to earth if you know what I mean. You could somehow actually believe this could happen. That only adds to the film. The chase/killing scenes were really good. Especially the one with Sarah Michelle Gellar's character. Anyway, I would definitely recommend this for people to see. I'm not in any way a horror fan but as far as this goes it was worth it. I'm even going to see that new one The Grudge. It looks scary as hell. I love SMG. Everybody go see The Grudge. All in all I'd have to give this movie 6/10.  "},{"Title":"I Know has just been dusted.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer, is a story about four teens that are drinking and speeding in a car on a windy mountain road.  Not paying attention to the road they hit a pedestrian, whom they think they killed. Instead of going to the police and reporting the crime, they dump the body into the ocean in fear that if anybody finds out their lives will be ruined. One year goes by and Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) is staying with her mom in her home town, while on break from college for the summer.  She meets with her friends who were involved in the accident, and over the year they have grown farther apart.  Although they all still have one thing in common, someone knows what they did last summer.One of the biggest problems that I had with this movie, is that they introduce us to our main character's, and no sooner they hit a man and try to cover up the crime.  I began to find myself thinking that as we're trying to learn about these character's, they drop the hit and run and still expect us to feel emotion for these teens.  Another problem with I Know, is that you could watch only the first half an hour and still predict the outcome. You know which character's will live and which will die.  I was disappointed in the unvailing of the killer, because it was the main suspect who we never really got to see earlier.   I think that just made the whole story boring, and unoriginal.I Know What You Did Last Summer is needless to say a fun slasher flick with the modern look of Scream to it, but not meant to be anything more then fun.  Any fan of the genre should see this movie, but no hurry to the video store. I give this movie 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"A modern-classic! Watch this for sure.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A bloody revenge is occur when a group of teen accidentally hit a man and dumps his body into the sea a year before. Now, seek for revenge, the man seem awaken from the dead and gain for more than apology. The dynamic casts; Jennifer Love-Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Philippe, star as the convict target of revenge. As a moderate classic in the genre, `I Know What You Did Last Summer (IKWYDLS)' is another posh-Scream great slasher. Written by the same man behind Scream, Kevin Williamson, IKWYDLS is a pure fright machine that guarantee will satisfy fans of the genre.As now many imitators came out already, IKWYDLS is seem as one of the best. Thanks to uninventive and unimaginative of its directors that blatantly copy IKWYDLS or Scream as their template. Came a long with Urban Legend, IKWYDLS is a great treatment in the genre right after Scream. Many people claims that IKWYDLS just want to pursue the success of Scream to expand money as much as it can, but the result is emerge as good as a slasher can be. The creepy ambience is there, the plot is interwoven with the genre structure well enough and the most important thing, there's a healthy amount of strong horror violence despite not so much inventive. We never bore by the scenes and the plot's tension is gradually raise. Definitely an-edge-of-your-seat-thriller. I watched it numerous times and always enjoying all the epoch.IKWYDLS also cast a group of talented actors. Jennifer Love-Hewitt (Can't Hardly Wait), Sarah Michelle Gellar (Scream 2), Freddie Prinze Jr. (She's Like That) and Ryan Philippe (Cruel Intentions), now become great stars. Jennifer as `Party of Five' veteran and Sarah as the though vampire slayer in `Buffy' know what were they dealing with and played their role respectfully. The male actors are good looking and didn't playing their part seriously, but at least they play decently. Surprisingly,  Anne Heche play in a more cameo-role-like, but she deviously fit her minor role. Bridgette Wilson, the future wife of Pete Sampras, also appears in a minor role, but her performance is nice and well done.With the plot that reminiscent of `Prom Night', one of Kevin Williamson favorite, Jim Gillespie managed to direct IKWYDLS in a hip and stylish way and raise the standard for slasher movie. Now, came a long with Scream and Urban Legend, IKWYDLS is the platform maker for the revival of the slasher genre or best known as the 90's slasher. Actually, I never have a chance to read Louis Duncan original novel, but after watched `Killing Mr. Griffith', I know the novel wouldn't be so excessive as the movie, but Kevin Williamson does know how to treat the genre his been adore, and IKWYDLS is entertaining as a horror movie could be. There's a sequel as the spin-of, `I Still Know What You Did Last Summer', but not as good as a the predecessor, and so the Summer-series is end there -(8/10  "}{"Title":"the movie is totally different than the book(not a good thing).(POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!)","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think that the movie was the worst one in the history of movies. this movie made a documentary look good. Kevin Williamson(screenplay) re-wrote the book into a movie, switched around almost everything, and only followed 1 thing that was in the book 4 teens make a pact that they would never talk about a murder they committed. If you don't believe me, then try reading it sometime. The book sucks, but the movie sucks a lot more. In the book, they don't hit a grown man, they KILL a little boy, the boy's sister is named Megan(not Missy), the car that the 4 teens were driving was Ray's(not Barry's), Ray and Julie were in the backseat making-out(not Helen and Barry), Ray left to go to North California to follow his fathers business which was running a sports store(not fisherman), he came back with a beard, Helen is the Golden Girl for channel five, she lives in the Four Seasons complex, the person who is terrorizing them is the boy's older brother, Barry was shot on his college campus, Julie was still in high school one year after the accident, she was just accepted to Smith College,none of the teens die, only one person dies in the book and that is the little boy, and Barry/Helen are still a couple.  "},{"Title":"not as good as Scream","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's kind of funny that I happen to think of this film the other day. It was the second of three teen slasher flicks I saw in the cinema in the late 90's with my soon-to-be-wife,Jennifer(the other two being Scream and The Faculty). The slasher genre was making a slight resurgence in this period and most of the more popular films starred television actresses(or,as many labelled themit girls) as the heroines. This film obviously follows a more serious approach than the far superior,tongue-in-cheek Scream. Both were scripted by Dawson's Creek alum Kevin Williamson. This film is not really original,nor is it slick like Scream or The Faculty. It does,however,introduce an influx of talent in the likes of Sarah Michelle Gellar,Ryan Phillipe,Jennifer Love Hewitt(yep I still love her),and Freddy Prinze,Jr(well three out of four isn't bad..hehe..). It relies on the cloaked,faceless madman plot that was driven in the ground in the 80's and doesn't succeed in the suspense department(and is rather predictable). Although,it was red hot upon it's release,this film has not aged well. It is,however,one of those timecapsule films that came out when I was growing into a man,so the memories of this great period of my life bring a little something special to this thriller. The memories,in a way,outweigh the disappointments of a film with possible potential. **/***** "},{"Title":"Hooks, Shirtless men, Screaming girls, everything a good horror movie is made of.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you ran over a man in the middle of the road, what would you do? Well, if you were these four teens, you'd do what they did.  But, I don't want to ruin the story for you, so I'll just tell you that someone is stalking them a year after they run over a guy. He has a big hook and walks around stalking them and there's blood. ) Lots of blood...Not my favorite horror movie, but it's up there.  I love Ryan Phillipe, and I wish I were Reese Witherspoon, truly the luckiest woman alive. Jennifer Love Hewitt is one of my favorite actresses, and I think she does an excellent job portraying her character.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. well I guess there's not much to say there, since he usually plays the same role in everything that he's in. Does his voice ever change, or his personality?Sarah Michelle Gellar, is really good in this movie, though.  Probably the best role she ever got.  I never watched her on Buffy, so I can't say that I have much of an opinion of her on that show, but in other movies I've seen her in, this just seems to suite her the most. I really enjoyed Anne Heche in this as well. I think that as an actress she really didn't receive as many roles as she should have, and she's very convincing in this one in particular.And finally, the stalker/killer. He certainly didn't have to memorize a lot of lines, and they sure didn't have to spend much money on his costume changes, since he wears a black trench coat throughout the entire film, but I suppose if walking around with a hook in your hand is acting, then he did a terrific job!  And deserves a sticker!So, even though it's no 'Scream' or 'Nightmare', it does have a really good storyline, and if you have a hard time figuring plots out, it may take you one or two times after seeing it at first to really understand what the punch line (if you will) is.I give this movie 8.5 out of 10. (10 being the highest) Not the best, but definitely better than 28 Days Later, don't even get me started.... "},{"Title":"brilliant slasher movie(possible spoiler)","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i thought this movie was wicked! it has fantastic cast, it is predictable but in a good way. i like how it keeps you in suspense, never knowing when the fisherman is gonna turn up with his hook. i also think that ryan phillipe and freddie prnz junior are gorgeous and it was very unfair for the fisherman to kill him. and in such a horrific way. in fact, all the deaths were horrific, but the bit that shocks you the most is the part at the end when the bad guy writes 'i still know' in the steam of the shower glass. then he crashes through it. just when you think its all over. gets me every time! "},{"Title":"i dont know what you did last summer...","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Come on, when you hear in the commerical for the movie who is all in there, you know that the audience is mainly teens.  Jennifer love hewitt plays the one that hears all the stuff the others dont see girl that apparently is wanted for what she done last summer. i dont really see how cruel someone could be to perform the work done on the fisherman, but (**SPOILER**) did you notice the ones that do come up with the idea do get hacked off? is that a lesson or something? if you hit a guy, tell someone. Sure, (**SPOILER**) he did look like he stepped into the road, but man, not in the nearest pond!  the whole scooby doo mystery about who writes the letters and who is the stalker really was quite obvious, but you kinda cant help and wonder why he would go to all the trouble just to get some kids to freak? the acting was semi-good, if that is a real word. And with that ending, which is pretty stupid but leads the crowd into buying that there is a sequel, but guess who that could be again..   (C C-) "},{"Title":"Best movie In 1997","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had everything in it for a movie.It even had some comedywell, i laughed at some parts between Ray and Barry, but this is one of my favorite movies of all time, but it would kill the series if they made a trilogy, i rate this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"A man with a hook?? Well...is he that scary that man with the hook?","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1997) spoilers((( Its a classical teenage-slasher. Nothing more, nothing less, the typical line! The main characters are played by beautiful, sexy and charming young men/women, in this movie; Jennifer Lowe-Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe and Freddie Prince Jr.Many means that this is a sort of challenger to Scream, well, Wes Craven's horror is far much better than Williams' sort of wannabe cut-them-up-with-sharp-obstance-much-blood-must-be-spilled genre! Jim Gillespie's summer horror is nothing of a chill, its nothing sort of. Allthough, its a pretty okay thriller, it never scares the s*** out of you, as the category horror is almoust meant to do.STORY The 4th of July, there is the early fishing-party. Two women and two men heads out heading for home, one seriously drunk the other three just wanting to come home. Out of nothing, in the middle of nowhere they hit a guy in the middle of the road and kills him instant...they think. After some disgussion they decide to dump him into the ocean, no one will neither hear or know about it. So they do, one year later creepy thing starts happening to them. They recieve letters with written I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER on them, they find a friend named Max killed in the trunk with crabs around him...so they understand that the dead-man is back. His name is David Egan, and he is back for blood with a hook...It isn't very scary, that's a bit weird, allthough it has got some scenes that's pretty thrilling, as in the scene when one of the chicks is arrested, sitting in a police car, the cop walks over to the killer, the killer slashes him and the chick sits in the car helpless just watching the killer walking against her...But, the movie hasn't either got the creep or the charm that SCREAM have, well...MY TAGLINE You don't leave a dead man alive... STARS ** 2/5 "},{"Title":"not a stupid teen movie","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Four teens during home after a wild party hit a guy with there car. Not wanting to go to jail they tossed his body into the ocean. A year later of one the teens get a note i know what you did last summer hence the title.  Ok just because it has Jennifer Love Hewitt in it does not mean it is a stupid movie, it is quite good, not a lot of blood and no nudity. The teens are not stupid and do things like run into dark places. Rent it if there is nothing better or if you are a teenager it would be the perfect movie for a slumber party.    "},{"Title":"Above par horror","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" So, the story goes; Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Brian Cox (Ryan Phillipe) and Ray (Freddie Prince Jr.) are driving along the road at night, just after leaving high school. They run a man over and kill him....oops. So they do what any sensible teenager would do.....dump his body in the sea. They take an oath never to mention it again. A year goes by and they've all gone their separate ways. That is, until Julie gets a mysterious note that simply says, 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'. Someone knows what they did. But who? Not before long a series of killings begin and Julie and co have to work out who the killer is before it's too late...It sounds lame I know. But I found it surprisingly entertaining. It's standard horror, with slightly above average acting. Sarah Michelle Gellar is by far the strongest in the cast, playing the washed out, faded beauty queen. Anne Hench is also very good, a complete contrast to her character in 'Volcano', which I first saw only about a week before seeing this. I'd recommend this film to anyone who likes 'Scream'. "},{"Title":"Like Pepsi, good at first but the flavor doesn't last.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer/ ** stars.I guess this would be what you would call and ok movie nothing special and definitley nothing that you would want to watch again. But the rating still holds because for what it is the first time is rather impressive and hard to find in most movies nowadays.This movie is about 4 friends who are being picked off one by one, a year after they accidently ran over a man on a deserted road and dumped his body into the water.With some pretty good actors that turned out to be some pretty big stars, this is a slasher movie that is watchable, as surprising as that may sound. "}{"Title":"Better than some slasher films, but not much better...","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was better than Scream ( 1996 ), for example, not so many pointless deaths, but still obviously meant for a younger audience. One of the problems I had with this movie is how the killer just 'magically' knew the names of the characters, where they lived...etc. I mean, I fail to understand how it was possible to for the killer to know where Hewitt's character lived, concidering he didn't see her face before and didn't know her name. It's enjoyable to watch I guess, if you're into this kind of movie.** / **** stars. "},{"Title":"Not original but a whole lotta of fun","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER  may not be very original(it`s HALLOWEEN meets FRIDAY THE 13TH with just a touch of HE KNOWS YOU`RE ALONE) but it is great fun because writer KevinSCREAMWilliamson,Director Jim Gillispie and the cast make it work.Both Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jnr(in one of his more decent acting perfomances)are fine but Jennifer Love Hewitt and the gorgeous Sarah Michelle Gellar shine in their respective roles and there`s more than a fair ammount to be had.In short not a bad film at all. "},{"Title":"I Know what you did last summer.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer was the first film to cash in of the success of Scream. The screenplay which was written by the same who created Scream ( This film was adapted from a book). What we have here are good looking kids that are supposed to be around 18 or 19. On 4th of july they went driving late and hit a person walking around. They dump the body into the sea and swear to tell no one about it. A Year later Julie ( Jennifer Love Hewitt) returns home after one year in college to spend the summer home with her darling mother. She is not very happy and she didn´t do all well in school. Her friend that was with her of dumping the body is also in the town as her acting dreams went nowhere. She and her boyfriend Barry which was ... I am not going to say more because the plot of this movie is so stupid.It however works well in the film. The film is sometimes scary and suspensful and the ending is good. The acting however was terrible. Jennifer Love Hewitt is one of the worst actress in the business. She can´t act and she can´t sing. This film starred also Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prince Jr. who are the most annoying hollywood couple out there who have not one inch of an acting talent. Then there is Ryan Philippe who plays Barry the rich kid. Ryan is a good actor however in this film he was terrible.Overall grade 5/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Suspense, Not Horror, Flick","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I for one can't understand all the people who bash this movie.  Perhaps they had expected something different?  On the surface it seems that most of the people who hate this movie are (cynical) horror fans, and maybe I Know doesn't live up to certain horror standards.  Personally, I don't watch too many horror flicks so I have no preconceived notions going in.  In any event, I think this movie seems to fit very neatly into the suspense genre, and as such it does a fine job.I thought the acting was at the very least adequate all around.  Hewitt's character (James) was the best.  She was the smartest of the bunch and really the only one who exhibited any remorse, and as such had a depth the others lacked.  Phillippe (Cox) also did a fine job portraying the other extreme.  Both actors seemed to exhibit the emotions you'd expect from someone faced with such a difficult situation.  Gellar (Shivers) and Prinze Jr. (Bronson) were a little bland considering the circumstances.**POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!**The story was solid in most places.  It did fall apart a few times though. First, the situation called for the four main characters to stick together, yet many times it seemed that they wanted to have nothing to do with each other.  When four people share a secret that they can't possibly tell anyone else, and when that secret is on the verge of ruining their lives, you'd expect they would lean on each other A LOT.  Furthermore, being alone is not something I'd even consider if I had some psycho after me, and yet many times each of them would venture off by themselves.  Once the very first attack occurred (I think it was the car scene with Phillippe) the four should have really begun to lean on each other.  To some extent they did, but not enough.  Second is the famous crabs and dead guy in the trunk scene. How could the killer remove the evidence so fast and not be seen?  Third, when Prinze told the others that he had also received a letter, why did they not ask to see it?  Certainly at that point I wanted to know what was in that letter, and you'd think they would too.  And lastly, the ending was just flat out terrible as we all wanted the story resolved but it only raised a bunch of new questions.  That's just aggravating.To address a couple of points others have raised.  First, about the villain not being scary enough - maybe you want something over the top, but on the whole the story was realistic and the villain fit that mold. Doesn't bother me as I'd rather have realism.  And second, the comment that it wasn't scary when Gellar's hair was cut.  I think you have to imagine how scared you'd be if you woke up and realized the guy who is stalking you was just in your bedroom as you slept.  At that point the killer was not out to kill, he was out to scare them and mess with their minds.  As such I think this was a very effective scene.To enjoy I Know, you have to appreciate the dilemma these four faced and the inherent fear and suspense within it.  If you do you will be pulling for them, and your adventurous side will want to be one of them just for the thrill of what they are going through and the bonds you'd have with the other three, and when two of them end up dying it really sucks.  Why did the writers have to do THAT!?  If you don't appreciate the dilemma, well then, I think you missed out on what the film has to offer.**END OF SPOILER ALERT!!**Anyways, the aforementioned dilemma is why I feel this is better classified a suspense flick.  The gore factor is pretty low, but the level of mystery, intrigue, and suspense is high.  The feeling of unease is not in the few gory action sequences, but in the fact that the four are stuck in this situation until the killer makes a move, and in the mystery of who is behind things and the uncertainty in what he will do next.8/10 "},{"Title":"I Don't Care What You Did Last Summer. *Spoilers*","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Four over-privileged and drunken high school grads go joy-riding and slam into a fisherman (or was it a dog? To quote Scary Movie Oh my god, we hit a BOOT!!!). They dump the body and vow not to tell another soul about their secret. A year passes and none of these poor teens can get their lives straight. Julie (Hewitt) is doing poorly in school, Ray (Prinze) is stuck as a fisherman and is all mopey because Julie dumped him, Helen (Gellar) is stuck working in a jewelry store, and Barry (Phillipe) is still an angry jock who dishes out hilarious lines such as You two look like s... run over twice! Their secret comes back to haunt them when Captain Hook in a raincoat starts stalking them and their friends. The best way to describe this movie is 'hammy.' In the wake of Scream's success, movies like this were being churned out like there was no tomorrow. What this results in is a major lack of quality. This movie isn't scary, it isn't gory, it isn't funny and it's not even fun. It just a two-hour episode of Dawson's Creek. The writing is lacking, the story is a little too complicated for it's audience and there are massive plot-holes abound. The acting is atrocious. The cast is full of big names, but really, it's Hewitt's cleavage that comes across as the star of the movie. I just watched this movie last night for the first time in 3 years and I never noticed it until now, but this movie really looks like a made-for-TV flick. It feels like one of those movies starring Kelly from Saved By The Bell that gets re-run on the Lifetime channel. Overall, the whole movie is just stupid. It's not tense, you know who is going to die straight from the get-go and the gore just isn't there. If you missed this movie, feel blessed. "},{"Title":"Below Average","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Four friends are hanging out on a beach, having a good time. Once they leave and are driving back home, they run down a man walking along the road.They make a pact to get rid of the body and keep what happened a secret to save their future's.While dumping the body the man awakes even though he is not dead they dump his body anyway.Now a year later and Julie(Jennifer Love Hewitt) returns home from college and receives a letter in the mail that reads I Know What You Did Last Summer.Julie makes contact with her old friends so they can find out who saw them that night.Nothing great here, pretty much borrows from several 80's slasher movies, the one it rips off most is The House On Sorority Row.Kevin Williamson who wrote a great script with Scream pretty much fails with this one, while the script isn't horrible just not all that good.Director Jim Gillespie wasn't able to do much, granted he didn't have the best script but he could have made the best out of it, but instead makes the movie worse then it should have been.When Helen(Sarah Michelle Gellar)was killed that was the only part with any suspense.Freddie Prinze Jr. gives a horrible performance his acting was just flat out bad!Ryan Phillippe's tough guy act was not believe-able at all.Jennifer Love Hewitt is a very beautiful and talented actress but she tends to over-act way too much here.And i am just not buying the super-human killer here, Too me it seemed a bit silly, where as in other horror movies like Halloween and Friday The 13th it works but it just doesn't seem to work here.Maybe a better Director and Cast Kevin Williamson's script may not have seemed so bad.I give I Know What You Did Last Summer 3/10  "},{"Title":"I know that this isn't a very good movie","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  **Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze JR., Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Ryan Phillipe.Four teens accidentally run over a fisherman on the Fourth of July.  Panicked, the teens dump his body in the ocean.  But, he wasn't really dead.  The fisherman comes back a year later to kill the teens off.The movie is so flawed that all the fun it has is obliterated. "},{"Title":"Better than I remember it","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer was recently on TV the other day, and on a whim I watched it. The movie has a lot more going for it than I remember, although it's still not really much to write home about. The best aspect is that, contrary to most of the work in the slasher subgenre, this film actually tries to make you care about the characters, rather than making them two-dimensional sex fiends/death fodder. Especially well-handled is Julie's descent into paranoia and introversion. Another pro is the mystery aspect, which manifests as a slow revelation of what really happened on the traumatic night of the summer referred to in the title.Unfortunately, that's about it for the pros. The dialogue, which tries to be hip, is instead rather banal. Characters suddenly become extraordinarily stupid when chased by the killer. Dead bodies (one covered in dozens of live crabs) appear and disappear in crowded suburbs in broad daylight, when, presumably, somebody might notice a humongous man breaking into car trunks and depositing corpses. Apart from being implausible, most of the scary moments are also rather predictable, as they've appeared in enough horror movies before to be, at this point, beyond cliché.Oh, and this doesn't matter one way or the other, but the movie has only the slightest resemblance to the book on which it is based. "},{"Title":"I don't care what they did last summer.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Thrills! Chills!  Suspense!  All the things you wish were in this film!We've all seen the plot done bout a million times in the 80's, but with the advent of Scream I guess we have to see it again.  This time, at least we have production values and a reputable cast.Unfortunately, neither the writers, director, performers, nor even the make-up artists deliver.  There are no real twists, just pointless attempts at red herrings, no novelties, no new gimmick to hold the attention, and everybody is just plain bland.  And that hand with the hook at the end?  Makes the Friday the 13th make-up look real.Okay, the cast is attractive.  But this seems to mean that the girls have to wear low-cut shirts and bend down a lot.  So, what do we get in this routine slice and dice?  No nudity (tasteful), a big tease (teen crowd), amateur writing (no surprise) and a ruthless killer who really fails to shock (so what?)Folks, you know the story, you know the ending.  Why bother? "},{"Title":"Original?  Please.  A better title would have been Jason's Pupil","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I remember when this movie first came out, one of the taglines being scarier than 'Scream'.  If that is the case, then I don't want to see Scream. My ex dragged me to this movie, which didn't take much, since I love horror films, but I couldn't help but to yawn at the pitiful antics of the killer as he attempted to copy-cat Jason from the Friday films.  I could practically map out the action by looking at the camera angles, feeling the tension of a scene, whether someone was going to die quickly, or if a chase would ensue.  Towards the end, when the girl destined to be the survivor is running from our man with the hook, I leaned to my ex and whispered (mind you, this was the movie's opening night) that this was going to be the part where she finds the mutilated remains of her dead friends, and it actually happened.A very dull movie for true fans of the slasher genre.  The only reason this trash turned a buck is because the younger fans have never witnessed the greats in action, namely Freddy, Jason, and Michael.  Simply put, I don't want to know what you did last summer.  I'm going back to Crystal Lake. "}{"Title":" Elsa, Jesus Christ!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt is rubbish as Julia in this bland horror farce. The following cast is tumultuous. The costumes are great. One of the fair movies in the genre, I Know What You Did Last Summer slugs pitiful spooks. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Where Does It End?","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  On we go with another case of good-looking teenage (well, near teenage maybe) actors and actresses with their million+ a year salary getting paid to have fun in front of the camera and be themselves. wooden-character horror flick about kids trying to cover up an accidental killing by them is thin on content and plot. Typical nineties teen-yawn like 'Scream' and others. Not the most fun 1 and half hour to sit through. Needless to say, not recommended.  "},{"Title":"I Like This Film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good Teen Slasher Film. With A good Story and Cast. The Cast Is one the best ever for a Horror apart from Scream And Urban Legend. The Story is very good and is not just Random like Cherry Falls. The Cast Inc's Ryan Phillpe(The Way of The Gun)Jenny Love Hewit (I Still Know what you did Last Summer)Freddie Prince Jr(She's All ThatAnd Sarah Michelle Geller(Buffy). It Sucks That A couple of Good People die but thats life. Good Movie  "},{"Title":"If you're going to bury the truth, make sure it stays buried!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE PLOT Last Summer four friends accidentally ran over a man while speeding down a highway. To avoid going to jail or worse they dumped the body over a dock into the watery depths below. Making a pact never to speak of that night again they try to go on with their lives.A year later they return home for summer vacation with the guilt buried deep inside. And when they start receiving sinister letters it becomes clear that someone was there that night. Someone who wants revenge...THE ACTING This movie was full of fresh talent coming from Hollywoods' hottest stars. Although I think the film would have been better with a cast of unknowns, I can't complain about the acting.THE BLOOD There was a lot of gore but not too much blood. Though it was a strong enough film to carry on without relying on blood anyway.THE BODY COUNT 6THE RATING Obviously lifted the concept from Prom Night. If it did or not it really doesn't matter. I Know What You Did Last Summer had its fair share of creativity, chills, laughs, scares, and mood. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film one of the best horror suspence thriller in a long time. It was not just blood and guts they kept you guessing and wondering. This film was nothing like Kevin Willamson has ever wrote. Campared to Scream and Teaching Mrs. Tingle this film would win over all. It is not a film that is known for having too many sequels like Friday the 13th or A Nightmare on elm Street, but is original  "},{"Title":"okay movie","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie wasnt really that scary, the second one was much better, well in my opinion anyway. it was a great plot for the movie but semi bad acting, espescially on ryan phillippes part and freedie prinze Jr.'s too, well it scared me a little bit in the middle but the end was lame for the movie. "},{"Title":"this movie will have you HOOKED!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a blast they picked perfect actors and murders for each, but anyways this movie is basically about four teenagers partying on fourth of july and having a great time till they run over a man and calm that he is dead, but are they dead?,the killer then comes back to slaughter and hook all of them 1 yr later this move great and it has all it laughs,witts,and chills who will live who will dies,SEE THIS MOVIE i give it a 9.5/10.imdb is the best "},{"Title":"Good horror movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Good horror movie that is not too gory but still delivers the expected genre goods.The story is entertaining as well and adds a mystery element to the whole atmosphere.Nothing spectacular,just good old suspenseful teen horror popcorn fun.Only for fans of the genre and big fans of the lead actors....  "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson's best work yet!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the better horror films to ever come from the mind of the man who wrote SCREAM and SCREAM 2. This film is actually a little scary and suspenseful at some parts. The film is not just another bloody slasher flick. This one actually has some dramatic moments and some steadily mounting terror to go along with it. I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is somewhat based on the novel by Lois Duncan, but many, MANY things have been changed.The cast includes Jennifer Love Hewitt (extremely hott), Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Muse Watson, Johnny Galecki, Anne Heche and Bridgette Wilson. The members of the cast are pretty well known and the horror is bound to keep you on the edge of your seat. We should probably thank Kevin Williamson for this one. I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie, but nice racks on Hewitt and Gellar","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt is really cute, delivers a fairly good performance, and displays her nice rack...nicely. But other than that, why did I watch this movie? I give it 4 / 10.**** MUCHO SPOILERS TO FOLLOW *****It was suspenseful for a while, and the fish hook thing makes an interesting instrument of death, but the end spoils it all. There's a scene when Hewitt shouts to no one in particular What are you waiting for?! or something like that. At that point you're thinking, Well, supernatural acts have occurred. Maybe this beast feeds on fear? But in the end it's just a guy, so you're left wondering What was he waiting for? not to mention How did he do all those seemingly supernatural things?Also, near the end, Hewitt activates something that lowers a fishing net on the boat. Hmmm..., I wonder why? Oh look, Freddy Prinze just got saved by the fishing net that Hewitt lowered for no apparent reason two scenes ago! How about that? Then there's that plastic ice in the hold. Well I guess real ice would have been cold, but it looks and sounds really fake.And one more thing, why did Max and Elsa have to die, especially Elsa?*** END SPOILERS ***  "}{"Title":"I Think I Know What The Bloodhound Gang Was Watching...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...when they named one of there albums Hooray For Boobies, I think they must have been hoping for some viewing in this film...it would have made more interesting! I mean Hewitt and Geller almost reveal but not quite!!! Sorry but writing about that is far more fun!!! This film sucked and I like the newish slasher genre. Has Jennifer Love Hewitt ever done anything worth while? I can't think of anything can you? "},{"Title":"What i thought of this great movie","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I  love this movie.. even though its old.. i mean wouldnt it be scary if that was your life, and you were running from a killer! if you voted lower than a 5.. just think how scary it would be.. i mean.. not like it would happen.. unless you live in a crazy place.. anyways! i love this movie!  "},{"Title":"another lame addition to the 90's horror.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There's not much to be said about this flick... It's not scary, not even suspenseful, and it doesn't even have a good plot.  Recommended for those that can't stand a good horror film.The plot is similar to Friday the 13th part V  A New Beginning. "},{"Title":"A follow up to Scream.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A brilliant one too.I loved this movie,it was just great the first time I watched it.It's so jump out of your seat and it is filled with so much suspense it's unimaginable. The story is of two high school couples who after there leaving party accidentally kill a man on the road.They decide to make a pact and pretend it never happened. One year later,one of the girls gets a letter saying I know what you did last summer,and she knows that someone was there and knows everything.Could it be the man they killed?Someone related?Or one of the four who did it?I won't spoil anymore from here.I know what you did last summer is great,it's scary and shocking,and the epilogue is excellent as well.I reccomend this to any horror/film fan.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE SUCKED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was awful!!!  I was excited when I found out that they had made this movie, because I read the book and it was great!  I tried watching this movie and was VERY disappointed.  Based on a book?  Based on the title, maybe, but the book was MUCH better.  I love Kevin Williamson's movies.  I think he's a genius and he's made the horror genre fun to watch again. But, he really screwed this one up.  I know that you can only do so much when writing a script from a book, but I've seen made-for-tv-movies that have followed their books better.  My advice  skip the movie, read the book! "},{"Title":"A very watchable Film","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched 'I know what you did last Summer' a few years ago and then just recently and I was quite impressed. The storyline and script is quick and exciting and I think the whole general cast does well. Just simply a good movie with the usual twists in it that every modern day horror flick seems to possess. My favourite character has to be 'Barrie Cox' who is played by Ryan Phillippe, he is just comical and doesn't stand for any crap of anyone. I wouldn't class this film as being especially scary but it is enjoyable nonetheless. Obviously there is also the added bonus of Jennifer Love Hewitt who is a total babe.Rating 8/10. Enjoyable. "},{"Title":"It had me in suspense all the way a very well acted movie","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It had me believing the story was really happening. Great acting and suspence.My favorite actors all rolled up in a superb movie Sarah Michelle Gellar, Anne Heche and Jennifer love Hewitt made the movie believable top class acting. I have already seen the movie three times I love it. "},{"Title":"I Know Its A Good Movie!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well I just watched I Know What You Did Last Summer on DVD tonight it has been a long time since I seen the movie about 3 years maybe more. And it's just as I remember it being a good film and a lot of fun to watch it, movies like this have a bad rep for being teen slashers or whatever it is they call them now. The point is it's a good movie its not the best horror film of all time or anything like that but a blast to watch so I give this movie.3/5I just wish the DVD had more Special Features "},{"Title":"A not so gory movie but deserves a better rating than it has","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know what you did last summer is a tame horror movie but still is well worth watching. It's basically about a group of teens that get drunk one night and have an unfortunate accident and kill somebody. Unfortunatley for them, a killer is going to get them back...with their lives. With actors Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer love Hewitt in this film it's promised to entertain if you love horror films, even if they are tame like this one.83%  "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was pretty good, it had some scary moments, but after the first time, if you watch it again you won't like it to well.  Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe were good, Jennifer Love Hewitt was alright. Freddie, was well....If you watch it after a long time of not watching it, you will find it good again.My score  4 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Decent shlasher film","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Of course , this film is inferior than Scream but it does have its merits . I had heard so much trash about this thriller that I was very wary when I heard that TV would air it . Nevertheless I decided to give it a chance , expecting to see an easily forgettable campy teen horror film in the worst case . I was wrong  just like the case with Last Action Hero or The Saint (1997) people find it convenient to reject them in order to follow the dictates of the official critics but when it comes to awful films like Mission Impossible (1996) or True Lies which are critically acclaimed (obviously to promote them) everybody rushes to join the cult masses in order not to disclose the fact that he cannot see the emperor 's new clothes. I am not saying that Last Action Hero or the Saint are without defects but are very overlooked and underrated . I Know What you Did Last Summer is a very flawed movie but fortunately Williamson 's pen has done it again  he gives us some genuine chills .         First the minuses  this flick has the worst performances I have ever seen in years . The actors give the impression that got tired of studying the script and the director wrote the script on a blackboard , and the leads read their lines directly during the actual filming . The corny acting is sometimes laughable but hey this actually turns to be amusing ! There are a couple of scenes copied directly from Halloween . There are plot holes like how could the killer clean up everything just in a few seconds . Speaking of the killer , he could be much scarier and his suit should be redesigned in order to make him more dark and menacing . I suppose they wanted to make him look realistic and not give him a fancy outfit like Freddy , Jason , Father Death in Scream etc .. The biggest flaw is that the premise (based on a book) could have made a more psychologically orientated agony thriller about guilt and remorse (your crime will eventually return to avenge you ) . The writer preferred to make the film more action - packed perhaps after the libels that Scream was too much self - referential , comedic and with little gore . This movie was also rejected by critics who said that it underused the psychological atmosphere to degenerate to a teeny bopper with gore and blood . Well you cannot have it both ways you know !!!          On the plus side  the 4 leads were carefully chosen for the roles. Fresh young faces to make us like them . They sure did . Despite the plot 's flaws the film has a wonderful threatening atmosphere and manages to be memorable and to escape the aesthetics of a TV-like slasher or a common B-movie . The opening sequence is perhaps the best and will be included within the most classic ones of all thrillers . We first see a young man alone at a cliff late at night drinking . He is sad  it is obvious that something haunts him from the past . Then we see the graduation party of the 4 leads (two couples) . When they take a ride with a car , being semi-drunk they accidentally hit someone with the car . The accident scene and the subsequent sequence with the huge dilemma and the eventual disposal of the body  are marvelous . One year later Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) receives a note saying I know what you did last summer . The demons from the past start tormenting her and the 4 friends are reunited in order to figure out what to do .            Surprisingly there is very little gore . We simply see the hook supposedly gutting the victims and the result is effective . In many points the direction compensates for the script 's faults , like in the climactic chases . Anne Heche gives a decent performance as Missy the slightly retarded , wild beast-like sister of the supposed victim . There are no self - referential lines (obviously not wanting to rip off Scream) except in one point (the Jodie - Angela undercover names). The script 's originality is wonderful in some scenes which invert some of the most eternal trivialities. The most characteristic example is the inversion of Psycho 's shower scene where Barry (Ryan Philippe) is alone in the gym , having a bath while the danger is threateningly near . At last , for once , the individual-in-peril is a guy ! The best scenes in the film are the ones with the flamboyant Sarah Michelle Gellar (Helen) but I cannot give them away . All I can say is that Helen is probably the most developed character and the most natural performance comes from Gellar . As for the scene in the car tires alleyit has been printed indelibly in my mind . Freddy Prinze Jr as Ray is nothing more than the dark-haired handsome guy . He serves only as the love interest for Helen and a potential suspect (he is a fisherman and he has a hook) and he spends most of the movie quarreling with Barry .Enough said , I think . The cliffhanger finale is kind of lame but this film was not made to win Academy awards . It is purely campy fun with a few occasional psychedelic hints about crime and punishment (Do you ever wonder if it was a suicide?    If that 's the way you are able to sleep at nights ....  ) . Switch off your brains and have a nice dose of entertainment . Not as good as the astonishing Scream but undoubtly one of the landmarks of 90 's horror films . You simply must not expect much . A solid                                                                                                  8 / 10                                            "},{"Title":"an ok Scream clone","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddy Prinze, Jr., Ryan Phillipe, Johnny Galecki, Bridgette Wilson, and Anne Heche.plot Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Ray (Freddy Prinze, Jr.), and Barry (Ryan Phillipe) are driving down the road when suddenly they hit something. They get out of the car and see that they hit a man! Julie wants to go to the police but everyone else is scared that it will ruin their future. So they decide to dump the body in the ocean. A year later, Julie comes home for the summer after a hard year at college. When she reads her mail she finds a letter that says i know what you did last summer. She reunites with Helen, Ray, and Barry and shows them the letter. Then after Barry is attacked by a man in a slicker, Helen gets her hair chopped off over night, and Julie finds a body in her trunk, they know that someone saw their crime and wants revenge. He starks to stalk and kill them and some more people with his hook. Guess who it is ....reveiw This movie is ok. I love Sarah Michelle Gellar in everything she plays in. So the acting is good, theres some good gore, good directing. And a cool opening.6/10. "},{"Title":"All 3 'Screams' were better than this flick!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  See, 'Scream' was a spoof mixed with the slasher genre, and it worked exceedingly well! 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is just a teen slasher movie, that has one thing in common with 'Scream'- in that they both use 'Party of Five' stars and that it's a slasher film! The difference between 'Scream' and 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is that the former was making fun of it's own genre. And 'Scream' was head and shoulders above 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' as far as script, suspense, characters and entertainment.SPOILER IN THIS PARAGRAPH! 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' was plain stupid the best of times! Jennifer Love Hewitt was an okay lead while it was nice to see Johnny Galecki (Roseanne) again. To call this film a classic horror suggests to me that some of you people need to see some earlier works. This is not a classic! 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is simply another addition to the bad to passable nineties teen-slasher flicks. It's so bad, that in one scene, the killer manages to put a bunch of crabs with ice in someone's car boot. SERIOUSLY! That is just pure stupidity and really pushing the believability factor! 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' gets a ** out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Is that supposed to be a scary film?","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I mean, come on. There are far scarier movies out there. I'm not especially a horror movies fan, and I can even say that I'm easily scared. But this movie... The only scary thing in it was probably the gory stuff, which was really... gore. Apart from that, maybe I'm too old for that kind of films, but I think that some X-files episodes are scarier than that. That said, it was not a crappy film either. Good cast, good acting... Nice storyline. But don't expect to be scared out of your mind, cos you won't. In my opinion, anyway.  "},{"Title":"yeh yeh yawn yawn, please, could we get anymore unoriginal?","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *****************spoilers!!!****************Since seeing, this terrifying mind boggling film, i have never been able to go into a fish and chip shop again. And our holidays to camp bad film have never been the same, as i can't look at the fishermen there without frightening myself to death. as camp bad film is a fishing village you can imagine this is a terrible ditch in our holiday spirits.You know the part that scared me most, was the part when, mr Fisherman guy, tried to cut off Sarah Michelle Gellar's hair. i mean, can you imagine, a bad hair cut, it would just be terrible wouldn't it? Poor Sarah, the world is a cruel place, why couldn't he have just killed her, anything would have been better than cutting the hair. it brings chills up my spine even now, chilly.  And when all the crabs in the trunk, wow, poor Julie, i guess her seafood hamper got a little bit carried away. I can not imagine watching this without screaming, terrifying. Mind challenging, and pure scariness.sorry coz sarcasm is not a pretty thing.(for all you that need my last comment decoding, i meant, all of that was sarcastic, boring and unoriginal this film is!) "},{"Title":"So much better than Scream","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film expecting it to be a crappy copy of Scream. I was pleasantly suprised to find out that it was far better. The cast was great I can not think of a better youth cast, it puts Screams Courtney Cox and Neve Campbell to shame. I don't find it scary but that does not make me think any less of the film because i realy enjoyed watching it. I think that Buffy was great in it and i was sad when she died because it ruled out the chance of her being in a sequel. This is a class film! "},{"Title":"I know you know that I know you know I....what?","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This hack work gets a photographic job well beyond the call of duty. Director, a word in your shell like. We do not like to see Sarah Michelle Gellar get hacked to pieces, bless her cotton socks. Such cultural vandalism is most disconcerting. She's not just any face in the crowd, you know. She's Stephen Dorff's face in the crowd. Now she's gone it's planet of the trousers, poor guy. "},{"Title":"No Plot!!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As my self being quite a huge movie fan and especially of the Horror genre i was intrigued to view this poorly made movie, noticing that there are so many spoilers in it that i haven't got enough space to write them all down!!Having Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt starring in this movie simply degrades their reputations in every scene they have to 'ACT' in, an appalling horror teen movie that will definately NOT make you scream in terror, more like in a comedy sense!!!!!!!The basic fact is that there is no plot that is obvious to spot, a group of teens knock over this guy who nobody really cares about and try to hide it from everyone and anyone so nobody knows who did it. Basically this isn't substantial enough to maintain a concentration span that should last throughout the film. Too many plot holes equals a C**P movie that will never gain the reconition it should have.A poor 4/10 which i believe is too flattering!! "},{"Title":"not a bad little flick","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is a bit routine, but it has suspense throughout and some solid scares. The cast does a good job here, especially Jennifer Love Hewitt. The release of Scream hurt this film a bit, but it still did fairly well at the box-office. Had Scream never been released, this would probably be a classic. 3/4 "},{"Title":"A Must Have for All Horror Collections","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A Must Have For All Horror Collections. Such a Good Film. Most People Call it a Rip-off of Scream, But I Think it's 10X Better. The Mystery. Oh Boy! What a Mystery this Film takes us Through from Beginning to End. It Never Stops, and Keeps on Getting Better Until we Are Left With a Stunning Ending. The Horror. Talk About Scary. There are To Many Parts I Wouldn't Want to Spoil for You But Wish a Could just Talk About Forever. I'm Sure That If You Watch This Film You'll Agree That It Was Completely Different From Scream and Much Better. I Give It 10 out of 10. Also Recommended Bloody Murder. "}{"Title":"Utterly Average","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a completely average film. God knows why it was so popular. It may have been based on a novel, but it's an entirely formulaic and predictable 'horror' flick that would be in the budget section of the video shops had it been made in the '80s with an unknown cast (since it has exactly the same storyline as several hundred other low-budget films). Unlikeable characters, no plot and no reason for the killer to do what he does. Poor. "},{"Title":"I know what went wrong with this movie...","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Though I am not an ardent fan of horror flicks, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a good movie. Notice that I say a good movie; this is, unfortunately, not a great movie.Oh, it's scary all right. And well-directed, too. An almost flawless film - except for one glitch. And that glitch is...Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar.Not that those two aren't good actresses; they're terrific. But it seems the nimrod casting director who cast this movie gave these two gals each other's roles!Think about it wouldn't Gellar have been a better choice for the role of Julie James? Actually, I think she would have been perfect for the role. She's everything Julie should have been lean, wiry, athletic, yet with those deep, haunted blue eyes that at once suggest both victim and predator (geez, I'm getting corny here). In retrospect, I can't see anybody else in the role.But who do we get instead? Jennifer Love Hewitt, who plays the strong-willed heroine about as well as Arnold Schwarzenegger would play Hamlet. With her pale, unblemished features and almost bony physique, Hewitt looks as if she would get eaten alive on the back streets of any small town, let alone the streets prowled by the hook-handed fisherman. Sheesh, what's the point of making Julie the heroine if she is going to be so WEAK?Let me reiterate Sarah Michelle Gellar would have made a much better Julie, with Jennifer in the Helen Shivers role. If for no other reason, the lead role in this movie would have given Sarah the springboard to fame she would need to build a fan base for Buffy the Vampire Slayer. (Not that that show's fan base isn't doing very well as it is, mind you.)As for the rest of the movie - pure gold. The supporting players are fantastic. Character actor Muse Watson, who plays the fisherman, brings a palpable menace and also a surprising amount of pathos to his villain role. Also outstanding is Ryan Philippe as Barry Cox, the macho blowhard who turns coward after the fisherman gives him a proper scare. And Freddie Prinze Jr. is...well, Freddie Prinze Jr. 'Nuff said.Except for the fact that Jennifer Love Hewitt makes a rather wimpy heroine, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is as good a slasher flick as you're gonna get. I haven't seen the sequel yet, but I might soon. I just hope that this time around, Julie James is made of sterner stuff. "},{"Title":"Average Slasher Film","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What you Did Last Summer is described in one word Average. Kevin Williamson's follow-up to the far more clever Scream settles for typical teen slasher fare instead of being hip and inventive. However, if he was purposely trying to make something along the lines of Prom Night or Friday the 13th he succeeds. This film really reminded me of the cheesy yet entertaining horror films of the 80's.The films premise is pretty basic. 4 teens with everything going for them accidentally run down someone on the road and decide to dump the body. One year later a mysterious figure dressed as a fisherman begins to stalk the teens. Is it the person they hit? Is it someone who knows them? you have to watch to find out.What I Likedi liked the location they used for this film. It's a pretty scary atmosphere and it's a briliant set-up for what goes on in the film.I loved the costume they used for the killer. I was frightened by it during several moments of the film. The Hook is also a good touch as well.I enjoyed Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe in the film. i found them to be the most at ease with their characters. Not to mention Sarah's chase scene in  the film is thrilling. By far the best moment of the film. It reminded me a lot of the chase scene in Halloween when the shape is stalking laurie.What i didn't LikeThe script was pretty generic and considering this was the same guy that wrote Scream i was expecting a lot more.The fact that during a clearly hot day in july everyone is wearing a slicker. They used this to build suspense but i found it rather stupid.Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. annoyed the hell out of me. Jennifer gives an absolutely contrived performance. I believe i've seen her play the innocent role way too many times and it's getting a little tired. Freddie Prinze Jr is just awful. He was truly the weakest link in the cast. However, i will give him credit by saying that he did improve in future roles.The confrontation on the boat is a bit of a let-down. especially since it followed a far surperior cat and mouse chase between gellar and the fisherman.The Shock ending was such a lame way to end it. The more i see it the more i realize how dumb it is. The fact that they did the same thing in the sequel makes it even worse.I know it seems like i'm totally bashing the film i was entertained for it's 90 minute running time. I only recommend it for true horror/slasher movie buffs. Especially for gellars chase scene.6/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining and (at least partly) inventive teen slasher.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1997) Rating 7/10After the success of Scream (9/10) we had the pleasure of seeing a lot of rather cheap imitations but I Know What You Did Last Summer is the only other good slasher film of the 90s (and beyond still). Don't get me wrong, it's no where near as brilliant as Scream, but still entertaining and definitely better than all those other slashers (we all know what they are). The script was written by Kevin Williamson who is also the author behind Scream. I thought it was cool that right after Williamson wrote Scream he wrote a horror flick just like the ones he parodies in Scream. Williamson is one hell of a writer. His characters are fun, his dialogue sounds right and he sure knows how scare the crap out of you.The motive of the killer is not that brilliant (but than again, they never are). The film gets pretty interesting once the slasher-action starts. The suspense is great and there are several scenes that made me jump. The mystery part of the film kept me involved also and it was fun trying to solve. The film also delivers some very creative death scenes that are truly enjoyable and different from the death scenes in other 90s slasher films.The acting was pretty good (for a horror film). Jennifer Love Hewitt was good at playing the helpless victim. 'Cause, I guess, she can scream good. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a little better than Jennifer. Mostly because she has the privilege of being in the most thrilling scene in the movie. Ryan Phillippe is good at playing the jerk/jock type. I thought he was good in the film, but Freddie Prinze Jr. was really bad in the film. I wont even go there, because we all know about him already.Beside Scream, this is the only 90s (and beyond) teen-horror flick that is really entertaining and (at least partly) inventive. "},{"Title":"Basic Plot","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Jennifer Love Hewitt (From TV's partyof five) And Sarah Michel Gellar (Scream 2) star with Freddie Prince JR, Ryan Phillippe and Jhonny Galecki in this terrifying tale of a body that just won't stay dead. After an accident on a winding road four teens make the fatal mistake of dumping their victoms body in the sea. But exacly one year later the dead man returns from his watery grave and he's looking for more then an apoligy. From the writer of Scream, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a pure fright machine (THAT) SCARES THE HELL OUT OF YOU! "},{"Title":"Useless Movie","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Why useless?Because it wasn't good enough to enjoy and not bad enough to have any fun with. Because despite the potential to at least be a good quotes movie, it wasn't good, or interesting, or satisfying on any level. Just very, very mediocre.Random thoughts while trying to figure out why I was watching such a lame movie1. Scream was fun and a pretty good film, but considering some of the movies that followed it (and there are ones far worse than this), I wish it had never come out. Or at the very least, that it would've done worse at the box office.2. How long will it take for people to realize that Freddie Prinze Jr. can't act? Maybe then we'll be spared another look mom, I'm in a movie! performance, and Freddie would go find another job. He'll live happily ever after with Sarah Michelle Gellar (who can go on acting for as long as she wishes) - and movie audiences worldwide will be able to breathe a sigh of relief. 3. Yeah, something like this could happen in real life! Sure! Highly believable!4. SMG is surprisingly good in her lame pre-Buffy role (she must have filmed this before Buffy premiered). And that's a lot more impressive than it appears at first. I knew she was talented, but this was a clincher. Anyone who can do this well in something so one dimensional has my respect.5. And then, they managed to make a sequel that was even worse than this! Wow! Now that's a real achievement.6. Actually, Ryan Phillippe wasn't half bad, either.So, the bottom line Only as a totally last resort. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love & Sarah Michelle what more do you need","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is good, don't listen to the people giving it bad reviews they apparently don't know what entertainment is, and that's all these movies are. You can't take them seriously or you won't enjoy them. It's a great story, a group of kids hit a guy with there car, then one by one they began getting picked off, I don't want to spoil it for you so just go buy it you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, but still not too good","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  **SPOILERS** Okay i really liked this movie at first, i even went and bought it. But now i realize that its just another teeny-bopper flick. I mean the killer isn't even scary!! The actors aren't even realistic at all!!!! And they're in every film it seems like!!! Im so tired of that Jennifer Love Hewitt girl. She needs to go take a 10 year brake. Oh and they could've done way better than Sarah Michelle Gellar. What a whiner. And i was actually glad to see Ryan Phillepe's go. But the whole hook thing is boring. This movie is somewhat decent i SUPPOSE. Well not really. I guess if your into movies like  Scream  this movie is good for you. 5/10 "},{"Title":"First film in the post-Scream slasher frenzy","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  IKWYDLS was the first serious horror movie to come out after Scream, and it is not a letdown. I'm reviewing this film on what I think are the most important things in a good slasher movie *Possible SPOILERS*Suspense There is one quite suspenseful scene in the film and that is a chase between the killer and Sarah Michelle Gellar. It is electric and reminded me of Jamie Lee Curtis trying to get back into the Doyle house in 'Halloween'. A good scene which adds to the film.Deaths Although the fish-hook is the weapon of choice, no two kills are identical and good use is made of the hook, particularly the murder of Max. Killer The slicker is good and at the parade (on a SUNNY July afternoon) everyone seems to be wearing one! Muse Watson is not i the film 'til the end, but he is a good killer.Acting  Jennifer Love Hewitt is good up until the boat scene at the end where she screams. Again. And again. And several dozen more times. Gellar and Phillippe are good in their roles and Prinze, Jr. is fairly good in his limited screen time.Overall, an enjoyable and interesting start to the post-Scream slasher series.  "},{"Title":"Painfully average...","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first movie to cash in on the sucess of SCREAM and the highest grossing of it's imitators. This movie is a decent slasher flick, but is far from great and VERY unoriginal. It does have signify much because it helped launch the film career of it's four stars.STORY Is this movie a whodunnit? Because there is really no way to figure out the killer in this flick mostly because we never see him out of costume until the end! Anyways it's full of plotholes and non-logic. How could the fisherman clean up EVERYTHING in a matter of minutes? You know which parts I'm talking about. Also the pacing is kinda off and the final confrontation was a cop out. It went WAY out of it's way to set up a sequel and it sacrificed the ending of this movie. On the plus side, the whole GUILT thing came off well. Probably because Lois Duncan used it in the original novel and it wasn't written by Kevin Williamson. The worst thing is that I KNOW is a straight rip off of PROM NIGHT. And PROM NIGHT was a far better movie with far better suspense and a far better ending!ACTING Jennifer Love Hewitts is hot but sucks here. Her character is the sterotypical goodie good and a less than inspiring performance didn't help. Freddie Prinze JR annoyed me and he could barely act here. He's gotten a bit better with time, but that doesn't help this movie. Didn't you just feel like hooking him? Ryan Phillpe does well as the asshole with a heart and even manages to be intense at certain points. Sarah Michelle Gellar does well for herself as the best friend who has victim painted all over her forehead. Muse Watson doesn't have much to do, but he's great when he does something. He gives a cold, angry performance as Ben Willis and it's too bad his character wasn't developed properly. He had the best line in the whole movie Kids like you should be out having fun. Partying. Drinking. Running people over. Getting away with murder. Things like that.DIRECTING Gillepse doesn't give us much suspense and most of the jump scares are obvious, but he does do some fine stuff here. Take it or leave it.MUSIC I can't say I liked the score...at all. The rock songs on the soundtrack were all right, but do we need to hear them right in the middle of a stalk scene? It's a bit distracting...OTHER Not much blood here, save for the openning murder. This movie could've used a lot of it. No nudity here either, but when the actors/actresses have already made a name for themselves...well let's just say I wasn't really expecting it. The final shot of the movie makes little sense, but made me jump the first time I saw it. What we have here is just an average slasher film that rips off Prom Night, Halloween, Candyman, and probably Friday the 13th somewhere in there. Pass this one over and go rent one of the classics. Avoid the sequel like the plague...** out of **** "}{"Title":"Not that bad, but not that great either","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is not that bad of a teen horror flick that was very common in the 1980s and eventually the 1990s. It has a fairly good group of talented young stars Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr, Ryan Philippe, Sarah Michele Gellar.  The plot, idea, and setting is not too bad either, but the story seems to get cloudy half-way through and turns to a lot of screaming, bloodiness, and an unsatisfying ending (well in the sequel you understand why.)  Overall, this earns 2.5 out of 4. "},{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer has to be one of my all time favourite movies. It is an impressively well constructed film that not only boasts a brilliant cast, score and script, but the best directing and atmosphere that has graced our screens perhaps since Halloween.Williamson's script is intelligent, and cleverly side-steps all the pit-falls that a movie of this type could have fallen into, and is not too 'hip' as to stumble over its own dialogue. Whereas in Scream (oh come on, it had to be mentioned somewhere), Williamson mocked the cheesy slashers of the 80s, here he pays tribute to everything that makes an enjoyable and thoroughly entertaining thriller.The cast (including Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jnr. and Jennifer Love Hewitt) surprised me with their finely-honed and believable performances. Their characters may have stuck closely to the clichés of old-fashioned horror, but each handed in performances that are way under-rated.The build up of tension throughout the movie is remarkably clever (John Debney's excellent score gets top marks in this department with his haunting, depressive ballads), and the idea of a killer who toys with his victims to invoke fear into them before finally killing them is one of genius proportions. It's a technique that has been employed in horror before (most notably in the more recent Valentine), but never more effectively then in I Know What You Did Last Summer.The thing that made this movie so unnerving was the whole idea that the characters are being 'punished' for what they did. Again, revenge is a very common factor in slasher flicks, but here the reason for revenge actually makes sense, and we are not subjected to mindless babble in which the killer tries to make sense of his own actions. Simplicity is the key, and Williamson knew it. There's also a very strong morality tale at the core of the film; we all know that what the characters did was wrong, but how many of us in their situation would have reacted any differently?Something else that sets I Know What You Did Last Summer apart from other slashers - and in truth, apart from the gratuitous boob shots and gore, I Know... is more of an artistic thriller - is the amount of character development that is allowed, and the fact that instead of having death after death (therefore eliminating the need for a plot), the film allows us time with each character to get to know them well enough to fear for them when they are attacked. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite horror movies.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is one of my favorite horror movies.There isn't any reason why I like it because it is the kind of movie where you don't need a reason.I would not compare the film to Halloween but more like Scream.I always thought of this film as the kind of horror film you would rent over again at your local video store.The screams are fun and Jennifer Love Hewitt seems to be having fun in this film.(Or then again,maybe not being this is a horror film and she was probably scared during filming).I just enjoy I Know What You Did Last Summer for the excitement it causes.The kind of excitement you get when watching a horror movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen..!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh man.. Just read the summary and you know what I feel about it. To tell you the truth I haven't seen the whole movie. I just couldn't stand watching the whole one. It was so boring!! Very bad acting, no scary at all.. STAY AWAY! No way I'm even gonna look at the sequel.. Boooh! "},{"Title":"Another great 'horror' flick comes our way.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"                      *****SPOILERS*****I know what you did last summer is another great movie for everyone, especially those into the horror-genre. The film is basically about Julie, Helen, Barry and Ray, four friends who accidentally knock over a man one night. Instead of taking him to the hospital/police which they should of done, they dump him into a lake and swear not to tell anyone about what they have done. Soon they all go their separate ways, until a year later when Julie returns home for the summer. (She's been at school far away.) and things start to happen and people start to die. Including, Barry and Helen. After a while of 'guess the killer' (Barry thinks it's a guy called Max at first.) they all assume that the killer is the man they dumped into a lake in the year before is the killer (He's a fisherman, by the way.) and of course they are right. Anyway, I know what you did last summer is a great film and I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You may never get tired of watching this movie. i had to watch it twice to really get it. it awesome. i liked all the actors in it. it had a great plot and you never knew what was going to happen! it was a great mystery and part of the fun was really trying to figure out who the killer was. "},{"Title":"Don't give a rat's ass what you did last summer","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was the purest piece of funkedified film-making that disguised itself as an actual summer blockbuster.  I normally try to give any movie I pay to see a chance (even if it's only $2.00), but I couldn't help myself after witnessing this visual rape of my sanity.  Don't see this.  For the love of God please don't.  If you have seen it (I pray for your mortal soul), I have one question  How did the killer manage to keep all of those live crabs round up + nicely detail (wet/dry vac) the trunk in the scant two minutes between Jennifer Love Hewitt's discovery of the body and her return to the car?  Not to mention that it is broad daylight (in something resembling a neighborhood) and nobody sees a friggin' thing (not a passerby, not someone driving by, not someone sitting out on their porch during that lovely day)? NO ONE sees a crazy person carting arond several dozen live crabs, a dead teenager, and a wet/dry vac (not to mention that I usually picture that unseen scene involving some sort of wheelbarrow or golf cart or something)? I don't accept that!  I wish that killer would clean my vehicle. This piece of cinematic filth had all the predictability of breathing. "},{"Title":"A fun slasher flick","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie quite a bit.  Horror has been gone from Hollywood for awhile and Scream brought the genre back to the big screen.Movie has good suspense and is not quite as unique as Scream, but certainly has a good story backdrop for the slasher/killer.Killer was more frightening in the fisherman getup than as a living breathing person, but overall I liked the pacing of the movie. "},{"Title":"Campy Teen Flick","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie to be a complete waste of time.  This is one of those movies in which the words that are most said are Oh my God.  The movie is supposed to take place in Maine, but the female protagonists still talk like valley girls.   The plot outline is extremely thin.  Four teenagers hit a man while driving, and decide to dump him in the ocean.  A year later Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) gets a death threat saying I know what you did last summer!  She then goes back to Maine and sees the other three teenagers and they decide that they are in grave danger. NO, YOU THINK?! So, if you like teen movies, you might want to give this a try.  But if you have more sophisticated taste, steer clear of this movie.  "},{"Title":"Best Teen Horror Flick!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so addicting! I have watched it over and over. The cast is so perfect. The movie was suspenseful and kept you on the edge of your seat. You kept on wondering who is this fishermen and is it Ray? Anne Heche does an outstanding job as Missy. I love the whole twist at the end. This is such a good movie. Go out and see this movie, you won't regret it! "}{"Title":"Dull, Unimaginative, and a Complete Waste of Time","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One word can be used to describe `I Know What You Did Last Summer' -- ick.  It' difficult to believe that Kevin Williamson had the gall to follow up the sly, smart `Scream' with this rancid garbage.  `I Know What You Did Last Summer' is a prime example of bad filmmaking from start to finish.  Essentially, it's a big budget version of `Friday the 13th, Part 5', except even the films in the `Friday the 13th' films had better acting and better scripts.  Whatever marketing executives touted this awful film as a `follow-up to Scream' should be flogged for their lies. `I Know What You Did Last Summer' is the allegedly horrifying tale of four stereotypical high school friends  Barry (Ryan Phillippe), the rich jock; Helen (Sarah Michelle Geller), the popular cheerleader; Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), the brain; and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.), the loner.  On one fateful Fourth of July, they accidentally hit a stranger on the road, killing him.  Instead of reporting the accident like normal, responsible people, they dump the stranger's body in the ocean and vow never to speak of the night again.  A year later, when all four characters are still wracked with guilt over the horrible thing they've done, Julie suddenly receives a strange note -- yes, it's the ominous `I Know What You Did Last Summer'.  People around Julie start dropping like flies, dying at the hands of a murderer who dresses suspiciously like the Gorton's Fisherman.  Gratuitous blood and carnage ensues.If the film had any sensibility -- in other words, if it had even vaguely been like `Scream' -- it might've been fun, if not great.  However, the only similarity between the two films is its use of teen TV stars from Fox and the WB.  `Scream' was able to play with the typical slasher film conventions in new and original ways; `I Know What You Did Last Summer' clutches at those conventions like they're religious dogma.  There's no suspense or terror in the film.  Characters wander alone into dark alleys and they die.  Characters mouth dumb dialogue ripped straight out of `Nightmare on Elm Street, Part Two' and `Halloween 4'.  Lights go out at the most inconvenient times.  Yawn.  It's been done before, and done much better, by nearly a dozen other slasher films.  I give two of the actors credit for trying -- Ryan Phillippe makes the most of his paper-thin character Barry, and Sarah Michelle Gellar's actually pretty good as the disillusioned Helen -- but their performances aren't nearly enough to save the film.  The other two simply aren't very good.  As Julie, Jennifer Love Hewitt doesn't do much except to ask stupid questions and to look helpless; and Freddie Prinze Jr. is about as lively as a store mannequin as Ray, the troubled loner.  (Side note  who keeps casting Freddie Prinze Jr. in movies, anyway?  It's scary how consistently the guy keeps churning out flat, wooden performances.)  So, the performance of the four leads essentially even out to add nothing to the film's script . . . and since the script is an unoriginal mess, there's almost nothing good to say about the movie.  (The one original and genuinely funny line spoken in the entire movie is said by Sarah Michelle Gellar -- she makes a reference to `Silence of the Lambs' that's terrific, and also completely out of place with the rest of the insipid nonsense being spoken throughout the film.)Looking for a great, traditional slasher film?  Rent the original `Halloween'.  Looking for a great, modern slasher film? Rent the original `Scream'.  Looking for a rotten, boring, completely uninspired slasher film?   Rent `I Know What You Did Last Summer'.  Avoid this film like the plague.  Grade D "},{"Title":"Great Teen Horror Flick!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"    I must admit that I love horror movies. My best friend and I went to see this movie. We thought that it was great and could not wait for the sequal. The last scene in this movie made me jump out of my seat. I know that all horror movies have the same plot. Yet, this one had twists and turns that not even a Friday the 13th movie had. Freddie Prinze Jr. is a total fox! I don't know about you but if I were being stalked by a serial killer he is the guy I want to protect me. For lovers of horror flicks I give my recomendation for this movie. "},{"Title":"Rent it, just don't expect a horror masterpiece","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  **CONTAINS SPOILERS!** First of all, a LOT of people compare this movie to Scream, and, while they are from the same screenwriter, there are differences.  First off, Scream was a horror-savvy thriller about a killer terrorizing teens in a small California city by quizzing them on horror movies by cell phone.  I Know What You Did Last Summer does feature teens getting stalked and slaughtered, but the circumstances are completely different, so it may be a bit unfair to compare this to Scream.You all probably know the plot four beautiful teens, Julie (JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT), Helen (SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR), Barry (RYAN PHILLIPPE) and Ray (FREDDIE PRINZE, JR.) are making out on a sandy beach on the night of July 4 while celebrating beauty queen Helen's Croaker Queen win in the seaside fishing village of Southport, North Carolina.  On the drive home, the drunken Barry distracts Ray, the designated driver, and they do something unspeakable they hit someone.What follows is where the four have to decide their fates and futures. Should they turn themselves in and ruin their futures?  Or dump the body and vow never to speak of this incident again?  Predictably, they choose the latter.Cut to early July, one year later, and Julie returns home to her lonely mother and an ominous note bearing the titular words.  Julie, in a panic, tracks down her cohorts-in-crime and they soon come up with two major suspects Max (JOHNNY GALECKI), a loser fisherman with a thing for Julie, and Elsa (BRIDGETTE WILSON), Helen's bitchy and jealous older sister. After some perfunctory detective work, the two girls add another name to the list Missy Egan (ANNE HECHE), the saddened sister of the man they hit.A lot of things happen that tell the teens that someone does indeed know what they did last summer and is exacting revenge.  Barry is run over by his own car, Helen's hair (her most prized possession) is chopped off, and Julie gets a gruesome surprise in the trunk of her car.  Now, as the Fourth of July approaches once again, the four must find out who knows what they did last summer...The acting is a mixed bag.  Jennifer Love Hewitt (and Her Cleavage) does a pretty good job in the first half of the movie, anchoring it with a nice solid turn as the troubled Julie.  Unfortunately, the second half allows Julie to do incredibly dumb things as well as making her so uptight we can barely stand her.  The same goes for Sarah Michelle Gellar (and Her Cleavage), as she plays Helen as the confused beauty queen who's never had to face such a stressful situation before in her life, but then as just another generic ditz from any 1980s horror movie.  Ryan Phillippe (and His Pecs) plays his part with some flash as the guy with the most unrealistic attitude.  Finally, Freddie Prinze, Jr. (and His Pecs) as Ray seems to have trouble emoting and his dialogue seems wooden coming out of his mouth.Strangely, I found the supporting characters more interesting and wished they were fleshed out more.  Johnny Galecki as Max is surprisingly good as the bitter guy longing for the girl he can't get.  Bridgette Wilson is little more than an extra but, for some reason, her jealousy to Helen seemed justified and I found myself wishing at the end of the movie that both Max and Elsa survived.  Finally, Anne Heche gives the best performance in the movie as Missy in only two scenes and five minutes of screen time.  The four central teens aren't entirely innocent and they do deserve some punishment, but the deaths of Max and Elsa are unjustified, since both of these people have done nothing wrong and are completely innocent and oblivious to the car wreck.The direction of the movie by Scotsman Jim Gillespie is quite slick and the first half is quite good at showing us these multidimensional '90s teens with their bright futures whose lives are suddenly shattered with the car wreck.  The standoff between the four where they have to decide their futures is the most tense scene in the movie and Gillespie handles it very well.  Unfortunately, the only notable bit of the second half is from Helen's climactic and ultimately tragic chase scene in her family's department store, and the killer's revelation makes almost no sense.  The movie presents itself as a whodunit mystery, but then the killer turns out to be someone we've never even met, let alone suspected.The movie's big flaw (since it IS horror) is that none of the scares are built up.  It's always just a series of jump scenes punctuated by loud musical cues (supplied by John Debney), and none of it equals real terror, which is slowly built up, as in Scream or Halloween.  The movie isn't entirely bad, it just needs work.  I saw this on opening day in October 1997, and like most other Scream fans, was a little disappointed since it turned out to be the type of film Scream mocked.  I did have fun watching this, as I think everyone else most likely will too.  So do yourself a favor and rent this, just don't expect a horror masterpiece.  RATING *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Almost good","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was an interesting experiment of Kevin Williamson to transfer &#132;Scream` into a not so trashy, ironic and light atmosphere. The question here is not only Who is going to be killed next, but also Who is the mysterious fisherman and what happened really that night? This is more than a horrorfilm it's a whodunnit and a horrorfilm. Actually, it's not much more.In my opinion, &#132;I Know What You Did Last Summer` could have been much more interesting, much more suspenseful, if that stupid image of the dark man with the hook hadn't ruled the movie. The pictures of the house in the forest, Missie's character and the death of Egan's girlfriend are gruesome enough.On the other hand, Williamson is too serious. One year after the accident, everybody is absolutely down, none of them made the career they wanted, their life is ruined. I don't believe that. And don't tell me, this is not the kind of movie one believes. I think, this story would have had the potential to be at least plausible and still catching, without the over-acted depression at the beginning and the over-designed Captain Hook later on.  "},{"Title":"Surprise Slasher Classic","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At first, I did not expect to enjoy I Know What You Did Last Summer, having actively avoided it for some years now (I had previously seen the sequel and found it so mediocre that I did not expect anything more from it's predecessor). My fears were completely unfounded, however, as I Know What You Did Last Summer is one of the most brilliantly horrifying and deliciously twisted stalker films to be made since the golden age of slasher films in the 1980s. Screenwriter Kevin Williamson is on the verge of defining his own subgenre of Slash. The man has definitely done his homework, which is most heavily apparent in his Scream writing (Randy's rules having been practically defined by noted UC Berkeley professor and author of Men, Women and Chainsaws Carol Clover) but is reflected in the careful crafting of suspense in I Know. Unlike it's blood-bath sequel, I Know feeds on the terrorization of the 4 teens rather than body-count thrills, taking time to actually develop characters and toy with victims, so that the viewer can experience as close a feeling to genuine fear as possible. Hard to feel really scared when a bunch of stereotypes get brutally murdered. Jennifer Love Hewitt gives an excellent caged animal performance, her doe-like eyes seem to have been built to go wide with terror. However, the real star is Sara Michelle Gellar, giving a truly classic scream queen performance reminisant of Jamie Lee Curtis in Prom Night. The 10 minute stalker sequence as she time after time barely manages to flee the grasp of the hooked killer (in heels and an evening gown!) is a near-perfect slasher chase scene suspense, horror and hope woven tight in a noose around the viewer's neck. I Know What You Did Last Summer will one day be looked back on as a classic, a representation of the attempted ressurection of the slasher genre in the 1990s. It may seem like a piece of teen trash now, but then again, aren't all good slasher films?  "},{"Title":"Get Hooked!!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was very surprised how much I enjoyed this film, I really thought it was going to be another Scream, but I was wrong. It had a great story, and it really was scary. The acting was terrific, and if you don't love Sarah Michelle Gellar you will after seeing her in this. "},{"Title":"Not as good as SCREAM, but definitely scarier!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is by no means a better film than SCREAM, but it had way more scarier moments.  The whole part with the killer chases after the Sarah Michelle Gellar character still creeps me out.  There are excellent performances by each individual and the dialogue is also great.  Kevin Williamson is truly a god!  The plot of the story (which I know was thought up by teen writer Lois Duncan) is so plausible, that's what makes it terrifying.  Unlike most other teen slasher flicks, this one could be taken right out of one of today's newspaper headlines.  Unfortunately for us, they hacked up what could've been a great sequel. "},{"Title":"Scream without the style.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the first of many slasher-style, teens-in-peril movies that were reawakened in popularity following the release of the stylish 1996 movie Scream. It's not too bad, basically a simple moralistic tale, executed in a very basic slash'n'stalk way. Highlights include the cameo appearance of Anne Heche; the edge-of-the-seat chase scene in which Sarah Michelle Gellar's character is hunted down towards the end; and the very trendy soundtrack, which includes the popular song Hush - a song which has practically become this movie's theme. "},{"Title":"Palmerston North, New Zealand","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Horror king Wes Craven, responsible for the box-office smash 'Scream', also made this teen slasher. This one, is nothing compared to the witty 'Scream' or it's sequels, but nonetheless, good for a few genuine scares.The story is about four friends Julie James ('Party Of Five's Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers ('Buffy The Vampire Slayer's Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry Cox (played by Ryan Phillippe, star of Cruel Intentions and the up-coming Anti Trust) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jnr, from She's All That, The House Of Yes and Wing Commander), who one Fourth Of July accidently hit someone with their car, and throw him in the ocean.All seems fine, until a year later, when they start recieving messages with the words 'I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER' written on them. Now, he's a back for revenge, and he's carrying a nasty-looking fish hook, which he uses to gut his victims.Also starring Roseanne's Johnny Galecki and Anne Heche, from 'Six Days, Seven Nights', plus Muse Watson as Ben Willis. The soundtrack is also good, and features Kula Shaker's 'Hush' single. 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is a good horror/thriller - go and see it. "},{"Title":"Oh well...","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Oh well.... I wanted to see this film with an open mind and thought that since it's the first movie to copy Scream and not the 100th movie to do so, it might still be fun. I was wrong.  While the story and screenplay are okay, the actors and performances are terrible!! Those movies can only work if you care about the characters but I found myself thinking When is he finally gonna hook her (Sarah Michelle Gellar) up?. Gellar was very annoying and she was really bad in this one. None of the other actors were convincing either. Beside one or two nice scary moments (the ending was unexpected, not a new plot or something but a shock moment when you didn't expect it) this movie was boring and I found myself laughing at it in some moments.I give it a generous 4/10.  "}{"Title":"Decent Motive...","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"                 Unlike other slasher movies, I Know What You Did Last Summer has a killer that has an appropriate motive for wanting to terminate the teens.  In addition, the killer hasn't the ability to ressurect after death like Jason or Michael.                 The script, I admit, isn't very good which is suprising since it was screenplayed by Kevin Williamson.  The directing isn't all too bad but the acting is good; apart from Sarah Michelle Gellar which is bad.  Freddie Prinze Jnr's acting is actually very good.                  The plot is extremely good and realistic.  And another thing that makes it diffreent from others of the genre is that the killer only kills those that need killing and the teens actually do deserve death!                    Basically, this is a good film but you have to watch this to enjoy the stupendous sequel! "},{"Title":"Absolute garbage","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You're wasting your time if you watch this hunk of junk. It is cheap and unscary. What about the script? It was confusing, full of logic loopholes, and just plain bad. And the four main actors and actresses? Ahh yes. Sarah and Jennifer are very pretty. Too bad neither of them can act and the real stars of the movie are their big melons, which keep threatening to pop up out of their cleavage in every other scene or so. I could go on for hours about what is bad about this movie. The direction...eew yuck don't get me started, and the annoying rock and roll soundtrack which keeps blasting every few minutes. Hollywood horror films really do stink. They're all about fresh-faced teen stars and #1 pop or rock and roll songs. This film is bloodless, too confusing for its own good, and what about the ending? Oh man what a stinker. Jennifer Love Hewitt is the most horrible actress I have ever seen. Her character Julie is irritating, selfish, and unlikable. Even more annoying than Sarah Michelle Gellar's Helen, the ditzy prom queen or whatever who runs around and does nothing for the movie. Then, there's Freddie and Ryan. They just stand around and look and talk macho...doing nothing for the movie at all. This is such a waste of time. Horrible, horrible, horrible...oh god, and don't even get me started on the sequel!!! "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *Warning Spoilers*I had been waning to see I Know What You Did Last Summer for a long time after I saw the trailer. When I saw it, I was slightly disappointed, but I don't mind admitting I had alot of fun watching this.Having continued the end-of-school celebrations with some shenanigans on the beach, four chums - Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry (Ryan Phillipe) and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) - are driving home along the darkened clifftop road when the BMW crumple zone is severely tested by an unidentified object. Further inspection produces a bloodied welly. And then the prostrate figure from whence it came. As tempers, adrenaline and fear run high, the decision is taken to ditch the body. A year on and wracked with guilt, Julie wants nothing to do with her former mates until a spooky note bearing only the titular words turns up. Then things start turning sinister. Barry is mowed down by his own car, Helen has her hair chopped on the eve of her beauty queen parade, and something altogether more unpleasant winds up in Julie's boot.There are lots of decent shocks and scary parts, and Jim Gillespie's direction is pretty clean-cut. Kevin Williamson once again proves he can come up with a winner, and it would be hard to do that after lots of slasher ideas where used in Scream. The performances are decent, TV gals Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar are the stand-out's and the supporting boys aren't bad. But, there are flaws. The killer, Ben Willis, wasn't introduced at all before the ending, although his motive is decent, he is overall a disappointing Hooky.Fun entertainment with an unpredictable story and clever twists.I rate I Know What You Did Last Summer 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nothing new, but don't miss it.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer. A teen slasher flick that never really pulls you in, but is saved by stellar performances from the up and coming actors and actresses that star in it.Party of Five's Jennifer Love Hewitt leads the cast as Julie James, the nice girl of the movie who kinda loses it thanks to the man with the hook (Muse Watson). Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Sarah Michelle Gellar is slightly uncomfortable in her role as Helen Shivers, but gets the job done. Her elder sister Elsa, played by Mortal Kombat's Bridgette Wilson was my favourite character, her arrogant attitude, especially towards poor Gellar made me an instant fan. It's a shame this former Miss Teen USA did not make it to the final credits. Ryan Phillipe was superb, as usual, this hunky actor really plays his roles well, and is no doubt gonna be a huge star. Then there is Freddie Prinze Jr., the worst performer in the movie, and not surprisingly, all his movie roles are acted out half-heartedly and I'm surprised his cast in any movies at all, but bagging aside, he gets the job done. Smaller roles went to Roseanne's Johnny Galecki and former Ellen DeGeneras spouse the very sexy Anne Heche.Actors aside, their is not much more to say about this film, It is well written and Directed, but there is no spark in it, all though the slight twist at the end surprised me. Overall a 6/10 is all I could bear to give it. Sorry Freddie, you just need to find a passion in your acting. "},{"Title":"I know What You Should Do Watch This Film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie.  If you are a scary movie fan you will love it.  This is the first real scary movie that has been out in a while.  If you like this movie which I know you will then you need to watch the second one it is just as good as the first one.  The only bad thing about these movies is the ended to both of them real dumb but other than that this movie is a true classic. "},{"Title":"There should be a law against Hollywood making horror movies.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If anybody out there knows why the characters in these awful,Hollywood-drenched 'horror' movies are always too stupid to be alive,please let me know.Could anybody possibly be as stupid as the people in these new age horror movies?These days,horror movies are never about scares,they only exist to showcase the'latest hit from the charts'and the latest star from the cover of TV Hits;in this case,Sarah Michelle Gellar(gee,she can't act,I wonder why she was cast?)The release of Scream was possibly the worst thing to happen to hollywood since Sam J Jones. "},{"Title":"Not the best horror flick but it was ok **SPOILER**","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV and saw there was no gore in this movie. I thought it was editing but I was wrong. This wasn't very scary I don't think, although **THIS MIGHT BE A SPOILER TO PEOPLE AHEAD** the chase scene that leads to Sarah Michelle Gellar's death was pretty scary **SPOILER IS OVER**. The plot was pretty good. Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillipe over acted a little bit, but it didn't really harm the movie. This was compared to Scream, and Scream was much better than this. Still, I liked it. My Rating ******* out of ********** "},{"Title":"A great mystery","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For the people who didn't like this film and think it did poorly, you are mistaken.  The film cost a mere $17 million dollars and made almost $80 million domestically.  It was a huge hit.  Anyway, a lot of people compare this to Scream, when it really shouldn't be.  Scream was excellent and I agree is a great, great film, but so is this one.The thing is that I Know What You Did Last Summer was marketed as a teen horror film, when it really wasn't.  It truly is a mystery film.  A lot of deaths were added and were unneccesary, but entertaining.  The film follows a basic mystery outline.  You have a good 20 minute set-up with a crime occuring, then a good hour of rising action, and then a solid 15-minute closing.The direction is top-notch.  The film is set in a small, coastal, fishing town in New England.  There are some great shots.  As for the acting, well good and bad.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is absolutely radiant as Helen Shivers. She really brings a flake, one-dimensional persona to three-dimensional. Her character is the preppy, blonde, good-looking, contest winner, but you can see the pain within her.  As for Jennifer Love Hewitt, she does a pretty good job handling the role.  Ryan Phillippe is good as Barry, but Freddie Prinze, Jr. isn't all that great as Ray.  I think he could of used a bit more inflection.Johnny Galecki is horrible in a supporting role, but Bridgette Wilson is hilarious as Helen's sister, Elsa.  Anne Heche puts in the best performance, even though she's only in two scenes.  She is very freaky and does an excellent job conveying everything.  The script definitely keeps you guessing and the ending IS surprising.I'd reccomend this film to anyone who likes horror and mystery.  Fans of straight horror of straight mystery probably will be slightly disappointed.MY GRADE 3 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Better acting might have helped this mediocre film.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie obviously was hoping to ride the coat tails of Scream to box office success. This movie might have been better if they had the actors read lines instead of sending in modeling portfolios.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is a beautiful face but her acting definitely needs to stay on TV. Same with Hewitt.  The male side of the cast isn't much better.  Out of all the horror movies that came out hoping to cash in on the success of Scream this was the worst.First of all, I never really cared what happened to the kids in this.  In fact they reminded me of those clique-minded, air head snobs I knew back in high school.  I was pulling for the man with the hook.  The murders were not all that interesting and the relationships between the characters were not that strong. I didn't care if the lead characters stayed together, I didn't care if Gellar and Hewitt stayed friends and I definitely did not care if they stayed alive.This just was not a good horror movie.  It wasn't even a good bad horror movie.  If I am going to watched a bunch of mindless teens get hacked, Night of The Demons did it better. "},{"Title":"Kevin, you obviously didn't have much to do last summer","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ok. This movie isn't bad. No, but it's not good either. What is it? It's Eh... This movie used to be my favorite (it is amazing how much you can change in a year). But now, it is definitely not in my top 25 list. The acting was on the standards you can expect from Buffy and her gang. However, Anne Heche was brilliant. She sent chills up my body with her freakish performance. I haven't read the book so I can't compare. But Kevin Williamson needs to write something a bit more original. Scream was a great movie (even though it stumped down a bit with it's sequels). Dawson's Creek is a wonderful show, but everything else with Kevin in the credits is either a different version of one of them or a combination of both of them. Take Teaching Mrs. Tingle for example, clearly a combination of Kevin Williamson chills with more than a touch of Dawson (it even stars Dawson's true love, Joey, or Katie Holmes). And I Know What You Did Last Summer is simply Scream with a hook instead of a knife. It's not bad. But it's not great. Scream is much better (with better acting too), though if you want to watch a horror flick one Friday night (and if it's the 13th even better) then this movie is fine. "}{"Title":"Could the world have so turned, and we alive that lived? -- W. Shakespeare, Timon of Athens","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It could've been a decent teen-squeal drive-in movie there are four or five decent jolts in it, it's well directed, it's superbly photographed, and Kevin Williamson's script at least keeps the pace brisk. But what a sad, sad movie age we live in when this quartet--Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Philippe, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze, Jr., in descending order of charisma--fill a giant screen (and a very lavishly produced studio movie at that). Both Gellar and Hewitt seem to have been chosen for the interest that extends from their collarbones down to their waists; Philippe and Prinze have no excuse. These four would elicit yawns on a thirteen-inch screen. How is it possible that they are some kind of movie stars? Even my sorry generation only extended its affection to the likes of Anthony Michael Hall and Molly Ringwald when they were in (relatively) good movies.  "},{"Title":"This one is a rubbish!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This MTV-influenced piece of c**p is loved by a mainstream audience.I can see why.It's so polished and politically correct,without even a single drop of blood,so the kids after watching this won't have nightmares.The slasher movie without gore isn't a real slasher movie.It's simply a c**p.Some stupid teenagers praise this one and they call themselves a horror buffs.They saw some mainstream trash and they think that they know everything about horror.Bull***t!I've seen over 2000  horror movies,so I can call myself a real horror fan.Want some truly good horror? Check out New York Ripper,Cannibal Holocaust,Tenebre,Deep Red,The Prowler and other bloody stuff from 70's and 80's,instead of watching Scream and similar rubbish. "},{"Title":"So, what's all this then?","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Had this film been made ten years before it was, it would have been lucky to have made cinematic release and disappeared onto the video shelves, written off as just another Elm Street/Friday/Halloween rip off. Which it is, although these days everyone compares everything to Scream--not much more than an updated rehash of late 70s slice and dice films itself. Four kids accidentally run over a guy on their last day of high school, panic and dump his body. A year later, someone starts sending threatening notes to the parties concerned, and eventually they get picked off one by one. IFWYDLS fails on just about every level--the film has no atmosphere, no suspense, a hackneyed and predictable plot, cliched characters and virtually no blood. The killer even has the hide to butcher Sarah Michelle Geller off camera! The film's depiction of small-town class snobbery in America's so-called egaltarian society was also overbearing and the big (un)scary ending sequence even predates Friday the 13th check Carrie as a reference point. I Know What you Did Last Summer is nothing--NOTHING--more than a big budget knock off of every slasher flick ever made, without the style of Halloween, the suspense of Friday the 13th or the sadistic humour of A Nightmare on Elm Street.  "},{"Title":"Pitiful but strangely entertaining","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is just a typical teen slasher movie with a great premise, which could have been for a dark moral thriller. Instead it becomes a stupid and brazenly predictable teeny bopper horror movie. Still, Jennifer Love Hewitt's in it. 3.5/10. "},{"Title":"This is no Horror movie","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   The first of the SCREAM imitators, is a lame one. Why is it that when some great movie comes out, everybody in Hollywood has to copy it? It just makes me sick. When THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY came out, everybody had to copy the sick humor and it milk it to death until it was no longer funny. Anyway, this film isn't a COMPLETE waste, but pretty close.I'm not gonna tell ya the plot, just say what I like and dislike. Good stuff The movie is somehwhat entertaining, the plot is o.k., and the death scenes are o.k. Bad stuff Dreadful performances by the teenage cast, soundtrack with lame unscary pop-music, and absolutely NO suspense.Entertaining, o.k. plot, and death scenes, but terrible acting, soundtrack, and suspenseless. **1/2 out of *****. What has happened to Horror?! "},{"Title":"Kind of ridiculous, but wildly entertaining","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is a horror film that at times is kind of laughable, but nevertheless I was entertained by it. Kevin Williamson (Scream) wrote the screenplay based on a Lois Duncan novel about four teenagers who while one night driving down a curvy hillside highway accidentally hit a man standing in the middle of the road. They freak out as a result and in the process decide not to go to the police. Instead, they dump the body into the ocean and pretend that nothing happened. Big mistake. A year later, the four teens get a wake up call when one of them gets a bizarre note saying I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. The one behind this dastardly plot is a man who dresses up in a fisherman's outfit and weaves a lethal gapping hook that he uses in an attempt to kill the four teens. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar are very good in the female leading roles, so is Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. as the male leads. I Know What You Did Last Summer can be stupid at times, but the performances by Hewitt, Gellar, Phillippe, and Prinze make up for that. Not to mention, there are some truly scary moments. I Know What You Did Last Summer is literally a scream.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"GOOD MOVIE!NOT THE BEST HORROR FLICK!!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the movie. No one gives it any respect!For thoes of you who like it great. The acting in it was good, not exceptional but well thought out. Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. were good for there parts they played them perfectly. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Geller also played there part well.IF YOU HAVE SEEN THIS MOVIE GO AHEAD AND READ ON BUT IF YOU HAVEN'T DON'T GO ON!! IT WILL RUNIN THE MOVIE FOR YOU!!!Many people say that the movie didn't give them a scare. I am sorry but it did me. It wasn't horriably scary but gets you adrelin moving. They kind of ruined the movie by filaing, or so to speak, Sarah Michelle Geller and Ryan Phillippe. I am glad that they save Freddie from the nasty hook. Right? Well, any ways thats my opinion. Thanks for your time. Jessica "},{"Title":"Echh.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Scream is one of my all-time favorite movies.  The thing that made Scream great was the self-parodying nature of it, e.g., the characters were aware that they were in a horror movie, and therefor avoided the regular cliches.  However, IKWYDLS does not have that, and comes out as a dry, unentertaining horror movie.  The scariest thing about this movie is that it has been compared to Scream.  I'm sorry, but there is NO comparison.  Scream had a great plot, clever dialogue, very complex characters and was unpredictable (for me, at least).  IKWYDLS has none of the above.  The characters were bland and one dimensional, the dialogue was nothing special and a moronically simple plot.  But the worst part of all is when we find the identity of the killer (Spoiler).  I'm sorry, but I predicted the killer, I don't know, maybe 20 minutes into the film.  One fun part about Scream was that there were subtle clues throughout the movie as to who the killers were.  But in IKWYDLS, there are no clues.  Clues arent' needed, since the ending is so predictable.The only reason this book was made into a movie is because of the runaway success of Scream.  If Scream was never made, do you think they would have made this movie?  I don't think so. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's as simple as that. I watched it at like 00.00 on a rainy night and I wasn't scared at all. It's probably something that Kevin Williamson found in his closet after the success with SCREAM. The first scenes are actually good, but the movie looses everything and become a BAD movie. Instead of making fun of the cliches as SCREAM did, this movie has got them to be scary. Boring direction, awful acting and when the killer got revealed it's some guy you've never even seen in the movie yet. Everybody is a suspect I guess, but it would be a little more entertaining if it was somebody you've seen, right???? This movie just sucks. If you are 14 years old and can't think of anything else than flying hooks and Jennifer Love Hewitt's wet cleavage this is your movie. If you really like movies skip it. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not original but a fun ride","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw I know I was expecting it to be a carbon copy of Scream. I was surprised though, it wasn't. It stood very well on its own. The plot is very predictable though, but I expected that. A group of teens run over a fisherman and dump his body in the ocean hoping their secret will never be found out. We then see these teens getting stalked by the killer and soon everyone is getting hacked up. But like I said it did scare the audience and myself at times and at other times the movie dragged on a little and some of the choices the actors do to get themselves out of danger is ridiculous.(like Sarah Michelle Gellar). Also the book is not very enjoyable as the movie but the book of course gives a much better characterization of the characters. "}{"Title":"Read the comment, not the summary, please.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'll never forget January of 1998, I watched more movies in the Theaters than any other month of my life.I've always said that this movie is much more enjoyable if you watch it in the big screen (trust me, I've also seen it on TV). This movie has some scenes that really scare you, but not because they are actually scary scenes, but because there is this silence, and suddenly someone comes out of nowhere and says something as harmless as Hey!, but it happens in a way makes your hear start going faster, really.Many people say this movie is a poor attemp to duplicate Scream. I must say that I couldn't blame all the people who watched this movie at home for not liking the movie.My mother gets scared really easy (She left the room after the first 5 minutes of Scream), and she watched this film very nicely in our 20 TV. This is the living proof. Everybody in the theaters was screaming (I mean it) in some scenes. And the end, that was the biggest of all .. I must admit that even I screamed after the Fisherman comes out of the glass, breaking it.I rated this movie with a 9, which is a pretty high score. But I'm rating this movie not for it's quality, but for the enjoyment it produced on me. I know that me and many other people (mostly young ones... who watched it in theaters) enjoyed this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"No gore, no fun, no nothing","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer would have done a lot better if it had followed the plot of the book by Lois Duncan. The book was a mystery and when it was made into a movie, they had to turn it into a corny horror movie. I'm not even sure if it can be classified as a horror movie because there is so little horror. Only four people were killed by the actual killer. Some of the comments on the cover to the movie read, Creepier than Scream and stuff like that. This movie seems like a joke compared to Scream. You don't even discover the actual plot of the movie until the end and the killer chase victim scenes could not be any more fake. Its no wonder the character's ended up dead. They were so stupid that you think I don't care what you did last summer. So in closing, I just wish to say that I Know What You Did Last Summer is guaranteed to disappoint horror fans. "},{"Title":"Better than Scream!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe it´s not the most popular opinion, but I saw I know... before Scream, and I liked it a little better. I don't mind about all those bad reviews. Everybody worries about the cliches in that movie, but what would a slasher movie be without cliche's ? I kept my breath from the first scene on, because those opening credits were so terrific! It had also a great soundtrack that was absolutely perfect for the atmosphere of the movie, especially Hush hush from Kula shaker. And Jennifer Love Hewitt is always nice to see! This movie is one of my favourites. I would give it 9.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be, actually...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I, the horror film aficionado, went out to catch up on more contemporary horror films, I realized that this one and it's sequel where among the few that I had not seen. With some doubt I rented this and the sequel along with some other films. Then last night, I placed the tape in my VCR, expecting the worst. I was actually pleasantly surprised, but that is given that I expected utter crap. Sure, the film is neither scary nor exciting, but it is pretty entertaining nonetheless. It's well shot, and the music isn't as annoying as in the Scream films, for instance. The actors are surprisingly well cast and GASP!, the characters are somewhat developed! In a contemporary mainstream horror film? WHOA! Despite that it's fairly easy to figure out who gets killed in advance, even though figuring out who the killer is might be a little trickier. If you have nothing else to do, why not give it a try? Sure, it's not Halloween or Suspiria, but at least it remains fairly entertaining for 100 minutes. Just don't expect too much, and you'll be fine. "},{"Title":"Scream wannabe.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Slasher film created to cash on the teen boom after Scream offers hardly anything new. Script lacks humor or intelligence Scream exhibited. Only good thing this tame slasher flick offers is a few scattered scares and some rather appealing performances from Love and Gellar. Otherwise, avoid it. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A failed attempt at an homage.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was supposed to be an homage (I love that word) to those camp fire tales of hook handed killers and scare teens but ends up an attempt to cash in on Scream.  The actors just look good and die and the story isn't interesting enough.  The killer had potential but nothing was explained.  Is he immortal or just hard to kill.  Is he natural or supernatural.  Is he cut or uncut (just kidding).  Anyhoo this is only good if you're the type (like me) who likes to heckle films. "},{"Title":"The best horror movie I have ever seen","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I liked it very much. But not all of my friends liked it and this was very strange to me. When I saw Scream 3 I wasn't scared as much as I did in 'I know what you did last summer'.I think it is unfair to say that Scream is better than 'I know...' because in Scream you were just scared, but in 'I know...' you were both scared and anxious. "},{"Title":"I know I puked last summer when I saw this","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"     This movie is just a cheap rip-off of Scream. After Scream came the horror genre became so popular its no wonder they made this movie. It does have its moments don't get me wrong, but Jennifer Love Hewitt is annoying in this movie. I almost wish she had gotten the old hook and not the blond girl. Not a bad movie but not a good movie. Better than the sequel I'll say that. "},{"Title":"Could Be Better","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer isn't as exciting or as thrilling as the Scream series, and Jennifer Love Hewitt can't take away Neve's Scream-Queen crown, but this movie isn't bad.Four friends run over a man and leave the body to die - sounds pretty gruesome...but interesting.  I Know... wasn't the best movie at all.  Yet it wasn't that bad!  I wouldn't recommend this movie unless you are a die-hard fan of any of the main actors!!! P "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know what you did last summer is a great film, partly because it has an excellent cast (especially SARAH MICHELLE GELLAR and RYAN PHILLIPPE) and partly because it keeps you on the edge of your seat.Though the end does not tie everything up as I would have liked, it keeps a good pace all the way through.    "}{"Title":"Far better than the book","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer came not long after the horror genre had been revived with Scream and therefore arrived at the right time.  The story concerns four friends who after celebrating the end of high school accidently run down and kill a man.  They agree to dump the body in the ocean and take the secret to their graves.  But one year later someone who knows what they did starts stalking them.  If anything this is the film that proved Kevin Williamson could write straight horror.  It is very atmospheric and builds up tension slowly to begin with before unleashing the frights heading toward the finale.  In conclusion this film can definately be ranked amongst the triumphs in the horror revival. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Mystery Thriller","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is by no means a perfect horror film. In fact Kevin Williamson did a much better job writing Scream. But this film isn't that bad at all. I think this film works not as a horror film, but a good mystery thriller with a little slashings in between. The mystery kept me involved with tihs film, not the horror.The film is about 4 friends who are having one last night of fun during the summer before they go off into the real world and experience life. Fun turns deadly when they accidentally run over someone in the middle of the road. Out of fear of getting in trouble they decide to dumb the body. One year later they receive a fateful message. I Know what you did last summer Pretty soon they are being stalked by a violent killer. could it be the person they hit? or did someone see what they did?This is why this film worked for me. trying to figure out who was after them and why? it was fun trying to solve the mystery. The scares and slasher scenes were there as an added bonus.The acting was pretty good. Jennifer Love Hewitt is good at playing the helpless victim. Plus the girl can scream. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a little better than jennifer. she has more range and she has the privlege of being in one of the best scenes in the movie. Ryan Phillippe is good at playing the jerk/jock type. i thought he was good in the film, but Freddie Prinze Jr. was really bad in the film. he put absolutley no emotion in his lines.So when you see this film don't expect a Scream type film. lok at it for what it is a good mystery which i enjoyed. so sit back and try and solve it.  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good movie. I read the book for a book report this year and believe me the movie was more exiting. Williamson did a good job on the story.This movie is very original. not that a slasher is after teens, but that a fisherman wants to kill teens for something they did last summer. It kept me in suspense the whole time. I would recommend this movie to who ever liked scream and a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the better 90s slasher films","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After the success of Scream we had the pleasure to see a lot of rather cheap imitations but IKWYDLS is probably the only good one among these. Don't get me wrong, it is way worse than Scream but still entertaining and definitely better than Urban Legend etc. The script was written by Kevin Williamson who is also the author of the Scream-screenplay. The motive of the killer is not that brilliant (but neither was the one of Billy & Stu). The film gets pretty interesting once the slasher-action starts. The suspense is great and there are several scenes that made me jump.The story is sometimes a little confusing and I didn't find myself rooting for the teens because the actors are rather pale in this movie. However the film delivers some very creative scenes that are truly enjoyable and different from the death scenes in other 90s slasher films.What I didn't understand was why the fisherman also killed some people that weren't even involved in the situation. He's not a deranged killer like Michael Myers or Jason Voorhees who can't distinguish what is good and what is evil. Unlike Michael and Jason he wants to take his revenge on the teens and has a plan of how to do it. It's not because I'm offended by pointless violence but this just doesn't make sense (on the other hand it wasn't supposed to win an Oscar).Beside Scream, this is the only teen-horror flick that is really entertaining and (at least partly) inventive.My rating 8/10 (Forget about the sequel, it's not worth the money) "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is based on a book not by Stephen King, but by a different author in witch I'd never even heard of. The movie was made by a writer name Williamson, who had many hit scripts instead, he leaves too many plot holes throughout his script to explain. I'd still think it could have been done a lot better if the plots were done right. I think, you should always follow the script in making a good movie, after all he is a good writer and his work should always be look at. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer(1997) is a below average horror movie that seems to go through the motions.  One problem is its a retrend of many slasher films of the 1980's without the sex and excessive violence.  The opening shot was terrific, but unfortunately everything goes downhill for the rest of IKWYDLS. The murder set pieces are lousy and the camera work is unimpressive.  Another problem is it has the exact story line that Wes Craven's Scream(1996) made fun of.This film will raise the question of whether Kevin Williamson is a excellent screenwriter or just a one movie wonder.  The fisherman wears an outfit that is similar to the raincoat worn by the murderer in The Evil Dead Trap(1988).  After skimming through the book that this movie's based on, I came to the conclusion that the book was better for a couple of reasons.  First, it involves the accidental hit & run murder of a young boy and the people who try to repress this incident.  Second, the stalker is not some crazy fisherman, but a man enraged after coming back from Vietnam to find out about the death of his half-brother(the book makes the stalker's motives understandable and even entices the reader to hope he succeeds). "},{"Title":"i liked it but.....","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i like this movie alot but it has nothing on early 80's horror. Kevin williamson once again proves how great of a writter he is. 4 teens are being stalked by a mystery man. i know this is alot like most horror movies, that is true but it is still good. i know what you did last summer is alot like prom night and the house on sorority row anyone who says it's like scream does not know the horror genre. how can you not like this movie, Jennifer Love Hewitt is just so hot running around. there is some good suspense and maybe even a scare or two. if you liked Scream then you should like this. check out all around a good horror flick i give it 7/10 "},{"Title":"Watch SCREAM instead","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw SCREAM and SCREAM 2 before I saw I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. I think that I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a rip-off of SCREAM, but a rip-off that can be enjoyed. Plots are similar, but not identical. It also has the similar pretty-teenager-being-stabbed-to-death feel to it.On graduation night, four friends Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry Cox (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.) go joyriding while drunk and accidentally run over and supposedly kill somebody in the street. While dumping the body in a bay, the body attacks Barry, then falls into the water. The four assume that he is dead, but the next summer they get notes saying I know what you did last summer. The next thing you know, friends of the four are being murdered left and right and these four become the killer's next targets.The plot is fair, but not especially interesting. I found the SCREAM plot to be much better. The acting and character development in SCREAM are better too. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar both do excellent jobs. Freddie Prinze Jr. is the worst actor I've ever seen in my life, and Ryan Phillippe does a fair job. Ann Heche is very good in the part that she has.The characters, aside from Hewitt, Gellar and Heche, are very thin and rather boring. The killer himself is pretty interesting and fairly cool. The ending of this movie bites. It's maybe worth a rent, but if you want to see a movie of this style I'd recommend URBAN LEGENDS or SCREAM. "},{"Title":"A regurgitation of Scream","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What can I really say about this, if you've seen Scream theres not a whole lot to add.  Killer w/o a identity, or motive until the end.  The main charachter an attractive girl where all of here friends are hacked up one by one.  The only thing that really kept your eyes on the screen was Jennifer Love Hewitt's low buttoned shirt.  A far skinnier story line and not much more than that.  Im not even gonna bother w/ the sequel. "},{"Title":"Great slasher.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't around for 80's slasher fare but the 90's slashers are appearing to be quite respectful.  Scream surprised me and so did this gem.  Maybe because I was so hyped to see this movie.  The rewatch value is great. The killer is the Jason Voorhees of the nineties and you don't find out who he/she is until the final few minutes and you discover the motive.  They are after the four who accidentally murdered someone the year before and he/she is out for revenge by getting them back for the murder.  "}{"Title":"A great movie that is so underrated","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is just like Urban legend, a scary horror movie that is underrated. It was a good movie, run-of-the-mill, but still good. Everything was not a copycat. It was scary, and well-made.WARNING! UNDER HERE CONTAINS SPOILERS! IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE THEN DON'T READ THIS, IT WILL SPOIL THE WHOLE MOVIE!This is probably the reason it got a low rating. Near the end when Willis gets his hand cut off, people think he's dead. So when he appears again, they think he's unstoppable killer. Just cause his hand is chopped off doesn't mean he's completely gone. Some other scenes are obvious though which may have brought it's rating down. "},{"Title":"Ben Willis strikes","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Another horror film, with a batch of sophisticated-talking teens. No where near as good as the standard classics, such as A Nightmare On Elm Street 3  Dream Warriors, Friday The 13th Part V  A New Beginning, Halloween II, but it's a decent slasher flick, with some cool death sequences. One of those death sequences is where a cop gets offed, with the killer's hook. Unfortunately, unlike the films of Freddy, Jason and Michael Myers, there is no shocking gore and no T&A.  "},{"Title":"Why do they do this?","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe they have to make these dumb horror movies where it SEEMS like you have to try to figure out who the killer is, but actually he's just some weird psycho with a hook!! How pathetic! If they're going to make a horror movie where we have to figure out who the killer is, make it like the movie Scream. I actually don't mind the horror movies where they tell you who the killer is. Those are actually pretty scary. And why do they have to have the driving scene on the cliff. It's so incredibly BORING!! Barry (Ryan Phillippe) gets drunk and is yelling his a** off!, Ray (Freddie Prince Jr.) is glancing at Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is in the back seat worrying about Barry. Then Barry drops his bottle and they hit somebody. Now all the sudden he's the killer?? GEEZ!!! That's a dumb way of making a killer!! Why can't they add some mystery to it or something. Like Psycho, Halloween, etc. This movie is completely messed up! "},{"Title":"oh my god!!it's that fishsticks guy and boy is he ticked!!!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  basically Scream without the selfawareness of the genre's cliches. this movie is average at best but is notable for a few things1)Jennifer Love Hewitt does nothing remarkable acting wise but her cleavage is pleasing to the eye (as is her whole body)2)a few of the murder scenes are actually pretty cool and    suspenseful3)the killer looks just like the wompler fishsticks guy4)did i mention that mrs. hewitt has a great body? oh yeah i did............anyway, if you have nothing better to do with 90 minutes of your life, this movie might be a good choice for a few cheap thrills. otherwise, it's better to probably steer clear of this one. "},{"Title":"a great movie rising high above normal horrorslasher flicks!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  it was a great movie!from the opening scene to the finally.those who disagree...don't have much taste.i have thought and thought for a bad part and come up with nothing.the killing scenes had sense and weren't just to show blood and guts!>  "},{"Title":"Better than Expected","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A surprisingly good movie, with some suspenseful moments and a good storyline. Sure there are a lot of cliches and the acting is not Oscar-winning stuff, but the characters, while not particularly deep, are convincing. Particularly powerful is the depiction of the destructive effects of guilt on the characters and their relationships. It is far better than Scream, avoiding the totally gimmicky and illogical audience-manipulation that made the earlier movie so unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER 90's SLASHER FLICK!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A typical 90's slasher film, with young teens running around, screaming their lungs out, with a few thrills. But I liked IKWYDLS, the acting might not have been great but I enjoyed the movie. Ben Willis was a great killer, with his boot hook and slicker, he didn't stop until he got his revenge. The ending wasn't great. But I got what I expected when I watched this, some cheap frights, slice and dice killings.  "},{"Title":"pretty good but not better than SCREAM!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I actually thought the movie was pretty good but some critics were saying that it was 10 times scarier than SCREAM! which is totally wrong! It is basically a typical 'slasher' flick. i had to watch the movie 2 or3 times before i got the ending, which was pointless because there weren't many if any suspects. i think that Sarah Michelle Gellar did a brillient performance as Helen, Jennifer Love was too depressing, but all in all if you want a SCARY night in you could rent this one. "},{"Title":"Good plot, good scares, but the ending lacks a bit","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  From the beginning, the plot will keep you hooked, and the scares will keep you jumping.  For the most part, it's an excellent movie.  The ending comes up a little short though, disappointing most who were playing the who's the murderer? guessing game throughout the movie.  Still, it left me scared as I left the theater, and kept me coming back for more. Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Ryan Phillippe all do a very good job in their roles.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. is another story altogether.  His acting really needed a lot of work in this one, as his performance was clearly outdone by the rest of the cast.  Still, his role fit in well with the movie and his bad job of acting didn't detract that much. All in all, I give I Know What You Did Last Summer an 8.  If you liked Scream, you will in all likelihood like this movie as well, as it is definitely along the same lines. "},{"Title":"Pretty dang good!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   I like this movie alot!  It has scares, excitement, and fun!  It's about four teenagers who run someone over and decide too dump the body in the sea because they are afraid the cops will think they did it on purpose.     One year later, they get a letter saying I Know What You Did Last Summer.  Then they are stalked by an unknown vengeful killer with a hook!  Who is the killer?  Kind of a let down, but a great movie anyway.  I give it an A.  "}{"Title":"Dark and scary with a bit of hillbilly...","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had it all...the shadows, the suspicion, the dark scenes>****** death scene had me on the edge of my seat.  It is just a really slow movie that takes time to get into.  There could have been a couple of more characters in the movie and a better death scene for **** but who cares.  This movie is already a classic and in no way is it inferior to Scream.  In fact this movie is kind of more original.  I mean, I've known plenty of hillbilly fisherman that could do something like that. That really added SPICE to the movie.  I would recommend you watch it with the volume full blast and the lights off. "},{"Title":"Very Bothered","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's become so COOL to hate teen horror movies that this gem of a movie has taken such a beating. Despite it's ending the movie is spooky and fun and has a GREAT story running through it. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe steal the. A great movie, I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"I LOVE HORROR MOVIES!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't care what other people say about this movie.  Personally, I think that I Know What You Did Last Summer and the other two in its series, will, in my opinion, probably be the best series of horror movies of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Brutal...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a brutal movie and a completely unfaithful adaptation of the Lois Duncan novel.  But, despite it's flaws, I can still say I was intrigued by it and the overall effect had a lasting impression.  The shocks were effeciently staged, as were the murders, but the plot was far too strained to maintain realism, while the acting was confused; neither actor seems to know how to portray their character, least of all Freddie Prinze Jr., whose entire performance is based on frowning and trying to look deep in thought.  It's no wonder how he became an actor  (his father is, after all, Freddie Prinze), but he could have used a few acting lessons.  He's the teen set's equivalent to Keanu Reeves.  The film itself, however, is watchable, but not a classic.  Grade B "},{"Title":"Cheesy over scary","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this on DVD after successfully avoiding it for many years. But as a fan of Cruel Intentions, I must admit a morbid curiosity for another film starring Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillipe. Besides, how bad can it be if it is supposedly worthy enough of two sequels?Well, I guess I was expecting bad. So coming from that standpoint I was impressed. It wasn't completely rancid. I mean, I watched it twice... Though perhaps that was more because I had it out for two nights than for any reasons of merit.I should say that horror movies don't really scare me. But good ones do at least make me jump slightly, or cringe, or something. A sure sign that this film falls short is that I actually root for the killer. I really want these people too suffer. I mean, what kind of people dump human roadkill in the ocean with so little remorse?So, it entertained me. But not for the reasons the making of documentary (advertorial?) cites- truly scary. More for being so cheesy its funny. If you agree with me, take a look at The Faculty. Same deal, but better executed.  "},{"Title":"Williamson does it again!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike many people (see other reviews) I actually thought it was really scary. The plot was good, not just some person who kills poeple for no reason (even though you should never kill, even for a reason), basically- yet again Kevin Williamson writes a great script. I really liked the cast. Jennifer Love Hewitt was really good, as usual. And Sarah Michelle Gellar, was great, she really is that kinda actress that right for horror (take, Buffy and Scream 2, for example). Freddy Prinze Jr. Wasn't bad either and Ryan Phillipe was good as well especially in car scene. And to top it all off Anne Heche just totally freaked me out, It's amazin how scary she was in this movie. Great movie- 10 outta 10, It's my favorite movie (after The Phantom Menace, that is- and just before Scream). Another reason why this movie was sooo great for me is because I'm a HUGE Kevin Williamson fan, Scream, Scream 2, IKWYDLS, and I LOVE Dawson's Creek. Buffy (in which Gellar stars, duh) Is my favorite show (with Dawson's Creek, that is) And I also really like Party Of Five (Hewitt). MUST SEE -) "},{"Title":"Trendy & thrilling splatter movie","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A follow-up movie to a mega-successful Scream. At the time of coming out it was a real hit, giving the viewers the thrill & excitement of a trendy splatter movie. The famous Kevin Willamson finally got it that it was not the humour that attracted the Scream fans but the horror itself. So expect much more gore & violence, get 'em up the hook! "},{"Title":"An over-budgeted mess!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Considering all the hype that surrounded I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997), we decided to give it a chance. Written by the same guy who did Scream, it was hailed as a pure fright machine. But we have another description for it, CRAP! This 101-minute bore told the story of a group of teenagers who inadvertently murder some guy while celebrating on the 4th of July. Jennifer Love Hewitt delivers an overacted performance that leads us to believe she would have a better career as a porn star. The plot is similar to Scream in that you spend half the movie trying to identify the killer. But just like Scream, in the end you realize that there was no way to determine who the murderer was since the plot takes a twist into utter stupidity. Ok, so there were some good gore scenes, but overall this film was an over-budgeted mess! "},{"Title":"Incredibly stupid movie","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Normally when I go to see a movie, I don't sit there analyzing the plot, the character development and everything else that goes into making up the whole of a film. So it is a bad sign when even I can pick apart the wholes in the plot so big that a convoy of trucks would have no trouble going through them. This movie is such a waste of time that I regret that I actually saw it.For this to have been a box office hit makes me question the intelligence of the movie going public. "},{"Title":"Great Mystery/Horror Film","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie rocks and I'm so glad i own it. I don't really consider it a slasher film, but i would call this film a clever mystery. The acting is good and the whole North Carolina atmosphere is good too. Also the suspense level is very high in this film. The Fisherman is so mysterious the mystery of who he is makes us want to see, what is going onThe Acting Was good. Jennifer Love Hewitt needs to choose different roles but I'll let it slide becasue the other performances redeem hers. Sarah Michelle Geller is good in the film, This isn't her best performance( That cake goes to Cruel intentions) but she is really good. Ryan Phillipe was good in this film, and Freddie Prinze Jr was pretty good in the film.I suggest to whoever dosen't have the soundtrack get it because it is great. Overall terriffic movie.  "}{"Title":"Good Enough","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"   My first impressions of this film was pure amazement. My parents recommended it as they went to see it at the cinema. I loved the plot about four teens who run over and supposedly kill a pedestrian. I thought I knew who the killer was from the start but he gets slashed early on so... Watching it second time round with my friends, I didn't know what I found so good about it. Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe were brilliant. Freddie Prinze Jnr was terrible(he improves a lot for the sequel though). Anne Heche was wasted as Missie-neither scary nor interesting. I'll leave you to make your own opinion because it got mixed reviews. I actually thought that the sequel was slightly better, even for the lack of a plot. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Delivers laughs and chills","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer (IKWYDLS) is another great scary movie by screenwriter Kevin Williamson. This plot (Unlike I Still Know..) is very believable, because it might (I'm not saying that it will) happen to actual teens. The characters are great; The jock Barry (Ryan Phillipe),  the brain Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), the beauty queen Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar!), and the not exactly rich kid Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.). The cast can't be beat, and obviously Prinze Jr. got the part in She's All That based upon his success in this movie.The best part in my opinion is when Helen is getting chased in the department store.. the creepy music and the guy in the slicker made me get the goosebumps! Although some deaths are a little over the top and sort of predictable, this movie is a good one, so rent it-- and by all means, try to avoid I Still Know.. by any way possible.My Review 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I want to SCREAM too!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the first movies to follow the success of SCREAM. It's not as good, though. Even the sequel, I STILL KNOW, is better.The movie is slow and some of the scenes make you roll your eyes as you know what's going to happen, but the movie still deliver some scares and laughs. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"ok entertainment","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is, if anything, ok entertainment. It may may not be terribly scary or suspenseful, but its fun to watch. Its about 4 teens on their way to college, on there summer break, run over somebody in the road, because of their fooling getting drunk. But before that they go out on the beach and spend their last time together before they go their separate ways to college. A story, or urban legend comes up about a killer with a hook for a hand After this scene ends and they have their accident, it sets the tone for the film. Now, one year later things start to bother the cast. They start receiving letters, bodies in car trunks, some one gets their hair chopped down to size, etc. But the characters are not as good as the ones in Scream, but still are a cut higher than the old 80s horror heroines and victims. There are even a few good chase scenes also. Unfortunately for Sarah Michele Gellar, she wanted to use her Buffy character, but has to act out the part which she was given, but still comes out shining. Jennifer Love Hewitt is ok, and freddy Prince Jr. and  Ryan phillipe, r ok as well. What this film is is a more fun movie than any of the old repelent horror films, except a few, and i give it **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Oh please..........!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having seen it for the first time at home, when it came to Sky TV, I thanked myself that I didn't waste anytime and money going to the cinema to watch this film.It consists of four young actors who are potentially (or currently are) the big movie stars of Hollywood. They were all such a let down and this film did not serve them justice, but I do give a big thumbs up for Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt's excessive screaming whenever it was (and wasn't) necessary. They must have had classes in that!I fell in love with Ryan Phillippe in 'Cruel Intentions' in which I thought his and Sarah's acting were better than it was in this film. As I saw Cruel Intentions before this, I was expecting quite a high standard all through but his acting was on an all time low. (well, maybe it wasn't as he was SUPPOSED to be a moron!)Some of the characters were completely irrelevant in the story and were basically used as either innocent stand-by victims of the slasher or a crazy psycho woman living in the country side who likes to play with knives (and cutting up animals)! Anne Heche was probably the best actor in the film overall actually...This film should be viewed by those who enjoy a predictable ending, typical 'running into the path of the killer' scenes and Jennifer Love Hewitt's temperamental hair styles and lively breasts (which probably acted better than she did).To be nice, I'd give this film a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Despite all the bad reviews, I really liked this film.  It is on my top ten horror movie list.  I thought it was very original and very scary.  I don't know how many times I jumped out of my seat in the theater.  Okay, the movie is about four teens who have a perfect future ahead of them.  Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar) wins the Croaker Queen, a local pageant, and the four friends celebrate and drink beer.  On the drive home, they hit someone, and not wanting to ruin their perfect futures, they decide to dump the body in the ocean, even though the dead guy is still alive and gives the friends a scare.  Cut to a year later, when Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) goes home for the summer where a note awaits her with the title of the movie written on it.  She shows the three other friends, and they soon become paranoid as the fisherman with the huge hook stalks each one of them and gives each a scare.  This movie actually makes you feel for the characters, because we see them in the beginning all bright and happy, awaiting the college life.  But then an awful turn sends their lives upside down as a fisherman stalks them with a hook.  Overall, I give this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of the STUPIDEST films I have ever seen","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is one of the worst horror flicks I have ever seen. The script didn't really work, cinematography wasn't that great, and frankly the directing... well... SUCKED. The only reason to see this movie is for Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar. If you're looking for something more, DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT WATCHING THIS.  "},{"Title":"The best teen-chiller to date!!!!","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is an excellent film.I saw it yesterday night for the first time and was on the edge of my seat the whole time!!!!Sarah -Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt work really well together on screen and the ending is totally un-expected!!!An excellent film which is perfect for teenagers!!! "},{"Title":"Oh dear, another supposed horror","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know what the writer of this film done after completing Scream - during his summer vacation he scrounged around the bad-book department of his library and found a book called 'I know what you did last summer', one of those Point Horror novels that is clearly aimed at 10 year olds. Yes, this is based on a really bad children's book.Even as teenage horror movies go, this just doesn't register on the scaromiter. The one major problem with this film, regardless of whether it is scary or not (something that is very subjective) is the manner in which the evil murdering maniac is finally revealed. If you're going to attempt this type of movie you may as well go the whole hog, but the writer fails to do this and just pulls a 'Scooby Doo' on the audience. Yes, having spent the large part of the film trying to decipher who the bad guy is, the audience is left wondering why they bothered with all that set-up. If the movie was made as an example of total misdirection, then the writer and box-office performance suggest that this film was a success, but for many people this was just another episode of Scooby Doo - only more frustrating.If you liked old Scooby, then you'll probably like this. If you ever want to read the book, remember to look in the 8-10 year old children's section of your library. That's where the film belongs.3/10. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar is the only highlight in the movie.. Her chase scene was thrilling also.. It was basically your regular 'Teen Slasher' genre and wasn't that entertaining.. I liked the fishing town though that was clever and the movie isn't so bad but not that great I give it a B- "}{"Title":"Frightening and Relentless!!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Four adolescents, in the middle of their commemorations for being in the previous days of their entry in the university, run over,due to negligence,a solitary and humble man who was walking by the place, in a deserted highway. Frightened with the possibility of going to the prison and damage their future, the four friends decide to hide the murder and throw the body into the river. A few years after, they begin to receive a series of death menaces and notes that inform them that somebody knows what they did last summer. Starting from this intriguing, interesting and at the same time frightening idea, film maker Jim Gillespie directed one of the most terrifying and tense films of the last years, an oppressive, violent and mysterious work that places four friends, common and full of perspectives adolescents, in front of a situation that escapes from their controls, and perhaps this is the great goal of I Know What You Did last Summer to study the way in which common people face situations that change their psychological characteristics as they fight indefatigable for their lives. This concept approaches it to Deliverance, one of the most famous and acclaimed works of Hollywood that also showed common people being challenged in a dangerous way. The cast of the film is excellent,beginning with Ryan Philliphe, the sound track is agile and with certainty it will please the young public, the picture enhances all the beauty, but also the dangers that is hidden in the shades of the fishing city where the story takes place. I recommend this excellent film, but before renting the movie, call your friends, buy popcorn and Coke, close the lights and get ready to feel a lot of fear!! "},{"Title":"Could have (should have) been better with a little work","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Overall, this movie wasn't too bad. I thought the actors did a good job with the characters that could have easily been your run of the mill horror movie stereotypes (the asshole jock, the prom queen, the brainy girl, the blue collar kid, etc.).  But what I really had a problem with was the fact that the killer was your typical horror movie cliche.  While Williamson wittily lampooned horror movie cliches in Scream, in IKWYDLS he seems to use ever single one in the book.  For example the heroine who finds a mangled body in her trunk but when she brings her friends to see it only moments later there is nothing to see (despite the fact that it was covered with dozens of live crabs).  Or when the killer appears behind the guy on the balcony and hacks him to pieces while his girlfriend watches but no one will believe her and of course there is no body again only minutes later. Or just the way that the killer is always around the corner and always knows everything his victims are going to do.  Or how the killer can be ran over, drowned, mangled, etc. and still keeps coming back...  The potential was there in the plot for them to flesh him out and actually make him a believable character, but instead he's nothing but one big cliche.  And don't even get me started on the sequel, which was ten times worse. "},{"Title":"Thats the way we gut the human","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You can't help saying that this movie is like scream, it had the same writer for gods sake, But this movie was based on the book although they changed the story line completely. I still say that this was a pretty damn good movie. *** out of ***** "},{"Title":" Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar... yay!!!!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson wrote  Scream  and then this. Though many trashed it because it didn't have the same humor, it still stands out as fun, chilling, and an absolutely stunning movie. The dialogue has wit and still gives some humor though it is a darker script than  Scream . Jennifer love Hewitt does a great performance and can truly scream. Freddie Prinze Jr. doesn't stand out in anyway. Ryan Phillippe got a good start to his career and though you hate his character, he was good at making you hate him. But the true light shines on Sarah Michelle Gellar who always gives a stellar performance. Her acting is great. Her screams are outstanding, and her chase scene, and well every other scene that she was in truly brought terror and magnificence to this film. The killer, though odd, is fun. You can't really guess who it is until later in the film, yet the audience should have a fun time. "},{"Title":"NOT AS BAD AS OTHER HORROR MOVIES","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer, in my opinion, wasn't that bad. Of course it didn't compare to Scream. The only problem is that with one successful horror movie, everyone tries to cash in on its success.In the late 70's we had Halloween (great movie with a story behind it - followed by endless unnecessary sequels) and in 1984 A Nightmare on Elm Street (also great movie and the same outcome as Halloween) all of a sudden horror movies were not popular.When Scream was released horror was back and so too were a bombardment of movies from this genre. Since Scream ( and its sequel and hopefully the third instalment) IKWYDLS is probably the only other good horror movie out at the moment. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Ryan Phillipe are good in this movie but Sarah Michelle Gellar shines. Freddie Prinze Jr is also a very good actor but he didn't really have a whole lot to do in this movie except at the end so it was a shame to see him in a limited role - just like he was again in I Still Know which was an unnecessary sequel and I've heard rumors that next year I Know 3 will be released.Even though IKWYDLS was good they should have ended it there because the second movie sorely missed Sarah, Ryan and Kevin Williamson.If you haven't seen this movie I do recommend it but don't bother seeing the sequel because compared to some horror sequels (with the exception of Scream 2 and Halloween H20) it was just run of the mill stuff. With the I Know 3 movie coming out it seems that I Know series is turning into the Friday the 13th movies...    "},{"Title":"Fundamentally flawed...","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The problem with a film like this is that, in order for it to work you have to care about the characters and when that character keeps making the stupidest possible decisions regarding getting away from the killer then that just doesn't happen and you say Oh just kill her.The blatant sequel (and now it appears threequel) setting up ending really doesn't help either.The strange thing is, it actually left me wanting to see the sequel "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best horror films of all time.  All though on the same line as Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer has it's own little spark of light in the sky filled with killers and victims of horror movies.  I thought that the murders were fabulous, and the end was very chilling.  I love this movie!!!!  "},{"Title":"Cliché ridden 'Scream' rip off.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I wanted to see this film for ages, ever since I first saw it advertised. I thought that the idea looked unique and from what I saw it looked as though it could be a better horror-thriller than 'Scream'. Well, despite 'borrowing' the whole idea from the aforementioned film it is both slow and predictable as well as not being all that scary. You won't care what happens to the 4 mega-brats in the lead roles as the story takes the predictable route every time. One of several Scream clones released after the Wes Craven hit to try and cash in on the current popularity of the horror genre. Not a total waste of time, but not up to much all the same.  "},{"Title":"RUBBISH!!!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is one of the worst movies I've seen to date. It seems as if the creators of this film expected every teenager who saw Scream to come and see this one as well. It's just like Scream, only it's very lame! The story is weak and the characters are shallow. Furthermore, there is no element of suspense. Everything just happens and it's really no big surprise. All this movie is is a watered down version of Scream. "},{"Title":"EXPECTED MORE","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this film I expected a reasonably tense and violent thriller in the same style of Scream, but Kevin Williamson obviously saw an opportunity to cash in on his previous box office hit and make some more money. It is a second rate story and script from a first rate writer. The film is not long enough and you find out who the killer is too quickly. The ending also spoils the sequel. Scream was good, this is not. You may also become bored just wondering who will die next (yawn!). "}{"Title":"Not Better Than Scream","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The poster read better than scream so I was really looking forward to this one and in a way I wasn't disappointed, although it wasn't better than scream. It had characterization, a plot and some good thrills. Gellar and Phillippe prove that they really are excellent, while hewitt and jnr don't let us down either.  "},{"Title":"Whats the big deal?","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is just another stupid,and boring teen ripoff slasher flick.This is a stupid plot,and really boring movie!I don't see the big deal at all.Nothing is original,and the acting is horrible too.Just one of many cheesy imitations.If you're sick of these Party of Five,Dawsons Creek horror movies,go rent one of the classics. "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar is always fun to watch","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'll confess. The only reason why I watched this movie was because of Sarah Michelle Gellar. So the movie is a success for me. On the other hand some people wanted to see a good movie, with great acting and a superb plot. Those people are probably the same ones who loved Scream. And they probably thought 'I know' sucked. When I went to the theaters I expected a Scream-look-a-like. But this time with Sarah Michelle Gellar. *drool*'I know' has all the obvious scenes. The four teens are the only ones who know there is a killer, and the rest of the town doesn't believe them. The death scenes are disappointing. No real gore. The first death scene (in the harbor) was the best. Funny how nobody noticed the blood.The movie is fun to watch. Just a typical slasher movie. They'll never bore me. I'm one of the few people who watch those kind of movies for the death scenes and not for the plot. And this movie has even a cliche ending...If you want to see horror, watch Evil Dead 2 (you primitives probably didn't even heard of that one) and if you want an entertaining slasher flick, watch this one. The big difference with slasher movies from the eighties are that now big names want to star in them. Now where's my copy of Friday the 13th part 6... "},{"Title":"Kevin Williamson's Scream wannabe","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson (Scream 1 & 2) wrote the script from Lois Duncan's novel about four teens who accidently ran over a pedestrian and then try to dispose of the body.  One year later, they are stalked by a killer with a big fish hook and sporting a slicker.  A good cast led by Jennifer Love Hewitt (TV's Party of Five, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer) and Sarah Michelle Gellar (TV's Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Scream 2) tries to save this bloody follow-up to Williamson's Scream.  Unfortunately, Williamson drops the ball.  My evaluation ** out of ****.  "},{"Title":"if you make a movie make sure it is a good one","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well what can I say about this movie, I mean it is good in many ways, and it has got a good story line to it. But here is where there is a fault....it is a blatant revamp of Prom Night. The characters have the same names as those in Prom Night, and the story is near enough on the same lines....in a way. But I still liked it, I did not know who the killer was until the end and boy was I disappointed. I did like the choice of actors in the movie, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt.The story was good and there was quite a few intense bits in the beginning, middle and end, which is one of the many formula`s to making a successful Horror movie.I did think that killing off two of the major characters was a bit harsh (there are about 6 major characters by the way)I would have liked to see them in the not-very-good sequel, but if they did appear it would have may been better than the original.......that and a better story line.It is a sort of film you would like to watch after you have watched Scream and Halloween and then maybe Prom Night.This gets a well deserved 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought the best thing about this movie was the ending...not because it had finished, but because just when you thought everything was over, you realise it's not, and leaves an excellent gateway to the sequel (which I haven't seen yet). I didn't think it was as good as the Scream movies, but it definitely had me on the edge of my seat. "},{"Title":"Good premise.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film starts out very promising. It never can capitalize on its basic premise the way it should. It has a few good scares and I know it was made to cash in on the new horror movie craze. The movie just ends up being boring and pointless. The cast does a good job however. Not really worth it. "},{"Title":"Ranks right up there on my 'worst movies of all time' list","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow this movie was not only the worst movie of 97, but probably the worst of the 90's.  This movie was the most overrated(not by critics), unbelievably bad acted, cheap, cheesy piece of crap horror movie I have ever seen. Even 'Chopper Chicks in Zombie Town' was better than this movie.  The whole plot was horrible and it just got really annoying with the whole let's find out who's trying to kill us by going to his house thing.  Oh yeah, and did I mention this movie has the worst acting I have ever seen in my life(even worse than Tarel Hicks in 'A Bronx Tale')? The only reason this movie managed to make any money was because of the whole Scream trend thing.  All this movie does is show how truly stupid some people can be when it comes to watching and making movies.2/10-one point for Sarah Michelle Gellar "},{"Title":"Oh Pleaaaasseee...give me a break!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  HRMPH! When i saw ''Scream'' i really hoped that the horror movies would return and be as good as 'Scream''. Number two in the horror-resurrection is I know what you did last summer which is a real disappointment. The opening sequence is very cool and the first four-five scenes are just perfect. Cosy, Mysterious, and spooky. But  what happens after that? No nothing! After the great prologue the whole greatness disappears and everything becomes ridiculous and telling. Although the end of the movie is OK. And i sure don't think Kevin Williamson had worked specially hard with the script. He probably had it in a dusty corner and picked it up when the Horror movies where back in business. The actors do their characters at the limit to bad. The only persons that do it good are Sarah Michelle Gellar and her boyfriend. This movie has also taken masses of things of other movies in this category. But if you never ever have seen ''Halloween'', ''Friday the 13th'', ''Nightmare on Elmst'', or ''Scream''you might just like this pretty lousy story.    "},{"Title":"Fun to watch !","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having been raised on slasher films (the first film I ever saw in the theater was Halloween) and having seen them decline into total garbage like Jason Goes to Hell. I was pretty pumped by the inventiveness of Scream. For a while in 1992 I was watching most horror films with my finger nearly glued on the Fast Forward button. So when I Know... came out I was the first in line to see it. It's not as good as Scream but it's superior to a lot of older classics in the genre like Maniac or He Knows You're Alone or The Burning. The story itself was interesting by making everyone in the film not particularly innocent. You have the feeling they deserve what they're getting. But what really sold it for me was the fact that entire film looks like a satanic version of a Goosebumps book filmed on sets from old soap operas. The look of the film is so good ,and Jim Gillespie's vision, so focused that it works better than it should. I enjoyed it, if not for being a great film, then for being a better film than most of its predecessors and most of its equals today. "}{"Title":"Good movie, I enjoyed it!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie. In my opinion, I think it's more a suspense or Mystery movie, than to be labelled as a Horror flick. Jennifer Love Hewitt is good and so is Sara Michele Gelalr. Gellar looked stunning while Hewitt tried to prove herself as THE Scream Queen! A word of caution If you loved SCREAM (which indeed was a good movie, may be a trendsetter for new Horror (?) movies) don't try to compare I KNOW.... with it, jsut sit back, eat pop corns and enjoy. And if you forget to eat'em or spill'em all over, well it won't be your fault. 8 outta 10.  "},{"Title":"Not a horror movie.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was not disappointed in this film because it turned out to be a great murder mystery, but it was NOT a horror movie. If you are looking to get a scare...this is not the one. If you are just looking for a good film with some mystery, then this will be a safe rent. "},{"Title":"The same plot but with unique development","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's a movie with the same plot as other movies but with unique development of the scenes and the acting of the cast is the greatest. Also the direction is very very very good. It's one-if not the only-of the new horror movies that I have enjoyed. "},{"Title":"A Scream cover, nothing special...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After the success of the movie Scream, the producers Neal Moritz and company decide to make a movie terror-teen, just like Scream to get the same cash. The writer still Kevin Willianson but the director is not Wes Craven, it's a Jim Gillespie guy ( Never heard anything about this guy ) who show in this movie that, Kevin Willianson just works with Wes Craven. Here, four teens in 4th July holiday, hit a guy on the road with their car. They decide dump the body in the sea and never talk about this anymore. But, one year later, one of the responsable teens, Julie James receives a note  I Know What You Did Last Summer ! Like i said, that movie copy Scream in all the things, but, without Wes, the thing doesn't works...The only special thing in this movie is  Sarah Michelle Gellar, the visual of the killer with that hook, the deaths and the killer chasing Sarah in her sister's store, that's all. But, it still not done, we still have  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. Oh, brother...  "},{"Title":"No comparison","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Wiliamson. That is the name that makes this movie worth watching (well it's not so worth watching). But let's cut the talk and compare it to Scream. It lacks the direction of master Wes Craven (and oh how it lacks) but it is in another ground that Scream destroys it (?) rival. Julia James is as down below Sidney Prescott as Jennifer Love Hewitt is below Neve Campbell, and that is way, way below. Neve Campbell has a talent that will still surprise many people, and Hewitt is not even close to that. Considered that, I Know What You Did Last Summer is just a movie like those one would watch on a rainy afternoon, in the living room and eating popcorn. Nothing more than that. "},{"Title":"So do I; you took a cautionary tale and made an empty-headed horror film","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I concur with all the comments that say read the novel by Lois Duncan instead.  It's true Williamson and director Jim Gillespie were probably right to ditch the killer, since while it worked in the book, it probably wouldn't work in the movie.  But they also take away character development, emotional involvement, and even logic, and substitute cliches(ironic how Williamson plays straight the same cliches he mocked in Scream).  And while it's true both guy parts are nothing special, Phillipe and Prinze are pretty bad, so you don't care at all what happens to them.  I'm a big fan of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and a fan of Party of Five, so I like Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt, respectively.  They do try their best, and Hewitt at least has something to work with, but it's not enough.  Oh, and Anne Heche at least distinguishes herself. "},{"Title":"A good scary movie from Kevin Williamson","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer ranks right up there with Scream and all the other scary movies to come out in the late '90's as a worthy, freaky film. What impressed me most about this film was that it was technically well-made, with unique camera angles and a creepy atmosphere. (Anne Heche's house is creepy as heck.) My problem with the film is that at times it suffers from a temporary lack of sanity on the part of the filmmakers - the finale on the boat is particularly overlong and unnecessary. However, other parts of the movie (especially the cop car/department store chase scene) were awesome and made the film work. The jump scenes were all effective. I think I almost had a heart attack the first time I saw the part where Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar are sitting in the car after visiting Anne Heche's house. I'm not going to give away what happens, but it is real good. Most of the performances were good Hewitt is a very good actress, displaying great range in this part (unfortunately her cleavage seems to demand a screen credit all its own, thanks to her form-fitting outfits). Gellar too is very good, making her beauty queen not just another would-be victim, but a true-to-life character. Ryan Phillippe is good in a one-dimensional role as the hotheaded young jock. Freddie Prinze Jr. however tends to be very dull in his role as Hewitt's boyfriend and the chief suspect. Perhaps the filmmakers tended to keep his role very small and uninteresting to keep the audience suspecting him as the killer; if so, they failed. And the killer - the backstory was somewhat plausible, but impossible to foresee - NOT because it wasn't predictable, but because there was not enough information given beforehand to even come close to guessing. Overall, despite several miscalculations, I Know . . . is a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films of recent times...maybe ever","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is ten times more scary than Scream or Scream 2. It does not make the film better than either of the Scream films but it is scarier.The film starts off like the first Halloween in that not much happens for the first part of the film and then towards the end Mr Fisherman starts hacking people to bits.One of the two main things that let the film down was the fact that although the Fisherman has a personal grudge against the four main characters why did he feel the need to start hacking people at random. The second thing is the identity of the killer.The acting in this film was really good except for the rampant overacting by the killer at the end who looks like he went to the Robert Englund subtlety school. The two female leads give the best performances and are more attractive than the women that usually appear in the likes of Elm Street or Friday the 13th.I saw this film several times at the cinema and not just because of the cleavage. Every time I saw the film the shower scene at the end still made me jump - even though I was expecting it. A brilliant film and much better than what passed for horror in the eighties and early nineties. "},{"Title":"It doesn't deserve to be called a horror","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is a poor excuse for a horror movie. It was very unoriginal. The setting was really boring and dull. The acting was pathetic. The script was bad plus its just another annoying slasher flick. What happened to good horror movies? The plot was really bad. Its not very scary seeing some chick have her hair cut off, or some guy with a hook slashing people to death. Its all too predictible. Plus it was confusing. I Still don't Know who they killed Last Summer. Or if the dude they killed is the killer. Someone help me. All I know is I am NOT spending my money on the sequel. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was amazing. I saw it opening night as did I with the sequel which was also amazing. This movie was very suspenseful. I jumped so often. I rarely jump in movies. But in the last summer series i jumped a lot. I never jumped during Scream or Scream 2 or any of the other new horror movies. This was an amazing movie and is the best horror movie of all time.Jennifer Love Hewitt did an amazing job as did Sarah Michelle Gellar. Way To GO. "}{"Title":"One of the best horror films ever!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  People say that I Know... tried and failed to surpass the teen-slasher standard set by Scream.  I don't see this at all; this movie was incredible.  Many don't think that there were enough thrills; I beg to differ.  I jumped out of my seat when the guy leaped for Gellar in the department store; and when she turned around in the alley, only to find him standing behind her  beautiful work!!  Gellar's hair and Hewitt's car trunk also gave an overwhelming sense of erieness.  But that was nothing compared to the make-me-s***-my-pants ending with Hewitt in the shower room; I literally dropped my popcorn in shock.  But what most people didn't understand was that most of the scares were in the idea that the whole thing could happen to anyone.  They were ordinary kids and one mistake haunted them to the grave.  The characters were extremely well developed, the plot was wonderful, and every member of the cast, especially Hewitt, gave a brilliant performance.  A+ "},{"Title":"It's good, but nothing to flip over","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YUO DID LAST SUMMER was a good movie, Sarah Michelle Gellar's amazing performance made sure of that. The story was changed drastically from the novel we all read oh so long ago. In my opinion Barry abd Helen didn't need to die, but it made it interesting, but screwed over the sequel.Richard ( D!ck ) "},{"Title":"8 stars!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can find no other way to comment on this film than to compare it to Scream. It obviously tried to be like Scream, but just couldn't pull it off. It didn't have enough cliches. It didn't make you care for the characters. It didn't keep you in suspense about who the killer was. But, for all intents and purposes, it was a normal slasher film, and worthy if you like the genre. 8 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"A film for die-hard Slasher fans, but not many others...","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A group of friends partying on the beach of a quiet little fishing town. While driving down a winding road on there way home from said party they accidentally run down a man who, for no apparent reason, is wandering across the road. They assume he's dead, which is their first mistake. Due to circumstances they elect not to report this to the authorities. Their second, slightly larger, mistake was deciding to dump the body into the ocean. One year later the four friends begin to receive certain signs that the man they dumped into the ocean may have survived.Kevin Williamson mocked the Slasher genre in Scream. This time he uses the classic Slasher formula; rules and all. Okay, so he does add a little to it by keeping the killer's identity secret, but including a bit of mystery isn't enough to revive the tired old formula.There is neither suspense nor terror to be found here. This can partly be blamed on Williamson for the predictable scenario's, but most of the blame lies on director Jim Gillespie. Although he does manage a few jump-out-of-your-seat moments, there's not much else. The scene where Hewitt is trapped in the police car is telegraphed a mile in advance. The scene immediately following this(inside the store) isn't bad, but it's too short, as is the problem with the other chase sequences. They all end much too quickly. Another flaw is that we always know where the killer is. Gillespie tries to keep him hidden in the store with all the other figures covered in plastic, but there aren't enough others. It ends up being that the only truly effective scenes in this film are the false scares(the locker room).Some people assume that I Know What You Did Last Summer has been created to cash in on the surprise success of Scream. That may be the reason the studio exec's green-lighted the project, but I doubt that's why Williamson wrote the script. "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a second opinion.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am one of the only people I know of who liked this movie. I think many of the people who didn't like it were comparing it to Scream too much. This movie was NOT Scream, and it wasn't trying to be, either. It just came out around the same time, and had Kevin Williamson, the writer of Scream, writing it as well. It may not be as scary as Scream, I'll give you that, but it was definitely creepier. The main cast, specifically Jennifer Love Hewitt, did manage to be convincing as people who were being watched by a crazed maniac. It also wasn't as predictable as many seem to think. Again, this is something commonly said mainly because people were expecting it to be more like Scream. By the way, I've seen previews for I Still Know, and I don't think a sequel is very necessary, and I can't imagine it being nearly as good as I thought the first one was. Although I did consider Scream a better movie, I felt this one really rivaled it, and I personally enjoyed this one more. "},{"Title":"& I know what I should have did last summer (turn this damn film off)","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Favourite bad bit Julie runs to the shop where her friend works to escape the killer. They lock the front door & Julie goes upstairs to phone for help whilst her friend goes to lock the back door. But the killer has already got in & kills Julie's friend. Julie hears some noise downstairs so she goes to investigate & shouts out Is that you (insert name here)? Are you alright? Silly cow. So is this pile of poo really from the guy who wrote Scream?In the UK this film was rated 18 for cinema & then cut down to a 15 for video. (lose a mark) 2/10 "},{"Title":"SCREAM AGAIN","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was Scream all over again. The only thing that changed was instead of a mask, there was a rain coat, and instead of a knife there was a hook. It went so much the same, that 'I can't get out of the car cause it's locked' was in both this movie and Scream 2. Despite this, a good movie, Ryan Phillippe having an excellent performance as Barry, a teenage alcoholic. Sarah Michelle Geller was great as the delusional Poker Queen, and the cameo by Anne Hench, who played David Egan's sister was not to be missed. "},{"Title":"A SO-SO FILM","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So-so is the best way I can describe I Know What You Did Last Summer. The movie plays smoothly but it's as transparent as a piece of glass.  Lois Duncan should have gotten more credit, in my opinion, since she did, after all, write the source novel.  Kevin Williamson packed the first half of the film with plenty of clever dialogue but, by the end, Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Jennifer Love Hewitt were sounding more like soap opera lackies than movie stars.  (Freddie really sounded bad with that No one gets me like you do line. Jennifer didn't do any better with her reply I feel your pain.) Still, the jolt that got everybody in the theater where I watched it was the Anne Heche banging on the car window gag.  It's good to see them again making slasher movies where the killer poses real harm to the heroes.  If you LOVED Scream then you'd probably LIKE I Know What You Did Last Summer.  "},{"Title":"The Book Is Always Better","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone who is a REAL fan of the slasher genre should skip this film...but read the excellent teen novel I Know What You Did Last Summer by Lois Duncan. In the book (and this is where the film misses the boat),four teens are involved in a hit-and-run accident in which they kill a LITTLE BOY,not a deranged fisherman with a hook (another imitation of FRIDAY THE 13TH's Jason).The screenplay (which,much to my disappointment),was written by the usually brilliant Kevin Williamson of Scream fame. The hit-and-run accident would much more poignant if the victim would have been synonymous with the character in the book. Williamson is an obvious fan of the classic Prom Night, in which the victim (in a six years earlier prologue) was a 10-year-old girl. He should have copied that formula instead of the tired,bloody nameless,faceless JASON-FREDDY-MICHAEL formula. Of the actors,only Sarah Michelle Gellar,Johnny Galecki and Anne Heche save the film from an F rating. Ryan Phillippe,a major talent,wildly overacts here as Barry,and Freddy Prinze,Jr.,who showed promise in THE HOUSE OF YES,does the opposite and underacts with little to no emotion as Ray. Jennifer Love Hewitt is merely adequate as the lead character,Julie James. She and Neve Campbell are NOWHERE near Jamie Lee Curtis's league. This is an obvious attempt to cash in on the success of Scream. Movies like this,and their even more disgusting sequels,are what killed the slasher genre in the early 80's. They will no doubt kill it again before the Millennium arrives "},{"Title":"This slummer is a real bummer","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A more appropriate title would have been I Know What You'll Do in 15 Minutes. This is probably the most predictable movie I've ever seen.  Even the shocker ending wasn't all that big of a surprise. Kevin Williamson should be ashamed of himself.  After the great horror parody Scream he followed it up with this and Dawson's Crap--- I mean, Creek.   The script was so loaded with cliches I wouldn't be surprised if every single line in this movie could be found in other horror movies of past times. The  basic plot involves two teenage boys and two teenage girls either A) making out or B) wandering around in skimpy clothing (girls only) while they are stalked by a killer or C) trying to figure out who the killer is and why he's gutting people like a fish or D) getting gutted like a fish. What is never brought up is the fact that nobody seems to notice a guy in a heavy raincoat walking around on the fourth of July. It would have been a much better movie if every actor and actress-- except the always great Anne Heche.  I hear the sequel's out. My title I Don't Care What You Did Last Summer. "}{"Title":"Typical horror movie trash","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Riding on the coattails of the success of Scream, comes this lame excuse for a thriller. Scream writer Kevin Williamson should have taken some of his own advice Last Summer is nothing more than all of the cliches his Scream satirized. And what do you know like Scream, Last Summer boasts a glossy cast of teen actors and TV up-and-comers. Too bad there isn't one notable performance in the bunch. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt just prance around in their scantily clad outfits and take turns screaming their lungs out, and Ryan Philippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. are truly stiffs from the Keanu Reeves school of acting. Oh yeah . . . and the big revelation of the killer's identity is probably one of the biggest let-downs in horror film history. Avoid this at all costs.  Grade D- "},{"Title":"Only one bad thing...","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  GREAT movie.. I only found one bad thing about it. They killed off the two characters in the film that I liked. BARRY, and Helen... Other than that, I think the film was well written and performed. I give it *****!!!! "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a second opinion.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am one of the only people I know of who liked this movie.  I think many of the people who didn't like it were comparing it to Scream too much.  This movie was NOT Scream, and it wasn't trying to be, either.  It just came out around the same time.  It was not as scary as Scream, I'll give you that, but it was creepier.  The main cast, specifically Jennifer Love Hewitt, did manage to be convincing as people who were being watched by a crazed maniac.  It also wasn't as predictable as many seem to think.  Again, this is something commonly said mainly because people were expecting it to be more like Scream.  By the way, I've seen previews for I Still Know, and I don't think a sequel is very necessary, and I can't imagine it being nearly as good as I thought the first one was.  Although I did consider Scream a better movie, I personally enjoyed this one more. "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked I Know What You Did Last Summer. For the simple reason that (well, at least I think so) it made me jump and scream more than Scream or Scream 2 combined! I was totaly freaking out in the theater and I never scream in the theater! The rest of the story was kind of lacking but when the action stars it gets really intense. If I compare this to Scream it gets a B- if Scream is an A+. Scream only edges this one out because the rest of the story was just as interesting as the scary stuff. If you are looking for a movie that is going to make you jump and scream pick this one up. I can't wait until the sequel comes out. "},{"Title":"Good movie, until the lame-O ending.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was enjoyable and unpredictable up until the standard predictable ending.  It's like the script writer left the script on the desk overnight before he finished it and the janitor finished it for him.  Or maybe he just got tired of writing and took the ending from UNDER SIEGE and wrote it in. I was expecting better. Almost as good as SCREAM, but then again not very. **1/2 "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In watching this movie I was ready for a scare fest that would make me jump. Instead, I was treated to a few scare scenes.  Several dozen scenes that I knew what was going to happen next. I.e SMG's body coming out of the ice chest in the boat, and by the third act of the film I became more interested in the cleavage than with the story.  You want a good scary movie?  Rent Scream and Scream 2.  If you don't to get to sleep that easy, rent The Shining.  You want to see what not to do in a scary movie, rent this one. "},{"Title":"...and it's not that interesting.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Limp, mechanical, lifeless.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"I'll never drive fast on a winding road again!!!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was my favorite movie of the year, and I saw it at the right time of year too.  I will be one of the first in line to see the sequel.  Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar both put in stellar performances! There's also no boring build up like most horror films (exception Scream, Halloween)! "},{"Title":"I Know What I Did Last Fall I saw the best movie!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Man! This movie was cool! But some people would tell you not to see it. Think about it Would it hurt your friends if they said not to see it and you did? Not a bit! I highly recommend this movie if you like horror! Sure, the killer is sort of a rip-off of Candyman, but does it hurt the movie? Not one bit!  10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"There are two reasons to see this movie Jennifer Love Hewitt's big jugs!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, this movie is not that great of a horror movie. The plot is boring and inane, and it falls apart at the end. However, the real attraction here is Jennifer Love Hewitt. She runs around the whole movie in a low-cut, flimsy cotton top. The film is graced with constant shots of her cleavage, and of her running around with her breasts jiggling. It's beautiful. If want a good horror movie, pass on this. But if you want to see Jennifer Love Hewitt bending over every conceivable object, pick this one up. I'd also recommend staying until the very end. The final scene has her covered with only a towel, walking around a shower room! There are two reasons to see this movie Jennifer Love Hewitt's big jugs. That's its only selling point, but it's a BIG selling point! This movie is worth watching again and again, for that sole reason. "}{"Title":"Been There Done That; Can you say 'Prom Night' with a hook?","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I own this video and I'm a very big fan of Kevin Willamson, but this movie really needed more fleshing out.  I thought the killer was very reminiscent of Candyman because of the hook.  I really enjoy Kevin's chase scenes, but the movie just dosen't stand-up to what I had expected after 'Scream'.  I thought this movie was more serious than 'Scream but it lacked a solid plot. For example, what happened to the crabs and the body in the trunk of Hewitt's car?  And why did the killer bump-off the kid in the fishing yard. If he was left to live it would have appeared that he was the killer, but for some unknown reason he was killed off.  Kevin is a cleaver writer esp. when he borrows from such movies as Halloween, compare the chase scene with Sarah Michelle Gellar running to the store from the walking killer Fisherman, and she can't get in because the door is locked, it is the same scene where young Jamie Lee Curtis is running from a walking/stalking Micheal Myers in the first Halloween...Nevertheless, I still enjoyed it but I expected way more from Kevin Williamson. "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know what you did last summer is one poor movie.  i say this because as a hardcore slasher fan I am shocked that this movie would be called a slasher film.  This film shows no one getting killed except for Max getting a fish hook into the chin but it is still nothing compared to the real slasher film such as the Scream films, the Halloween films, Friday The 13th films and Nightmare on Elm Street, now they are real slasher films not I know what you did last summer.  The sequal is bound to be much worst and give the whole slasher genre a bad name.  Do not waste your time in seeing it.  Go and see a good slasher films.CheersP.S.  Most slasher films are very good execpt this one. "},{"Title":"I know what jenifer did last summer  made a bad movie","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I finally saw all these movies.  I'm one of the few people who is in the 15-22 age bracket that didn't go see the screams of this movie.  I figured i would get them out of the way. I watched both screams last night likd them. Maybe my problem is i watched them too close together to like this movie. That i was comparing it to scream.  This didn't have the humor that scream did. Didn't have the innocent characters except for the guy from Rosanne, what was the point in him dying?   all it had going for it was a couple of hot young up and coming TV stars.  and they made the mistake of killing one of them off.  Not that i'm sexist and wanted both girls to live because they are hot (well ok that is part of it) but if you had to have two live that would be my pick.  Buffy's B/f had to die cause he was a uhm well lets say jerk.  But Love hewett's B/f CANT ACT TO SAVE HIS LIFE.  But i guess it did save his life didn't it.  All the shots on this guy before cutting away was the same dumbfounded shot like he had just stumbled on to the set and was shocked to be there with buffy and the party of 5 chick.   Watching those two decent actors was the only plus to this movie really.  The reason it made so much money is that it was right off the heals of Scream and was the same formula.   If scream is an A list movie last summer is a C list movie. Hewlett might become a big movie star and this might have been a spring board for her but let's hope that still know what u did doesn't hurt her.  I'm not holding much hope for this considering it's a sequel to a bad movie that has Brandy AKA MOESHA instead of Buffy.i give this a 4 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Another Williamson movie","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Another horror movie from Kevin Williamson. Even if it's not as good as Scream, you should give it a chance...sakala "},{"Title":"Sub Standard Slasher","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The best thing about I Know What You Did Last Summer is its title. Nothing else really stands out as being exceptional. This film is competent in all departments, but will not be remembered for anything in particular. The acting is OK, but nothing really memorable like in the two Scream movies, and the script (by Scream writer Kevin Williamson) succumbs to all the tired cliches that he mocked so well in Scream. The film is full of those tired horror cliches that were old back in the early 80's, where Horror was at its peak. This film is not really scary at all, and has to rely on phony jump scenes instead of generating a sense of real terror and menace. The film is also quite ludricous in many scenes. Check out the scene where Sarah Michelle Gellar is running from the killer to her family's store. She is running, while the killer is walking, yet he seems to get closer with every step. The most amazing thing about this film is that there is not one character you feel sympathy for during the entire film, which must be a first. The biggest Horror cliche of them all is tacked on at the end for the invevitable series of sequels, spinning out endlessly. The sad thing is, even though I really didn't like this film that much, I still want to see the sequel.  "},{"Title":"Call it Scream Lite instead","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer hardly qualifies as a true horror film. While it doesn't resort to anything mystical, it simply isn't very scary, which is unfortunate because it tries to sell itself as a horror film.  It also had seemed to be banking on the theory that the appeal of popular actresses from popular TV shows should carry the movie, even if it isn't as scary as it tries to be.  If Neve Campbell worked out just fine in Scream, why not get Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar to bring in the audience? (never mind whether or not the movie truly passes as scary) Actually, the scariest thing about this movie is that the theory appears to hold true, and, like a popcorn machine gone awry, Hollywood seems to be spitting out these watered-down horror movies left and right.  Hopefully by the time they get around to making I Know What You Did Last Winter, they would have taken notes from truly disturbing movies like Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Seven, and the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, but it sucks!","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, so lets say someone runs over my dog, and I know who did. Do I turn around and kill people who had nothing to do with it? Well, according to the killer of this movie, the answer is yes. If your motive for killing someone is revenge, you don't turn around and kill a total stranger who had no part of it!  Otherwise you're an idiot!  The people who made this movie obviously didn't think it through to well because they managed to turn a good idea into a bomb of a movie.  Here's my favourite reason whyIn the movie 'Scream', my friends were telling me to shut the hell up because I kept guessing who the killer was.  I think Courtney Cox was mentioned by me at least twice!  And at the end of the movie, when I found out who the killer was, I said, 'See, see!  I guessed him once at the beginning! I was right!'  My friends couldn't have been happier to leave the theatre.  But with this film, there are so few to choose from, it's almost not even worth getting excited.  I mean, as soon as one of the four of them gets bumped off, you have 3 more to choose from!  And when you finally find out who the killer is, you don't care, and you'll know what I mean when you see the movie.But there is another way that you don't have to care about it without having to go through the pains of bad acting, painfully annoying screams, and blood that looks like ketchup  Don't see the movie!  Otherwise I'll be sending you notes that say, I Know What You Did Last Night!  And I Specifically Told You Not To!!!  And we don't want our lives to turn into a crappy slasher movie now do we? "},{"Title":"A Bit Of A Disappointment","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After Williamson's last effort, the superb 'Scream', this is little of a disappointment. It is still a relatively good slasher pic, with the odd scare, but the intrigue that was present in Scream does not exist here. Not the roller-coaster ride that I had hoped for. However, a great ending leaves hope for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Is it me?????","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I must be getting older. I'm 33 and couldn't relate to ANYONE in this film!! The acting was OK but, come on, it was really cheesy. I'm glad I waited for the video. It was only $1.  "},{"Title":"a little about the movie","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was my all time favorite movie.  It was a great horror.  jennifer love hewitt and sarah michelle gellar did an excellent job.  They were great actresses in this movie.  The movie was realistic and what happened in the movie could happen to anyone.  The music for this movie was also great. "}{"Title":"Bland attempt at a slasher movie","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not much good can be said about this bland attempt at a slasher/horror movie. I really do not see how this movie made so much money. The only good thing was seeing that kid from Rosanne take the hook in the chin. The rest sucked, a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"COOL...","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Rather formulaic, this slasher film isn't as cheesy as those in the '80`s  (like, say, Leprechaun). The killer is freaky with his hook, and Sarah Michelle Gellar displays her acting (as well as her screaming and running) abilities as Helen Shivers. Guaranteed to make you stay on the edge of your seat! "},{"Title":"Competent slasher film.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson's follow-up to his smash hit Scream isn't as good as Scream but it is pretty good, nonetheless. Slasher film conventions aside, it's a very well-acted study of four kids who have to deal with the past. Jennifer Love Hewitt is very good (not to mention GORGEOUS and SEXY!!!) in the lead and the other three players do well to support her. Not bad and it is scary. Check it out "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent horror film that keeps you on the edge of your seat  and wondering. Great acting and writing. "},{"Title":"Where's the scares","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie wasn't very scary or suspenseful.  It also isn't anything that I haven't seen already.  This movie did definitely try to jump on the new horror bandwagon.  It was a big bore and I'm glad I only paid 2 bucks to rent it. "},{"Title":"better than average","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would just like to say that it is high time a slick horror film like this and Scream came along after some very tawdry lackluster efforts in the 80's and early 90 'sthis may not be a Scream like SCREAM but still not a bad little film I give it 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"NOTHING SPECIAL","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie opened in time to cash in on the SCREAM bandwagon. It is a standard, 'who will die next' slasher that doesn't deserve a sequel. Sarah Michelle Gellar truly shines in this movie. Also, her chase scene is the only highlight. "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but Interesting Story","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Do you know what you did last summer? Well Jennifer Love Hewitt (Julie James), Freddie Prinze Jr. (Ray Bronson), Sarah Michelle Gellar (Helen Shivers) and Ryan Phillipe (Barry Cox)remember what they did in the summer of 1997. They played four teenagers who accidentally ran over a man on the road and dumped his body over a cliff into the sea. A year after the accident, Julie receives a note telling her that someone knows their secret from the year before. Soon a murderous fisherman with a hook begins stalking them and murdering those around the four to get to the four teens. The acting in this film is not the greatest that any of the four principals in the film as they are picked off one by one. The plot is based on the young adult novel by Lois Duncan, but there are differences however I can't tell what they are if you have not read the book. The suspense in the film is lacking as you can usually predict when the killer is going to strike or when a body is going to be found. But if you want want to see this movie, then by all means do so. "},{"Title":"Last summer? The usual - drinking, catching some sun, accidental running over of some fisherman.","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out. It seemed like a big test. How would a standard teen slasher fare after the subgenre had been so brilliantly skewered by Scream? Well, who better to try and keep things fresh and entertaining than the writer of Craven's smash hit, Kevin Williamson.Based, very loosely, on a novel by Lois Duncan, I Know What You Did Last Summer centres around four teens who accidentally hit a stranger with their car and then dump his body in the sea. Almost one year later, they start getting notes bearing the same message as the title of the movie. The teens try to figure out who is after them as it creeps closer to the anniversary of that fateful night.This movie is all kinds of average, lifted up slightly by a decent cast and script. Looking back on it nowadays, I can't really see how the hell it did well enough to spawn the two dire sequels that came after it.The main players on screen are Jennifer Love Hewitt (pleasing on the eye but not the best actress in the world), Sarah Michelle Gellar (not too bad), Freddie Prinze Jr. (okay, I guess) and Ryan Phillipe (who has long been a favourite of mine and does great here). Support comes from Johnny Galecki and Bridgette Wilson, there's some time for Anne Heche and Muse Watson makes an impact with his role.What undoes this horror movie is that it's all just a bit too preposterous when you think about it and, because the movie plays up the whodunnit/mystery element alongside the straight slasher strand, you DO think about it. It's also a rather bloodless affair (though the first kill is quite a good one).And you know that a film is in trouble when one of it's main scenes actually reminds you of the parody of that very moment in another movie (Scary Movie) and seems just as funny in it's original form.Director Jim Gillespie coasts along here but this is very much teen horror-lite and one of the lesser slasher flicks to come out after Scream made audiences more aware of the rules and conventions that could be adhered to and/or toyed with. "},{"Title":"My favorite teen horror movie","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is the kind of movie you may catch late at night or early in the morning. I was flipping channels one night at about 100 am and ended up loving it. Im also a big fan of the cast Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze, Jr. , Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Ryan Phillipe.The 4 teens are about to go to college, but their last night together, they spend it on the beach telling ghost stories and making out. On their way home, they run over a man and decide not to call the police, but instead dump the man's body into the river. Exactly on year later, the dead man returns and is out to give the four teens a little pay back.I Know What You Did Last Summer is truly my favorite teen/slasher movie. Watch it and you will know what I mean! "}{"Title":"Great Horror Flick","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the better horror films to ever come from the mind of the man who wrote SCREAM and SCREAM 2. This film is actually a little scary and suspenseful at some parts. The film is not just another bloody slasher flick. This one actually has some dramatic moments and some steadily mounting terror to go along with it. I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is somewhat based on the novel by Lois Duncan, but many, MANY things have been changed.The cast includes Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Muse Watson, Johnny Galecki, Anne Heche and Bridgette Wilson. The members of the cast are pretty well known and the horror is bound to keep you on the edge of your seat. We should probably thank Kevin Williamson for this one. I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER. "},{"Title":"IKWYDLS Better Than Halloween?","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I LOVED THIS MOVIE! This has to be one of the best teen horror movies i've seen in years. It definitely compares to the classic Halloween. I Know What You Did Last Summer stars Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, and Freddie Prinze, Jr as teens who hit a man and then dump his body in the water...etc...(i'm not going to start describing the movie because I hate when people do that, because most of you already saw it, or don't want it to be spoiled). This film creates a tension and paranoia like in 1978's Halloween. It has an excellent score and despite what some people say, it is not a Scream based film. It is a classy, not quarky movie. It also has what I think to be the newest SUCCESSFUL slow-walking/stalking serial killer. You have your terrific Michael Myers, who at the time had been getting bad reviews for Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers (1995), and Jason Voorhees of the Friday the 13th series had disappeared after the lackluster New Line Cinema film Jason Goes To Hell (1993). So, the Fisherman was a very good relief to have. Much scarier and more intimidating than the Ghostface killer from Scream. I Know What You Did Last Summer is a magnificent, unique and original film that went on to produce a great sequel. I honestly think this might be one of (if not) the best horror films I have ever seen, and I can definitely say that I have seen a lot of movies. I would give I Know What You Did Last Summer a 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"this was good but predictable and not as scary as i would have hoped.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" this was a very good movie but somewhat predictable and a little less scary then i would have hoped for ! but it was still good i don't think it should have had the guy jump out of the glass at the end of the show because that may have ruined the sequel. I thought that the guys face should have looked more fake when they saw it at the end and also he should have looked more used. the movie was predictable because when the guy lost his hand it was easy to tell that he was gonna have the hook connected in the sequel. the movie needed more things that would make you jump i think. it needed to be more scary by a lot! this movie was not as good as i would have hoped for but not as bad as it sounds it was alittle funny after watching scary movie 1/ it was still agood movie and should be raited at a 9 or a little less then that but it was not as scary and it had in my opinion too many flashfowards. it also needed more main characters. that is why i think the movie was predictable and not scary enough and i am only 12 PATHETIC! "},{"Title":"Kinda Like Prom Night only creepier","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Keeping a secret about an accident can be more of a hurt than a help. That's what these teens did in I Know What You Did Last Summer. Driving down the highway after graduation is traditionally fun, when they hit somebody, the first mistake was to dump the body in the ocean. That's the new classic storyline everyone will hear. Then when the year passes on, that memory haunts each an everyone of them. This movie slightly resembles Prom Night although this happened during graduation. This movie as a nice all-star cast Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Bridgette Wilson, and Anne Heche. It's a good thing that not all heroines are blondes. The payback for the murder is always grisly. Gellar's character loses half her hair, and everyone else receive threatening letters. And when they say we must fight back? They do. And Julie James(Love Hewitt) is the toughest character in the movie. She does come through in every way. Like I say, I enjoyed this movie through and through, very subtle in some ways, not much sex, almost no nudity, and it's not you typical teen horror movie. Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Film","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ===Warning May Contain A Small Spoiler===I Know What You Did Last Summer tells the story of four teens who makea brutal mistake to cover up the truth. Julie, Ray, Helen, and Barry are four friends who have just finished high school. On their way to starting their successful careers, the friends drive down to a beach for one last night of fun. However on the way home, they hit a man. An argument occurs on what they should do and Barry convinces the others despite Julie's pleas to dump the body. One year later, Julie who has been failing school and is having a really hard time comes home to Southport for her summer vacation. Once home she receives a letter with no return address, I Know What You Did Last Summer. Fearing the worst, Julie tracks down Barry, Ray, and Helen only to learn that there futures were trashed as well. What first seems like a joke soon turns into a deadly game of life and death with the four friends caught in the middle of it.The four main characters are played brilliantly especially Sarah Michelle Gellar as Helen. All in all, a great modern slasher flick which in my opinion ties with Scream as the best modern day slasher flick available. So rent it, you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"A Party Of Four, not to mention someone named Anne Heche","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, to retract this film from celluoid would be a generous offer if someone in a dream, or perhaps came into my hallucinogenic state of mind wiped it away, but I have to live with the casualties of some of the films I watch, wome wreak havoc, some leave me crying in the aisles and some just flat out make me want to never watch a movie again and just start roaming around Hollywood with a picket fence protesting movies like this from coming out!!!What can I do, I declare the position of being a film buff, I cant help it, it has got me through some pretty struggling times in my life. Movies like this , just do not help. When I want to watch a horror movie, I know its all been done before and I take this into heavy consideration before I take my seat to watch it. I've seen nearly every horror movie from low budget high school kids filming around with their camcorder and accidentally had it stuffed wayyyyyy down on the bottom shelf of a Blockbuster somewhere in the mojave desert and some end up on the top shelf of Blockbuster across the globe. This film, I think I would love see stuffed in some elderly couples attic in a 1000 year old house, along with the corpse that used to be grandpa Teddy that had contributed his life by participating in The Boston Tea Party.I've seen this film before, only its interspersed , sliced and diced and the elements are just so formulaic it would make Woody Allen ponder why he even tries to come up with anything witty and original if he could make money off of making movies that have already been made. It's a easy business, believe me. Sarah Michelle Gellar is just something to look at, Freddy Prinze Jr. would not be anywhere in film if he didn't have a famous dad(who, sad and tragic, I'm sorry he killed himself, but in my opinion was not the funniest thing on the planet), Jennifer Love Hewitt, which I couldn't stop staring at her cleavage long enough to begin to understand what she was doing in the middle of a street acting like Rocky Balboa, and Ryan Phillipe who I think has submerged into Hollywood oblivion, last time I checked anyway(anyone seen 54, nuff said). It was a party of four and yet, none of them were plausible in this movie, I felt I just watched all the kids in every horror movie in every generation of wooden acting collide or maybe the stars were prodigies and I just didn't quite composite that idea or notion in my head....in any case Anne Heche comes to save the day!!!Anne Heche for some reason has become one of my favorite underrated actress's, she has played in it all. Low budget Cinemax, some mediocrity performances in even more mediocre movies(Volcano was it???) and even a couple of Lifetime movies and made for television programs...oh and well of course she has appeared on television such as sitcom and some drama series's. Does it matter? Yes, in this case it does, with this movie. She plays the trailer park trash female with perfect poise. Such as in one scene she was standing talking to that other chick(I think her name is Jennifer something) and the way she stands there, looking like she was about to grab a stick she had kept snugged in the fireplace and itch her entire body or revealed just by her poise and posture that she had poison ivy or some skin condition that scientiests would be baffled before inoculating(and yes, most of these inoculations are usually done in Alabama and Arkansas). Come on, she was great and somewhere, in some time, somehow, maybe Jerry Springer gave her a ring a ding ding to have her appear on his show, at that time Jerry Springer was daaaa bomb!!!I hated this movie, I hated everything about it and of course I know what I did that summer....I wasted four bucks and the popcorn didn't even have that much butter on it!!!! Ugh....3/10! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but nothing to Scream about.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of the better, and more successful, followers of Scream (1996) is also written by Scream writer Kevin Williamson and loosely based on Lois Duncan's novel of the same title.Four North Carolina youths accidentally run-down a stranger with their car one dark night. Fearing punishment they cover up the accident, only to have someone terrorizing them over it a year later.With Gillespie's slick direction and Williamson's intriguing story, I Know What You Did Last Summer becomes a more intelligent kind of slasher film. As with the earlier Scream, Williamson's screenplay is full of cheeky humor and great suspense sequences. The movie is beautifully filmed in South Port, NC. There's a good score and sound track to boot, especially the cover of the old Deep Purple song 'Hush' which basically becomes the movie's theme song thanks to the trailer.The cast is quite good, with the exception of Prinze Jr. who does a completely wooden performance! Jennifer Love Hewitt makes for a great heroine, Sarah Michelle Gellar a stunning best friend, and Phillippe as the token jerk boyfriend.It's a completely fun watch for slasher fans and is one that deserves a better chance than most people give it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Classic Sarah Michelle Gellar","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is the bomb to start off. Especially since it had Sarah Michelle Gellar in it! Her classic chase scene has inspired many more writers, directors, and actors/actress's to have their own chase scenes. Not to mention writer Kevin Williamson (Scream, Writter) made it very original! A bit disappointing though, none that Scream/Dawson's Creek vocabulary dialog is in it. You know? Say for example in Scream where Neve Campbell says Would you settle for a PG-13 relation ship? which is in Kevin's own words. But we all know who thank especially, Lois Duncan for professionally writing a witty book that would inspire another young writer to give it a twist! Helen's chase scene, 10-10! You go girl! Jeniffer Love Hewwit's character was very Sidney Presscot! Kevin has a thing for bringing that kind of emotion to a main character! People adore that in a movie, this teen slasher flick has inspired others as well. Sure first it was all Friday the 13th, and Nightmare on Elm Street before but now teen slashers are BIG! We can thank Kevin for that! Sarah Michelle Gellar's chase scene brought many other blonde chase scenes to the big screen! Jeniffer Love Hewitt's character is a step up from Neve Campbell's character in Scream! I Know What you Did Last Summer is the best of them all! You should definitely see it! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, but one of the best teen slasher movies.","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is one of the first of the teen slasher genre, and it's probably one of the best. But that's not to say it's a good movie. It's the story of four teenagers Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Ray (Freddie Prinze, Jr.), Barry (Ryan Phillippe), and Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar). On the 4th of July one year, they drunkenly hit a man crossing the road and dump his body in the lake so as to hide the evidence. But a year later, someone begins sending Julie threatening notes stating that they know what she did last summer. Whoever is sending these notes begins to stalk the four of them with one thing in mind--vengeance.Considering that the teen slasher genre is a rather simple and shallow one, calling I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER one of the best of the genre doesn't say much. The premise is a lot more clever than those of most of the genre, but it's not carried out very well. The majority of the movie is the four teens trying to solve the mystery of who is doing these things to them, while the actual slashing is only a feature of the movie. That's a good thing, but the actual detective work isn't very interesting in itself. And the slashing... well, let's just say that it's very predictable and timed just right, with only one or two scares/surprises throughout the whole movie. The score lets you know exactly when and where the parts that are supposed to be scary come in. And the script is almost ridiculous.Almost everything is overacted and very melodramatic. Jennifer Love Hewitt is actually a good actress, but her role is very limited and doesn't require much. She seems to get the brunt of the corny lines and moments. Ryan Phillippe is actually pretty good as the arrogant and brash Barry, even though his role is very limited as well. Freddie Prinze, Jr., and Sarah Michelle Gellar deliver pretty wooden performances, though you can't really blame them as they're given very little to work with. Anne Heche does all right in an unnecessary cameo.I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a pretty ridiculous film, but if you're into the genre, you can't get much better. 5/10. "},{"Title":"If You're Going to Bury the Truth, Make Sure It's Buried Forever!","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" An advice, When you leave a man for dead, make sure he's really dead!. Jennifer Love Hewitt (Party of five) and Sarah Michelle Gellar (Scream 2) starring with Ryan Phillipe (54) and Freddie Prinze Jr (Scooby Doo), this terrifying tail of a guy who doesn't want to be death at all. After of one incident at a weird and dark highway, 4 teenagers made one big mistake of dumped a guy to the sea. But exactly a year after the accident, the death man came back of his tomb looking for more than a simple apologize. 100% of laughs and chills than scream, You wouldn't rather to watch it alone. Also I recommend Scream, Urban Legend and The Haunting. "}{"Title":"I really don't need to know...","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has problems. Lots of them. First of all this movie is extremely light on the gore. It's almost no brutal deathscenes at all. Nothing to remember or have a laugh at.Second, it's predictable as hell. You'll know when someones going to die a long time before it happens.Third, it almost has no thrills. It's plain boring most of the time.Fourth the plot manages to be both unoriginal and unexciting.-Some spoilers ahead!-Fifth The stupid characters. I mean Oh we hit a guy. He's probably dead. Let's throw him into the water.These kind of MTV-slasher wannabe movies should be outlawed so no one will be able to make the mistake of actually watch them.Garbage!3/10 "},{"Title":"Skip the book....watch the movie!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was wicked scary! A great movie to watch at night with your pals. I read the book after I watched the movie and I enjoyed the movie much more. It was scarier than the book. Their are accually many diffeences. BUT WATCH THE MOVIE! It was great! I loved it. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Tame, by the numbers slasher film still manages to earn some big scares and features an appealing cast. A group of teenagers shortly after graduation accidently kill someone. Fearing police charges the kids take matters into their own hands by getting rid of the body. Flash foward one year, now the kids begin to recieve threatening letters and are starting to disappear cause of a person who claims I Know What You Did Last Summer. Rated R; Violence, Profanity, Mild Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"What a load of cr@p!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this movie sucked! It wasn't remotely scary and as for the acting, I can honestly say that I've never seen worse! I don't usually give bad reviews but this movie was one of the few I just couldn't stand. I only watched it because it was on TV one night and I must have set my expectations too high because I was extremely disappointed. Once again, I apologize to those fans, but Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Phillippe in particular were horrible. You could obviously tell they were acting, and if you can tell that an actor/actress is acting then they're not a good actor (If that makes any sense). It has to at least look like they really are scared, but when I saw this movie I could see no reason why people shouldn't send it up. Freddie Prinze Jr. wasn't any better. If you want a movie that is actually scary and has good actors, see a real horror movie like The Shining or The Exorcist (you'll notice that they're both in the Top 250, and for a reason). But if you'll settle for second best, see the sequel I Still know what you did last Summer because it's better. If you want a good teen horror movie see Scream. It's actually scary!My Rating 2 out of 10. The only reason I didn't give it 1 is because it was mildly entertaining. "},{"Title":"A great horror movie!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie recently on TV and I have to say I really enjoyed it! The movie is done really well and everything plays out perfectly. I Know What You Did Last Summer is a really scary movie and I was really scared. Some of the scenes are amazingly set up, they are set up with music and spooky camera angles, it's very well done. The acting is good too, everyone in it does a great job and the suspense is very nail-biting. The only bad thing was the ending, when we finally discover who the killer is, it's just puzzling, I didn't quite get it. But overall, the movie is scary and it's great to watch... but not alone! "},{"Title":"Good showcase for two of the nicest pieces in B movies","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is strictly a B movie, and that's being generous. It's just another incarnation of the now all too familiar Friday the 13th formula; callow teens on the run from an unknown homicidal maniac. I enjoyed watching it because there's plenty of the two yummiest pieces in the industry, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt. Both appear in various segments either scantily clad or in tight fitting clothing, and therefore this movie is often very easy on the eyes. Love-Hewitt in particular frequently displays the outline of her ample bosom and cleavage, and Gellar simply has one of the most beautiful faces I have ever seen. After getting through the movie though, it's not too difficult to understand why neither has had a meteoric acting career. Both are blatantly marketed based on their sex appeal. While Gellar at least has some talent, Hewitt comes off as very canned. If you regard this movie as a showcase for these two beauties and not as a horror classic, you wont be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I know what I should have done....","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ....and that's not watched this drivel. This type of film has been done repeatedly, and the effort made here is no better or worse than many of it's predecessors. Lots of shocks, screaming and yelling, but little in the way of cutting edge cinema. The ending looked pretty stupid but I suppose the producers are setting us up for the sequel. Teens will probably like this bilge; I sure didn't.  "},{"Title":"Another in a long line of inexplicably successful teen slasher movies that would fall flat if people would realize what they were watching.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit that I enjoyed this movie when I first saw it. I got a lot of good thrills out of it and basically just had a good time. However, when I watched it on video, the larger than life quality was entirely removed and I noticed a lot of things that hadn't occurred to me when I saw it in the theater. The acting, for example, was absolutely awful from everyone involved except for Anne Heche in the few scenes that she was in. And what is the big deal about Jennifer Love Hewitt?! She may be moderately attractive but she is one of the worst actresses I've ever seen, and I've seen some horrible acting (see Nightmare Weekend). Sarah Michelle Gellar is totally unconvincing and Ryan Phillippe delivers the worst performance of his career. And don't even get me started on Freddie Prinze Jr. His eyebrows say it all every time.Besides that, the story, although theoretically possible, was terribly presented. A bunch of teenagers are partying and driving out in the hills late at night, they accidentally hit a man and, thinking he's dead, dump his body into a river to avoid having their lives needlessly ruined. Did anybody notice that just before the man in question had a little underwater tug-of-war with Barry (Ryan Phillippe) for Helen's (Sarah Michelle Gellar) princess crown, the man opened his eyes and Barry actually screamed in terror? Given that, I hope I wasn't the only one laughing every time these morons speculated that maybe he wasn't really dead... HE GRABBED THE CROWN, HELD IT FIRMLY WHILE IT WAS WRENCHED FROM HIS FINGERS, AND OPENED HIS EYES, YOU IDIOTS!!! How could they have been so stupid? Of COURSE he wasn't dead.Besides that, why did he torment these poor kids? They did him a favor! Because of 'what they did last summer,' he is now able to perform superhuman acts. Not only can he survive tremendous bodily harm (in true Michael Myers form), but he can also perform menial tasks like loading and unloading a trunk full of crabs (dead human body optional) in a matter of seconds, and that includes flawless cleaning! Think of the market value of a skill like that! If I were him, I wouldn't be trying to kill anyone, I'd be getting rich! He can also move with superhuman speed, the lucky guy.Oh wait, you gotta hear about another of my favorite parts. Just after the accident, Barry suggests that they dump the body because it won't do any good for them all to take the fall. Julie then reciprocates by saying that if there is some of the man on the car, then there's some of the car on him and when he's found the police will be able to find out whose car it was. How's that again? They can do that? I know that BMWs are nice cars. My uncle owns one, it's an amazing machine. But do they cover those cars with paint which can be used to identify each individual car? Is that what they are suggesting in this scene? Or are they just quickly establishing Julie James as a complete moron as early in the film as possible? She sure was dumb in her cutesy love scene with Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.) at the closing of the film. I never thought I'd say this, but this movie had a love story that was even more clumsily thrown in than your average Jerry Bruckheimer film (even more than the ridiculous Coyote Ugly, which made an entire film out of one of these goofy romance flops). I wanted you back, Julie. I couldn't lose you again. I feel your pain, Ray. SHUT UP!! BOTH OF YOU!! I have never seen worse cheese than that in all my life. And yes, she really did say I feel your pain. As is obviously the case, I was ultimately not at all impressed by this movie. I liked it when I was in high school and didn't know any better, but now that my head in on straight, I can see that it is clearly a pathetic attempt to cash in on the seemingly endless stream of teen scream movies with which the unsuspecting public was bombarded in the late 1990s. If you liked Scream, good for you. It was a good movie. If you want more, stay away from I Know What You Did Last Summer (as well as its equally awful sequel, I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago), and also try to avoid the mediocre Scream sequels. Watch something that is at least moderately entertaining, like Urban Legend (I said entertaining, not original) or The Blair Witch Project. I Know What you Did Last Summer is an honest attempt, but it is also a dismal failure.  "},{"Title":"Unscary and disappointing.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The most amazing thing about I Know What You Did Last Summer is how unscary it is; the number of genuine scares is surprisingly low. The film does sustain your interest throughout, but the generally unsurprising script, the standard direction and the bland, indistinct characters doom it to mediocrity. Overall, it's passable stuff, but unworthy of its reputation as an above-average, hip slasher film. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Who Cares?","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER flubs all the necessities of an entertaining slasher movie.  No scares, no sizzle, no humor.  Four unlikable teens, recently graduated from high school, commit a hit-and-run, disposing of their victim's body in the sea.  The next summer they are back home, and lo, they are notified that somebody knows what they did last summer!  The revenge-seeker that stalks the teens, their friends and family dresses like a New England fisherman in slicker and hat.  As the movie is supposed to be set on the North Carolina coast in summer, this in itself is a hoot.  Also are the spooky rocky headlands of same coast.  Give me a break.  I ramble, but so did the movie, going nowhere and boring to death.  Avoid this, there are better.  Try SINGLE WHITE FEMALE, which does a much better job with the genre. "}{"Title":"Deserves much more credit than it got","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The reason many people didn't like I Know What You Did Last Summer was because it came out not long after Scream (1996).  Some people saw it expecting something much more similar to Scream than this was.  Other people felt that this was just a knock-off of Scream, trying to cash in on it.  I will admit that it is possible that this is true to an extent, but it was written by Kevin Williamson (the same person who wrote Scream.) Besides, most people didn't accuse Scream 2 (1997) of doing that, and that was a standard sequel (Not continuing the story, just repeating it.)  I thought I Know What You Did Last Summer was made well enough to rival Scream.  It had an elaborate back-story which I found very interesting. The group of kids who had to deal with being responsible for someone's death added realistic emotion to the movie.  And for those slasher/horror fans, who are by now getting bored with this review, the blood in this movie was not the most abundant I've seen, but more realistic than anything else.  If you've already seen it, remember when it is sprayed across the glass?  I've never seen any moment in any movie where the blood was so realistic.  The acting was also very good, in my opinion.  Jennifer Love Hewitt did a convincing performance as someone who had been through all she had.  One thing I don't get is how many people thought it was very predictable.  They apparently weren't paying attention to the plot twist toward the end of the movie.  Although the ending of the movie was not in the book, and although it was probably included for the sequel opportunity only, the way it ended was perfect for a horror movie.  Not to give anything away, but that's a type of ending you won't find in too many other movies.  That was perfect, and should have been left just the way it was.  However, it was ruined by the fact that a sequel was made.  Of all the horror movies that were made starting with Scream, this was the one I liked the most, and its sequel was the one I liked the least, by far.  In fact, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (1998) was so bad that not only was it a bad movie, but it was so bad that it completely ruined the first movie.  Don't see that one, or even recognize its existence.  If you want further details, I reviewed it. As for I Know What You Did Last Summer, it gets a perfect 10.  And just to avoid any confusion, I really liked both Scream and Scream 2. "},{"Title":"Overall I Found This Silly Rather Than Frightening","Date":"9 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" For a movie that led off what what may be the most ominous musical score I've ever heard, in the end it disappoints. There's a slow start which eventually leads up to the main event of the movie - the car accident, which apparently kills a mysterious pedestrian who was crossing the street in the middle of nowhere. A year later, the four teenagers who were in the car (and who thought they'd covered up the accident rather well) begin to get mysterious notes from someone claiming I know what you did last summer. They've become targets of - someone, and the rest of the movie follows that mystery as the kids try to figure out who's trying to kill them and why.To be honest, this movie lost my attention rather quickly. It's supposed to be frightening, but for the most part I didn't find it to be frightening. There's several rather bloody or gory scenes, but few truly frightening moments. In fact, all the way through this seemed to have an unfortunate atmosphere of silliness to it. The young cast was OK, but not great, and the story itself seemed to be trying almost too hard to be mysterious, but in the end it really only served to confuse me. The last fifteen minutes or so on the boat turned out to be not too bad. It was fairly suspenseful in fact, as Julie (played by Jennifer Love Hewitt) desperately tried to escape from the crazed fisherman/murderer who's been responsible for stalking them all this time.Those last fifteen minutes are pretty good, but the movie had so lost me by the time they appeared that I was having trouble at that point putting the pieces together and understanding exactly why this guy wanted the kids dead. So, it's got some good moments in it, but overall I found it to be a pretty weak movie. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Very ordinary and stupid","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Four high school friends are out partying one night after their high school graduation. They are Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.). While driving home they accidentally hit a man on a dark road. Instead of doing the right thing (going to the police), they dump the body in a lake and swear never to tell anyone. This basically destroys their relationship and they part. A year later they all start to get notes stating I know what you did last summer and find someone is stalking them.An inexplicable box office hit. This was made in the wake of Scream--another big hit. The thing is that Scream was scary, clever and poked fun at dumb slasher movies. This movie is exactly the kind of movie that Scream made fun of. The basic plot idea is stupid but OK and they have some good actors in it, but it gets dumber by the minute. There are red herrings galore and huge gaps in logic.PLOT SPOILERS!!! Barry is killed in a pretty bloody way but, minutes later, there's not a bit of blood anywhere. Julie find a dead wet body in the trunk of her car and, minutes later, it's completely gone and the trunk is totally dry. The killer manages to turn off the lights in a store--but he's nowhere near the light switch. Helen is running from the killer but, just a few steps away from safety, she stops (for no reason) and just stands there so the killer can get her. I could go on and on--those are just a few examples of the stupidity in this script. PLOT SPOILER END!!!! I'm a big horror fan and I realize logic goes out the window in most slasher films BUT this one goes too far. It just gets more insulting as it goes on with stupid actions and impossible incidents left and right. I got the distinct feeling that the makers of this were treating the audience with utter contempt and got more and more annoyed as the movie progressed. The only thing that kept me watching were the four leads. These aren't their best performances--Prinze appears drugged and Phillippe's constant yelling got tiresome--but I like all the actors and they kept my attention. But, all in all, this was a stupid insulting horror film devoid of scares--or logic. This only gets 2 because it's better than its even worse sequel. "},{"Title":"Good premise, poor direction","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Four teens celebrating their graduation from High School go out celebrating - sex on the beach, drinking, and joy riding on a seemingly empty road, but their fun is suddenly stopped when they hit someone. Knowing that if anyone else finds out what happened they'll be in deep trouble, they decide to dump the body and never speak of it again. Next summer, after they have come back from college, someone claims they know what happened that fateful summer night a year ago. Someone who is apparently very angry. Someone who has a nasty hook and knows how to use it.At first this seems like an intriguing premise - the naughty kids getting their due and since the naughty kids are the principle characters, it puts the viewer right into the middle of the film's suspense. However this pretty good opening, which could have made a nice genre entry, soon dissolves into an poorly directed and down right boring film.First off, the film's body count is very disappointing. It makes sense since the killer is targeting specific people, but the counter-part, the character's psychological terror of being hunted and their own conflicts between themselves is hardly convincing. As a result the film feels like it was shot with a screenplay that had many pages torn out. Second, the strong horror violence promised by the MPAA is remarkably limited making only quick cut appearances which become very poorly directed by the end with generic angle and reverse angle shots. That essentially ruins the film right there - boring carnage and unconvincing psychological terror make for a poor horror film. 3/10Rated R slasher violence and profanity "},{"Title":"Average Horror Flick","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is worth watching, but is not particularly special.The killer is fairly scary for much of the film, and his weapon (a fish hook), is particularly effective in the killing scenes.  However, he stops being scary in the climax, when we see his face, and find out who he is, as he stops being intreresting.Much of the plot is fairly predictable, with nothing particularly original.  Also, the plot includes several elements that don't make sense when you think about them afterwards, but are shoehorned in.To be fair, this is scary in parts, but this is fairly average.  The comparison with Scream is appropriate, but only in the sense that Scream was quite ironic, and didn't take itself, or horror in general, seriously, and had its own twist on the the genre, whereas this is fairly standard horror, and nothing special. "},{"Title":"LAME!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so boring and uneventful it wasn't even funny. It's not scary, it's not thrilling, it's not anything. It's just a good way to fall asleep. It is one of the lamest movies ever. I cannot express this enough. There are no redeeming qualities about this film. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Popular horror films have always been responsible for the spawning of really bad imitations and clones. It's a fact. So flash forward to 1996 and there's Scream with it's acclaimed pop culture references as it goes on to rake in quite the sum of dough. Suddenly horror movies are hot property again. Popular, in vogue, and yet again, another wave of really bad imitations looking to cash in are unleashed on us ... and perhaps the worst?Written by Scream scribe Kevin Williamson, 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is a movie absolutely void of anything redeeming in my book. It's not scary, it's not entertaining. The title literally tells the tale of how four stereotypical teens (acting like all ill-responsible teens do in movies of this sort) accidentally kill a man with their car. They make a pact to keep it secret except (oops) someone knows. Soon they get letters with the self-entitled words I Know What You Did Last Summer and I'm left to assume the letters are coming from that dude in a rain slicker walking around with a fish hook. Only the makers of this film know how we're supposed to care about any of the main characters. How can we be rightfully sympathetic towards them after they kill someone and hide it? Have I missed something here? It's not like their awful personalities are winning me over. When they are faced with certain death, I didn't care. When some of them meet their gruesome demise, I didn't care. See a pattern here? I seriously doubt it was the intention to make the killer an anti-hero too. This flick is so pedestrian in its making and execution that it couldn't think outside of the box if it's life depended on it.Scenes are telecast from miles away. There's a foray of stalking, red herrings, extended chase sequences, girls screaming loudly and the killer who can disappear and reappear inhumanly fast. Have I mentioned the hot soundtrack and the obligatory sequel smelling finale yet? 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' was the first, but not the last in a line of bad horror flicks that will invade our theaters and television sets and I can't imagine it getting any worse than this. "},{"Title":"I Know That I Hate This Movie","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Undoubtedly one of the worst major motion pictures ever and proof that Kevin Williamson is not as good a writer as people give him credit for (I don't care if it is an adaptation - in fact, that only makes my point stronger).The movie is not suspenseful, and it's just dumb when it tries to be.  Furthermore, many of the scenes are laughable, especially since the film takes itself so seriously.  Besides that, all the characters that die deserve to - they get killed because they go someplace alone knowing that a killer is after them or they backtrack while the killer is pursuing them.  The moral ambiguity of the characters doesn't foster a sense of sympathy, either.  Of course, it probably doesn't help that I hate all the actors in the leads (except for Gellar).I hear the sequel is worse.  I can't imagine.  1/10 "},{"Title":"So bad, so funny","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know...last summer is a terrible film. It's so bad, that it  becomes funny. It's very easy to guess what will happen in the next scene. I can imagine Hitchcock, in heaven, watching I Know...summer and crying a lot. "},{"Title":"silly PG-13 teen horror.","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A lot of people liked this movie when it came out but even when it first came out I thought it was garbage and not even the slighest bit scary and I was about nine years old. The acting was terrible the plot was silly and all over the place. Just not a very good attempt not even worth watching.This movie is about a group of friends while out one night partying, drinking and driving they hit a man. They check on him and assume he is dead so they throw him into the ocean so not to get in trouble by the cops. Even though they were the only ones there but then they start getting harassed by someone saying I know what you did last summer.This movie was not good at all. I will never understand why people justify making a slasher horror movie PG-13 like give me a break give this movie an R and a new cast and it might be something watchable. "}{"Title":"Fun, A Classic Chase Scene, and a Great performance by Sarah Michelle Gellar","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is great! The ACTING IS BETTER THAN IN MOST HORROR FILMS ALSO. Freddie Prinze Jr i the only one that fails to capture emotion. Jennifer Love Hewitt gives great acting in the actual scene where they hit the man, but other than that she is okay. Ryan Phillipe is also great, but its easy to play an air head that curses and is mad at everyone. The best performance has to be given by Sarah Michelle Gellar. She is great going from a natural beauty, to a scared off helpless girl. She conveys emotions well and her chase scene in this film is a classic. I would recommend this film for that reason only. Its fun, but kinda forgettable after a while. Anne Heche also gives a very good performance, even if its small. See it. You will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining teen slasher","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer was made a year after Scream, it even has the same writer. Scream, though, was much better. This movie isn't anything new or interesting, it's just like all the slasher movies that followed it, there is a group of good-looking teens that get hacked up one by one. IKWYDLS is one of the better ones though, as the acting is actually fairly good, there are one or two scenes of suspense and the killer is somewhat creepy.Four teens hit a man. They dump his body. A year later they all start receiving threatening messages. Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) decides to find out who it is before the July 4th, the one year anniversary of their accident.For a teen slasher, this is OK. But their are a few things that kind of spoil what could have been a fairly decent movie. The deaths in this aren't very gory or interesting, which is needed for a slasher. The ending is really bad and of course, led way to the sequel, I Still Know, which was one of the worst movies ever made. The actors all did great jobs, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar (who is involved in a 7 minute chase scene that is very intense).2½/5. "},{"Title":"Hateful Teens Get What's Coming To Them","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I like to say something positive about every film I review, so I will get that out of the way by saying that Jennifer Love Hewitt never looked better than she does here. The movie poster made her career, along with the scene of her standing in the street and yelling after finding crabs in her trunk (now if that isn't subliminal somehow...). The movie picks up when she starts walking around in that little low-cut blue top. If there is any reason to watch the film now, it is to watch her fleeting moment of glory before she started putting on weight. She looks mighty fine.Overall, this film is ruined by terrible acting and busy direction. We don't get just a scene of the actors walking along - no, we first have to see a random fisherman carrying a humongous fish, I guess to establish that, yes, those fishing boats in the background do indeed mean that this is a fishing village. Sloppiness abounds. As for the acting, don't get me started. Sarah Michelle Gellar reads her lines like a prim schoolgirl reading cue cards with her perfect little pronunciations that sound like she is trying desperately for that A in elocution. Ryan Phillipe plays his character as if he wants us to throw darts at the movie screen. JLH is mousy one minute and hyperactive the next, and Freddie Prinze Jr. shows he is the master at looking blank while everybody else is over-acting. Everyone seems to be self-conscious in the extreme, straining to create that little extra touch of suspense from random scenes that contain no suspense at all.As for the script, I credit Kevin Williamson with creating characters so unlikeable that we begin rooting for the Gorton Fish Guy to finish them off quickly. They hit some poor schnook in the road, and only get upset at what might happen to THEM. By the way, they know the guy they hit wasn't dead because he moaned and opened his eyes - hello? Are we supposed to feel sympathy for people who don't lift a finger to help an innocent victim they hit and who, as events overwhelmingly establish, was not fatally hurt? This scene in particular was parodied nicely in Scary Movie, but the whole film is ripe for that treatment.So much makes no sense. Ryan Phillipe goes around punching people at random, really personifying the Ugly Teen paradigm that is the heart and soul of this film, yet the remorseless killer charitably spares his life early in the film - why? Sarah Michelle Gellar, lose the Marlon Brando biker hat! The Jennifer Love Hewitt character, Little Miss Know-It-All (they have a much better name for her in Scary Movie), draws instant conclusions from nothing (This is his weekend, if he's going to do it, he will do it now - huh?). The first teen killed, I don't get that, he had nothing to do with the incident at all and in fact kind of sees through the ugly teens' act, why would the killer target him at all, much less first? So much makes no sense. Meanwhile, the teens walk around in their own little self-absorbed dreamworld while everyone else is oblivious to everything. Um, the world at large really isn't that clueless, you know....It's difficult to like a film when you can't like the characters. Ugly teens - don't get me wrong, they are pretty boys and girls, just ugly in the sense of being utterly unlikeable, self-absorbed and arrogant - are a really shaky foundation on which to build a film. Williamson should have gone all the way and made it clearer they had it coming by giving some insight into the slasher's character and motives. As it is, we are driven to try to empathize with characters we also are driven to despise. That internal contradiction ruins the film, well, unless you really do start rooting for the killer....A wildly over-rated film that may please fans of the actors, but probably not too many others. May also be good if you want to see arrogant little High School Gods and Goddesses get their comeuppance. "},{"Title":"not shockingly original but still entertaining","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Four high school teens in a small coastal town celebrate their graduation before they go off to college, but the celebration is abruptly cut short when they accidentally hit a drifter along the road. Fearing the repercussions, they dispose of the evidence and make a vow to never speak of it again, but a year later they receive threatening messages and terrifying scares. Setup is familiar, plotting is routine, but good direction, solid performances, and a genuine sense of fear and suspense make this spine-chiller an above average addition to the teen horror genre. The script and film as a whole could benefit from some tightening, but there are enough high points to make it worth watching. **½ "},{"Title":"Made for under 18 girls!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I won't bore you with a long story but I watched this movie as it came out on rental with my 14 year old sister. She loved it- she was genuinely scared and has watched it many times before taking it back. By the end of the week most at the kids from school had seen the movie as it was the latest release, and i had never a film where it has such a different opinion......mainly by gender.  All the girls loved this movie, I don't think I talked to one that didn't like it. They thought it was terrifying! Yet the boys had a different view, including myself- I really disliked this movie for some reason. It had good acting- I'll give it that! It had some brilliant actors in it like Sarah Michelle Geller and Freddie Prince Jr. Unlike the terrible Jennifer Love Hewitt, who very annoyingly turns out to be the heroine.My big problem with this movie was the story. It starts very well, but after the car crash it just gets worst and worst every minute. The murders (which are very few) are slow, laughable and very un-intense. And the murderers outfit!!!!!! They really have ran out of ideas after the plain white mask, hockey mask, scarred face, fencing mask, death costume and scream mask there ideas were now a........fisherman's outfit. Truly awful!As the movie drags on to the final scenes we find ourselves watching a fishing boat for the finale with the killer. After being apparently 'killed' in laughable fashion, (shock shock- his hand comes off!'And the last scene is just annoying because unlike how this is used successfully in other films (Halloween) by telling us the killer isnt really dead it just leaves us confused and dreading a sequel. I'm a huge horror fan but this really was awful viewing and reached my top 5 worst horror movies. Although maybe I'm wrong because the girls loved it. This is probably the ideal movie for a girly sleep-over but for real horror fans- avoid! Thats my opinion anyway- I'd give it 2/10 "},{"Title":"If you're going to bury the truth, make sure it stays buried.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the ultimate teenage horror flick ever. Sarah Michelle Gellar makes a stunning performance as Helen Shivers the girl who can run but can't hide and Jennifer Love Hewitt as Julie James the smart and mature one who figures it all out in the end. Freddie Prinze j.r is Ray Bronson who is the one left out in almost the hole film but has a big part as the one who knew the secrets and unravelled it all before anyone and was the one who accidentally started the accident because of Ryan Phillippe who plays Barry Cox the bossy big-shot quarter-back who basically started the whole deal with the killer and all that stuff by being drunk. The killer is a big secret who could never be identified but was an obvious killer when thought about. Four Teenagers celebrating the summer holidays and accidentally run down a man while drunk on the road. Not thinking straight they dump the body in the sea and swear to secrecy. 1 year later They have all split up but each individually begin to get letters and then more serious things happen to them which forces them to reunite. Sworn to secrecy, they can't tell anyone what happened but if they are being pushed about by the stalker any longer they are all afraid their secret may be revealed. Best film of mine I have to admit. Bridgette Wilson also stars as Helens curious, ignorant sister. "},{"Title":"Are you sure you did what you think you did?","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Very good horror flick. Sometimes a little obvious, but yet still fun to watch. The gore comes in quick bursts. The suspense keeps you on the edge of your seat and then hooked. Four friends are stalked by an unknown killer after accidentally hitting a man with a car and dumping his body.The foursome is made up of Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillippe. As far as acting ability goes  Hewitt and Prinze showed their potential for bigger things. Anne Heche plays one of her most strangest roles and does so with conviction. Muse Watson plays the fisherman swinging a mean hook.  This scary enough to keep you happy, slasher fiends. "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The best part of this film comes with the opening credits, when we hear Type O Negative's excellent rendition of the cheesy old Seals & Crofts song Summer Breeze.  Unfortunately, the song soon ends and the movie starts.This film bears little resemblance to the book upon which it was based, which is a shame because the book was really quite good.  The book was about four teens who strike a young boy with their car, accidentally killing him. The boys' older brother tracks them down when one of the girls sends flowers to the funeral.  It was a story about taking responsibility for your actions, and about the different (and extreme) ways that guilt and grief affect us all.  The movie version, however, scraps all that and gives us a hook-handed slasher who cannot be stopped and will not die.  It's Jason Voorhees on the beach.The teens are all flawlessly beautiful and perfectly one-dimensional, although Jennifer Love-Hewitt does try to convey a severe case of guilty conscience and mostly succeeds.  The story quickly becomes ridiculous as crabs are stuffed into the trunk of a car and then inexplicably disappear (I suppose if you were H. P. Lovecraft, this might be considered scary) and one girl is subjected to the spine- tingling terror of a professional haircut while she sleeps!  Oh god, the horror! The Fisherman (wow, what a terror inspiring nickname - next we'll have the Mailman or the Burger Chef, I guess) stalks silently through the film in his yellow rain slicker and floppy hat, impaling people on his silver steel hook. And I didn't care about any of the victims.  Granted, you're not really supposed to care much about the characters in a film like this, but this is far from innovative stuff here; there's just nothing to appreciate.  I was bored silly with this one. Give me Friday the 13th any day. "},{"Title":"An average slasher flick featuring the superstars of high school","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" What can I say? The movies I can relate to & remind me of my youth have been horror movies like I Know What You Did Last Summer.Barry is the guy you want to be, Ray is the guy you feel like & the girls remind you of the prettiest girls from school.Although this movie at times makes little sense something about it feels like magic to me. It could be the superstar cast, it could be the age I was when I first saw it, it could be Kevin Williamson's fairy dust (most likely it's all of these things).Overall for *most* people this will be an average movie. There isn't much suspense or great death scenes which are key for a good horror movie. For people who are looking for a good teen slasher movie (and David Arquette running around) I suggest you check out the underrated Scream (1). "},{"Title":"I Know What Movie Your Cashing In On......","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" When four friends accidentally hit and kill a man on a road at night, they panic and decide to dump the body into the sea. A year later, they all try to settle down again, but one of the friends receives a note in the post, with the words that would make a really good title for a horror movie riding on the success of Scream.. As each of the friends get their own reminder, and they finally accept the one thing they feared the most; someone knows what happened that night, and now they're out for revenge.......The premise is wonderful, a typical throwback to the slasher movies of the eighties, featuring a killer with decidedly just cause, but after nearly twenty years, it just doesn't hold up.Because of the advent of Scream, and the birth of ironic, wink wink cinema, IKWYDLS seems rather lost now in the vast world of the slasher picture, because it doesn't seem to know how to have fun with the high concept, to be a little tongue in cheek.Hewitt aside, the four central characters/actors are uninteresting capsules, almost programmed to function in the classic horror mould. Phillippe plays the most unconvincing Jock I've ever seen, Gellar, again unconvincing as a beauty scream queen, she just isn't scathing enough, and Prinze Jr., he's just channelling Keanu in Point Break.Whilst there is mysticism to the killer, once Julie meets him face to face, it's literally sixty seconds before she realises its him, thus giving the audience zero tension between the two, just straight to the chase around the boat.Anne Heche pops up in a very bizarre cameo to fill in a few plot points, and by the time it's all over, your thinking to yourself 'I'm glad she's looking better, but shouldn't have that been a little more fun?'.Funnily enough, the proper sequel is beyond bonkers, throws all logic out of the window, and it's all the better for it.Not bad by any means, just 15 years too late..... "}{"Title":"An entertaining thrill ride","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A group of partying teenagers accidentally hit someone while driving home on July 4th. Scared of what might happen if they report the incident, they proceed to dump the body. Unfortunately, the unrecognizable person isn't dead and, in a panic, is thrown into the sea still alive. A year goes by and the friends start receiving notes from someone who obviously knows their dark secret.I saw I Know What You Did Last Summer in the theater in 1997 and remember what an entertaining thrill ride it was. Everyone was amped up for teen slasher flicks at the time after the re-invention of the genre by Wes Craven's Scream. Writer Kevin Williamson penned the script and gave the film the same exciting twists and turns that made it a rousing success.The cast of I Know What You Did Last Summer helped pull in audiences from all directions. Jennifer Love Hewitt was familiar to many from her role in the successful television series Party of Five. Sarah Michelle Gellar played the lead in the smart and scary Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Pretty boys Ryan Phillipe and Freddie Prinze Jr. were just starting to make a name for themselves in Hollywood. It was what every teen wanted at the time and even now; Beautiful people getting hacked up one by one by a masked killer.I Know What You Did Last Summer is rated R for strong horror violence and language. It's rather tame by today's standards. The violence hearkens back to early Friday the 13th and Halloween movies. Although there are some adult situations, no nudity is found. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I thought it would be...","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" My all-time favorite movie is the 1981 Cape Breton slasher film My Bloody Valentine. I love Eighties (and Seventies) slashers, and since this one hadn't been tainted by the 21st century yet, I thought I'd check it out...Bad idea.While the soundtrack is brilliant and the scenery isn't bad, the characters are all shallow college students with nothing unique or interesting to motivate me to care what happened to them. The killer was boring, predictable and not very creepy, the acting was terrible and it seemed to just be trying to draw in cash fast with an audience of teenagers instead of making itself a memorable film.If you're a slasher fan and want something for your collection, check it out, although you may be disappointed. If you are new to the slasher genre, don't watch this one, try My Bloody Valentine (1981), Halloween (1979), Prom Night (1980) or Sleepaway Camp (1983). "},{"Title":"Not Bad Slasher Flick!","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Muse Watson star in this 1997 horror film. This takes place in a small fishing town where we meet teen friends, Julie (Hewitt), her boyfriend, Ray (Prinze), Helen (Gellar) and her boyfriend, Barry. They get ready to celebrate the 4th of July and get into a car accident when they hit a mysterious man. They assume he's dead and decide to dump his body in the water covering up their situation. A year later, they receive notes from someone who knows what they did that night and it turns out to be a hook-wielding killer who may have been there. Watson (From Dusk Till Dawn 2 Texas Blood Money) plays fisherman, Ben. This isn't a bad slasher flick featuring a decent cast and I recommend it for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"A flawed but fun slasher.","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time last night. Did I like it? Not entirely. In some ways it was good, but in more ways bad. However, the film does work for what it is a shallow teen slasher film that serves the sole purpose of entertainment.I'll admit, the film is quite flawed. It suffers from clichés, annoying characters, and delivers absolutely no scares at all. And yes, the film does mimic other, better horror movies such as Halloween (1978) and Scream (1996). However, despite theses flaws, the film can still be enjoyed by any horror fan for pure entertainment. Just so long as you don't watch it expecting a really good movie.So overall, I'd say watch it one night when you're home alone and bored, but watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"The chase scene saved the movie!!","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I grew up watching this movie. It was so scary. The beginning was so well directed, the movie IS well directed, and it has descent plot. The acting was so average except for Sarah michelle gellar(Helen). Freddie prince barely acted, jennifer love hewitt OVERACTED, and ryan philippe was just being his character ( like every other movie). The best scene was hands down helen's chase scene, i was literally biting my nails while watching this scene and i am guy. Sarah gellar did an amazing job, she was so believable, and didn't need to exaggerate to deliver unlike her co star jennifer(julie).Overall the movie was really fun to watch and yes i do recommend it. "},{"Title":"original slasher","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I know what you did last summer joins the list of one of many slasher films to be an amazing success. this film uses the best techniques when using jump scares, deaths and directory. many horror films such as sorority row have followed this film's foot steps. the acting that is featured in this film really does bring out the reality in the movie ( such as Sarah Michelle Gellar's chase scene and Ryan Philippe's car chase scene. the creativity and directory of this slasher classic really brings out a bang in the films story and reality. this film is a perfect example of an original slasher and deserves top marks. I recommend it to all horror lovers. "},{"Title":"This is a slick and enjoyable slasher. It's the perfect time waster, aside from FPJ's abysmal performance","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" (Plot) Four good looking teens commit inadvertent manslaughter after a night of celebrating, and there lives change forever one year later after people start turning up dead. I enjoy this film a lot for what it is. There I said it. I'm not ashamed to admit it to you either. After Scream came out and redefined the genre, many crappy slashers followed in pursuit to try and replicate it. It did have a few that were fun, and this badboy is one of them. This movie is very, very slick. The killer himself isn't all that imposing. A man with a hoodie and a hook just doesn't cut it for me. They really should have picked a killer that looked menacing. The stalk sequences make up for it though. They are consummate and highly suspenseful. The lengthy stalk sequence between The Fisherman & Helen (Gellar) was something else. It was stylish and had me on the edge of my seat like I was waiting for Jennifer Love Hewitt to arrive to be my date. Speaking of JLH&#x85;. The woman is serious scream queen material. I don't know if it was fear of typecasting or what, but she hasn't done a whole lot of horror since these movies. Granted, the sequel is atrocious, but I felt she was very solid here. She was likable, and screamed like a champ. She had the acting chops, the looks, and everything else. I loved how vulnerable her character became and how leery she was due to guilt. She pulled it off perfectly. Freddie Prinze Jr. is another story. Man, was he awful. Has he ever heard of acting classes? He should really take one. He was pretty bad to say the least. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a hottie, and likable to boot. She's involved in one of my favorite scenes in this film the hair cutting scene. Ryan Phillippe plays a great jock. His character was a real jerk, and he excelled at it, but I couldn't help but like him. Bridgette Wilson plays snotty to a T. Not much more to it than that. My only real complaints are is that Anne Heche's role is completely disposable. What was the point of her in this movie again? I also thought the ending was way too cheesy. It's like they were pressured to give the people a quick jolt at the end, and to setup the sequel. I deem it completely unnecessary. Final Thoughts I'm probably gonna get a lot of dirty looks after people read this review, but oh, well. I like it a lot and that's all there is to it. For an era of crappy slashers, this is one I can always go back to and have a blast. If you haven't seen it, to quote Jennifer Love Hewitt in this film WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?? 6.3/10 "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer-You Shouldn't Know **","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was absolute Gothic horror where 4 graduating high school teens waste a year in believing that they had killed a man who had crossed the road where they were driving.Turns out that someone else killed him for accidentally killing their daughter. The real killer is after the 4 now and the film descends into complete madness. The killer walks around with a hook trying to kill his victims. The bodies pile up including the sheriff of the town and the sister of one of the girls who was riding in the car. Does the hook killer actually think that he is Captain Hook from Peter Pan fame? "},{"Title":"real thriller","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" IT is a very fantastic movie , if you you are the one who likes Mystery and Thriller , so , it is the movie that you can watch. For any serious horror movie fans, this film is essential viewing, if only to witness the film that started it all.it has no disgusting horror, no cheap sex . Jennifer Love Hewitt is the most beautiful and attractive actor for me. you will found your self still watching till the end of the movie. i watched the film about 5 times.... and enjoyed it all the 5 times... it is not one of the traditional movies which depend on more blood... love Hewitt is the best... "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997)","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 2001's Jeepers Creepers and 1996's Scream are pretty much the reason we still have horror to this day in North America. Cliché and studio sequels pretty much killed the genre back in the early 90's. Especially studios like New Line Cinema which were running horror into the ground with awful films that were destroying the names of great directors like Tobe Hooper (1995's The Mangler) and John Carpenter (1995's In the Mouth of Madness), and 1980's phenomenon franchise Friday the 13th with 1993's Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday. All the smaller, independent studios were being gobbled up by bigger companies. Until we have today's current situation where Artisan was eaten by Lions Gate, Roger Corman's New Horizons by Disney, etc. Studios are responsible for scanning in on a small trend in the horror genre when it's making money, they rip it off, blow that up, and squeeze every last ounce from it until they figure it's not profitable anymore and move on, doing the same to another genre when they figure there's more to be made from romantic comedies or action flicks or family-friendly stuff.Scream's success gave Kevin Williamson a legitimate career and financed a trilogy. A very good one, all things considered. It also helped to revitalize the horror genre... Although, for better? I say worse. And surprisingly, I say that not because the trend of teen films it gave birth to was all that bad. It wasn't. It's because instead of moving on with fresher ideas, it taught filmmakers to simply copy the basic plot of a current popular film of the same sub-genre, add an alternate novelty twist, then press ahead with a big budget and see if the new Mtv music video directing hot shot would give them Scream type returns. It was a matter of investment. It was all about money and how much it would buy. Nobody fixed the scripts if they weren't interesting. Nobody really wrote deep characters. The actors and actresses would always have to be the characters. Anything that wasn't pure stereotype were the casts just acting like themselves.Scream was not supposed to start a trend. In fact, when it did, Williamson was tasked to write this script. And he didn't try very hard. Instead, he put all his effort and talent into writing a bang-up script for Scream 2, and probably squeaked this one out for a little pocket change. Or the chance to direct it. Which he didn't get, instead he directed 1999's dreadfully boring teen kidnap comedy, Teaching Mrs. Tingle. The horror genre's in much worse shape now. But back then, even though the movies felt the same, they still had more intelligent characters. Or at the very least, more complex ones. Another thing that made me like this trend better than our current one, was that nobody was posing. The writers really knew people like the college kids they were writing and plot twists were better supported and more solid than the action and crime films nowadays that pass for horror. And, though it took awhile, the movies were just a lot smarter than the direct-to-video films. Where again, the directors probably had grander ambitions but weren't wise or experienced enough.I Know What You Did Last Summer's focus is on the failures of the wide-eyed, naive teenagers. How in high school they make big plans and often try to go out and make their dreams come true and fall hard, flat on their face. The film already takes place during a season where there is nothing but overcast skies (which I usually adore). But this plot just makes it a bummer. I guess you could call it refreshing that it breaks a few slasher sub-genre conventions. For example, following the film's trademark accident (which has been ripped off so many times since, it's not funny), the characters hate each other so much, there's no partying or hanky panky. Which I'm fine with. But maybe if there had been, the movie wouldn't feel so oppressive. This movie has a few good chase scenes and the acting is very professional, but it's absolutely no fun at all. I don't know if that's because of how non-clichéd the activities the characters partake in are or not. The ending (or coda as they call it) does sort of pep the movie up a bit. And, my simple mind allows me to smile with the ditsy main character, clad in nothing but a white towel, once again.This film does manage to feel a little more grown-up than the sequel. More like a real movie, less like a TV show. Although, as I say this I'm reminded that actors Johnny Galecki came from Roseanne, Sarah Michelle Gellar went on to become Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and Jennifer Love Hewitt is the Ghost Whisperer. It's also great to see that underrated powerhouse Anne Heche also make a bit of a cameo. That someone of her stature would do a 6-minute acting job on a film like this proves that Hollywood can smell a talent who hasn't even reached their full potential yet. Scream is Kevin Williamson's best work. But by Hollywood standards, his 1998 television series Dawson's Creek swept more awards ceremonies. Why shouldn't he enjoy that success? Even though it isn't great, it's a guilty pleasure show. Much like this movie. Which sold lots of magazines with exclusive inside stills of a shirtless Ryan Phillippe who also winds up in no more than a towel in the movie. Too bad they didn't have any skimpy pics of Freddy Prinze Jr. "}{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer....","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It was a hot day and you didn't have much to do so you decided to sit down and see what the movie channels were offering. Whats this a flick about an urban legend? Count me in! So you grab your alcoholic beverage and sit down to watch for the next hour and a half a pointless and badly acted teen horror movie. Don't get me wrong, I love slashers but this one felt lacking in every department.Awful acting, how many times do we need to hear Jennifer Love Hewitt scream? How many stereotypical characters can we fit into one film? This urban legend has been done to death already. I really recommend avoiding this one unless you really have some time to kill.Overall a 3/10 is sufficient, trust me, I watched it yesterday and felt like I needed someone to give me my hour and a half back. "},{"Title":"These Teens Be Dumb","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I can't watch movies like this for one fairly simple reason The people involved are absurdly dumb! They get so wrapped up in their fear that they fail to do some fairly basic things. It drives me mad that the only thing they can think to do when confronted by a killer with a gun on his hand is run away.The reason they get locked into the situations they do is because they keep running into narrower and narrower situations. I know what I would do when threatened by an unknown psychopath. I would apply for a handgun license and learn how to put a bullet in said sociopath as he walks slowly and menacingly towards me down an alleyway. "},{"Title":"Like Diet Scream, or a step or two further down","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't get the wrong idea from my summary... this is entirely watchable, it's just somewhat bland(and comparing this to aforementioned earlier Williamson piece is pure death to the former, pun intended). The concept is based on an urban legend(mentioned herein, though lacking the clever referencing and hinting at self-awareness that, again, the other script Kevin brought us featured). I have not read the book, nor any other by the author(though I've also watched I've Been Waiting For You). The plot isn't bad, and there is a fine enough amount of random creepiness in the movie. The acting varies, not even all the name ones deliver particularly mesmerizing performances. The dialog is mostly standard(or below it), but it does have moments, even if they are few and far between. It usually tries too hard, and winds up not sounding young, hip, clever, or anything it goes for. The music is not anywhere near as good as that of Scream(the first one, and to a lesser extent, the trilogy as a whole). This has what you'd expect in(at least one of the newer) slasher flicks, and it's passable(if not always terribly creative). The scares aren't *all* jump scares. It can be exciting at points, and if you are sufficiently generous, it may get you going. Cinematography and editing are nothing special. I recommend this to fans of the kind of film it is, just know that there are more accomplished ones out there, and more or less everyone involved have done better work elsewhere. 6/10 "},{"Title":"If you have not saw this movie SEE IT !","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you have not saw this movie seen it! i loved it i thought it had a good plot and the casting was amazing. The movie is about 4 teenagers who have just left high school and are going on to pursue their careers. When a problem occurs which you will know when you see this movie. Some of the cast are Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Geller, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillipe. The acting was brilliant and the characters personality's and the way they react is well created. This is another slasher horror movie and is perfect for all you slasher horror fans and scream fans. The movie has a brilliant ending and i am sure you will not be disappointed. I strongly recommend seeing this movie as you will regret it if you do not. "},{"Title":"great movie... Jennifer's is so hot!!!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" this movie is great... i loved Jennifer's performance which i gave her a 10/10. the supporting cast is very good. it has the likes of Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie prince Jr. it scars you and leaves you for more. her famous line from the movie is what are you waiting for? this movies is one of the greats scary movies of the 90's. sceam is the only other movie that is in the same league as i know what you did last summer. both movies have strong cast.this is one of the top teen scary movies of the 90's that will scare the teenage girls and boysthis movies is a 10/10 because of Jennifer love Hewitt "},{"Title":"What a terrible film...","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm a big horror movie fan, so when I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is claimed to be the ultimate in horror, or even top ten horrors of the nineties, I tend to dry-heave. This film is on of the most boring, stupid, generic and incoherent slashers I've ever seen. I'm not a big slasher fan, sure I love the HALLOWEENs, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET's, BLACK Christmas is in my top five horrors of all-time, but generally slashers annoy me. The characters are one-dimensional and contrived, the acting is terrible, there's hardly any tension, and IKWYDLS is all that, with a crappy title.When going into IKWYDLS, think of it like this. The plot of PROM NIGHT, the atmosphere (or lack of) of SCREAM, the stupidity of MY BLOODY VALENTINE, and the creativity of a bar of soap. Jennifer love Hewitt's character Julie manages to be the most annoying, self-involved character in a slasher I've ever had the misfortune of watching. She plods along with her massive ass in skin-tight trackies, whines about how everyone is terrible except her, and gets people murdered. Freddy Prinze Junior's Ray is just as annoying and obsessed with Julie, almost as much as Julie herself is.One thing this movie has going for it is Sarah Michelle Gellar, and her terrific and easy to relate to character Helen is the redeeming quality of the film, bumping the score up to a 3/10. Helen reminds me of BLACK Christmas' Barb, played by the talented Margot Kidder. Now that I mention it, Sarah Michelle Gellar is shaping up to be a young Margot Kidder, BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER proved Gellar's talents, let's just hope she starts choosing some better roles than crappy horror remakes, rip-offs and sequels. Helen's chase scene in the film had me on the edge of my seat, screaming at her to get away, even though I knew she wouldn't That is a good thing for this movie, the feeling of dread Helen felt really shone through to me, and hopefully the rest of the audiences.It's a pity selfless Helen was the only person in the entire film that was likable. Barry, Helen's macho boyfriend played by the talented Ryan Phillipe, was also incredibly unlikeable, but I think hack screenwriter Kevin Williamson (SCREAM, THE FACULTY) intended that. Helen's sister Elsa was a bitch, but so unrealistically nasty. Like she really really hated Helen, not just being a bitchy sister. I'm sure if Elsa was the one to find Helen's frozen body, she'd react just like Julie did I'm scared for my life, don't care about Helen's. Missy the hillbilly loner, played by Anne Heche was annoying, and totally unnecessary, but I guess she extended the running time.The script was awful. Absolutely dreadful. Kevin Williamson ditches the snappy references to other slasher (well somewhat) and replaces them with terrible lines like Is the dried-out, washed-up has-been having a moment? from Elsa to Helen (told you she was a nasty hoe) and Guys... Hi... I'm on sexist overload as it is, kill the commentary. from Julie. Gee Julie, don't be happy your best friend is pursuing her dream!! That would be way too selfless, as if you're not selfless enough! In closing, With a few dashes of good, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER is a sub-standard slasher. If you wanna see a great slasher, check out BLACK Christmas, HALOWEEN and HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME. If you want a movie that you will be screaming at the TV not telling the people to run from harms way, but straight to the killer as they're so annoying, check out I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER.3/10 "},{"Title":"blah,blah,blah,HOT GUY,HOT GUY,blah,blah","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" lets be honest now.the only reason any of us like this movie(if Ur teen-30)is for the hotness.these actors were my absolutely favorite group in a movie ever,and i consider the four of them together,a CLASSIC.i mean,how much better can it get?there's two pretty girls for the guys,and two ABSOLUTELY Gorgeous guys for the girls.(like me)this movie may be really good,but i haven't really thought about it, or cared.its not THE BEST MOVIE EVER,but it has the BEST cast ever.and you get to a certain age, to where thats all you care about.(depending on why you're going to a movie)but with two hot guys,who can complain?certainly not me.this movie could be the most stupid,dumb movie ever,and i wouldn't care.I'm just being real,and if the rest of you wont admit it,rest easy,i will.i was sad Barry died,but THANK GOD,ray didn't.if he died,i probably wouldn't have liked the sequel. i do admit,the sequel wasn't that good.AND,ray wasn't even in it that much?what were they THINKING?jack black certainly wasn't doing it for me. BUT,when it comes to ikwydls,nothing but love from me.peace. "},{"Title":"cHeFz Scoop I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" ____ I Know What You Did Last Summer____St0ry 4/10Acting 3/10W0rth Seeing Maybe for a laughhIrE a babY-sIttEr YesI saw this movie on DVD and must say I wasn't impressed at all. The acting was poor, the 'twist' at the end was really badly done and the camera work was awful! The evil hook handed fisherman wasn't even remotely scary and I found the whole movie had no point. The plot makes no sense at all, and you could always guess what was going to happen. If you want a fun horror movie which isn't completely 'stupid' rent the Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Saw. cHeFz "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is a horror film about a great of friends who hit a stranger in there car and decide to bury the body, but they are not so shore if it's still buried. A great young cast starring (Jennifer Love Hewitt), (Sarah Michelle Gellar), (Ryan Phillipe) and (Freddie Prince Jr) I Know What You Did Last Summer is definitely in the wake of Scream and other earlier horror flicks but the storyline is original, the acting was strong from Hewitt but not so much from the rest of the cast, A Predictable horror flick but I just like the adrenalin rush of a film like this for what it was light entertainment I can say I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"The Phantom Fisherman","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" **SPOILERS** Average slasher film where in this movie the unseen killer, until the last ten minutes,is a raincoat and hooded fisherman. This guy has a grudge against these four young collage students who did or did not run him down on a deserted highway. Then, thinking he's dead, dumped him in the sea to end up being dinner for the local marine life. The four students Julie and Helen, Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Geller, together with their boyfriends Ray and Barry, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Ryan Phillippe, doing their best to forget what happened that fourth of July are reminded of their actions exactly a year later. With letters and other reminders of that tragic night telling them I Know What You Did Last Summer. The movie has a real convoluted plot with a number of scenes that don't fit in or make any sense at all.Like the body that Julie finds in her car trunk covered with live and crawling crabs. At first Barry suspects that it's Max, Johnny Galecki, a fellow student who's sending these notes trying to scare them. Max came on the scene of the accident that July Fourth evening and may have known that the quintet, Julie Helen Barry and Ray, had something to do with the death of a resident of Southport who was found floating in the Southport N.C Bay. The suspicion of Max being the one sending the threatening letters is soon dispelled with him ending up dead at the end of the deranged fisherman's fish hook. The film I Know What You Did Last Summer keeps going around in circles for about an hour with this fisherman popping up in a number of scenes and then disappearing, just as fast, before he ever does anything. Julie and Helen checking out the local Southport newspapers come up with an Eddie Egan who was found a day later in the waters offshore who fit the description of the person that they dispatched the night before. Going to see Eddie's sister Missy, Anne Heche, they soon realize that it wasn't Eddie that the ran down and killed that night so who could the dead man have been? It later turns out that they guy that was run over that night by their car isn't dead, he's very much alive and dangerous. Even more startling is that there's a connection between the dead Eddie Egan and the live fish hook killer and it has to do with another car accident around the same place in Southport the year before. That involved Eddie Egan and a very close relative of the killer fisherman. Lumbering along it's hard to follow the movie since it doesn't really have that much of a story to it other then some nut on the loose with a fish hook. For some reason the killer didn't scare me at all because he was made to be so phantom-like that I half expected to see his victim get, or later show, up after he killed them. It was as if the entire story was some kind of dream or nightmare by one of the cast members. The ending of the movie with Julie in a steaming shower had that same exact effect on me in that the only sense it made was that it was some kind of dream or hallucination and had no contact with reality at all. The revelation of the killer at the conclusion of the movie was so lame and anti-climatic that by then you didn't really care who he was. His later battle to the death slug fest with the two remaining young people, who he was out to murder, was as predictable as you could imagine it to be. With the film leaving open the suggestion that there's room for a sequel in the very near future which in fact there was. "}{"Title":"The Best post-Scream slasher","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is the best post Scream type film.**SPOILERS**As a town celebrates it's Fourth of July party, the Beauty Queen, Helen Shivers, (Sarah Michelle Geller) her boyfriend Barry Cox, (Ryan Phillipe) and their friends/couple Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.) go out celebrating, drinking and telling stories. While coming home, they accidentally run over a man crossing the road. After a lengthy argument about what to do with the body, they drag him into the ocean, swearing to take the event to their graves. One year later, Julie begins to receive strange notes, saying that someone knows what she did last summer. She tracks down Helen, Barry, and Ray, who all think the letter means nothing. After a while, the others begin to think someone is trying to kill them. After Barry is run over, they finally have the proof that someone is indeed after them, and they set off to find who it is before s/he slaughters the group.The Good News The killer in the film is one of the better serial killers in film history. He has a great motive, a cool costume, and he even has a good creative eye for deaths. To me, the rain slicker is far creepier than the mask for Ghostface from Scream. That was just simply a mask and after the initial shock, and the endless rip-offs. It's not that scary any more. The rain slicker pulled up to his face is just creepier with repeated viewings. He is also one of the brightest serial killers. The first hour of the film, the only dead body is that of the killer. He does a brilliant job of making the group think they are going crazy, when all he really does is creep them out instead of killing them. By making his rampage towards the end of the film, he uses the beginning to set up an aura of suspense around his identity. This is then changed around in a great fake reveal into someone you genuinely never suspected. Every single clue points to someone else, and then it becomes clear that they were following the wrong clues since the beginning. This results in some really great sequences involving the killer stalking his victims in the beginning of the movie. Barry being stalked with a car, the crabs in the trunk, and Barry's eventual death are all great suspense scenes and are really fun to watch. I also hate to admit it, but the story that is told at the bonfire is a good little scene. The way they tell the story and the various incarnations of the ending is pretty funny to watch, as three different endings are told as to what the true legend really is. To know what the real story really is and goes is discussed, and the outcome is good for a brief laugh.The Bad News Because the first hour of the film is simply stalking scenes, the mayhem doesn't start until the final half-hour. Even then, there is an extremely low body count. There is only five people killed in the entire film, and for a slasher film, this isn't good. The main problem with this movie is the same problem I have with The Texas Chainsaw Massacre there is such a small amount of potential victims around that by having a large number survive is detriment to the amount of deaths you can have. By merely having characters around for the sake of making them a victim is nice, but it merely makes the killer seem like he can't take out the main victims. This isn't threatening. If he can't give the impression of taking out everybody in the cast, that makes me feel like the killer isn't someone to be feared. A great serial killer should possess an aura of mystery, a creative eye for killing, and the ability to make the audience fear him. The killer in here succeeds in two of these requirements, and thus isn't a classic slasher in the vein of Jason, Michael, Freddy, and Leatherface. He is merely second tier, with the Candyman, Chucky, and the Leprechaun. He does get some of this in the sequel, but in this one, it doesn't count.The Final Verdict If it only killed off more members of the cast, this would be a classic slasher film, as it has everything a good slasher film needs. It rarely has any Scream type dialog, so it's safe from those detractors, and might actually be a better movie.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, and scenes of drinking. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Love and Sarah Michelle a pair of beauties!!","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" You know i really don't remember too much about the plot and many other details about the movie.I just remember it wasn't bad at all, it was better than Scream (and specially than Scream 2 which really sucks!!).But who the hell cares about the plot?.The really good think about this movie was that we can see a real pair of beauties, 2 of the must beautiful girls in show business, i mean drop dead gorgeous brunette Jennifer Love Hewitt and so damn beautiful blonde Sarah Michelle Gellar.I really don't care if the film was o wasn't good, just for seeing that pair of beauties i will see it once and many times. "},{"Title":"Great Halloween Film!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Always around the Halloween Season many of these type of films are shown on TV and are very good entertainment for this occasion. I thought that Jennifer Love Hewitt,(Garfield, 04, gave a great performance and held the picture together. There was lots of young romance and some parts of the film where quite comical and had me laughing out loud! Most of the action revolved around a fishing community and one of the sexy gals wound up with a body and crabs in the trunk of her car. At times I thought I was looking at Peter Pan, because there was a crazy person running around like CAPTAIN HOOK! Sit back and try to be entertained, if you can! "},{"Title":"A clever, suspenseful thriller","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In IKWYDLS, Four teens(Hewitt, Gellar, Prinze Jr., i don't know the last one) accidentally run a man over on the 4th of July. They decide to throw him into the sea to cover up what they did. One year later, Julie James(Hewitt) receives a note saying I Know What you did Last Summer! Freaking out, she meets up with the other three teens and are suddenly stalked by a fisherman, whose weapon is a hook. They must figure out who it is and figure out a plan for their survival.I was pleasantly surprised by this horror flick. I thought the plot was very original and the cast was fairly OK. The chase scenes are fun and the deaths are full of energy. But the one thing I loved about this was it's unpredictability. I might be called dumb, but I couldn't figure out what was going to happen. I haven't seen the sequel, but I'm excited to.Overall A bit slow at times, but IKWYDLS is an original, stylish thriller. *** out of ****SPOILERS***Question I was mad that Helen and Berry died and not Julie and Ray. Well, I'm glad Berry died but Helen was cool.R terror/violence and language.  "},{"Title":"How bad can a movie get?","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After viewing this movie I found my self asking, how bad can a movie get? This movie has to be in the top 3 worst movies of all time. It tried to be mainstream way to much. This movie is what I'd expect to see as an example of everything put into mainstream movies. When you are watching a movie worse then Scream you know you're watching a bad movie. I know what you did last summer is a disgrace to horror. I'd even go so far as to say that this movie is a milestone in bad horror movie history. All this movie will ever be is a two part horror episode of Dawson's Creek. Maybe movies like Puppet Master and Evil Dead didn't make the most money in the world but that's not the point. The point is they made a horror movie without mainstream Influence. If you haven't seen the movie yet and you still think it'll be cool then go watch it. I dare you. Just remember I warned you that it is one of the worst horror movies ever made. "},{"Title":"OK performances for the genre, script doesn't get it done","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Jennifer Love Hewitt are certainly both attractive girls, and that's really all that's overly worthwhile in this film. Okay, that's a little harsh, I thought they both did well with the material they had to work with. Other than a couple of cliche' startle moments (a major workhorse of the genre) the film wasn't really all that scary. It built up a little tension, but for the most part it didn't work. The gore was minimized, and actually that's a positive. (There's not really a lot left to do on that score.) Anne Heche also did as well as could be expected in a small role. The storyline was reasonably original, for this sort of film, but the script just didn't get it done. I probably won't bother to watch the sequel. Grade D "},{"Title":"scared the crap out of me!!!!!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i know what you did last summer is a film which lives up to it's plot and keeps you guessing. the movie was intense in some places but very humorous in others. Sarah Michelle Gellar who played Helen shivers was absolutely brilliant in her part she made you very convinced on the plot and certain aspects of her character she made you believe that all this stuff was happening to her. the plot and screenplay (by Kevin Williamson who also did scream) is very understanding, 4 teenagers basically hit a man and cover it up but then one year later on the following July 4th he takes his revenge out on all of them killing two of them (i wont mention them just in case). but in other ways a great and brilliant film sleepy Luke  "},{"Title":"Love this movie!!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is the best horror movie-everyone should see it, whether you like this genre or not. The cast is perfect, and it is alot better than the later 'copy cat' movies. If you enjoyed Scream, you will absolutely love this movie! The setting is also wonderfully spooky!! "},{"Title":"A classic horror movie!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely adore this movie! It's very chilling, exciting, well-written, and very well-acted! John Debney's musical score is great! Sarah Michelle Gellar finally proved her talent as an actress in this film, as did the rest of the young cast (featuring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ryan Phillippe, Freddie Prinze Jr., Bridgette Wilson-Sampras, Johnny Galecki, and Anne Heche)! If you're a horror movie buff, then you'll LOVE this movie!  "},{"Title":"Williamson's good follow up to Scream","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Kevin Williamson made a good follow up to his Scream film, with this great film. The film about friends who do something and keep the secret is very terrifying and Williamson does this very good. Extra points go out to all the major hotties in the film. "}{"Title":"What was Sarah Michelle Gellar Thinking?","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have only seen this movie a few times, once upon it's original release here in the UK, and again last night, as I bought it on video (I got it in a sale for £4.99).  All I have to say is - is that it?  Nothing even remotely interesting happens for the entire 97 minute duration of this film.  The deaths seem routine and aren't even remotely gory.  How come we didn't actually see Sarah Michelle Gellar or Ryan Phillipe getting gutted (now him getting gutted I would pay good money to see), when we saw SMG being sliced and diced in Scream 2?Another problem I have with this film is that SMG now suffers from Shatner Syndrome.  She's now so famous for being Buffy, I just couldn't take her seriously as a victim.  What was she thinking appearing in this mindless drivel.  Most people seem to think she filmed this crap before she got the role of Buffy, but it was actually made during her hiatus between Buffy season's 1 and 2 (check the hair out and you'll see I'm right).  If I had been a casting director for Buffy and seen her in this, I would never, ever have given her the role.But, back to the film itself, as I said, nothing even remotely interesting happens for the whole film, and besides Gellar, the acting uniformly sucks!!!  Whoever told Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prize Jr they could act were obviously delusional.  If I ever have to sit through another 'ooooh!! I'm a serious actor' performance from Prinze, I think I might spew. God help the forthcoming 'Scooby Doo', thats all I can say - a bad CGI dog, Buffy in a red wig and Freddie Prinze Jr - a guaranteed box office disaster. "},{"Title":"Pure ignorance","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is the story of a group kids who run over a man and decide to get rid of the body and pretend it never happend.  One year later they start to get threatening messages entitled  I Know What You Did Last Summer.  Did someone see what they did?  Is the person they hit still alive?  Whats going on?  Who cares!  This flick is purely ignorant and totally inplausable.  Kevin Williamson brings us those great self aware characters again and I'm so sick of it.  The characters aren't likable in the least and I routed for the fisherman.  Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar are nice to look at, but the flick is just so dumb all is for not.  Followed by an even worse sequel.  3/10. "},{"Title":"Its a good film for  horror films","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you compare this film to Friday the 13th, and many other older and new horror films, this film is ahead of most, but not a masterpiece like Alone in the Dark, or The Thing(1982).  This film has a budget, quality acting, and a decent script.  Friday the 13th was choppy in all these categories, and gets across as cheesie.  Most of these films have a revenge motive plot, and sometime the lead actors make mistakes that cause this revenge.  This film plays this plot line perfectly, except the film gets bogged down in the middle and has the usual ending with a punch.  I give this film a 7. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Horror Movie Clique","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie somehow manages to take all the cliques from past horror movies and put them to use, and badly at that.  The movie starts out decent enough (aside from the mandatory horror sex scene), with a group of teenagers hitting a stranger with their car and then arguing about what to do. Apparently they didn't bother to see if he was dead before dumping his body into the ocean.  Thus begins another installment of superhuman villain seeks revenge on a group of teenagers whose self-preservation instincts consist of trying to take care of the problem themselves by running into the killer at every possible occasion and then screaming about it.  This is exactly the type of movie that the Scream series satirized. "},{"Title":"A good cure for insomnia","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I went to see this film in the theaters I was hoping it would be as good as the previews had looked.  Unfortunately I spent the majority of the movie half asleep with boredom.  The story wasn't very original and to me a lot of the scenes that were supposed to be shocking and/or scary left me saying, haven't we seen this before but done much better?.  Maybe you have to be a teenager to enjoy this brain candy.  I prefer intelligence in my horror movies. "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the movie! And the sequel. I might have been because I like all the main characters. I mean the real actors and actresses. Jennifer Love Hewitt is my favorite actress. She's amazing, and the other three are great too! I think that I still know what you did last summer was good too! "},{"Title":"Very exciting","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I Know What You Did Last Summer is a great horror movie about four high school teens, who graduate and celebrate that.But then they hit some fisherman with a car.They don't want anybody to know about that accident and they throw the body into the sea.But the fisherman isn't that dead as they think he would be and the next summer the kids start getting notes about that thing that happened last summer.There's something to wonder for the teens that who the heck would know.But it's the same fisherman who they buried into sea.There starts coming some dead bodies as the fisherman is having his revenge for the teens with his hook hand.Starring in this film are always so wonderful Jennifer Love Hewitt and Sarah Michelle Gellar with Freddie Prince Jr and Ryan Philippe.This movie keeps you excited all the time.But the fisherman still knows... "},{"Title":"Very good Horror","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie and it was alot better than I expected.  Ryan Phillipe was great as a toughie.  It was really good also how the fisherman did lots of hooking. holds up after repeat veiwing. I really recommend this but not for someone who wants to get scared because it isn't the scariest movie ever made.  "},{"Title":"Too bad for Buffy...","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Sorry. I don't buy it.Since when does cutting someone's hair off constitute 'horror?' After that particular scene, in which Buffy (Sarah Michelle Gellar, hardly a Kristy Swanson...) wakes up to find that her over-volumized hair had been chopped down to vaguely human proportions, I was fully expecting the Gorton's Fisherman to do something REALLY terrible to the pretties that he was stalking-- like maybe replace all of their outfits with clothes from 'unpopular-people thrift stores.' Or maybe he'd hurt Ryan Phillipe so that he wouldn't be able to take his shirt off and show off his pretty little abs-- God Forbid!This movie REEKS. And what kind of lame slasher movie has a body count of FIVE people? I know what you did last summer barely resembles the Lois Duncan book of the same title; they share a basic premise, but very little else. For this film's plot to function as it should (assuming that it SHOULD function in the first place-- not an argument that I'm willing to make here...), it must follow a similar guise to the one used in Urban Legend, undoubtedly the STUPIDEST movie of the last three years. That premise would be that only a select group of unusually attractive college-age people are able to see a psychopath walking around in a RIDICULOUSLY OBVIOUS 'costume.' The Gorton's Fisherman (And I DO hope that the Gorton's company received some royalties from this film, since it basically stole their corporate logo) carrying a huge HOOK... someone in a nasty parka carrying a frickin' AXE. It doesn't matter-- It's just STUPID, either way.The one interesting part of this movie, that saves it from scoring a 1 Anne Heche's intriguing 'performance,' in which she does a creative re-interpretation of Jodie Foster's brilliant work in Nell. This was hardly the intent of the character, the director, or the actress, but that's how it comes across, and it brings an otherwise-absent levity to this Lame-A-s movie.Rating 3 out of 10. Big gaping plot holes. Obnoxious actors saying and doing REALLY obnoxious things. Insulting premise. Unbelievably low body count. A waste of celluloid... and it spawned sequels! "},{"Title":"Here is where it grew","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let the first movie of the Scream-motivate teen movie era begin. This film is the Friday the 13th of the 90's. This film grossed over eighty million at the box-office with a very pointless sequel. All Kevin Williamson films and teen movies of today are all generated the same putting you through dreadful promotional and commerical again and again.  Last year for my birthday, somebody said, You should buy  I Know What You Did Last Summer, it is one of the best horror movies I've seen. When, I went to a video store I asked different customers is this a truly good horror. Most of the teenagers said It was one of the best they've ever seen. All of the other customers  said it was trash that is ripping off Friday The 13th. For some idiotic reason, I had the buy this movie. When I finally watch, I was pretty disappointed. It was just another promotional motivated movie to get people into the box-office.   Friday The 13th isn't exactly greatest movie ever. It is still better and far more entertaining than this ever was.   "}{"Title":"I don't care what you did last summer!","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is awful because it falls into the trap that so many horror slasher films have fallen into.  Except for the main one, the characters generally aren't likeable, there is absolutely nothing suspenseful in this movie, and worst of all, the ending gives away the fact that the producers couldn't leave bad enough alone by indicating that there would be a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Good way to kill 105 minutes","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is not the most stupid movie ever made, but has moments that are laughable.  It is a bit insulting that every single movie has an open-ended ending, thereby allowing for a sequel.  I have a feeling we have already seen Ryan Phillippe's entire range of acting skill;  Gellar is pretty lousy also.  By the end I was rooting for the killer! "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool.  8.5/10","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  IKWYDLS was a pretty cool movie. It featured a wonderful cast including the beautiful Sarah Michelle Gellar who was brilliant. Her performance was flawless and she will no doubt be very successful in the future. The movie was suspenseful and very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Mediocre 90's Slasher!","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Spoiler Alert! I personally am not a fan of this franchise because the story is just dumb. I mean a maniac kills kids just because they accidentally run him over. Also how the heck would he know who each one individually is? Like seriously what if they went to the police? There'd be no story. This is literally one of the worst concepts I've ever heard. On top of that all of the acting in this besides Bridget Wilson and Muse Watson sucked. The cop that dies looks like he's confused on how to act when he is stabbed to death by the Fisherman. This whole thing really is poor and I'd take Valentine(1999) any day compared to this film. Although some of the kills weren't too bad. I'll generously give it a 4 out of 10 instead of a 2 or a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not best slasher movie made but it still really a good movie.","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not seen this movie for years and really enjoyed it on my last watch.I found this movie very entertaining and never found it boring, it did not bother me that was no real fun factor that the scream series had but still enjoyed it.I did like some of the kills scenes were decent but nothing compare to past slasher movies like Ghost face as they went not gory or memorable as them however there was some blood moments in the movie.The acting from the well know cast was outstanding and there were one or two tense moment in this movie, which I thought really good and made the killer fish man look bit scary at least.The twist was a little disappointing as you can see coming, I going to give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great cast & entertaining, although sometimes hokey and cheesy","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hewitt, Gellar, Hech, Phillippe, Freddie Prinze Jr., Bridgette Wilson- Sampras, and Johnny Galecki show you how entertaining a great cast can make a decent slasher script. Gellar and Phillippe were so good together, they were reunited two years later in another classic, Cruel Intentions.This film's general concept is cool, and I appreciate the unexpected resolution of some of the scenes, but too many of the other scenes are run-of-the-mill, some of the stunts are hokey, and some of the dialogue is cheesy. Still, I'm a fan of this cast and the hook-man urban legend, so I consider this flick a slasher classic. Your life won't be incomplete if you never see this movie, but it's worth watching if you ever stumble across it.On a final note, if you're trying to get your squeamish girlfriend to watch a horror film with you, this movie is a great set of training wheels. It is one of the mildest slasher flicks I've seen. I'm actually surprised it got an R rating. "},{"Title":"i know that i think this movie stinks!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't know why people even bothering watching these new slasher movies because they all stink. I mean the fisherman isn't even a cool slasher. The 2 horror movies that have came out in the past couple of years that are worth checking out is high tension and house of a 1000 corpses those were really cool, one movie made in France and the other by a rock star! I think ozzy should make a horror movie because it would be better than this. I think the main problem lies in the generation gap people who were kids in the late 70s or early 80s got to see horror in its prime, then the audience wasn't so much targeted at teenagers like they are now. I'm in total agreement with another reviewer of this movie on here, it's not even worth writing a review on this movie. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie For It's Era","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really admit this is a awesome scary movie for it's era of movies turning out not to be as scary as the previews/spoilers show them to be. The first time I watched this movie, it gave me the chills for days and the plot is mostly believable to have actually happened - that is what makes a good scary movie in my opinion. And it has quite a cast - every single one of the four main characters is played by an actor/actress that I dearly love. I highly recommend it. And Sarah Michelle Gellar does wonderful considering this is one of her first movies. I hope this turns out to be a trilogy at least - though there is only two out at the time I write this. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I found this movie to be very amusing. I have heard of a lot of people saying it is not as scary as scream.. and they are right. This movie is not very scary but more of a character development. There are some very good scenes such as the Sarah Michelle Gellar one. This is a very good thriller, and they cast is perfect. Its fun, and entertaining, don't take it to seriously. People who are hard core fans of Horror movies may feel cheated because of the lack of gore, but i still think it is very interesting. The movie is a popcorn flick, check it out if your a fan of the stars in it.. or if you have nothing to do on a Friday night... it will surprise you. "},{"Title":"MOST UNDERRATED MOVIE OF ALL TIME  i cant believe its only 5.4","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" first of all i don't know what you people expected when you went to watch this movie, but i for one just wanted a good, fun, little hour and half thrill ride and thats what i got. I never expected Oscar caliber performances. although i felt sarah michelle gellar gave one hell of a performance, i was really rooting for her character during that chase scene, and i rarely root for the main characters in slasher films. Anyways everyone already knows the plot and everything, it may seem pretty dull and predictable but it delivers some really good thrills. I jumped up quite a few times, i was never really scared though. Still the movie is entertaining, has a goodlooking cast and really edge of your seat suspense. Really underrated film that people are watching for all the wrong reasons. "}{"Title":"When you  kill the truth make sure it stays buried!!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really really loved this horror flick!! Great cast, great acting and o yes Sarah Michelle Gellar!!! this is about 4 teens who run over a man and dump his body in the sea!! Than a year later strange things start to happen and they are receiving threats!!! Than one by one they and other people are being killed off but only 2 survive! i wont say who!! for people who ain't seen it!! Jennifer love Hewit- Julie James- she did do a great job playing troubled Julie but she did tend to over do her screams!! She screamed to much!! it got annoying! i see her as a young Jamie lee Curtis!!Sarah Michelle Gellar (buffy)- Helen Shivers- i love her! shes an amazing actress i thought that she made the scenes seem real and really looked like it was affecting her!! also she knows when to scream and when not too (when she found her sister dead) she really brings her character to life! take notes JLH!!Freddie Prinze Jr- Ray- Fred didn't have a particularly big role in this film his character was overshadowed but other people! he isn't a great actor to my mindRyan Phillpe- Barry- i cant even explain how bad he is!!!! Awful!!! he overacted to everything!! he kept on looking at the camera!also supporting roles from Bridgette Wilson- Elsa- Helens bitchy sister!! Missy ( i don't know her real name) a bit weird but she was OK!!overall i love this movie!! better than scream! by far!!!!p.s i don't really recommend i still know cause its silly and all the dead bodies look fake!!1 "},{"Title":"A superior slasher flick","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I won't bother explaining the plot as it has already been explained in the main part. I can't believe this film has such a low average score! It is true that the film is not very original but the flair and finesse of the film make it a cut above the rest. The murder scenes are all very well orchestrated with fitting music and there is always suspense present, the Helen Shivers chase scene stood out in particular and not just for Sarah Michelle Gellar's performance. The music and lighting was well done and it was one of the best chase scenes I have ever seen in a movie! I did think however that the scene at the end on the boat failed to keep up the pace of the Helen Shivers chase and Jenifer Love Hewitts's screaming was ridiculous. Overall, I give this film a slashtastic 8/10  "},{"Title":"A superior slasher flick","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I won't bother explaining the plot as it has already been explained in the main part. I can't believe this film has such a low average score! It is true that the film is not very original but the flair and finesse of the film make it a cut above the rest. The murder scenes are all very well orchestrated with fitting music and there is always suspense present, the Helen Shivers chase scene stood out in particular and not just for Sarah Michelle Gellar's performance. The music and lighting was well done and it was one of the best chase scenes I have ever seen in a movie! I did think however that the scene at the end on the boat failed to keep up the pace of the Helen Shivers chase and Jenifer Love Hewitts's screaming was ridiculous. Overall, I give this film a slashtastic 8/10  "},{"Title":"Quite boring","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was the first true product off the conveyor belt of Hollywood teen-slasher flicks after the highly over-exposed SCREAM. Teen-slashers were suddenly back in fashion. And Hollywood loves teen-slashers. These movies are basically the same tripe done over and over, made for very little, with no aces up the sleeve and&#133;actors in their 20s playing teenagers. Something that bothers me very much. You've probably noticed this by looking at my other reviews. IKWYDLS is no exception. Every scene has been done before and the film has little originality. Some of the killings are totally pointless and are only there to fill up the running time and give us something to look at while the characters argue over 'who is the killer'. A standard argument in these kind of movies.It's a very boring film. It takes ages to get started and when it finally does get going it's more annoying than it is exciting. Bo-oring. "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One does not expect much from the genre of horror movies any more, since they exhausted all their plots/themes long ago. But even by their own abysmally low standards, this movie sticks out like a sore thumb. It does not even have a decent cast or good technical merits (camera work, sound etc) to compensate. It is amazing that they even made a sequel to this movie. "},{"Title":"Didn't Someone at Columbia go up to the producers and say Hey, guys, this really sucks.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is horrible. The only redeeming feature is that is is worse than Scream, which is a pretty hard task. The acting is only 1 hour and 45 minutes of annoying screaming, starring silicone addict herself, Jennifer Love Hewitt. The soundtrack is awful. The writing is awful. It's so bad you'd think Kevin Williamson didn't write a script but was still paid! The worst thing about it, though, was that Jennifer Love Hewitt was supposedly killed at the end. Then about 2 weeks later a sequel comes out and the exact same ending happens. You think it's gonna be the same in part 3?-100 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A truly boring copy of films like Halloween and Friday the 13th.  The plot was stolen directly from Stephen King's The Hitchhiker.  I hated the scene where the crabs and everything else somehow disappeared from the trunk without a trace before Jennifer Love Hewitt got back to the car.  As Annie Wilkes would say, It just wasn't fair. "},{"Title":"A daily comment from Midget Emma I know What You Did Last Summer (1997)","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the worst movies ever.Not scary. Terrible acting.Thrilling chase scenes are ruined by stupidity from the characters.This movie had terrible death scenes. Especially for a horror movie.When Jennifer Love Hewitts character yells What are you waiting for. You will be thinking the exact same thing.Then things get worse. This thing threw up two sequels. The second was much better then this and i haven't seen the third. I do not plan on seeing it.I do not recommend it. Should have never been made. 1/10 "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer - The Review","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" After watching Cruel Intentions, I got in the mood for I Know What You Did Last Summer. However, I really wished I didn't, since I now realize that this movie is undoubtedly the worst horror of all time.Jennifer Love-Hewitt is nothing short of a horrible actress. Not only is she completely inept but her lines were delivered with little or no emotion. I felt no connection to her performance and everything she did do seemed forced and unnecessary. She is not the worst thing in the film overall -- at least she is eye candy and easy to look at.Sarah Michelle Gellar is pretty much the only reason to watch this and actually find a sense of enjoyment. She good to look at for appearance but she also delivers the best performance, regardless of being such a pointless role. Her involvement is the only good thing about the film.Ryan Phillippe is a horrible choice as Barry, still he was also horrible in the role itself. It's not hard to play 'asshole' characters who refuse to do the right thing. But somehow Ryan was unable to pull it off. He tried too hard as well as coming off whiny and annoying. I couldn't wait for his character to die.Freddie Prinze Jr., is not a horrible actor but his role is useless. I couldn't even begin to guess Freddie's reasons as to taking such a horrible role. His character was boring on top it also seemed like the dumbest one of all - and Sarah plays a blonde. He also has a look of not understanding throughout the entire film. Whoever directed him through this film is nothing short of a horrible director.With the actors out of the way, lets discuss the movie.Firstly, the dialogue is poorly written but the lines are also delivered with so little emotion it's difficult to even watch the actors make an attempt. All the lines written are more than cheesy, they are just inane. Scary Movie's parodied version at least gives us the satisfaction of laughs. What does I Know What You Did Last Summer give? Secondly, the killer is unrealistic. The guy is rigorous and somehow it's almost too... convenient. Even when this guy isn't trying he still succeeds to be unnoticed. The death scenes and other scenes with him are so unrealistic and illogical I felt like yelling at the screen. Themurders themselves are not even the same level of excitement as Scream, Friday the 13th or Halloween's. When people watch movies like this you should leave the theater/room feeling like you've learned something from the experience of it so you can protect yourself or defend yourself if the situation arose. At least they should show that a killer, especially a human one like this, can make mistakes. But he doesn't.Thirdly, and finally, when you watch a movie, you're supposed to feel a connection for the characters. I did not care for any of the characters dying and the killer didn't excite me and I sometimes find myself for cheering for the killers -- this time I wasn't. I was booing the entire movie. If there is no connection to the characters, the movie fails. Anyone who finds this movie remotely interesting or exciting, please explain. There is absolutely nothing exciting in this movie. At least some horror films have comedy mixed with drama, thrills and suspense. Where's the comedy? No comedic relief as far as I can tell. What a pointless movie.The characters were poorly written, the direction was nothing more than something that a high school student could've done. The shots and slow editing was not a good addition. In fact, every shot I felt as if went on forever. It made the pace of the movie slow. Unrealistic, predictable, and completely dumb - to say the least - are all valid reasons to never watch this again. They are also reasons of listing this in the top 5 worst movies of all-time as well as the top worst horror movie of all-time. I'm never watching this movie again. "},{"Title":"I know what you should've done last summer.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I honestly do not understand the large following these movies enjoy. The acting, especially that of Ms. Hewitt, is amateurish, at best; the plot is non-existent; the direction was far below par; and the scares are wholly lacking in effectiveness. Furthermore, the twists in what story there was, were so predictable that we had it figured out less than half way through the movie. This movie is pure ignorance. It did not satisfy even one of the criterion of enjoyability.In actuality, this could have been a good slasher flick. But the horrible casting, dreadful performances and predictable story line (when there WAS a story line) just left me feeling robbed of my 101 minutes. I won't sit here and break down the entire movie. It doesn't deserve that.It rates a 1/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"got bored after 10 minutes","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I taped it-gave it a chance, but got bored after 10 minutes. Some fisherman with a hook is out to get the kids that ran him over a year ago. sound scary ? well, it's not. The young actors in this movie gave it their best, but really had nothing to work with. To make matters worse it has an open ending. A sequel to this movie...thanks, but no thanks. "},{"Title":"Botched attempt at horror.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****I Know What You Did Last Summer features a good premise.  Four graduating students are out driving one night when they hit a man on the road and believe they have killed him.  Barry Cox (Ryan Phillipe) suggests they dump the body, and his girlfriend Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar) agrees with him, while Ray (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and his own girlfriend Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) are more hesitant.  Eventually, they do get rid of the body by throwing the dead man into the sea.A year later, Julie is still haunted by the events of that night.  Nothing has gone right for her since then.  Her grades in college are low, her relationship with Ray is over, and she no longer speaks with Barry or Helen.  Then she receives a message through the mail that simply says, I know what you did last summer.  Shocked, she reunites with her friends as they try to figure out who is sending them the message.  Barry begins to wonder whether or not someone saw them that night and believes the message is just a stupid, tasteless joke.  But things begin to ge more serious as Julie investigates further into what happened the night they hit that man.  Meanwhile, a  mysterious figure dressed in a fisherman outfit is stalking each one of them, playing initially harmless games that begin to lead to murder.The possiblity of having your guilt come back to haunt you is an interesting idea for a horror film, but unfortunately, all this movie has is a good premise.  This could have been a serious exploration into guilt-ridden teenagers, since it is actually quite fascinating to see how their lives disintegrate after that one night, and it's equally interesting to see how they interact with each other again, living with all that guilt in their minds.Instead, director Jim Gillespie and writer Kevin Williamson aim for some slasher horror.  Now, I'm not giving this film a low rating on the basis of the fact that the filmmakers chose to take a different route.  That would be unfair.  The low rating comes mostly from their botched attempts at creating scares and suspense.  Trust me, only someone unfamiliar with the genre would find this movie truly scary.First, let me discuss the writing, since Williamson is considered such hot property.  I'm not really sure why he's so highly regarded.  Sure, he wrote Scream, but nobody seems to realize that that film was hardly the first horror-style parody, as it had been done before and better as early as 1985 in The Return of the Living Dead.  To be fair, this movie isn't tongue-in-cheek like Scream; it's trying to be serious, and yet that also leads to its downfall.  Williamson's script is so hackneyed, it relies on the worst horror cliches to maintain interest.  He even goes with the typical there's going to be a sequel ending, which was never a very clever idea in the first place. Williamson's dialogue isn't very compelling or easy to listen to when there aren't any references to past horror films, and logic is sacrificed in favor of cheap thrills.Director Gillespie tries his best with the material, but he just doesn't have a lot to work with.  To his credit, he does manage to create some suspense.  The initial mystery of the message is enthralling and the long chase sequence between the killer and Sarah Michelle Gellar is appropriately nail-biting.  But at the same time, Gillespie also crafts many embarassingly bad scenes, such as a parade that features the protagonists looking back and forth at all the fishermen, which are obviously intended to create false scares.  The finale is another flat sequence; there's absolutely no suspense in these scenes, no momentum, and no high-energy going for it, as the sequence is far too overwrought to be effective.As much as the movie is a slasher, it also tries to work as a mystery/thriller by keeping the identity of the killer a secret until the end.  The movie tries to twist back and forth, but every time it does so, the film gets more and more ludicrous until it reaches the climax and final revealing twist, which is bound to provoke more laughs than chills.It's strange to see how tame this movie is, which actually works against it.  Slasher flicks of the 80's went all-out when it came to gore and sex/nudity.  I Know What You Did has hardly any blood and zero nudity (though the filmmakers do reveal as much cleavage as possible from Gellar and Hewitt).  The only thing giving this an R-rating is the persistent use of the F-word.  Because it's less self-knowingly schlocky, the movie is less entertaining than its counterparts and predecessors (though not necessarily worse).The performances are crucial in absorbing us into the story.  But Jennifer Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze, Jr. just don't have the talent to create fully-fleshed and believable characters.  Hewitt is obviously on board for her cleavage while Prinze, Jr. proves to everyone he's going to be the next Keanu Reeves.  Delivering better performances are Ryan Phillipe and Sarah Michelle Gellar, though the script doesn't give them much to work with.  The film focuses on the rekindling boyfriend/girlfriend relationships, thought chooses the wrong one as its primary showcase (a la Hewitt and Prinze, Jr.).The supporting cast doesn't much other than give the characters information, act like suspects, or be downright bitchy and hostile.  Anne Heche plays a rather odd and perhaps slightly insane woman; this is far from being her best role, and she probably leaves this film off her resume these days.  Brigette Wilson basically plays the mean sister, though you have to wonder what purpose she serves at all (other than just as fodder). I'll admit it, I've never been a fan of teen-oriented horror films (most recent one I can think of that I had an appreciation for is Final Destination).  I Know What You Did Last Summer is the perfect reason why.  It's dumb, unimaginative, routine, uninspired, and goes for the easy shocks.  There's simply not a lot to admire in this film. "},{"Title":"It might as well be a snuff film.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is not enough that we are barraged with an endless parade of dumb films, but that they are continuously as disgusting and frighteningly clear in its mentality as movies as I Know..., is both revolting and telling of the American Viewing Public. The movie is nothing more than a new joining of the ranks of knife-kill flicks, a phenomenon I thought would be long behind us. Of course, with the mass popularity of Scream (a film that, in the process of lampooning these films, became one of them) we have seen a resurgence of popularity in these blood-spattered monstrosities. Now, before I come off as some sort of Moral Majority prick who thinks violence is bad for society, let me clarify it is not the gore itself that I find disgusting and reprehensible. It is the way that it is used. In the same way that Harlan Ellison speaks of audiences cheering on the decapitation in The Omen, I see audiences squeal with ghoulish delight when the 'bad-guy' finally finds his innocent victim, no doubtedly a well-endowed girl (bringing up the brutality against women aspect of these films, as strong in I Know... than in any other film) (and yes, I know what you'll say guys were killed too! but we were not treated to such deliriously lingering scenes of Ryan Phillipe getting stabbed in a dark alley as we were with Sarah Michelle Gellar, were we?). These films represent the lowest depths of human depravity, they exist merely for the enjoyment of watching someone who is not you get it through the belly. They might as well be snuff films.  "},{"Title":"Good book, bad movie","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie because of pressure put on me by friends who told me that it was great. I had read the book a few years ago, and I liked it. So I took out the movie, and hated it. Granted, I'm not a big fan of the genre, but I found it to be not the least bit scary or suspenseful and riddled with inconsistencies. I have no interest in seeing the sequel and finding out what happens to Julie at the end because frankly I don't care.However, I have a feeling that the story could have been much better if they actually had the movie easily connect to the book-- in the book they killed a little boy by accident, not some fisherman who had just killed someone else or whatever it was that happened. And just reading the words in parts of the book drew up more suspense than any part of the movie.To sum it up Read the book, skip the movie. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made. Full stop. No arguments please.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Even when I don't like a film, I can usually understand why someone else would. I may not agree with them but I can at least see their side of the argument. Not here. I cannot understand why anyone would like this abomination. Imagine Scream. Now imagine Scream with all the jokes taken out and all the irony removed. What do you have left? I Know What You Did Last Summer - a laughably bad slasher film, the kind of film that Scream was actually poking fun at in the first place. Avoid this like the plague, please - if you watch it'll only encourage them to make more. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Bad, boring, pradictable and last but not least a waste of money (Yours and the film companies).The best part of this film is the fact that it has JLH and SMG in it, two VERY attractive young women, sadly their acting wasn't as good as their looks.I think that SMG's performance in THE GRUDGE was far better. much more believable.I fail to see how this film could be considered good or even bearable for that matter. It was totally devoid of suspense and creativity not to mention good acting. Why do people bother writing this stuff, it's primitive and totally unworthy of it's success.If you want a SCARY film rent THE RING or RINGU the original Japanese version that is a scary film! "},{"Title":"1/5","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not even scary.Tries to be as good as scream but it is as bad as scream 3.This movie is not entertaining.Scream is much better.rating 1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Just another poor horror-flick","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I know that I shouldn`t write a review on this film, because these new horror-flicks starring perfect-looking young people are not my favorite cup of tea, but I have decided to write about it since a scream-loving friend of mine made me watch this classic. The movie is about a couple of students who accidently kills a man, but he is not really dead when they leave him, because a year later the students involved get a note that says I know what you did last summer, hence the title. The acting is so bad, its funny and there isn`t any shock and tension in the horror-scenes.  Most of the characters are annoying, which means that you don`t care about them when they are killed by the evil bogeyman. Overall, this is a crap movie than any Scream-junkie and fan of bad horror-movies should see. 1,5/10 "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Based on the book by Lois Duncan, it was originally meant to be some kids and the situation, but Scream writer Kevin Williamson has adapted it into a teen slasher. Basically four friends, Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers (Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry William Cox (Cruel Intentions' Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Bronson (Scooby-Doo's Freddie Prinze Jr.) are driving home after a 4th of July graduation party and beauty pageant. In their slightly drunken state, they accidentally hit a pedestrian walking down the curved corner, and they are convinced that if they go to the police they wouldn't believe the accident claim. So filled with panic they decide to take the apparently dead body to the nearest port and dump it into the sea, and they obviously make a pact to never tell anybody about it. One year passes, each of the four friends have gone their separate ways and still think about that night, and Julie returns home to receive a note saying I Know What You Did Last Summer. Fearing the worst, she gets Helen, Barry and Ray back together to find out if this is indeed something to do with hitting that guy on the road. Soon enough a killer wearing a black fisherman's suit and wielding a large hook is hunting them down, they are sure that it is the man they hit, named David Eagen, come back to get revenge. In the end, Julie and Ray are the only two survivors left to fight for their lives against the man who reveals himself to be highly involved with the whole thing. Also starring Bridgette Wilson as Elsa Shivers, Volcano's Anne Heche as Melissa 'Missy' Eagan and Johnny Galecki as Max Neurick. To be honest, I only knew of and wanted to see this film because I saw the spoof in Scary Movie before it. It has some good young stars, it is well scripted with an original plot, and it has some good twisty moments, a good old fashioned teen slasher horror thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"Yay!","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yay! A horror movie that is actually a little scary! I only watched this because Johnny Galecki was from Roseanne, and Sarah Michelle Gellar. But it was really good! Great acting. Now, whenever I see Jennifer Love Hewitt on a commercial or something, I think, Hey! It's that girl from 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'! This movie is very original and a good adaptation of a book, one of the best. Great movie and not a bad sequel.It is, rated R for horror violence and language. Very creepy movie and very suspenseful, and I recommend buying or watching this movie. Very good. "}{"Title":"I know it could've been better","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It is not far from what I expected, but a bit better. That better is thanks to Kevin Williamson's witty writing and knowing how to put a story together, not leaving holes in the plot and the ability for making surprises, suspense, mystery, thriller. Unfortunately the director was not quite fit for the job, especially in the bloody parts which were pretty ordinary and uninventive for an R rated movie (He later did a good job with Venom which didn't had a scrip at all). If that thing was done as good as the script we would've get much better experience. However it was a good job done with the atmosphere, tension, the scares and chasing girls. "},{"Title":"Something stinks here... and it isn't all the dead fish","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm probably being too generous with a 5 here, because I Know What You Did Last Summer is so utterly stupid that it isn't really all that enjoyable unless you decide to turn your brain off and allow the rote slasher elements play out without asking any questions. If you can manage this, you'll likely enjoy yourself throughout this mess. However, if you want actual scares or plot twists that make sense, it might be best to sit this one out. I assure you, you're life won't be any less complete if you do.To be fair, this is a somewhat enjoyable offering, assuming that you're willing to settle for a few gruesome images and a slickly made production. The story is nifty enough, though unoriginal, and for most of the running time, it seems to be building to a thrilling climactic revelation. However, several elements here simply don't make sense, and a few scenes are just so idiotic that even laughing seems like a waste of breath. Perhaps the most famous scene in the film, Jennifer Love Hewitt's what are you waiting for!? moment, is so poorly-acted and ridiculous that it pretty much cancels out any tension built up to that point. We also have to deal with a killer whose prowess for stage magic makes David Blaine look like a sissy. Our resourceful Gorton Man impersonator pulls off the amazing feat of making a water-logged corpse and dozens of king-size crabs disappear from the trunk of Hewitt's car without a trace in roughly two minutes, managing to not even leave behind a hint of moisture. While it is amusing to picture our skulking killer moving at lightning speed to remove the cargo and detail Hewitt's trunk with a Wet-Vac, any chance of us taking this thing seriously pretty much die right there.Up until then, we at least get a decent little mystery building, and a couple of pretty cool kill scenes for our trouble. But, as we settle into the killer's sadistic plot, the film really starts to run out of steam.For one, we have to ponder why, if the killer is setting out to get revenge on the kids who ran him over, he would choose someone who had nothing to do with the accident as his first victim. Sure, this turns out to be the best death scene in the film, but since there's ultimately no point to it, it doesn't have nearly as much punch as it should.Now, this is the part that's really hard to wrap the head around... We know the killer's plot kill off the four guilty parties one at a time and get revenge, right? But we have to question why the killer would attack two of them and let them live just to turn around and finish the job a couple of days later. Wouldn't it have been easier to just do it the first time? For that matter, wouldn't it have made more sense to hit them while they were unaware, instead of sending them notes and clues and stalking them for days before getting around to the revenge part? As the scenario plays out, we get tossed a few more extra victims who are killed for no apparent reason, except to ensure a big enough body count to make the movie interesting while still leaving enough of the four stars alive for the inevitable sequel. Each of these murders is so brazenly choreographed that they don't have much impact, although the sight of the killer carrying Sarah Michelle Gellar's sister around impaled on a hook is a cool and grisly little scene. Most of the other attempted scares fail due to the same mindless logic that drives the film, such as a parade scene where we discover that dozens of people in this particular town wear identical black fishing gear when they go to parades, and that they zip up their jackets in an identical manner that keeps their faces covered. I'm thinking it's probably hard to watch a parade with the collar of a fishing slicker covering your eyes, but in fairness, I will admit that I've never worn one. Perhaps they have eye-holes cut into the collars? Though the film attempts a series of dicey twists to jolt the tepid ending to life, the aforementioned thrilling climax is dead in the water (a good pun, if you've seen the film) when the killer is revealed to be... someone we've never seen before. So much for the big reveal. The final showdown with the hook-toting madman is completely anti-climactic because our remaining protagonists settle for getting rid of him the exact same way they did at the beginning of the film... Which, you know, didn't kill him. Which, you know, set off this whole chain of events to begin with. Which, you know, pretty much ensures the sequel guaranteed by the mile-visible denouement.There have been two of those to date (I think), but the limited appeal of IKWYDLS is bound to dry up pretty quickly with diminishing returns, so I think we're off the hook for now (Ha! Get it? Off the hook? Because the killer uses a hook? Forget it...).Kevin Williamson was hailed as a genius after Scream, but this film is proof positive that one good movie doesn't necessitate making properties out of every script that writer was unable to sell before their breakthrough. Here's hoping every avenue of this killer fisherman tale has been exhausted.But, as a cynic, I'm still willing to bet that before too long the direct-to-DVD market will deliver us By The Way, I'm Still Keenly Aware Of The Events You Participated In Several Summers Ago. Can't hardly wait... (Get it? Because Jennifer Love Hewitt was in that movie too? Okay, I'm over it...). "},{"Title":"What they did last summer has been done before","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is an ideal example of the wrong way to craft a horror- thriller. It has all the stereotypes of a bad slasher flick. The two biggest are uninteresting, cardboard characters portrayed by bad acting, and the second is lack of major suspense. Unless this is your first horror film, you be on the edge of your seat, not from excitement but from the urging desire to walk away.Driving home from a beach party one night, four teenagers accidentally hit a drifter in the middle of the road. After a not very close inspection, he appears to be dead. In a panic, the kids dump his body in the ocean. One year later, the four of them have all gone their separate ways, but one strange event brings them all together. They all receive notes which say 'I know what you did last summer'. And then the murders start to happen.For most of the film, the plethora of boo moments are barely enough to keep you watching, the killers face is kept to the shadows, so you are mildly eager to find out who he is. Come the climax however, you'll be eager for the movie to end. An obnoxious and violent showdown between one of the protagonists and the killer on a boat, becomes the opposite of what it intends to be, dull and unscary. Even if you are a slasher fan, this one should be skipped. I cannot imagine how bad the sequels must be. "},{"Title":"Hook, hook, hook, give us a hook, hook, hook...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I Know What You Did Last Summer is your average stalker movie teens Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Barry Cox (Ryan Phillippe) and Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr)accidentally hit a man on a road, and are threatened the next year. Not much of the movie makes sense (and it's silly from time to time), but it's an acceptable flick for what it is. I have to admit, I didn't predict the end - although in retrospect, maybe I should have. I do prefer Scream, but this is nice brainless fun. There's just one thing that I really don't understand if it happens in North Carolina, why do these kids sound like they live in Beverly Hills? "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is one of those movies I was told avoid, and because of that warning, went out of my way to watch it. I have no one to blame but myself. Even by slasher standards, 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' is stupid, boring, and insulting.The premise is that four teenagers (who are generally rich and beautiful people) run a man over, and apparently kill him. Displaying a callous disregard for human dignity while trying to protect themselves, they dump the body in the ocean, and make a pact never to talk about it again. One year later, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt) receives a note indicating that someone knows all about the hit & run, and wants to off the group of self-serving brats.I don't know how this crap managed to become so popular. It is a terrible movie, all based upon the fact that we're supposed to sympathize with these beautiful teens, even after they've killed someone and dumped his body in the ocean. No dice. If I was the guy they ran over, I'd be pretty ticked off too. A good horror movie should make you feel for, and sympathize with the characters in peril, but these kids are annoying, shallow, and have already covered up manslaughter - why should I sympathize with them? If anything, they're getting what they deserve.Aside from that, IKWYDLS is obvious and boring. All the slasher clichés are present, but there are no surprises at all. The standard red herrings turn up, but shouldn't fool any avid horror fan (or anyone else for that matter). The cast are not convincing at all, especially Freddy Prinze Jr. He looked rather bored, although I suspect that may be the product of a lack of acting talent.'I Know What Did Last Summer' is a terrible film, even by slasher standards, and is insulting to intelligence (though it takes a certain lack of intelligence to consider watching this. I'll freely admit to being guilty on that point) - 1/10 "},{"Title":"Stupid.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's the stupidest movie I have ever seen. This is a shame to horror movies as people know. It made no sense to me because it was fake of course Ryan Phillipe was horrible with Sarah Michelle Gellar which it was just a rip off to even see. To some people who enjoyed this I'm sorry just wasn't a good pick of my choice I knew I shouldn't have saw it because I saw it rented it thought it was okay rented it thinking it was okay and then thinking how I could have even like the movie. It was pure junk and to me If I knew it was that cheesy and bad I wouldn't have rented it either. So I give it a 2 out of 10 cause it wasn't a choice I would usually make and it was weird. "},{"Title":"I don't want to know...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The biggest shock of I Know What You Did Last Summer is that it was written by Kevin Williamson, the man behind the clever horror parody that was Scream. Characters in that film knew the horror cliches and even spoke of them. Characters in I Know What You Did Last Summer don't seem to have a brain, and they apparently have never been near a Freddy Krueger movie, but that's okay. Well, no, actually, it isn't.The movie opens with an airborne shot of an atmospheric lake in Maine, but that's about as far as the movie gets to anything remotely interesting. The rest is a straight downfall after we see four teens driving home one night through a windy road. Helen (Sarah Michelle Gellar) has just won the beauty pageant, and her boyfriend, Barry (Ryan Phillipe), a hot-headed rich kid, is drunk, so Ray (Freddy Prinze, Jr.) is driving everyone home, including his girlfriend, Julie (Jennifer Love Hewitt). Along the way they strike a man in the middle of the road. Afraid that their aspiring futures could be ruined by the incident, they throw the body into the lake/river we saw earlier and it sinks to the bottom. They don't know that the person they hit is still alive.A year passes. Julie comes home for summer from her college and gets a mysterious note that says, I know what you did last summer. Ingenious, I never thought that the title would be so unoriginal. Anyway, soon a fisherman killer comes after the four teens and ends up killing others in their path. You can tell who is going to die in a movie such as I Know by simply glancing at the poster for the film. Still, I won't ruin anything. I will say that the surprise twist is stupid. I like horror mysteries when the killer has been introduced early in the film and we have to figure out who he/she is. I don't like horror mysteries when it turns out the killer is someone we have never seen and therefore are left in the dark throughout the entire movie. They're not funy because we can't take a guess at who the killer may be. It's like reading an Agatha Christie novel without the setup.Our characters scream and run and scream some more and slap their cheeks in a Macaulay Culkin fashion and scream some more and run some more. And then, after that, they scream. Perhaps this film should have been the one named Scream. The characters do some of the dumbest things I've ever seen, and somehow this human killer manages to always be one step ahead of everyone else, being able to creep into houses and not be seen by anyone. This is okay if he's a supernatural villain--something this film should have employed over its really pathetic ending and that would have given a much more eerie sense to the film (and more room for unwanted sequels). But he/she is not supernatural. He/she is human. That blows. What if he was caught? What would he say? I Know doesn't want us to worry about such things. But we do. There's a lack of believability when a cloaked figure can walk into a shower room, past a guard, then back out again, sneak into a car, run a teenager off a road, and not be seen by anyone (and there are no people standing outside when this happens, either). This is a dumb horror film--the type that Scream parodied so well. It's a shame to see Kevin Williamson slipping into mediocrity. It's even worse knowing that this film was a blockbuster hit. I Know What You Did Last Summer is everything a typical horror film is comprised of. If you are the type of person who likes to get some brief squeals and shrieks while things jump out at the screen, this movie may be for you. But even then, this film is just not scary. I jumped once--at the very end that implies a sequel (which was released a year later, named, of all things, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer). Only real big fans of the genre will enjoy this. And once again, even then, the big fans won't be thrilled by this because they will have seen it all already. 1.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Very Good Horror Film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good horror film. It had a very good plot. Although I think that the movie was too obvious in some ways. It had a lot of scenes that had things that you expected would happened.  But overall it was a great horror film. It's not like Halloween or The Shining but it is certainly was an interesting horror film. Jennifer Love Hewitt acted very good in this movie. It's a great movie and I recommend it to all viewers who like horror films. I GIVE IT TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"You Know What to Expect.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Ho-hum slasher flick from the late-1990s that feels like the early-1980s all over again. Four teenagers (Jennifer Love Hewitt, Ryan Phillippe, Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar) accidentally run over a man after a drunken party and decide to lose the body and keep the truth away from everyone else. A year later it appears that their secret is safe until strange messages start haunting them. Scream a year earlier resurrected a genre that was better when it did not exist. Simple-minded and ultimately silly, I Know What You Did Last Summer is little more than a trivial cinematic experience. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"This is the greatest movie of all time.","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I honestly don't know where I'd be without this movie. This movie touches me in places I didn't even know I had. If I had to go a day without being able to watch this movie, I think I'd have to start shooting heroin just to occupy myself with a different addiction. I just recently joined the I Know What You Did Last Summer fan club, and donated all of my life savings to the great club. I mean, how couldn't this be an amazing movie? Three of the main characters have obnoxiously long names (much like the title of the movie) which make it very clear to the viewer just how extremely important they are, so you worry about their safety. This Hollywood adaption of the Lois Duncan novel is so true to the book that at several times while I was watching the film, I actually remembered that it was based on the book! I sincerely encourage everyone and their grandmother to watch this movie continuously until their eyeballs explode out of their heads from the sheer artistic genius that is this movie. When I think about this movie, I touch myself, I touch myself. "}{"Title":"Has some fun with the genre...for about 45 minutes","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" For the first three-quarters of an hour, I Know What You Did Last Summer builds some credible suspense and you hope the filmmakers will be able to sustain it. They don't. Four rowdy teens plow over a man on a winding road and decide to ditch the body, but a year later a witness seems ready to expose them. Half-comedic slasher flick is well-produced but not especially well written. The derivative ship-board finale (which features bodies suddenly popping up) is pretty awful, and seems more a rip-off than an homage (of somewhat better films like Halloween). The girls do manage some decent acting work, the guys are far less interesting. Followed by one of the worst sequels ever made. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Simply - bad.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (D-) Bad acting, not much of a plot, and overall stupid. Ever since Scream, these types of movies have become really popular and I don't really know why. Probably anyone could make such a movie. I didn't see any talent anywhere. Just a standard teen slasher movie -- absolutely nothing new. Not scary, but stupid and annoying. A lot things didn't make sense and the climax was terrible. Not a good movie. I'm really getting sick of those highly popular party horror flicks.  "},{"Title":"Who Is The Real Villain ?","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I remember when IKWYDLS was released in 1997 it topped the US box office for a couple of weeks and in horror movie terms it got pretty good reviews , but I fail to see why it was so popular . After all it`s just another film featuring teens getting stalked and slashed by a mysterous killer even if it was written by SCREAM  screenwriter Kevin Williamson . There is a major problem with the screenplay to this movie and that is we are asked to empathise with a group of teenagers who get drunk , drive a car , kill a padestrian and then cover up the crime . If someone wants to bump off drink drivers who kill people they`ve got my support and I found myself siding with the bad guy in this movie because it`s the victims who are the real villains in my opinion  Thankfully Williamson has written a script devoid of post modernist humour but director Jim Gillespie has a laugh at the expense of the audience . As a child of the 1970s I used to watch TISWAS on Saturday mornings and the villain of that anarchistic show was the phantom flan flinger , a sinister faceless figure dressed completely in black and wearing a black hat who`d attack guests and presenters with custard pies , and it`s impossible not to notice the killer in this movie is dressed exactly - And I do mean exactly - like the phantom flan flinger from TISWAS . Considering Gillespie is Scottish and was a child in the 1970s this is no coincidence   "},{"Title":"I Know That There Are Plenty of Better Things To Do Than Watch This Film","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The horror film I Know What You Did Last Summer is directed by Jim Gillespie and starts Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, and Freddie Prinze Jr. The film takes place in a modern day small fishing town.The film starts off with a man on a cliff looking likes he is contemplating suicide and playing with a small sort of pendant. Then it cuts to four teenagers, Julie, Helen, Barry, and Ray (Hewitt, Gellar, Phillipe, and Prinze), having a good time on the beach drinking. Julie and Ray are dating as is Helen and Barry and when they decide to go home Barry drank too much so Ray must drive. There driving like normal teenagers in horror movies do, which is not paying attention, and ooh no they hit a man. They believe the man is dead, but wait the director tries to get two to three scares out of this, he is not. The four decide it is best for them to drop the body in the water near them because they knew they would suffer from consequences because it would look like drunk driving. The guy is not dead yet though. They finally go through some stuff which is stupid and leave him in the water. Then they swear to never speak of this again. End of movie. No I'm just kidding, that would be too good. One year later when Julie comes home from school she gets a note saying that someone knew what she did last summer...ooh scary.The screenplay for this film was absolutely terrible. It was so formulaic it was disgusting. The whole film was predictable, every second of it. The scares were cheap they were just surprises and the actual parts that are supposed to be scary are boring. Now people will probably say to me well it is just a teen slasher film, what did you expect? Excuse me for expecting something with a little originality. Kevin Williamson, you wrote Scream which was a pretty enjoyable film and your follow up is this piece of garbage? Terrible, truly terrible.The direction for this film, like the writing, was completely formulaic as well. I felt like I saw this film before and clearly Gillespie does not know how to get out a decent performance from an actor. A lot of times in horror films there are some really cool shots, but not in this one. Along with the writing, extremely poor direction.Acting, ha. There was no acting in this film. It was just people putting on scared faces reading lines. The whole cast was absolutely terrible. I'm not going to get into detail about their performances because clearly they didn't.Even the score for this film was formulaic. It was just used for the cheap scares that it could get out of the film and that was it. It was suspenseful yet it seemed like I heard it in every other bad horror film. The only thing in the film though that could possibly get a scare.Overall I give this film a 2/10, due to the fact that it is awful in every aspect. One of the worst films I've seen in a while, I only watched it because it was expiring on netflix instant queue and I thought it would be decent. If I had to recommend this film I would recommend it to people who like really bad horror films. "},{"Title":"The perfect slasher for those who LOVE Jennifer's Hewitts.","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. star as Julie, Helen, Barry and Ray, four high school friends who accidentally run down a man whilst driving home from a drunken 4th July celebration on the beach. Rather than report the accident, the kids decide to dump the dead body in the sea and let the crabs dispose of any evidence; but as they let the man slide under the water, they realise too late that he isn't actually dead. What was originally just an accident has now become a murder.One year later, and the four friends have gone their separate ways; but after Julie, home from college for the summer, receives an anonymous note that reads 'I Know What You Did Last Summer', and soon after, Barry is attacked by a maniac in a fisherman's slicker, the old school-pals are forced back together to try and figure out who it is that knows about their dirty little secret.His foot still firmly in Hollywood's door after the success of Scream, screenwriter Kevin Williamson played it relatively safe with his next slasher script, I Know What You Did Last Summer. This one offered little of the knowingly-clever, self-referential and post-modernist dialogue that made Wes Craven's hit such a breath of fresh air; instead, it was to be pure popcorn fodder all the way. Slickly directed, light on logic and splatter, heavy on red herrings and mechanical scares, and starring an easy-on-the-eye cast, this movie was designed to be pure, mindless, mainstream fun. Which it is&#x97;albeit teen-centric, gore-free, pure, mindless, mainstream fun.Director Jim Gillespie does a commendable job, giving the whole affair a polished look that helps one turn a blind eye to the more ridiculous moments (such as when the killer removes a dead body and a few dozen live crabs from the truck of a car in broad daylight, unseen and all in a matter of minutes); the film also boasts one or two genuinely tense scenes (the best bit being the impossibly cute Sarah Michelle Gellar pursued by the relentless killer), solid performances from the rest of the cast, and a pretty decent, MTV-friendly, heavy rock soundtrack.Call me an old perve if you like, though, but what makes this slasher particularly worthy of attention is Jennifer Love Hewitt's magnificent rack it doesn't get a complete airing (as always, they stay under wraps), but the girl really know how to rock a tight vest and does just that in the film's entertaining finalé.6.5 out of 10, rounded up to 7 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Don't worry the body will turn up, they usually do. OK psycho/slasher/thriller/horror/mystery.","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's the 4th July and I Know What You Did Last Summer opens to an aerial shot of the sea. The camera glides over the surface, pans up and reveals the coastline of the small American fishing town of Southport and Dawson's Beach. It circles around a bit and starts to zoom in on a fisherman named David Egan (Jonathan Quint) sitting on the edge of a cliff, the viewer is left with the impression that he wants to commit suicide. Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar) has just been crowned the town's queen after winning a beauty pageant of some sort. Helen and her boyfriend Barry Cox (Ryan Phillippe), along with two of their friends Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and her boyfriend Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.) decide to head over to Dawson's Beach for a special night before summer ends and they all split up & go their different ways. While there Barry gets drunk and so Ray says that he will drive them all back home, Barry says that no one drives his car but him. He gets outvoted and Ray begins the drive back home. While messing around Barry distracts Ray and they run into a man, apparently killing him. Everyone agrees that the police would think that Barry was driving because it is his car and because he is drunk and they would all be in a lot of trouble and possibly ruin their careers, they decide to dump the body in the sea and not say anything about the incident to anyone. The body's face is badly cut up and unrecognisable. Just then one of Julie's friends Max Neurick (Johnny Galecki) drives up. They manage to get rid of him without him suspecting anything. They are all now committed to going through with the plan. As they prepare to dump the body in the sea it jerks and grabs Helen, Barry and Ray beat him and throw him in the sea. They all now know it was murder, not an accident. 'One Year Later'. Julie has been away at university and is preparing to go home to Southport for the summer. Once back home her mom (Deborah Hobart) gives her a letter that was delivered earlier in the day. Julie opens it and inside a note says 'I Know What You Did Last Summer!'. Julie finds Helen, who now works for her sister Elsa (Bridgette Wilson) in their Father's shop, and together they go and see Barry, who doesn't seem to do a lot at all. They all assume that Max must be responsible and go to see him. Soon after Max is killed. Julie, Helen & Barry then run into Ray at the docks who now works as a fisherman. As the days pass Helen, Julie, Barry and Ray are all terrorised in different ways as the 4th July approaches. The first anniversary of what happened last summer! Will they be able to discover the identity of the killer with a grudge? Will any of them live long enough to see the summer out? And who exactly did they kill that night? Watch it and find out!Directed by Jim Gillespie I thought I know What You Did Last Summer was a pretty decent teen slasher. I had seen it back in '97 during it's original theatrical run and didn't think much of it at all. I watched it again last night for the first time since and probably because I had much lower expectations liked it a lot more. The script by Kevin Williamson based on the novel by Lois Duncan has a good central premise. It sets things up nicely but after they all meet back up for the first time it loses it's way somewhat and drags. There are only three on screen kills, and just four in total, which just isn't enough to maintain most people's interest, well not mine anyway. A couple more murders and this would have been a much better film. The killers identity is kept secret until the end, but it's not really a who dun-nit as when they are revealed at the end is the first time they've appeared in the film. The corny & predictable ending scene has sequel written all over it and a sequel was indeed made in the form of I Still Know What You Did Last Summer (1998). Director Gillespie manages to craft a few pretty decent sequences, I especially liked the killer chasing Sarah Michelle Gellar through the shop and along the deserted nighttime streets of Southport, as well as the climax when the killer stalks Jennifer Love Hewitt in, around and through the bowls of a fishing trawler with it's fishing hooks, nets and chugging engine machinery. There are no special effects or gore to speak of, just a hook thrust into someones chin & a shot of a severed hand, all of the other murders are almost totally bloodless which is not a good thing. As one would expect from a big budget, well $17,000,000 is pretty big to me, Hollywood film I know What You Did Last Summer has a nice technical polish throughout and is well made. Having said that I thought the cinematography by Denis Crossan was noticeably flat and unexciting, don't expect any weird camera angles or elaborate shots here. The relatively young cast does a pretty good job and put in decent performances. A special mention goes to Sarah Michelle Gellar who is a mighty fine looking young lady, if you know what I mean. Generally speaking I Know What You Did Last Summer is a passable time waster, nothing more. Don't expect too much and you might get some sort of enjoyment out of it. Worth watching if you can find it cheap or watch it on T.V. for free which is probably quite easy. "},{"Title":"I Knew What Was Going To Happen Next","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" What a lame film. I'm only considering these four stars due to the impact and international success it had back when released. To begin, the acting is pretty bad. It's amazing how Michelle Gellar and Ryan improved in Cruel Intentions, because here their acting is weak. Prinze Jr's is even worse, and now I understand why Scary Movie portrayed Ray as gay. He really looks gay here. And who'd thought Leonard from Big Bang Theory was in this film.. I had no idea. The scenes are all very very predictable, I could say what was going to happen even thought this is my first time seeing this (believe it or not). It seems that everybody in this film is blind, deaf and skeptical, like that policeman. When she screamed HE IS THE GUY or something like that, the cop instead of putting his gun in hands, he preferred to look back for thousand seconds (and die, of course). The only thing to like about this film is the directing and the background sound, that fortunately (or at least) deliver some tense moments. Aside that, it's a big disappointment. "}]