[{"Title":"A highly professional piece of work.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"58 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie didn't do well with the critics or at the box office but if you're in a nostalgic mood I'll think you'll enjoy it. The nostalgia is not just for the stars, Newman, Hackforth and Garner but for the whole private eye genre of the forties. All three stars show why they have been tops for so long. At 73 Newman can still make the action and the sex scenes creditable. It gives new hope to men of a certain age everywhere! It is a film that probably plays better on TV than in a movie house. The pace is leisurely but there is some nice sharp dialogue and atmospheric camera work. All this plus a moody score by Leonard Bernstein make for a highly professional entertainment. The more I think about it the more I like it.   "},{"Title":"a movie for grownups","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"46 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With all the action-schlock movies coming out of Hollywood, and all the obsession with special effects, it is nice to have a movie about real characters with some real acting. This is a great cast with Newman in his usual fine form, and Hackman, Sarandon, and Garner reminding us what real acting is all about. I don't know why this film reminded me of L.A.Confidential in the story line, but this film's characters have depth and texture, unlike the cardboard cutouts of that movie. The gritty plot, about past crime, betrayal, friendship, and loyalty, is not without its moments of sardonic humor, and Elmer Bernstein, who has been around forever, still churns out a great score. A grownup movie for grownups.  "},{"Title":"Very good show","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this film, even though I never heard of it until it was on cable. I was afraid at the start that Newman was going to recycle his curmudgeon character from Nobody's Fool but instead he played a very different richly complex character. Kudos also to the rest of the nearly all-star cast. One important plot element absolutely jumped out at me, even though none of the characters seemed to notice, but aside from that I have no complaints. Reese Witherspoon was particularly beautiful here. Grade A "},{"Title":"Senior tough guys","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Have you ever imagined what would happen to Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe lived to be seventy? A genuine hard-boiled detective film forty years later. The myth behind Newman's accident is hilarious. A must see!  "},{"Title":"Good old pros","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This won't ever be anyone's favourite movie. It sets its sights fairly low, so it doesn't have any difficulty in hitting its targets. Nevertheless, it will trump many other thrillers simply because of the sheer professionalism of its cast. Esposito is an irritation and Liev Schreiber is fantastically dull as ever, but the real joy comes from seeing the old pros, Newman, Hackman, Sarandon, Channing and Garner doing their thing. Authority oozes from the screen whenever any one of them is on, which fortunately is nearly all the time. Hackman is particularly fine, especially considering he has virtually nothing to do.This must be the oldest cast since Cocoon!7 out of 10. It would be nothing without its principals. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Didn't expect much because of the cool reception by critics(esp.Ebert),but was very pleasantly surprised. The acting, writing, and photography are first rate.Was glad to see Richard Russo's film writing come off so well. This is worth renting! "},{"Title":"A refreshing change of pace","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In a world where sex, violence, and sleaze in movies seems to dominate, it is refreshing to find a film that is the caliber of movies made from a much earlier decade, when cinema was intended to be a work of art.  You could not ask for a better cast than in this movie.  All are very well-respected for their acting abilities and their professional demeanor.  The score is excellent; the story line captivating.  Paul Newman is indeed more than believable in his role as a sexy, no-nonsense gumshoe.  Susan Sarandon is sultry in the style of Susan Hayward and Lauren Bacall.  Gene Hackman is, well, Gene Hackman. I only wish there were more movies coming out of Hollywood of this nature.   "},{"Title":"One of this year's best","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This may be one of the most underrated movies ever. Robert Benton's sharp, smart, moving and funny tribute to the film noire genre was undeservingly scolded by most of the critics and it is a real shame. Twilight is one of a few movies I saw this year, that reminds us the taste of a really good cinema. It stars a team of Hollywood's greatest stars, it has a truly great script, it's relatively short (and you will be sorry it ended that fast) and it is a total enjoyment for any movie lover. And if it's not enough, there is an incredibly hot sex scene with an amazingly sexy Rhis Witherspoon. You shouldn't miss that, I guarantee you. "},{"Title":"If Newman plays Dick Tracy at age 73...","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The late actor Paul Newman portrays a fly in the ointment, the anti-hero version of Dick Tracy, herein Twilight. I've read some reviews of people wondering why widely acclaimed filmmaker Robert Benton has made this movie. A short answer To provide screen experience to new starlets with veteran actors.There are 3 of those starlets in this film. First one is Reese Witherspoon. 1998 was an important milestone for her. She's been busy whole year long with Pleasantville and Overnight Delivery. Through 1998 summer she played in Twilight, thus she has bold scenes with Liev Schreiber. Even though she has a cameo role as Mel Ames in the film, her role includes the only nudity content of her box-office movies career. Yet, Twilight features its queen Susan Sarandon. For me, this is Sarandon's third best after Atlantic City and White Palace. She comes out of pool, starts walking in Eve outlook, looking for her Adam, then Newman comes by.The second starlet is Liev Schreiber. He plays Mel's date at Mexico. While Mel lies naked on a couch, she asks him Do you love me?. He keeps his silence a bit while staring at her tits, and hinders himself from replying No, I just love your tits. Thankfully Mel speaks before him I mean it doesn't really matter you love me or not. If all the movie critics thought the same way that Robert Benton has written the worst script of his life, they might be right.The third starlet is Patrick Malone. If you read this review right now, and don't know who Patrick Malone is, it's because herein Twilight he wasted his chance of a lifetime due to his imitation of Will Smith. A young actor in Hollywood must not copy other actors of same career level. I actually liked Malone's harmony with Newman playing his partner, if only he could have played his own style. He was one of the supporting actors in Lawrence Kasdan's Grand Canyon(1991).Even though the cast is rich on paper, the whole plot is turning around Paul Newman. No one is able to come closer to him, and he acts only with his self-belief. From my point of view, the main issue is not the script nor the cheapness of the story telling methods. Nobody but Benton and Newman, is in the mood of making a movie. Gene Hackman, James Garner, Stockard Channing spoil the story. So many stars make it darker. Only Newman and Sarandon could have been enough to fill the cast, since the storyline is so simple. "},{"Title":"Forgettable plot","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The script is weak but the acting is another story. What a cast, even if Newman is getting a little long in the tooth to be playing a P.I. Hackman, Garner and Sarandan are all very watchable as a trio of conniving types hiding a deep, dark, 20-year-old secret. You can pretty much guess what it is early on, but the reason for seeing this thriller is not for the plot but to watch four veterans in action. "}{"Title":"Film Noir redux","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps it's 'cause I'm pushing 65, but this film just grabbed me from the start. Besides the fact that all the key actors are seniors, or almost, they got all my buttons pushed from the start. Having been an NYPD auxiliary for several years and getting to hang around with the real cops, I saw a lot of the cynical stuff but a surprising amount of the real stuff too. This film reflected that -- world-weary but hanging in there -- and within that framework it was interesting to see the plot develop. The whole mood of the film struck me as dead on, and I'm one who usually doesn't like many films. It struck me as exactly on par in the 90s with some of the best noir films of generations past. Nine and maybe even 10. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Interesting script, despite obvious flaws","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Most critics wrote off the film because of the poor script and the lackluster direction. Yes, it is true that an average viewer should be able to spot the villain, well before the ex-cop and ex-private investigator does so in the film by comparing life-styles. But that is what young audiences will look for in the movie. What I liked about the script were the subtle dialogues ranging from Samuel Johnson misquotes to acerbic one-liners that developed each of the characters slowly. Take the misty-eyed Lt. Verna (Stockard Channing) greeting Ross as an old acquaintance and then closing the dialogue with the icy Cuff him! to the arresting officers. You have an extra-ordinary script here and everywhere in the film.This film is not action-packed; it is heavy on dialogue requiring a mature mind to take in the clever character buildup. Sarandon's character, in particular, was well developed leading to a charming finale.Benton never appealed to me as a great director; nonetheless this film's strength lies in his script (co-scripted by Russo), a thoroughly delightful cast ensemble, and a notable camerawork by Sobocinsky.Finally, I thought the film's name was a wonderful and appropriate selection.     "},{"Title":"Wasted performances","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's refreshing to see consummate actors plying their trade, especially one with the skill of Paul Newman. It's especially wonderful to see this skill applied to a film like Nobody's Fool. In Twilight, Newman is reunited with Nobody's Fool director-screenwriter Robert Benton and is essentially playing the same character. Only this time the character is placed in a manipulative plot that seems like retreads from better crime films. It's simply a window for Newman to show is talents. Other screen veterans--Gene Hackman, Susan Sarandon and James Garner (who is just as natural in front of a camera as Newman)--are also on display, but are not given the screen time to display their skills. It's really Newman's picture and the rest of the actors are simply guests. Stockard Channing is underused in the role of a police investigator and one of my favorite character actors, M. Emmet Walsh is completely wasted in the role of a...well...a corpse, I guess. The message--about people in the twilight of their years--is heavy-handed and the story makes absolutely no sense logically. But it's good seeing Newman at the top of his form--now, if he will only pick out better projects in which to display his talents.  "},{"Title":"Great view of Reese on the sunset!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Robert Benton, an otherwise excellent film director, must not have been too inspired with this film, and it shows! Every element that went into it should have produced an interesting film, after all, this was the second collaboration between Mr. Benton and Richard Russo, a wonderful writer on his own right. Unfortunately, there are no sparks in this slow evolving take on deceit and an unsolved crime in L.A.The opening scenes are deceiving because they take place in Puerto Vallarta. We see Harry Ross, a private investigator, going to the rescue of a rich girl, Mel Ames. Mel is a gorgeous creature that is seen in all her glory, and it seems to have been planned that way in order to hook the viewer into staying for the rest of the story. Alas, beautiful Mel goes straight and is only seen in a couple of other scenes! We lose, that's all!As a film noir, there are too many things that don't make sense in Twilight. The film is not a complete waste, although the pace, being slow, doesn't add anything to the story, or the way we feel after sitting through it after a while.Paul Newman makes an interesting appearance as Harry. James Garner, another great personality, does the best with the small part of Raymond Hope. Susan Sarandon is mysterious and secretive as Catherine and Gene Hackman doesn't have much to do. Reese Witherspoon, making her screen debut, is lovingly captured by the camera. Stockard Channing, one of the best stage and film actress working in films today, is wasted. Giancarlo Esposito is the only one that brings a badly needed comic relief to the movie. M. Emmet Walsh, Liev Schrieber, Margo Martindale, and John Spencer play minor roles.While the film is far from horrible, but it requires a lot of patience from the viewer. The crisp cinematography by Piotr Sobocinski gives the film a beautiful patina. Also the moody music score of Elmer Bernstein and the production design of David Gropman, contribute to make the film appear much better than it is. "},{"Title":"The Magic Hour","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight is a slow burn modern film noir. A more laid back version of LA Confidential. The first scenes feature a young Reese Witherspoon and Liev Schreiber in Mexico with Paul Newman that leaves Newman injured. We then go forward a few years.Harry Ross (Newman) is a down on his luck detective with an injury and not much money. He lives in California in the guest quarters of Witherspoon's wealthy parents who are his old friends and former film industry executives now in the twilight of their years. Jack (Gene Hackman) is dying of cancer and he and Ross pass time playing cards.Jack asks Harry to deliver a package in Los Angeles. When Harry arrives to deliver the package he encounters a shot man named who turns out to be a former detective. This begins a chain of events involving a past case that led to the disappearance of Catherine's (Susan Sarandon) ex- husband.Harry realises that his friends have been deceitful and manipulative of him. His old colleague Raymond (James Garner) tries to persuade Harry to get away from it all.The film is about immoral people who are wealthy and wish to stay ahead and use others for their own means. As a pot boiler its slow, even meandering as there are betrayals and double crosses. What sustains it is the acting and with the four leads and some rising stars you watch it for the actors and the depth they provide. "},{"Title":"How about a reunion?","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As my summary title suggests, I found this to be an enjoyable reunion movie, not only in reference to the reuniting of old star favorites getting together for old times' sake to make a film, but also because the screenplay is about old Hollywood cronies from yesteryear getting involved in some updated and dicey melodrama.The interplay amongst the old guard is highly entertaining. Newman, Hackman, Garner, Channing and Sarandon provide sophisticated and amusing banter. Although Ms. Sarandon and Channing are somewhat younger than the aforementioned actors, they blend in with the boys smoothly. The talents of the supporting cast, Liev, Reese, Giancarlo and mucho(Margo Martindale) are not lost either. The depth and intricacy of the story line does not suffer as a result of the cute and witty banter rather, the humor augments the tone and helps to set the stage for the evolving dramatic plot twists.I would be remiss to exclude lauding the hauntingly beautiful and appropriate soundtrack and recurring theme by Elmer Bernstein. His contribution is as important to the subtlety and color of the story line as any cast member's. Although all the characters shine in this Hollywood detective escapade, Mr. Garner shines the brightest in his sardonically gritty role, even in its more limited time allotment. A good flick to catch, especially if you like the subtlety of substance over form! "},{"Title":"They should have done better","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is O.k, but with a cast like this, they should be able to do better than O.k. It seems very much like Paul Newman had it in mind to play Phillip Marlowe, but someone convinced him a the last moment that he was too old to play the part. What's been substituted here is a script which on the surface has all these Marlowe like characters. (The dirty cop, the jaded PI, the two heroine's, you know, the good one who's basically sweet and the bad one who's sexy.) What it doesn't have is the wonderfully clever writing of Raymond Chandler. They should've just made a remake of the big sleep or fairwell, my lovely. and just said Yes, We know Paul Newman is a dinosaur, deal with it.  "},{"Title":"intelligent, adult thriller","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this at the theater and recently rented it for another look. This film takes its time spinning out the story and developing characters. In addition to the leads there are fine supporting performances as well. Giancarlo Esposito, Liev Schreiber, Margo Martindale and of course, Stockard Channing all have moments in the film that are little gems. Break out the popcorn, sit back, put your feet up and let this movie draw you in. "},{"Title":"well-rehearsed","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lots of people will sit through a well-known symphony, already knowing how the tune goes, but not minding because they want to see how this particular orchestra will play it.The same goes for Twilight. We've all heard this tune. The fun is watching how the Newman-Hackman-Sarandon-Garner orchestra will play it.For my money, they can sure carry a tune. "},{"Title":"I liked this better than many","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found this story of an aging private eye (Paul Newman in yet another terrific late-career performance), and his aging friends, lovers and clients (Gene Hackman, Susan Sarandon, James Garner, all doing admirable work) touching, sweet, funny, sad, and an enjoyable noir mystery to boot. Its not that the plotting is that brilliant, or the story that novel, but this is really more about the characters than the mystery anyway. Its about aging and loss and trying to hold onto your pride and self-esteem in the face of the indignities later life. In all that it has much in common with Bentons earlier, very good Late Show, but for me this had even more depth and resonance (perhaps reflective of Bentons own aging?). "}{"Title":"Bad and Boring","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I came to this movie with some expectation, and having read some favorable reviews on IMDb that was a big mistake.Just because there are some well known names in the cast do not believe that will save this film, because it does not.Briefly a retired cop gets entangled in some blackmail/murder plot, but the whole picture is boring, self indulgent and unbelievable.The script is poor, and none of the players give convincing performances. The story, the plot and the players are all unrealistic in the extreme and just because they have made their career by other films will not salvage them or this picture.1/10. "},{"Title":"Above average film noir","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's unfortunate that this film was released only shortly before L.A. Confidential, which is a wonderful film that deserved its honors. Twilight, with its intriguing characters and twisty script, simply fell out of the limelight, and hasn't gotten the attention it deserves.There are faults in the script, to be sure, and even with this all-star cast, things are a little uneven.  However, this film is a gritty, interesting thriller, focused on the playing out of lifelong grudges and desires.  Much as Deep Impact was nominally a sci-fi film, but truly focused on the different ways in which people confront the end of the world, Twilight is only nominally a crime thriller, but truly focuses on the lengths to which people will go to preserve the legacy they desire.  A satisfying, if not brilliant, film. "},{"Title":"What a shame!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a shame! Great cast - poor movie. Newman is, has been and always will be one of the greats, with support from Sarandon, Hackman and Garner this movie had great potential. Unfortunately it's just dull, dull, dull. A disadvantage of following such a well-worn genre as private-eye movie, is it's a fair bet that predictability is going to be a problem. Unfortunately that is amply demonstrated in Twilight. This can only be recommended as an opportunity to see some top-notch veterans go through their paces in a harmless, non-challenging couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Waste of great talent","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It was both inspiring and painful to see such great lead and supporting talent demonstrating their craft with nothing to work with.  It could have just as well have been several one-person demonstrations of how to act.  I'm glad I got this video for free from the library.  "},{"Title":"great cast","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie has an amazing cast and the same director who also directed Nobody's Fool. Paul Newman plays a private detective who in the first scene is in Mexico looking for an underage Reese Witherspoon and she winds up shooting him right in his leg next to his pecker and there is a rumor that she actually shot it off. Witherspoon is the daughter of two old movie stars played by Gene Hackman, who is dying of cancer, and Susan Sarandon. They are letting Newman stay at their mansion and even though Newman is basically retired, Hackman gives him some money to give to a lady and he winds up being shot at by a dying man. The mystery is actually a little disappointing but it has a great cast that also includes Stockard Channing and James Garner. "},{"Title":"A little flawed, but a good color film noir with a message.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  But for the choppy editing this would be a top-notch color film noir. Its socio-political message couldn't be clearer or more to the point. Some important people are so convinced that whatever they do is right, that their conduct amounts to group sociopathy. The crime story is interesting as it supports this theme, but the ultimate solution should not be too much of a surprise. The private detectives are a broad spectrum of types very competent but world weary, incompetent but enthusiastic, venal losers, venal winners (after a fashion). The official police are a mixed bag too, but presented as mostly honest if not always too eager to press on the important people. There are some bad apples, though. In short, the film is a lot like life. There's great cast work by the principals and good color camera work to match the noir genre.  "},{"Title":"A Very Good Film","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very good film, an actors' film. The cast is brilliant. The story is basically that of The Great Gatsby, except at the core of the setup the two rich people are in league, rather than at odds. There is not much originality in the plot or character motivation, but just enough interesting people to keep you watching, and enough action to keep you on the edge of your seat.The photography and direction are excellent, and the movie flows very well. But it is a small film, a small world with not much depth. It seems everybody is just playing it safe, and we get a good detective thriller with some action, a lot of great dialog, and we get to watch Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon, James Garner, and Gene Hackman listen to one another. That alone should make the film worth watching.I am not sure how the film could have been any better, given its scope and intent. If you are expecting a great film that somehow changes your life, and most viewers are, I suppose, you will be disappointed. If you expect to be entertained and amused, then this film satisfies completely. "},{"Title":"A little weightless but worths a view because of the great stars involved","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Heavyweight stars working on a weightless plot yet doing some good for us and themselves. That can be said of many movies and also about Twilight. No, this isn't Team Edward or Team Jacob, it's a film noir about wrapped in secrets, ghosts from the past and some skeletons in the closet (more like on a swimming pool!). On the front seat of this we have the team Paul Newman and director Robert Benton, re-teaming after the successful Nobody's Fool; and the amazing passengers of this are Susan Sarandon, Gene Hackman, James Garner, Stockard Channing, Giancarlo Esposito, Reese Witherspoon, Liev Schreiber, John Spencer, Margo Martindale and M. Emmet Walsh (horribly reduced to a pivotal role but with no speaking lines). Newman plays Harry, a veteran private detective in the twilight of his career and years, decadent and living of favors in the house of Jack Ames, a dying veteran actor (Hackman) and his wife (Sarandon), also an actress, doing some jobs here and there for them, covering up their dirt. Then, during one of those jobs, after almost getting killed by another detective, he decides to check out what's behind the many out-coming mysteries which are appearing on his way, things that might have to do with his past and also things from the past of his bosses/friends. Favorable point for him the unusual help of a sidekick (Esposito) - in terms of script kind of strange but it works well. Low point for him flames getting higher between him and Ames wife; her brat daughter (Witherspoon) whose purpose is to put the man down just because she doesn't like him, due to an incident involving her boyfriend (Schreiber). Fine movie but quite cheap if you think about all the elements involved. Quite simplified as noir don't tend to be, convoluted in so many dialogs and never all that interesting or clever, Twilight begs for our attention but doesn't give much in return. When you see the mystery close of getting solved, already figuring out who's the bad guy, you end up asking yourself Why should I care about this story?. Well, you should care but the movie doesn't impels you in such direction. You're there for the actors and that sometimes works replacing the excitement, the thrills, the action, everything that is missing here. While it feeds us with Newman giving an outstanding performance, it doesn't offer much when it comes to show the other actors, most of them reduced to a few scenes (Garner stands out with perfection though). Once again we see Newman's character trying to show he can hit the top of his craft even though he's not fast and younger as before, realizing that things have changed but he still can find a way to do something. But he played this several times before and in better projects (The Verdict, Nobody's Fool and his Oscar winning Eddie Felson in The Color of Money). Sarandon brings lots of sensuality in her role but at times it seems director Benton and his writing partner Richard Russo are forcing things far too much when it comes to presenting those sexy moments. Hackman was a little underused in this, but presents some class act during his first scenes. Conclusion it's not fun as it could and should be but it's watchable. Rare times a good team like this were gathered and could make something decent out of a movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Light but very entertaining","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Good noirish thriller to watch on TV. Good acting, some very clever lines but not difficult to figure out the plot. Great to see these veterans in action again. Who doesn't like Newman or Garner?! Great houses and cinematography. Have fun. Oh I just found out I have to put ten lines on this in order for it to show. Maybe that's why there is only one comment. This is not the movie to write ten lines about. However I would like to add that Susan Sarandon, named Catherine Haywood in the movie, is every inch the movie star without giving the performance of her life. Gene Hackman deserved more movie minutes. The man really can act. OK this makes ten lines now. Have fun!!!! "},{"Title":"I rented this based on the cast....","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ....and was not disappointed. Newman, Garner, Sarandon, Hackman and Witherspoon deliver. Also, vet Robert Benton delivers a fine, low-key film in extremely professional style. Many things can and do go wrong in this Hollywood double-cross script. A whole lotta nuance in one package. "}{"Title":"Wrong Place, Worng Time","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Movies genres, as we know, go in and out of fashion. Seen any new movie musicals lately? Evita and what else?Twilight is in a once popular category, similar in tone to Harper, which also starred Newman, And The Conversation, starring Hackman. These were suspense thrillers or mysteries which delved deeply into the moral consequences of the acts committed by the man characters. The original of this genre is, I believe, post WWII, at least in terms of popularity. Or perhaps the genisis was Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity, in which Fred McMurray was  caught in a situation which created moral issues within him.I gave it an 8 because I feel that in later years, it will be more appreciated than it is now. I also was impressed that this cast and crew of old timers had no qualms in making a film which deservedly was rated R.I always try to remember the past and to consider the future. Blade Runner was not successful with either audiences or critics when it was released. I felt at the time, it was a marvelous work, altered ending nothwithstanding. In reading a silly list of the 100 greatest sci-fi events in Entertainmant Weekly, I realized two things. Had the list been issued ten years ago, Blade Runner would not have been on it. Should it appear ten years from now, The Fifth Element WILL be on it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Cast In A Lifeless Screenplay","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Paul Newman, director Robert Benton, and scriptwriter Richard Russo gets reassembled for this L.A. detective drama together with an talented stars headed by Susan Sarandon,Gene Hackman,James Garner,Stockard Channing and Reese Witherspoon in this thriller/noir film,Twilight.The story focuses on aging private detective Harry Ross,an ex-cop, is working on a case to return 17-year-old Mel Ames to her home. He tracks down Mel and her sleazy boyfriend,Jeff Willis, at a motel.Two years go by. Ross is living in southern California in the guest quarters of Mel's wealthy parents, Jack and Catherine Ames. One day, Jack asks a favor of Harry&#x97;to deliver a package. It turns out to be the first development in a series of twists and turns in a 20- year-old case involving the disappearance of Catherine's ex-husband. A man named Ivar is murdered at the proposed meeting place where Harry was to bring the package. Harry is detained by police, including a close friend, Lt. Verna Hollander. At the police station, he runs into another old pal and colleague, now retired, Raymond Hope.Harry has a developing interest in Catherine and ends up in bed with her one night. He also is blackmailed by a parole officer called Mucho and by Mel's old boyfriend, Jeff, now an ex-con.A dying Jack Ames feels betrayed that Harry has had a fling with his wife. Harry, meanwhile, is forced to face the reality that his friends have been deceitful and manipulative of him.Raymond Hope tries to persuade Harry to get away from it all, but showdown ensues in Raymond's glass-walled hillside home.The movie has a great cast headed by Newman,Sarandon and Hackman.Unfortunately,the intelligent script isn't engaging enough to keep the viewer tuned in as the plot is lacking in energy and interest.The talent of the excellent cast is what made up for the movie and saved it from complete ruin.But nevertheless,the actors/actresses tried their best to make the most out of the screenplay and the final product turned out to be better than average.Overall,Twilight is a movie that has an excellent cast in a lifeless screenplay still deserves a 9 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Not the terrible 'Teen Vampire' nonsense but an excellently acted 'Noir'","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not the terrible 'Teen Vampire' nonsense but an excellently acted 'Noir' with Paul Newman as an over the hill retired ex-cop and former private eye who resides with a actor friend (Gene Hackman) who is dying from cancer and his seductive actress wife (Susan Sarandon) Newman is requested by Hackman to run an 'errand' unbeknown to him he becomes embroiled in murder. He stumbles into a mysterious 20 year old case which deals with the disappearance of Sarandon's former husband. 'Twilight' has an excellent cast, on top of having Hackman, Sarandon, theirs an appearance from James Garner, who also has shady dealings. Liev Schrieber and Reese Whitherspoon also appear the latter contributes a revealing nude scene at the beginning. "},{"Title":"An Old Case Takes New Life","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight casts Paul Newman as a former police detective, former private detective now living as a family retainer to glamorous movie star couple Gene Hackman and Susan Sarandon. He's living with them because he was hurt on the job when after being hired to bring back their daughter Reese Witherspoon from running away with Liev Schreiber, Reese accidentally shoots Newman. Don't ask for the circumstances, they have to be seen.Anyway because of what Reese did, Newman is living with her family and one day, he's asked to deliver a package by Hackman to a woman. At the location he finds a fatally shot M. Emmett Walsh still able to shoot at Newman. That sends the whole plot starting which involves the disappearance of a prominent actor and Sarandon's former husband twenty years before.Imagine Philip Marlowe now middle-aged, but entering senior citizenry and you've got Paul Newman in this part. Actually Newman was 74 when he did this role, but could have passed for a dozen years younger. Better still imagine Newman's own Harper which he did in two films and you have a better example.Director Robert Benton assembled a really crackerjack cast in support of those already mentioned. Keep note for James Garner as another retired cop turned private eye, though someone nothing like Jim Rockford, Stockard Channing as Newman's former partner at the LAPD, John Spencer as Channing's boss who would like some explanations as some bodies start to pile up around Newman.Most of all note Margo Martindale who was the woman Newman was supposed to deliver the package to. Note her relationship, personal and professional to at least one other of the cast members. It's a really touching performance of a lonely and frustrated woman.Up to the end of his life, the quality of Paul Newman's work never went down even if he did a clunker or two among his films. Twilight is a perfect example of what I just said. "},{"Title":"An old decrepit Newman","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have commented on a few of Newmans movies and they were favorable. Sorry to say this one was not. Newman sounded very old ... seems like his cigarette habit caught up to him. Quite frankly the guy did not want to be there. Its a shame because the rest of the cast was stellar. OK but now the plot , it went all over the place and just seemed to me spoofed of the old 40s film noire classics. Thats fine but not a well written film. It was one of the rare times we get to see Reese Witherspoon topless , if not the only time. Guys will want to watch this, but thank goodness its at the beginning of the film. Perhaps though this film, with its ALIST actors might have been better served if Newman played Hackmans part and vice versa. Thats all I will say without giving the movie away. Truth be told , even if this was Paul Newmans best acting performance this could not have been saved. "},{"Title":"Well worth the time","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a humorous drama, somewhat predictable, but the simple fact that this film has Newman, Sarandon, Hackman, Garner, Channing and numerous well known charactor actors makes it worth the time.  "},{"Title":"Great acting is the savior","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie doesn't win a whole lot of points for having an original plot, but where its storyline is lacking the actors pick up the slack. The obvious stand outs are Paul Newman, James Garner and Susan Sarandon, but really there are no weak links. Gene Hackman and Stockard Channing perform wonderfully. Even newcomers (when compared to the rest of the cast) Reese Witherspoon and Liev Shreiber hand in commendable performances. Watch this one to see the masters in action, it's enjoyable simply watching them do their job. "},{"Title":"First I was a cop, then a private detective. And then a drunk.","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight is directed by Robert Benton who also co-writes the screenplay with Richard Russo. It stars Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon, Gene Hackman, James Garner, Stockard Channing, Reese Witherspoon, Giancarlo Esposito and Liev Schreiber. Music is scored by Elmer Bernstein and cinematography by Piotr Sobocinski.Harry Ross (Newman) is working for Jack (Hackman) and Catherine Ames (Sarandon). When one day he is sent to deliver a package for Jack, it turns out to be the starting point of trouble that opens up a 20 year old missing persons case involving Catherine's ex-husband.Twilight, the word in this case signifying persons in the twilight of their lives, is on the surface a standard murder mystery infused with noirish blood. But although the film never gets above a steady beat, where subtlety of performances and tone are key, it's a better picture than the poor box office it garnered suggests. However, in spite of the quality that comes with said performances and script, the latter sinewy and begging for the mature film fan's attention, picture is a little too subtle for its own good. When action does come into play it feels like an intrusion, misplaced even, which shouldn't be the case as there is, after all, a suspected murder and private investigation going on in the plot. The blend isn't quite right in spite of the intelligence and thought that's gone in to make the characters engaging.The whole calm over chaos approach taken by Benton (Kramer vs. Kramer) is however admirable, many people like dialogue driven movies, especially ones dripping with noir atmospherics, myself included, but it does put itself out as being only accessible to a select audience. That's why it failed at the box office; well that and the fact that this A list cast of some distinction meant expectations went through the roof prior to its release! But there's still much to enjoy as the seasoned performers dally around themes of mortality, loyalty and forbidden fruit, with the rose tinted cloud of nostalgia hovering constantly over head. It's apt that the film clearly harks back to noirish movies of yesterday, for its main characters are forced to constantly look backwards, to times passed, times never to be had again.The good far outweighs the bad here, but you need to be in a select band of film lovers to get the best rewards from it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Why did they make this movie?","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mind you, the movie is OK. If you want to relax for 90 minutes before going to bed, it's better than most of your TV choices.These veteran performers are all completely comfortable in front of the camera - Sarandon, Hackman, Newman, Garner - they all know what to do when the cameras start rolling.Unfortunately, the script doesn't give them much of anything interesting to do. I had all the plot twists figured out about 5 minutes into the movie, except I thought it would turn out that Hackman wasn't really sick, and they came close to that.I just have to believe that you could do more with all this talent at your disposal.  "},{"Title":"Ex-P.I. Paul Newman makes a payoff for Gene Hackman and murder emerges","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Writer-director Robert Benton does reliably entertaining work with some depth, and the neo-noir Twilight (1998) is no exception. In this movie we have 3 characters who are in the twilight of their lives. Some were also in the twilight of their real careers and lives. Paul Newman died in 2008, James Garner in 2014. Gene Hackman is 85. Susan Sarandon at 68 is from a younger generation and still making movies.Hackman and Sarandon play actors who married 20 years earlier when Sarandon's husband conveniently disappeared, apparently a suicide. Newman is an ex-cop, an ex-private investigator and an ex-drunk who has been living in a room above their garage for two years, after having gotten shot in the leg rescuing their daughter, Reece Witherspoon. They're all living on friendly terms. Newman's let his p.i. license expire. He's content being near Sarandon and living an easy life. Hackman's battling cancer. Garner's another ex-cop who's friendly with them as well.Hackman asks Newman to deliver a package for him, which is obviously blackmail. Newman gets nothing but trouble, launching him into renewed acquaintance with a cop he once worked with, Stockard Channing. Newman soon is in a real mess.As many times as we have seen a similar plot line, it still can be entertaining if done well. This is done well. Newman is outstanding even if we've seen him in such roles before. Maybe it's because he's done this kind of role before. Fairly early on, by the early 70s, Newman overcame the negatives of method acting, disposed of them or hid them away, and developed his own ways. He has a long string of successes and enjoyable portrayals to his credit. He carried on the tradition of major Hollywood stardom. Twilight is his movie, with Hackman, Sarandon and Garner playing supporting roles with their own customary skills.The story moves right along without a moment of boredom, and yet each scene is done meticulously so that we savor the screen interactions. There is some meat to the screenplay. There is some mystery to it even if it has derivative elements. There is enough said and enough left unsaid, enough shown and enough left unshown. Our engagement depends on a balance between these opposites. "}{"Title":"Great Cast","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A retired ex-cop and private detective (Paul Newman) who lives with a rich actor (Gene Hackman) who is dying from cancer and his actress wife (Susan Sarandon) gets mixed up in murder when he is asked to deliver blackmail money.In retrospect, this film is notorious for having a young, topless Reese Witherspoon and a Liev Schreiber at the early point in his career. But ignore these things, because they do not matter (even if Witherspoon likes to pretend she forgot she was in this movie).Just check out this cast Gene Hackman and Paul Newman. The rest are merely a bonus, because these are two of the greatest old white men in acting (at least at the time). "},{"Title":"Murder, Blackmail & Complicated Relationships","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A 20-year-old mystery, a love triangle and some dark secrets are just a few of the intriguing ingredients of this intelligent, low-key, crime drama. Murder, blackmail and betrayal also feature heavily, but it's the complicated relationships between the story's characters that ultimately distinguish this from so many other similar neo-noir thrillers. Its moody atmosphere is established early on by Elmer Bernstein's wonderfully evocative score and the feelings of loss, sorrow and regret that are so apparent in many of the characters add further to the profoundly melancholic feel of the piece.Retired private detective Harry Ross (Paul Newman) works as an odd job man for a couple of old friends who used to be top movie stars and lives in an apartment above their garage. His current arrangements began a couple of years earlier after he'd been hired by Jack (Gene Hackman) and Catherine Ames (Susan Sarandon) to bring back their 17-year-old daughter Mel (Reese Witherspoon) who'd run away to a Mexican resort with her significantly older boyfriend. Harry completed the job successfully but, as a result of a bizarre accident, suffered a bullet wound in the thigh.One day, Jack sends Harry on a seemingly routine job to deliver a package to a woman called Gloria Lamar (Margo Martindale). When Harry arrives at her place, a seriously wounded man shoots at him numerous times before dying. Harry soon establishes that the dead man was an ex-cop who was involved in the investigation into the disappearance of Catherine's fist husband 20 years earlier. Almost immediately, Harry's apprehended by police lieutenant Verna Hollander (Stockard Channing) and during his time being questioned, meets his old friend and fellow retired cop, Raymond Hope (James Garner). Both Raymond and Verna had been colleagues of Harry's during his time as a police detective.After being released by Verna, Harry goes on to carry out his own investigation into the 20-year-old mystery and in the process, makes some interesting findings.The main characters in this movie have all seen better times and reflect on their failures, faded glories and mortality on different occasions. These are people in the twilight of their lives who live with their disappointments and lack of hope for the future but whose strong passions and determination to get what they want, continue to complicate their lives. The all-star cast is brilliant in this movie with Newman, Hackman, Sarandon and Garner all displaying tremendous maturity, subtlety and charisma and Channing, Witherspoon and Martindale all exceptionally good in their supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Halcyon","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a brief review of Nobody's Fool (1994) and Twilight (1998), two films by director Robert Benton, both starring Paul Newman.The better of both films, Nobody's Fool stars Newman as Donald Sullivan, an elderly man who lives in small-town America. Perpetually down on his luck, Fool's first act watches as Sullivan struggles to claim unpaid wages. For the next hour, things only get worse for Sully he loses bets, loses money, almost loses his leg, is revealed to be estranged from his family and gets thrown into jail.The film's great joke, though, is that Sully is never sullen. Always giving as good as he gets, Sully repeatedly steals machinery from his boss, and flirts with his bosses wife (Melanie Griffith). As the film progresses, we the audience also begin to appreciate just how many people rely upon the unlucky Sully, how lucky they are to have him in their lives, and how upstanding a guy he is when compared to many others in his community.Which is not to say Sully is without flaws. Indeed, Nobody's Fool's climax features the usual improvements and reconcilliations typical of the genre. Sully learns to be a better man, a better father, and attempts to correct mistakes in others he once committed himself. This is all painfully routine. Where the film shines is in Newman's lovable performance, Benton's ceaselessly witty dialogue, and his willingness to sympathise with major and minor characters which lesser films typically villainize.Released four years later, Twilight again stars Newman. This time he plays Harry Ross, an ex-cop and one-time private detective. Like Nobody's Fool, the film's first act watches as Newman damages his leg. Again like Nobody's Fool, the film then begins to question the impotency and disloyalty of its lead character.Throughout Twilight, Newman plays a now familiar archetype the ageing private detective. He's an old timer, washed up, and mocked by all. To make matters worse, everyone believes that Ross lost his penis in a gunfight. Ross' presumed impotency is mirrored to the film's other ageing characters a washed up actress (Susan Sarandon) in her twilight years, and a dying actor (Gene Hackman), both of whom are friends with Ross. The film's moral dilemma hinges around all three characters. Did Hackman and Sarandon collude to kill a man, is Ross helping them, and more importantly, will he cover-up a murder to protect a friend? To say anymore would be to spoil the fun.Twilight is set in California, home of many great sun-bleached noirs. It's also home to Benton's earliest noir, The Late Show, a 1977 feature which starred Art Carny as Ira Wells, an ageing private detective who, like Harry Ross, is accused of being long past his sell-by date. Both films allow their ageing heroes one final blaze of glory. Both films are also unable to transcend the conventions of their genre. Twilight's climax in particular is rife with clichs.7.5/10 - See Cutter's Way and Flesh and Bone (1993). "},{"Title":"How did they assemble that cast???","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The cast is the first thing that struck me, prior to watching this best-of-the-B-movies almost-film-noir. They're stars, and they all deliver star performances. Hackman especially is, as always, amazing. Even James Garner does a good job.I don't think I'm spoiling anything to say that there are no big surprises, and only a very few little ones, in this movie. It's not quite a film noir, a little bit too much humor for that, but I think it's worth the trade-off. As a small bit of icing on the cake, it's interesting to see Liev Schreiber as a young punk, after seeing him as an older, much more dangerous Ray Donovan.All in all, nothing great beyond the cast, but a good entertainment. "},{"Title":"A cool, seductive film","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Twilight didn't do big a the box office but should have. The story of a Hollywood couple, an old friend, and a horrible past. Paul Newman gives a performance that's believable and fun. Resse Witherspoon, although it wasn't a big part, is the Hollywood couple's sex-craved, smart mouth daughter who comes around at the end. The other cast member give true-to-life performances. Rent this movie. "},{"Title":"languid","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like noir films in general but the pacing of certain scenes tends to be very slow and contrivances such as Sarandon's cigarette dialogue/fumbling exaggerates and amplifies the slowness; I suppose this pacing is intended to impart to the audience a feeling of importance/seriousness to the scene but it does just the opposite.I was surprised to read the budget for this film was $37 million because the production values don't seem to be that high --- apparently lots of money going to actors' salaries.Plot hole observation Newman shoots and kills Garner in Garner's home; Newman apparently explains it away to the police as self defense because he was about to expose Garner as a murderer; the now dead Garner has no way to defend himself, and irregardless of this fact, the police swallow whole Newman's suspicious story (which, oops, happens to be the main premise of the screenplay) and let him go free. I know if I shot and killed someone in their house without clear motive I wouldn't be walking free anytime soon. "},{"Title":"What more could anyone want from a film?","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Reese Whitherspoon is topless in this movie and it is thoroughly gratuitous. Unlike most young actresses, however, at least Whitherspoon can look back and know she was exploited in a quality film while she was working with some of the best performers of a generation and one of the biggest movie stars of all time.Harry Ross (Paul Newman) used to be a cop and, after that, used to be a private investigator. But after a job down in Mexico bringing back the rebellious daughter of an aging movie star named Jack Ames (Gene Hackman), Harry gets shot. Ames takes Harry into his home while he recovers, then keeps him around as a handyman and family friend. Two years after the Mexico mess, the cancer-stricken Ames asks Harry to deliver an envelope for him. When he takes it to the instructed address, Harry nearly gets shot by a guy who was himself shot in the gut sometime before Harry arrived. Harry manages to just barely avoid getting killed until the guy dies, after which he discovers the man was named Lester Ivar (M. Emmet Walsh). I var was another former cop turned private eye and Harry learns that Ivar was continuing to investigate the disappearance of a actor 20 years ago. That actor was the then-husband of Jack Ames' current wife Catherine (Susan Sarandon). It seems the actor disappeared just in time to clear the way for Catherine to leave him for Jack. And if you think you know where the story is going based on that little plot twist, you're right. That is where the story goes. Harry's investigation into who killed Ivar, who's blackmailing Jack Ames and what happened to Catherine's first husband brings him into contact with another old private eye buddy (James Garner) and an old flame on the police force (Stockard Channing) before culminating in the sort of darkly hopeful ending that the best film noir always aspires to pull off.This is a very good movie. As I mentioned earlier, it's not much of a mystery. You might not be able to guess every single detail of the story before it unfolds, but you figure out early on how it's going to play out and even how it will likely end up. There's very little whodunit going on here, but that's not a problem. This isn't a movie about how a mystery gets solved. It's about the people caught up in it.The actors in Twilight are every bit as good as you could expect or want with performers of this caliber. Whitherspoon gives the weakest performance of the lot, but what young woman could measure up to the veteran talent in this cast? Newman, Sarandon, Hackman, Garner and Channing all do superb work as those rarest of all Hollywood movie characters &#x96; grown ups. These aren't old people tagging along in a young person's world and they aren't characters who behave a decade or two younger and stupider than they actually are. These are people with histories that define then and histories they sometimes struggle to overcome. Newman and Hackman are especially marvelous to watch as two men who both know the thread of their life is running thin and are readying themselves for that end. Even though you know where the story is going, it's a great pleasure to watch these characters get there.Twilight is quite a nice film with lots of real human emotion, humor and drama. It takes a very down-to-Earth approach to desperate acts and how they can shape people's lives, in contrast to many films where it seems like every aspect of existence is heightened and exaggerated to ridiculous levels. Newman made a handful of enjoyable and classy movies like Twilight at the end of his career and they serve as a worthy capstone to his remarkable achievements. "},{"Title":"The Cast Makes this Movie","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" These excellent actors did what they could with the script which is what brings the rating down. I like film noir, Susan Sarandon, Paul Newman and Gene Hackman. Excellent supporting roles from Stockard Channing, James Garner, Reese Witherspoon (showing more than she does now) and Liev Shriber.POSSIBLE SPOILER A aging private eye (Newman) has some dirty work to do for Hackman. In doing this, he uncovers a long held secret and not so nice things about Hackman and Sarandon. While not the most original of plots, watching these film legends is indeed a trip down memory lane of the Bogarts, Becalls et al.And how interesting was it that Stockard Channing and John Spencer (of West Wing fame) are teamed up here? Good solid film noir. Recommended despite dialog flaws. "},{"Title":"Newman in action- again","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Private detective and a retired ex-cop Harry Ross lives with two wealthy actors, Jack Ames and his wife Catherine.Jack has a cancer and may be dying soon.Harry has a thing with his wife.They have a 17 -year old daughter Mel, who is having some good times with a guy named Jeff Willis.In the beginning we see Harry getting Mel back home.But Jeff causes some more trouble to Harry later.Then his big case is to solve a 20- year old case involving the disappearance of Catherine's ex-husband.Harry's old cop friend has done, as we find out, some occasional errands for Jack and Catherine.Robert Benton's Twilight is a nice Neo Noir from 1998.The terrific Paul Newman and his charisma carries a big part of this movie.His performance of Harry Ross is great.And some other veteran actors are there along with Paul to safe this movie from mediocrity.Gene Hackman portrays the old actor with cancer.James Garner is the friend turned enemy Raymond Hope.Susan Sarandon is real classy as Catherine Ames.It's no wonder Reese Witherspoon is left in the shadows of these performers with more experience.Stockard Channing is in the movie portraying Lt. Verna Hollander.Giancarlo Esposito plays Reuben Escobar, who gets nowhere near Harry Ross as a detective.Liev Schreiber is the no good Jeff Willis.Margo Martindale plays Gloria Lamar.M. Emmett Walsh is seen as Lester Ivar.And Clint Howard is seen as EMS Worker.Elmer Bernstein is behind the music.There's pretty much of good stuff in this movie, like when Harry Ross finds out about his friend's, Raymond Hope's crime, and shoots him before he gets a chance.It's nice to see these old guys in action.Without these great people this would be a much worse movie. "},{"Title":"Uninteresting story, interesting cast.","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What a shame that this movie turned out to be nowhere as good as it potentially could had been.Problem is that the movie has a completely dull script. The movie leaves you constantly waiting for things to finally kick off but the movie its mystery is too simple and uninteresting and you can see the 'big twist' coming from miles away already. The movie its storytelling is also just too slow and done in a totally uninteresting way. It makes some of the characters and dialog come across as totally redundant.The movie is made in an old fashioned noir type of style and way of storytelling and character handling. Yet however somehow this style never really pushes through and it's like the studio bosses said; No, let's keep this movie more mainstream. Director Robert Benton obviously understands the genre but it's like he for some reason is holding back or got hold back.It still has the usual noir elements such as a grumpy main character with his flaws, a femme fatale and characters that are not how they seem they are. It also features a grim voice over at times from the main character but yet the movie does not really breath a typical film-noir kind of atmosphere. It's still a modern made and looking movie.The movie is basically a waste of a fine cast. I mean when you have a movie with Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon, Gene Hackman, Reese Witherspoon, Stockard Channing, James Garner, Giancarlo Esposito, Liev Schreiber, John Spencer and M. Emmet Walsh, you could and should expect some more quality and fireworks. It however are still these very same actors that make this movie a worthwhile experience. It's especially refreshing for a change to have an old man as the movie's main lead. Paul Newman already was well in his 70's while playing this role. Yeah, the movie is well cast but yet some characters just don't work out due to the poor script and way of storytelling.Watchable enough to see it once but no, not really a recommendable movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Twilight is a different kind of zone","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight is mostly interesting because we get to see some elderly people doing things that we usually see young people doing in movies. Otherwise, the whole thing's kinda confusing. It portrays some people investigating a twenty-year-old murder, and what it exposes about everyone. I've liked most movies starring Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon and Gene Hackman, but this one seems like they took several ideas and just mixed them up.So, it's not terrible, just strange. It might be worth seeing, if only once. Also starring Reese Witherspoon, Stockard Channing, James Garner, Giancarlo Esposito, Liev Schreiber, John Spencer and M. Emmet Walsh. "},{"Title":"Garner outshines them all","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like all the movies of Robert Benton I have seen so far. They are slow but regularly paced, the director alway seems to be on the lookout for beauty, even in places where others would never think of finding it. One of the great treats of Twilight are the locations in and around L.A., drenched in sunlight or at dusk, and always quite melancholy. Friends of good architecture will not be disappointed, the character James Garner plays lives in a house in the trees that looks like a late project of Austrian architect Rudolph Schindler.Twilight of course also refers to the life stages of the main characters who are somewhat past their primes. They give good performances, but for me James Garner outshines them all. His screen presence is just awesome. He also has the best lines of the movie when he asks the character played by Paul Newman Do you know how many times I didn't kill you the last two days? Good performance also by Giancarlo Esposito as Newman's sidekick, unfortunately the clearly comedic character does not fit too well into the story and is somewhat superfluous. "},{"Title":"A wasted opportunity for a great film","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With Susan Sarandon, Paul Newman and Gene Hackman in a film together, not to mention James Garner and Stockard Channing you might expect much more out of this film, but don't expect too much, there is little here top recommend.  Newman plays a private investigator working for rich actors Gene Hackman and Susan Sarandon, two trashy rich Hollywood types.  Newman delivers some blackmail money for them and gets mixed up in a very old murder.The potential for the movie is limitless.  With such a great cast especially Newman who rarely disappoints you might expect much much better, but this really loses something.  It is good, and worth watching but don't expect this movie to be the brilliant film it should be.  Watch for an early performance by Reese Witherspoon and Gene Hackman does a good job as well.The movie does have some good plot twists and moments. Newman and Garner are as always in top form.  But these two legendary actors get such a bad script and seem to be trying too hard to make this film really work.  Paul Newman is still a very good tough guy even though he is over 70.  Sarandon is not in top form here, I expected better out of her.  This is worth watching only to see all of these legends together but don't expect the best work from all of these legends.  "},{"Title":"Good modern whodunit film-noir","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The highlight of this movie is its all-star cast. Paul Newman, Gene Hackman, James Garner, Stockard Channing, a young Resse Witherspoon and more! They make a slightly derivative script come to life. The cast keeps the viewer interested in the myriad of plot twists that is characteristic of this genre. Solid movie, 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Dawn of Reese Witherspoon","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I shall confess immediately that the main reason I rented this movie was to have a look at Reese Witherspoon's break-out role (she was a sophomore at Stanford when she was cast for this role, moved to LA and never looked back).  Miss Witherspoon is prominently featured in the opening few minutes (with some of her features famously quite prominent)but she otherwise does not factor much into the film.  At a crucial moment in these opening scenes she accidentally shoots Paul Newman (a Private Investigator sent to retrieve 17 year-old Reese from a weekend of concupiscence with her slightly older boyfriend at a resort in Mexico).  Her little girl-like panicked and blurtingly apologetic reaction- eyes like saucers, hand against the mouth- to this incident embodies every/any character Miss Witherspoon has portrayed on screen thus far (including, presumably the girl in Sweet Home Alabama, which I have not yet seen).  It was quite an illuminating moment for those interested in her career.Onward, however, to the subject at hand the movie itself.  When cast in 1998, as I mentioned, Miss Witherspoon was just another young aspiring actress in California.  The rest of the cast is like a Who's Who of established Hollywood stars, which in and of itself makes for an entertaining film, despite a certain severe weakness to the story and direction, which conspire to make the plot really only of incidental interest to the viewer.Paul Newman, looking every bit as aged as he is supposed to be, is cast as a retired Los Angeles police officer, Private Investigator, husband and alcoholic.  Ever since the shooting incident in Mexico, he has been staying as the houseguest of the wealthy actor and actress (Gene Hackman and Susan Sarandan) who had dispatched him on that mission.  Mr. Hackman's character is ill, and Miss Saradan's character is very seductive towards their guest/companion/gofer.  When an ostensibly simple task for Mr. Newman's character(an apparent blackmail pay-off on behalf of Gene Hackman)takes the film into a new direction as a mystery, James Garner (old Jim Rockford himself) saunters into the script as well as an old friend of Gene Hackman's, and former police force colleague of Newman's.  Stockard Channing (Rizzo, of Grease) appears as well as an LAPD Lieutenant, and former partner (among other duties) of the Newman character.The plot wanders along about blackmailers, the mysterious disappearance of Susan Sarandon's first husband twenty years before, remote mountain cabins and the efforts of Newman to piece things together.  A former partner is miraculously brought into the action when the plot requires, and dead bodies continue to accumulate while Newman, now in a Rockford-like mode struggles to solve the riddle before the LAPD haul him in. It's more like a TV movie mystery at this point than anything else, but that's not entirely bad.I think some important scenes or pieces of dialogue must have ended up on the cutting room floor, but it's easy enough to follow the trail and guess who really did what back then, and how it will turn out before the closing credits.   Reese's topless scenes were rather gratuitous and not necessary to the story, and now that she's America's newest sweetheart and movie star, (not to mention noted wife and mommy)will probably never be repeated on the silver screen again. The twilight of the careers of the older established actors has been eclipsed by the dawning of Reese's star.  It's interesting to watch, and the movie's not all that bad either. "},{"Title":"good noir","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i was glad to see this film incorporating actors male and female who are in the prime of their life,but not being prematurely dead and buried.in other words,older folks still like a good sex,murder and scandel flix just like the younger ones,so why not have them act out the parts as well.besides women like susan serandon and stockard channing get better with age and i dare say sexier.guys like paul newman,james garner and gene hackman haven't lost a step when it comes to doing their thing.this film tells a good tale of a murder that happened long ago that was covered up by those with the money to do so.it's up to newman to finally bring closure to the case.newman got his first taste of being a private dick in 1966 in harper as lew harper,followed by the drowning pool several years later.  "},{"Title":"Newman's still got it!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A fine little movie  You get Newman, who's finally showing his age but still a very good actor, plus Sarandon, Hackman, and Garner.  Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Great performance by James Garner","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't much of a thriller, and, as a character study, it is also pretty thin entertainment.TWILIGHT is worth seeing, however, for James Garner's elegant performance. That he steals the film, with such ease, from three great pros (Newman, Sarandon, Hackman), makes it an even more impressive achievement. "},{"Title":"What a shame","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A stellar cast and a lousy script.  Susan Sarandon sleepwalks through this, there is simply no magic between herself and Paul Newman and she and Gene have one scene together (sleeping)so we cannot see what is the electrical chemistry between them. James Garner does much with his role Stockard seems ill at ease with the script and I cannot see her attraction for Paul either, he looks like her father in this. It could have been great if better written with some suspense injected. some dangling threads also that were never explained.  I gave it a 6 out of 10 for Paul trying so hard and for some of the minor parts that were played well. "},{"Title":"A poor attempt to cash in on the success of Nobody's Fool - a waste of top talent.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film is a poorly made attempt at 50's film noir, complete with hack narration from Paul Newman. The film has the potential to be very good a good director and top stars (Newman, Hackman, Sarandon etc). It isn't. The plotline is thin. How many more times are we to have a washed up cop as the lead character? The script and dialogue are poor. Worst of all, the acting is wooden. You get no sense that the actors have been given the time to familiarise themselves with their characters. Even if they had, the script is so poor that they would have nothing meaningful to say anyway. This is a film equivalent of painting by numbers. The film has the look and feel of something that has been made quickly and with a minimal budget. It might be made by the same team who made Nobody's Fool, but don't be fooled by the comparison. Nobody's Fool is a good film. This one is a dog.  "}{"Title":"Starts well, then disappoints","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Paul Newman as a P.I. in Southern California, searching for truth among the wealthy -- shades of Harper and the Drowning Pool! Throw in Gene Hackman, Liev Schriber, James Garner, and John Spencer and how can a girl possibly go wrong watching Twilight?  It starts quite well.  Newman, giving the film noir detective's narration in perfect form, sets the stage well and gets us quite interested in his life and perspective.  Hackman, Sarandon, Reese Witherspoon, and Schriver chime in with very interesting characters. We appear to be in for a treat.But, then it goes nowhere, except cliche-land.  The result is dreary and listless as unmotivated characters go through the motion.  The ending turns the interest level back up somewhat, but not enough to salvage the overall experience.  Rent Harper instead.  "},{"Title":"Will loyalty hinder a crime being solved?","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Paul Newman is an ex-cop turned private eye, whose work leads to a lengthy friendship with an aging actor (Gene Hackman). Susan Sarandon is a recognizable actress married to the dying Hackman character. The actress's past husband was thought to be lost at sea. Some believe he was murdered. Blackmail and flirtatious adultery spices up the low impact script. Dialog seems to have been phoned in over a cup of coffee. James Garner and Stockard Channing round out an all-star cast. There are moments of dark humor at Newman's character's expense. Sarandon is a little sappy, but invigorating. Channing is wasted in such a small part. Predictable and slow script; but the Oscar winners among the cast make this flick worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Back When Twilight Meant Quality.","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight (1998) Dir Robert Benton / Cast Paul Newman, Gene Hackman, James Garner, Susan Sarandon, Reese Witherspoon Paul Newman plays a retired detective who tracks down an actor's daughter. Couple years later he is staying with the cancer burdened actor and his manipulating wife. Soon he is involved in a mystery of murder, blackmail and incidents of the past. Interesting setup has loopholes when factoring ages of particular characters. Director Robert Benton does a superb job. Principal actors are on target including Newman whose career is hindered after a gun shot wound. Now he ventures into territory that is forbidden and dangerous. Gene Hackman plays his friend with cancer who sets up the investigation by hiring Newman only to discover things that he wished he hadn't. Susan Sarandon plays the seductive wife who tempts Newman and toys with the mystery. James Garner also appears in the investigation and although the role isn't as broad as it should be, it is pivotal. Reese Witherspoon is featured as the teenager whom Newman is assigned to locate. Convincing her go go along results in a leg injury and a lot of cynicism. The purpose is to recapture the feeling of old film noir and it rightfully claims this through superb veteran actors who are well into their twilight years. Fine plot twists carry it into the limelight while the narrative heads for a dark tunnel. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Twilight of Stars","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Newman, in a role similar to Harper, is a has-been private detective living with and helping out aging movie actors Hackman and Sarandon. The script is rather convoluted and ultimately less than satisfying. However, it is a pleasure to watch old pros like Newman, Hackman, and Garner, each about seventy at the time of this film. Comparatively, Sarandon and Channing are spry young things in their fifties. The impressive cast also features up-and-coming stars like Witherspoon and Schreiber. Benton, who co-wrote the script, creates a nice atmosphere, aided by one of Bernstein's last scores. Given such an assemblage of talent, the film is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"okay film with great cast","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon, Gene Hackman, Stockard Channing and James Garner star in Twilight, a 1998 film directed by Robert Benton, who co-wrote the script. Newman plays Harry Ross, an ex-cop turned P.I. who is staying with friends, a movie star Catherine Ames (Sarandon) and her dying actor husband Jack (Hackman). At one time, he retrieved their 17-year-old daughter (Reese Witherspoon) from a tryst in Mexico.Catherine was married before, to an actor named Billy, who has long believed to have been lost at sea. There have always been rumblings, however, that Billy was murdered. When Jack asks Harry to deliver an envelope to a woman named Gloria Lamar, Harry suspects blackmail. He gets more than he bargained for.Twilight has the noirish feel of a '40s film, right down to the Channing character being named Verna. The name Gloria Lamar is certainly an homage to the '40s as well. It also has three actors inextricably linked with PIs - Newman, Hackman, and Garner.With all of that, the low key Twilight is really style over substance. Its pace is lethargic, and the director seemed more interested in setting up striking images - such as Sarandon kneeling on the ground at her ranch, Newman watching Garner in a mirror, etc., than the actual story. The story lacks urgency.All of the acting is very good, with Newman at 73 still handsome, still sexy, and still able to play a tough guy.Worth seeing for the cast and atmosphere. "},{"Title":"No Country for Old Men","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You can't really withstand a movie with Newman, Hackman, Garner, Sarandon, M. Emmet Walsh and Stockard Channing -- plus Reese Witherspoon showing off her natural assets. And nothing against a slow burner, but the characters and actors in Robert Benton's Twilight move tiredly, almost wearily through the mean streets and noble mansions of L.A., and a bit too self- consciously for their own good. The plot is noir-ish, not too exciting, the dialogues tongue-in- cheek, including a few nice one-liners (Mama Cass died choking on a chicken bone, you know? ), but ultimately, the whole affair appears a bit too laid-back to evoke more than dozy interest. Nevertheless, the very last scene between Newman and Channing has world-class cool -- not a big laugh, but a relaxed smirk that fits the old-timer style of Benton's film perfectly. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon Incredibly Hot","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How can this movie not get 10 out of 10. You get to see Reese nude. Nuff Said! Reese is the best young starlet to ever come out of Hollywood in the last 30 years. Gotta love seeing her nude hear. Bravoe Reese. Back in my country (Kazakstan) only non movie star gotta nude. Go Reese go. Good plot. Great action. Great love scenes. To thumbs up here from Balki the goat herder. Thanx to one and all for viewing this lovely film in all its splendor. Me i likes to fast forward to the knotty bits. Tee Hee. Reese you rock my world. BTW why does the review have to be 10 lines in length...... ARe they afraid a short review will not provide the necessary insight in the whether the specific film brought forth will be any good. This film was especially good. Thank you all and to all a good night. "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Twilight was not a very involving film noir detective story. It's a shame because the movie has an unusually strong cast.Robert Benton and Richard Russo previously collaborated on the wonderfully quirky Nobody's Fool. I hoped that their second collaboration would be as successful but this is not the case. Plot lines can be important to a movie if it's not overwritten. I found the plot to be very confusing and rather dull. Even though the movie's running time is 94 minutes, it seemed much longer.Benton did a much better job with a similar movie in the 70s called The Late Show. That movie was much smarter and more involving than Twilight. "},{"Title":"typical mystery with an atypical cast","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let's face it, folks, film noir - like mystery in general - is a pretty stupid genre, even though we love it.  Noir plots tend to be tortuously complex and not particularly satisfying on any genuine level (beyond the occasional thrill of predicting a plot twist or spotting the murderer).  Usually, the killers in these films have one of three motives money, lust, or sometimes money AND lust.  So, for the viewers, watching these films becomes a matter of connecting the very familiar dots and witnessing the predictable plot unfold.Yet somehow, the best film noir pieces somehow manage to rise above the genre's limitations.  We all seem to love The Big Sleep because of the witty dialogue and sexual tension, but not because we're particularly fascinated by the plot.  It seems that even a movie with a pedestrian story-line that doesn't make much sense can be considered a classic, if other elements pick up the slack.  Sadly, Twilight can't avoid bumping its head against the film noir glass ceiling in the same way that Bogie's best films can.  Maybe that's because the dialogue in Twilight is merely outrageous rather than extremely clever.  It's fun to watch the characters in this movie swap OTT insults, but there's something so glib about the tone that it doesn't quite work.  I laughed throughout the whole movie, but had a hard time figuring out whether I was laughing with it or at it.But hey, I can't totally knock a film that features Paul Newman dunking a punk's head into a plate of chicken wings.  Or, for that matter, a totally gratuitous scene of James Garner urinating over a balcony.  One thing Twilight gets right is that it's crazy and cool in the way that film noir should be crazy and cool.  And of course, as every other reviewer has pointed out, it's a privilege to watch so many experienced actors strut their impressive stuff in one film.  For the record, I think Gene Hackman gives the most nuanced performance, but since he's been my favorite contemporary actor for years, I might be prejudiced!Nevertheless, these great stars did deserve a better vehicle.  I didn't hate the plot of Twilight, as some others did, but that's only because I'm used to film noir and its limitations.  I'm surprised that so many people were shocked by the bad script, because it's not really bad, just typical  mystery fare.  The only real crime that Twilight commits is not being quite so good as the old movies that inspired it; sadly, it's more like a Janet Evanovich mystery than a Raymond Chandler mystery.  But it's good for a laugh, right?      "},{"Title":"Parrallels to The Great Gatsby","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am a currently a sophomore in high school, and my English class read The Great Gatsby this year. I found the characters and the premise of this film similar to those of the Great Gatsby.Paul Newman is a broke private detective surrounded by rich immoral people who seem to have moral compass defining right and wrong. Newman's character is like Nick's in the Great Gatsby. In The Great Gatsby Nick is kind of poor but surrounded by people of great wealth. He is always hanging around with the Buchanon's, who are fake and very rich. Hackman and Sarandon's characters are similar to the Buchanon's in The Great Gatsby. They don't always get along, but after seeing some different people they go back to each other and make each other happy, more or less. Paul Newman's character is referred to several times as being mute. In The Great Gatsby Nick is quiet and not a major character. Newman is the same way, except his character is more important. But his character proves the same purpose as Nick's, the quiet observer who stands on more moral ground than anyone else.The film's plot, setting, and characters all reminded me of the premise of the Great Gatsby. The screen is contaminated with filthy rich violent, angry, immoral, unhappy characters.Anyone else who agrees or sees something else, please let me know.  "}{"Title":"Good story. but Newman can't play the heavy anymore.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The story is good, but Newman can not play the heavy anymore.  Physically he looks like he can not run around the block. My wife, and parents went to see this and mentioned it too.  Newman can still act, but this film is lacking. 6/10 "},{"Title":"More like The Two Jakes than Chinatown","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A retired PI who lives with a wealthy entertainment family finds himself involved in a mystery. A harmless errand turns into a brush with death and reveals clues to an apparent suicide two decades ago. This drama brings an all star cast, including Gene Hackman, Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon and James Garner as leads.Twilight however, can't live up to the expectation. One of the problems is the cast itself. Of the 9 major speaking roles, 6 are over 50 years of age, making the plot feel downright elderly. The movie is somber and always serious, but the script has the actors saying and doing silly things. One has to believe that Paul Newman (the retired PD/PI) is basically inept and foolish at the beginning, but dominating and in control by the finale. That situation might be more believable in a rookie film.But muddled characters are at home in this movie. They appear and disappear as needed, withhold information when they have no reason to, do things that defy explanation, change their loyalties with little reason or complaint. Plot devices that might seem cliche in some directors hands, seem heavyhanded or infantile in this movie. The few action sequences are filmed poorly with one notable exception. Some characters seem to have no point at all and should have been written out.  Sarandon, Schreiber and Hackman however, are exceptions and give fine performances. Too bad they had such minor roles. The plot has major blinders on as well. For instance, Newman is found at multiple crime scenes in compromising situations. At none of these is he given more than a stern questioning and a nasty look. The motivations of the police are ignored to better serve the mechanations of the plot. For other characters experiences are forgotten, obvious possibilities are ignored, coincidental meetings are commonplace, and the bad guys painstakingly leave a trail back to themselves for Newman. Heck, they may as well have named Reese Witherspoon's character Plot Device for all the purpose she has in the movie. Although she may have been included to attract the under 70 crowd.By the end all of the characters are required to be so mallable and shadowy that none of them seem real, none can be trusted and you certainly cant care enough about their welfare to be concerned about the conclusion. "},{"Title":"Newman, Hackman, Sarandon, Garner, and Witherspoon are the only good reasons to see Twilight.","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS - Overall this is a film of a pretty weak story. It starts in Mexico, the beach, Newman is there to retrieve Hackman's daughter, Witherspoon, nude in the hotel room with her boyfriend. Boyfriend later spends time in prison for transporting a 17-year-old to Mexico. That sets the mood and establishes the relationship between the two men. And shows that Reese has a rather attractive chest.Twenty years earlier a former husband had disappeared and presumed dead, so Sarandon and Hackman could marry. Witherpoon is their teen-age daughter. Newman is the retired cop, retired P.I., and friend of Hackman. Garner is another former cop, who it turns out had shot and killed the former husband after he fell into the dry pool at the country home, then buried his body near the pool. Newman finds the skeleton, discovers the bullet hole in the skull, confronts Garner, they have a shoot out, Newman survives.  Hackman is dying of cancer.As I say in my summary, the story is not particularly novel nor riveting, but the great actors are a lot of fun to watch.  It is not clear why the film is titled Twilight. It may have been the time of day the former husband had walked into the empty pool. There is lots of interplay between the characters, including affection between Newman and both Sarandon's and Channing's characters. A running joke is whether Witherspoon had shot off Newman's sex organ <she didn't> in Mexico when he went to retrieve her.My main motivation for renting this DVD is my quest to see all of Reese Witherspoon's films, as she is a talented upcoming actress. "},{"Title":"not worth it","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One night, I decided to go and rent Twilight I was expecting something entertaining by the reviews I have heard about it. I watched it around 10 pm. It was so boring, I mean, I was falling asleep every 10 seconds. The only best part of this movie was when Reese Witherspoon shows us her upper body-). but other than that, the acting was terrible, and I was able to spot at least 4 bloopers. You could also tell, that there was not that much of a plot going on. In one sentence (ONE HELL OF A BORING MOVIE) "},{"Title":"Not even a cast like this could save the movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Twilight is a movie which demonstrates that, although casting is incredibly important in ticket sales and exposure, a poor script can still sink a flick. I never thought that I couldn't wait for a Paul Newman movie to simply end, but here I was proven wrong; and by a movie totaling just over 90 minutes. If you've seen The Maltese Falcon and every other private eye flick made since, you have seen this movie before - only better. Twilight's script is predictable from the first credits, the laughs visible far ahead of time, and the cliches simply too cliched. Twilight brings little new to the genre and you would do yourself a favor checking out a classic instead.  "},{"Title":"What a big letdown.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With names like Paul Newman, Susan Sarandon, Gene Hackman, Stockard Channing and Reese Witherspoon you'd think we have one hell of a movie. But this all-star ensemble fail to boost a lackluster plot involving an ex-PI who helps his actor friend with a favor and gets caught in a 20-year old murder. Individually, the big names excel with smooth performances, but on a whole there were no sparks to keep the viewer entertained. (It would also have been nice to see more of Witherspoon) Blame it on the predictable and contrived plot. Goes to show that all the talent in the world can't lift a movie if its story line is poor to begin with. I stayed up for this with high expectations but was let down. Definitely a disappointing movie considering the cast.  "},{"Title":"Noirish cliches, decent performances, predictable","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a sinking feeling you get when you see an amazing cast struggle with an indifferent script.  Twilight tries to peer into the corrupt depths of the human soul, but barely dents the skin.  The mystery's solution is predictable; its ending, firmly telegraphed. The film ends up just as thin and flat as, well, the light at twilight. And that's a shame with a cast like this. Stockard Channing in particular is wasted as the cop from Paul Newman's past. Catherine Ames, played by Susan Sarandon, is given portentous dialogue and -- copout of copouts -- a cigarette addiction in lieu of an actual character. Newman himself has to mouth some genuinely embarrassing cliches, like the timeworn You're good. You're very good. It's disappointing when a film that promises to be a fun, noirish thriller (morally ambiguous protagonist, client's sexy and available wife, the case that isn't what it seems, corruption everywhere...) ends up as one more entry in the growing genre of film beige. For a flick that aspires to be a Chinatown for the 90s, it falls a long ways short. "},{"Title":"Makes a dead cat look good","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to confess to not watching all this movie.  I could not stand it! I had to put it off after 45 minutes.  I wanted to turn it off after ten minutes but because of the cast I persevered.  It was a waste of time! Could someone tell me what TWILIGHT was about in twenty words or less?Movies need a plot, a story, and characters that we care about. This film had none of the aforementioned worth talking about!  It was torture! Don't watch it, you will have more fun walking through a public park and studying the sole of your shoe afterwards.   "},{"Title":"Should have been titled Whispering in the Dark.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can appreciate what director/screenwriter Benton attempted to do with this film, but it falls well short of my expectations and hopes.Twilight features an all-star cast, to be sure.  But the depressing low-level lighting scheme, the slow pace, and the constant low-key verbal exchanges make for some pretty dull viewing.This movie is chock-full of evil characters; they are too numerous to count. But by the time the primary villain is revealed, we've seen so many examples of vile behavior by each of the nasty people that we really don't *care* who did it anymore.There are far better who-dunnit detective movies available for viewing; I certainly can't recommend this one to anybody.  If you're a fan of Newman, Hackman, Garner, or one of the other principals, Twilight will simply serve to remind you that they've each done much better work in the past. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first five minutes of this movie are pretty good, then it goes steadily downhill.  The ending was completely unsatisfying.  The script has several interesting characters, but the storyline does almost nothing with them. "}{"Title":"I cared more for the actors, not the characters","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In renting this movie, I was sucked in by the cast, and after viewing it, it is clear that was the best thing going for the film.  I was impressed with Newman's performance, and by the fact that he appears in nearly every scene. But I really never was interested in the plot, which was revealed somewhat clumsily, I thought.  Actually, I found it quite boring.  James Garner and Reese Witherspoon both added believable touches in relatively minor roles, but I still don't understand how the main story is supposed to be compelling.  And while it's nice to see Newman, Sarandon, and Witherspoon in (separate) love scenes, it didn't take the tedium out of this picture. "},{"Title":"A movie for the retirement home","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie proved that Geritol should work--as long as you take it when you are supposed to.  Prime material to watch old Hollywood veterans act...old. And don't be fooled by Paul Newman's limp; he was hobbling about on screen long before he received a bullet in the leg from Reese Witherspoon's gun-wielding scene.  Gene Hackman proved he was old by playing gin;  James Garner proved he could stand in the same spot long enough to down his gin; Susan Sarandon proved she'll never-again be sought after for a musical by her singing talent (or lack thereof - unless someone is doing a sequel to The Rocky Horror Picture Show); and Paul Newman proved that if he needed a bathroom in a hurry during scenes, the best place to keep him was in one. (There were more bathroom scenes in this movie than in all the Porky's flicks -- combined.) And as it took Newman the entire movie to prove Garner was on the take, is reason enough to suspect Alzheimer's permeated through the script.  In the final shoot-out between Newman and Garner, the goal was not to see who would be the quickest, but the slowest.  To call it a detective movie would be something of a misnomer.  More like a defective movie. Stockard Channing should be commended, though, for helping an old man down the sidewalk at the movie's closing scene.  Yes, that was Newman she was holding up.  (And I'll bet some viewers thought they were in a romantic embrace.)  Look closely - she was helping him back to the motion picture retirement home. "},{"Title":"Great cast, but slow.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Twilight just never gets going in my opinion. The cast is the only reason to watch this movie. Newman is still sharp and Hackman has a great venomous charm. Susan Sarandon does a very good job with her role, balancing between sinister and heartfelt drama. There's a great performance from James Garner as well. The thing is, the cast doesn't always make a picture perfect. This movie could have used some more work in the screenplay department. Everything else is here. The cast. The director. The cinematography is excellent and the music is very good. The story doesn't get confusing, you just start to not care about these people at all. "},{"Title":"Major disappointment","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a major disappointment, especially since I loved NOBODY'S FOOL, the last collaboration of Newman and Benton.  Benton certainly gives it a good look for a mystery film, but the plot is not up to standard.  Another problem is Newman and Hackman should have switched roles, because both of them seem to be acting in their sleep.  Channing, Garner, and Liev Schrieber are good in support, but I found the Giancarlo Esposito character offensive. Benton did much better with this type of film with THE LATE SHOW. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A really disappointing picture, mainly because of the standard screenplay and direction. The direction lacked the spark, could've made better use of the locations. The photography is fine but Robert Benton never really got his teeth stuck into the film. Benton lacked the visual sense, needed more style.The performances are fine, but nothing made them special. The dialogue wasn't interesting and a lot of it is predictable. The film just doesn't give anything knew to the genre.The cast was perfect but the script doesn't give them anything to get there teeth into. The story's climax is unsatisfactory, I really didn't care.A great cast but a disappointing script and direction. "},{"Title":"Great cast wasted in inept mystery","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gene Hackman, Paul Newman, James Garner, and John Spencer.  Not to mention Susan Sarandon.  I would have been in heaven watching these five sit around talking about the weather.  And it would have been more interesting.  The script does not hold up -- at all.  The dialogue is wretchedly hackneyed, and the plot holes are huge enough for Godzilla to fall through.  The pacing is dreadfully slow, and the photography does a very poor job of trying to emulate film noir.  The ending did not work for me either, but by that time, I was just happy to see it end, and there are very few Paul Newman films I ever felt that way about. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let me start by saying this &#150; if you think that life is too short, don't waste it watching this movie.  I know, because I did!  I watched until the end just because I wanted to be sure that I didn't miss anything out of this awful movie.  I  know, I am masochist! Where should I start?  The scenario?  I could spit and hit someone that would do a better job on it (to paraphrase a line from the superb Swimming with Sharks)!!!  When watching a movie like this one I wonder if there was a scenario at all or they just made up the story as they were filming it. That would explain in part why this is the dullest story I have seen in months. As for the actors, they fail to deliver the scripted cliches with any conviction.  It was painful to watch Paul Newman, Gene Hackman and Susan Sarandon, as well their star ridded support cast prostituting themselves in this horrible movie.  But then, money makes the world go round&#133; "},{"Title":"Here's Looking At You Reese!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This isn't a very good movie, but if you wanna see Reese Witherspoon topless this is your movie. Lucky for you it happens early in the movie.The rest of the movie really isn't worth watching.Wow I just noticed you have to write at least ten lines........bummer. The movie has a bunch of big names, seems like they could have done more. The mystery is boring. The characters are uninteresting. oh, Susan Saranden is naked also. She was fifty one when they filmed this. Does anyone want to see a naked fifty one year old Susan Saranden?? Not me. Reese is only twenty two and looks very firm and pert in this film, again this movies only saving grace. "}]