[{"Title":"The power of desire presented by oustanding acting","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"42 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"   I have to admit that I watched this the first time because of my admiration for the performances of Sophie Marceau.  I watched it several times more because of the interesting portrayal of the power of desire presented by oustanding acting and a rich period piece production.  Should your friends belittle the story as formulaic and the ending as too easy, ignore them. They have missed the richness of the flow of events in this movie that portrays a more repressed world where women (and, to a lesser degree, men) had different and more limited options and necessarily pursued their opportunities differently. This movie was so well done, it leaves you wishing it were an hour longer.   "},{"Title":"Seen it 5 times.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The artistry of this movie is not evident the first time you watch it because you notice nothing but the actors' brown eyes and the blue cold rooms of the mansion.But watch it a few more times and you realize how balanced the story is, how themes of birth and death parallel heat and cold, love and hate.The script is simple because silence and secrecy drive the plot. Compared to Jane Eyre, it is rather sparse, but so what?I gave it a 10.   "},{"Title":"A memorable masterpiece.","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The title led me to expect Firelight would be a chick flick, yet the inclusion of the beautiful Sophie Marceau made viewing imperative. The astonishing credibility of the actors' performances was aided by an impeccable script coupled with masterful direction. Add to that award-winning cinematography and achingly beautiful music reminiscent of gypsy violins and the result is an extremely moving love story. How this film came to be ignored by the US public is one of the great mysteries of our time.Every word, every sigh, every gesture and every scene appears uncontrived yet at the same time is testament to breathtaking genius. If only director William Nicholson would bring his ensemble together again for more of the same! Just thinking about Firelight brings tears to my eyes. No other movie has had such an effect on me.File this one under U for Unforgettable in the illustrated dictionary. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  No film can be all things to all people. However, Firelight, a simple film which when taken in and of itself, is no less than a masterpiece. From a carefully crafted minimalistic script to superb acting by a few well cast and well directed principals to artful cinematography and lush scenic beauty, this little film is powerfully compelling. Firelight explores the depths of passion, desire, and love amidst the circumstance and social order of 19th century England using elegantly subtle brushstrokes. This film will be most appreciated by mature audiences.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly Beautiful Story!!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I originally watched this on Encore Indie and it touched me in a way only a few movies or stories ever do. The subject matter could have become tawdry if not handled well, which it was. All the characters had their place, even the American who offered Charles an option of a place to go, to be free of all the pretense and obligation of his life, being also a main theme of the story, obligation and responsibility, as well as the desire to break free of them. And watch it several times, the nuances that come out are amazing and also listen to the background talk, some interesting facts come out which help you understand the characters and stories even more. I actually watch it with headphones on to hear all the conversations going on. And Charles, watch his facial expressions, they are absolutely priceless and perfect. My father actually sat and watched it, and trust me he's a ESPN guy, not romance movies. Anyway, it was just amazingly beautiful and passionate. "},{"Title":"19th century bodice-ripper","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie about how a woman's love can overcome major obstacles.  Sophie Marceau is a beautiful governess, who seven years prior was hired by a rich Englishman to conceive a baby because the man's own wife had been seriously injured but did not die after a riding accident.  Marceau's motivation is to pay her father's debts and get him out of prison.  Thus the two principal characters are having this weekend affair  out of a sense of duty to others.  Unlike many movies set in the mid-19th century, the rich people in this movie are not one dimensional and heartless, and the poor people are not powerless victims.  Marceau manages to track down her child after 6 years and becomes her governess. The girl has become a spoiled brat, and Marceau is the first to teach the girl how to read, and much about life.  There is not exactly a happy ending, in the Hollywood sense.  In order to get something, one must take risks and be willing to give up other things. "},{"Title":"Everything you  want in a period romance plus more.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I saw it four years ago, and loved it so much that saw it a few more times over several days. The actors are all very good. I think the film delivers everything that is required of a period drama/romance, including the breathtaking visual, and on top of that, the situation that the characters have to deal with is every bit contemporary, so you don't have to stretch yourself to feel for them. The psychology of each character is very natural and convincing, including the little girl's. Because it is convincing, at the end of the story, you share the emotions of the characters 100%, which is the point of watching an intensely emotional drama like this. Unplug the phone and turn off the mobile and make sure there is no interruption while you watch this, because the tension should not be broken. You will be deliciously rewarded. "},{"Title":"Opinions polarized by a good movie","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I greatly enjoyed this movie, and quite understand why reviews range from the euphoric to the vitriolic. Some will love it, and some will hate it. I have given it five stars out of ten, just to place myself precisely in the middle. For quality it is worth more, and because it may be construed as condoning aspects of immoral behaviour, less. Whether it does actually condone that which is wrong is open to debate. So, too, is the matter of predictability. Are you expecting blissful lovers to disappear into a glorious sunset?For this period drama, you do have to suspend reality and accept the parameters required for the film to work. We are asked to believe that, way back in the first half of the nineteenth century, a comatose woman, seemingly unable even to blink, would have survived for years, and still have significant life expectancy. Medical science makes such a thing possible in our time, but how would the patient have been fed in those days? Don't let such considerations put you off. For other titles, we accept time travel, real people living inside computer memory, oriental gentlemen waving scimitars who run up vertical walls and jump over tall buildings, and still enjoy the show.Sophie Marceau's acting was outstanding. Who would have thought that Elisabeth Laurier in 'Firelight' and Lila Dubois in 'Lost & Found' were played by the same person? Stephen Dillane, playing Charles Godwin, was more than adequate as the other main lead. The rest of the characters were well cast, each contributing significantly to this very moving tale. 'Firelight' covers part of the lives of two essentially principled people trying to find a way through the distressing circumstances with which each was faced. If they took a wrong turn, which of us is going to throw the first stone? Judgment of every individual is God's prerogative. If this film does nothing else, it does show why there is a debate about euthanasia. I had two special adult friends outside our immediate family early in life, one as a child and one as a youth. Both had flaws in their characters, but were excellent mentors. I chose to adopt some of their traits, but not others. A couple of years past retirement age, I bought my first television, and have since discovered films. I find these very instructive, giving me insights into the human condition which I would not have otherwise. As with my mentors, I am using my discrimination when assessing any messages suggested by each movie. I found 'Firelight' emotionally stimulating, its characters eminently admirable in many respects, but used my beliefs and discretion in determining the validity of any moral that may be inferred from its plot. Isn't this what we all do?Some review comments seem to be denigrating Charles Godwin unfairly. It was Lord Clare who ruined the estate by his profligacy. Charles, on the other hand, was trying to keep the boat afloat as a sheep farmer. To suggest that Charles viewed Elisabeth as little more than a chattel doesn't ring true with me. I gained the impression that he was considering her as well as himself right from the beginning. I also felt that their motives tended towards the welfare of others rather than their own selfish ends. The firelight allegory might also be less simplistic than is being suggested. If I am recalling events correctly, I thought the initial use was to introduce a plot continuity. This was progressed to a vehicle used by Elisabeth to allow her daughter the opportunity to break free of her antagonistic attitudes. At some point, the firelight rekindled a significant memory. Finally, for Amy, the firelight was conspicuous by its absence. Were the words, May God have mercy on us, just a common expression, or were they spoken from the heart? Judge for yourself.I looked for the DVD, hoping that it would have an audio commentary. Guess what? Buena Vista has allowed the title to become currently 'out of print', so I couldn't even buy the film itself (!) That surprised me, considering the number of reviewers and the high average rating. I'm looking forward to seeing this film again, but will have to wait for it to come around once more on TV. Do keep an eye open for it in your programme guides. If and when it appears, it's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Simply Wonderful!","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful photographed movie with a convincingly playing Sophie Marceau. Absolutely recommendable for fans of historical romances. "},{"Title":"Indecent proposal","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" It's 1838 and Elisabeth Laurier, a Swiss young woman, must get money to pay for her father's debts. She agrees to enter into what might be viewed as an indecent proposal with Charles Godwin, a well to do English landowner, in having a sexual relation for the sole purpose of giving him a child his sick wife can't give him. Elisabeth must renounce to all claims of the baby. What starts as a pure sex, with Elisabeth suffering quietly while Charles has his way with her, suddenly turns into pleasure, seen on the young woman's face.Imagine Charles' horror when he returns from a trip to find out his sister-in-law Constance, has engaged Elisabeth as his daughter's governess. Louisa, who has terrorized previous attempts at receiving an education, rebels against this new stranger. Since by this time Charles' wealth has suffered a reverse, and having assured a moth's wages to Elisabeth, he consents in her staying. Charles' wife who is sick, is dying a slow death. It's inevitable that Elisabeth will have an effect on Charles and that she will be able to tame the wild Louisa into accepting her.William Nicholson, who wrote and directed Firelight, created a film of great beauty. As it is, there are elements of other, better made movies, within the screen play, although it makes good entertainment. Nic Morris' cinematography gives the picture a glossy look that is appealing to the eye. Christopher Gunning's musical score serves the movie well.Sophie Marceau, an actress of great beauty makes an impression as Elisabeth. Stephen Dillard's Charles is equally appealing as the man tormented between duty and new found passion. Dominique Belcourt is perfectly bratty as Louisa. Joss Ackland appears as Charles' father and Lia Williams is Constance.As Gothic romance, Firelight will delight fans of the genre. William Nicholson directed his own story with great visual style. "}{"Title":"Exquisite","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Just by chance, I selected this film at a time of night when I'm ready for sleep. I watched it once.... then, again but fell asleep thru part of it. Two days later, I watched it again (wide awake this time) and that's when I fell in love with it. The first time.... I admit, it was the titillating story... the child was secondary. The second time.... I wanted to watch Sophie Marceau's delivery of her character. The third time.... I realized that Stephen Dillane's delivery of his character was so nuanced, I missed it the first 2 times. He is what makes this story so wonderful.Because I am a big fan of British film, I wondered why I was not familiar with Stephen Dillane's name. After some research, I found that I have seen him in some character roles, but nowhere is he as handsome as in this film. Sophie Marceau is so accomplished that together, some of their scenes unfold as a dance.This film is so delicate, with exquisite timing and phrases, that I can truly say it is as well-done as Campion's The Piano. Elisabeth's shout when she opens the doors to the lake. Godwin's face from recognition to omigod to sweet smile when he sees Elisabeth again. Godwin's explanation that a month with Elisabeth in the house would be an eternity. Their dance at the door when Louisa is screaming to be let out. And many more.If you love stories of heart-felt deep love, this is it. Just be sure to watch it closely and more than once. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Masterful!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" In 1838, Charles Godwin (Stephen Dillane) is an English gentleman sheep farmer with a comatose wife who hires a Swiss woman to have his baby. Godwin crosses the English Channel where Elisabeth Laurier (Sophie Maureau) responds to his ad for a surrogate mother. From the very beginning there's strong chemistry between them, which is partly why he hires her. She needs the money to help her father, who's in prison.Godwin chooses three days to be with Elisabeth, presumably based on some sense of when she'll be fertile, and they meet at a resort hotel on the coast of England. The second night the chemistry between them ignites and -- by the third night -- they're madly in love. However, they dutifully repress their feelings and keep their business bargain. Godwin goes home and leaves her to have the baby.Elisabeth gives birth to a baby girl who's taken from her before she even sees it. Since she's in love with the absent father, it's not hard to imagine what her pregnancy was like, nor the intense deprivation she experiences when both father and baby are lost to her. The scene fades from the image of the ivy growing outside the room where she gave birth to a watercolor painting of ivy, and then uses imagery from Elisabeth's painting/diary to keep track of her growing attachment for her daughter.When the story switches back to Godwin, we're introduced to his father and also to an American sheep farmer who eventually proposes to Elisabeth. Godwin's father is a member of the aristocracy, and a profligate rake and spendthrift who has serial very-public love affairs. We learn that Godwin's wife is comatose after a riding accident that took place shortly after their marriage.Godwin is a complex and intriguing character, and Stephen Dillane plays him to perfection. Dillane is so charismatic in this film that it makes me want to jump through the screen screaming! To my mind, the only performance that rivals Dillane's repressed but smoldering 19th century British-ness is Colin Firth as Mr. Darcy.For Dillane's outstanding performance -- and all of the film's outstanding performances -- we have to thank William Nicholson's excellent writing and direction, along with the almost mystical cinematography of Nic Morris. As writer/director, Nicholson exploits the medium of film to do what only film can do, and that's weave a narrative subtext that propels the story through inter-dimensional dreamlike symbolism. The accessible and yet subtle over-riding metaphor of firelight is carried throughout the film starting from the first moment when Godwin and Elisabeth are alone together. Godwin says something like, I didn't realize that fire cast so much light. Do you mind? This consideration for Elisabeth's modesty in such an awkward situation sparks the first sympathy between them. From that moment, it gets more and more difficult for them to pretend that they're just there for business. Unwittingly, Godwin repeats the same sentence when they're alone together seven years later. Firelight and love are synonymous. The subtext about human relationships -- especially relationships between husband and wife, children and parents-- is also explored through the imagery of Elisabeth's desire to shout, the boathouse in the lake, breeding sheep, the estate, the sister-in-law (another exquisitely convincing performance by Lia Williams), Godwin's father, Elisabeth's family history, etc. Everything in this film is essential to a fully realized three-dimensional portrait of human relationships, and there's nothing extra. The film-making is just plain masterful.And did I mention the costumes?The best films go beyond the capacity of words to convey meaning. Sometimes half- remembered dreams leave us with a wordless understanding that evaporates like steam if we try too hard to explain it. For me, this film goes beyond words to convey meaning in the same way that dreams do. Elisabeth shows up at Godwin's estate seven years after she gives birth to accept a position as governess to their daughter. Her interactions as incognito motherteacher with beloved spoiled-child Luisa (another fine performance by Dominique Belcourt) are nothing short of poignant. There's a mini-Miracle Worker going on here. The scene were Godwin fights Elisabeth for the key to the schoolroom is incredible.The other aspect that resonates with me personally is what this film says about the plight of women in 19th century Europe and how the exceptional courage and intelligence of one woman who believes in herself can overcome the hardship of circumstances. Women are only fifty percent of the human race but our issues as a subgroup of mankind have to take a back seat to all of the other subgroups where males are fighting other males for dominance with the common denominator that they all subjugate women. I love the scene where Elisabeth convinces her daughter that education is the only way out of spiritual prison for a woman. I have always admired Sophie Marceau but she really goes beyond herself in this film, thanks to the exceptional script, direction, cinematography, costumes, and performances of her fellow actors. A beautiful and accomplished actress rises to the occasion of portraying a beautiful and accomplished woman struggling to survive in exceptional circumstances.At first, we're confused about Elisabeth's appearance at Godwin's estate to become governess to his adopted daughter. When they met seven years before he had to hide his identity, so we never know if or how she finds out his name. However, Elisabeth eventually confesses that it took her seven years to find him, so we know that the narrative is driven by her desire and intentions. The moment when Godwin asks her if she regrets this is among the best in screen history, in my opinion. Since increasingly films live beyond their time, I have no doubt that someday this masterpiece will be viewed as a major film classic. "},{"Title":"A truly underrated gem, consider yourself lucky to find it","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Fantasy book author William Nicholson made his first and so far only effort at movie-direction with this 1997 English Gothic romance based on his own screenplay. Sophie Marceau (the French princess in Braveheart) plays a Swiss governess named Elizabeth in late 1830s England. Desperate to pay a family debt, she sells herself to an anonymous English gentlemen for three days in his efforts to produce an heir for his family. Harsh and uncaring at first, they fall in love, but both have agreed never to see or speak to each other again for the sake of keeping up appearances. Elizabeth conceives a baby girl who is wisked away seconds after birth. Heartbroken, Elizabeth writes letters to My English Daughter until she can no longer keep her promise. Seven years after the baby's birth she tracks the child down; now a spoiled brat living on a remote Sussex estate. The daughter acts up as she pines for her usually absent father. Her father's wife has been in a vegetative state for a decade after a riding accident, and even the the daughter knows she is not the real mother. Elizabeth takes a job as the girl's governess to be close to her, unbeknownst to the girl's father. When the father, Charles Godwin, returns from London he is appalled at the mother of his child showing up again in his life as well as the rekindling of a romantic fire he has desperately tried to convince himself is long burnt out. Themes of duty to family, maternal love, and desperate attempts to hold back passion are played out in perpetually foggy and snowswept landscapes and around fireplaces in the Godwin Victorian mansion.Performances by the actors are uniformly excellent. Marceau and Stephen Dillane as Charles Godwin share a chemistry rarely captured on film; but also look for Dominique Belcourt as the daughter; Lia Williams as Godwin's long-suffering sister-in-law; Kevin Anderson as the visiting American who falls for Elizabeth; and veteran British actor Joss Ackland as Godwin's father whose self-indulgent hedonism dooms the family to ruin. It's never apparent that this is Nicholson's first time out as a director. Nic Morris's cinematography of the English countryside and Marceu's exquisitely beautiful face lit by firelight is something to see, and Christopher Gunning's string-laden score is dramatic and over-the-top which it really should be.Although rife with gray and icy colors, painful family obligation, stark settings, heartbreak, euthanasia, held back emotions, and rigid social mores; the underlying theme of the Firelight is that true love conquers all. It's never really gotten the attention it deserves.Released by Disney's Hollywood pictures, the movie played briefly in American arthouses back in 1998 and was released on VHS the next year to very little fanfare. Disillusioned, Nicholson never directed a picture again, although he hit paydirt when he co-wrote the script to Ridley Scott's Gladiator in 2000. Firelight has been sporadically available since then on demand on the Encore movie cable channel. A Region 0 bare-bones DVD was released in Hong Kong of all places; it's available on Amazon.com and ebay. If you find a copy, it's definitely worth purchasing. "},{"Title":"Victorian era Romance That Will Rip Your Heart Out","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Richly detailed Victorian era Romance. I was utterly entranced. Sophie Marceau and Stephen Dillane are superb. Their chemistry is intoxicating and their performances mesmerizing. The longing Elisabeth and Charles feel for one another will make your heart ache. The strict, unforgiving moral code of the time is a recurring theme and well executed. The musical score blends beautifully with the story. The love story draws you in and won't let go. The ending is satisfying and believable. English manor life in 1838 is exquisitely portrayed. For fans of Period Romance films, this is first rate. William Nicholson (Gladiator) wrote and directed. "},{"Title":"Truly exceptional movie","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film really made me search the net high and low to read more about it, and to see whether other people think the same. Here, I found out that many people think the same.Searching the web, as I said, I also ran across the director's statement that I cite hereInspired by Nicholson's fascination with 1940s movie love stories, Firelight is a film that awakens the romantic spirit in each of us. For his film directorial debut, Nicholson wanted to create a boundless romantic story about lovers forced apart by outside forces. To do so, he had to set his story in another place and time. To achieve that old-fashioned level of romance, the writer/director asserts, I had to go back to a place and time when there were forces stronger than individual desires. Contemporary love stories are relationship stories because the obstacles that prevent people from loving each other are essentially self-induced. These kind of stories can be charming, but you can't build up an enormous head of steam with them. I wanted to create a story about how love can redeem people, about how it can totally change their lives. I wanted to create that tragic feeling you have when two people are perfect for each other, love each other, but yet cannot have one another. Nicholson set out to write a film in which the focus was on people and their emotions. As he worked on the screenplay, Nicholson developed a very clear and simple visual style for the film. I wanted people's feelings to be the central issue of the film and I wanted nothing to distract from that. The idea of firelight became central to what the film is about. The story is about light, about winter, about coldness and empty rooms where the eye goes toward the one source of heat, the fire.To conceive a good film is one thing, but to make it, is altogether different, sometimes very hard. Nicholson succeeded fantastically but praises must be given to all the cast as well, Sophie first. "},{"Title":"Great story, beautifully filmed; outstanding acting","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" No silly, shallow writing, gratuitous violence and sex, over-written villains, or overacted characters will be found in this film. This is a deeply moving story of love and devotion, enhanced by exquisite photography, and told over the background of bleak, 1830s English winter landscapes. Intelligently written and produced, the performers do an outstanding job of portraying characters caught in circumstances that prohibit all pleasures except the love of their child and a commitment to her well-being. A slight bit of nudity, but tastefully done and congruous to the story. It's a movie I can (and will) watch many times. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful story about the complications of life","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Even though some may find the storyline predictable, the actors and the performances they give are well worth seeing. This was only the second movie I ever saw Sophie in and I love her in it! I'd never seen Stephen Dillane before and this movie made me search more of his movies. The story is of a young woman who agrees to have a baby for a mystery man, only to find that she has to find him and the child she gave up, no matter the consequences. When she finds them she has to come to terms with the reasons and realities behind her actions and of the father. What follows is the choice that we all make. Find happiness, or live with what life has allotted us? "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I read a review of Firelight that found the principals' relationship as as cold as Siberia in January. I totally disagree. I found this film mesmerizing. You watch two people jettison the extreme reserve they've put up due to the hard knocks of life & be transported from doing business to lust to love. That is much more interesting than watching gratuitous sex between characters. Much of the evolution of this film takes place in your mind as you watch the subtle interactions between the actors. A look here, a look there - they signal titanic advances in the plot. You won't want to miss a scene.I did find Louisa grating, but I imagine that was the desired effect. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES I'VE EVER SEEN.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  What a great romantic movie. Sophie Marceau is so beautiful. What a Babe! This has great acting and a great plot. The little girl is a great actor too; she presents a great portrayal of a spoilt little English girl that were around when I was living in England. Great Movie! "},{"Title":"Victorian Complexity A Man's, A Woman's, A Child's Hopes","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Sophie Marceau lights the screen in a romantic and eventually passionate love story in the Dickensian, Bronte, and Austen vernacular - the master and the governess. This might even be Marceau's best perf. The film has a spare understated elegance that satisfies all the way to the end. Good for an evening love story - the love between a man, woman, parent, child - by firelight.(I'm editing this a bit years later. In the earlier days of IMDb there were enough lines of text (above); now there are not. Shakespeare noted Brevity is the Soul of Wit. So, this must be made a bit more witless! I liked the film. It was difficult to find (on DVD) when I first saw it (and liked it); now it's available on Amazon streaming.) "}{"Title":"I won't forget this film","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  One of the most beautifully photographed films I have seen in several years, but only in the wide screen format which I hope will be out in DVD format soon.  Sophie's finest outing.  Minor key, softly illuminated interior, simple, direct and true to life dialog, wonderfully acted by all concerned. A picture for adults who have a sense of passion at any cost.  Direction is wonderful.  Film is magic.  The only true winner I've seen in three years. "},{"Title":"A must for romance lovers !","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful cinematography, great cast, heart throbbing romance, steamy love scenes, A feast for the eyes and soul. "},{"Title":"A perfect, utterly satisfying masterpiece","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  How often does one look forward to seeing a movie, hoping it will fulfill one's expectations, and end up somewhat disappointed ? Well, it was not the case with this movie, which came to my notice mostly through the reviews here at IMDB.com, because its theatrical release was very brief and discreet here in France. I can only say that this movie is a dream come true. If you have loved Persuasion, Pride and Prejudice, Jane Eyre with C. Hinds, Sense and sensibility, a Room with a view, well there is no reason why you should not be delighted. I love everything about it  the way the story unfolds, the subtlety of the dialogue, intermingled with images full of meaning and poetry ... and incredible acting. It is a love story but it tells of many other things **** minor spoilers here  education, the relationship between a father and his son, the bind created by physical intercourse .... end of spoilers ****. You feel all kinds of emotions, including some very funny scenes (I like the sheep breeding scene ... you'll know what I mean). I bought the DVD zone 2 and it might soon be one of the most often watched in my collection ! "},{"Title":"A charming story","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The story of the relation between Elisabeth and Louisa is interesting, even though not very original.  Then the final part, when they recognizing their mother-daughter relationship, is quite moving and tear-driving.  That piece of plot, that Elisabeth went to rescue Louisa from the ice-water, certainly is a key reason why Louisa will call her 'mom'.  So to speak, it is still a random reason that Elisabeth can get back her daughter's heart.  No, even not for such a reason, there must be another one, because the LOVE of Elisabeth towards Louisa is real. "},{"Title":"Wrenchingly Beautiful","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw a preview of this film, I imagined oh, just another remake of Jane Eyre.  But, because of my liking for Sophie Marceau and my love of Jane Eyre, I rented it...and I loved it.This film takes a unique perspective, concentrating more upon the relationship between mother and daughter, rather than the romance between mother and father.  Though the story is an oft-told one, this is a film whose magic will grasp you, just as the mentioned firelight within.Sophie Marceau gives a wonderful performance as Elisabeth, combining her lovely face with the warmth of any mother towards her child.  Stephen Dillane is also very good, but I was entirely *riveted* by Dominique Belcourt as little Louisa.  Her performance had no artifice---she had no problem acting like the little brat, then slowly beginning to soften as she discovered what a life could be without hating everyone other than her father.The costumes were as good as any other recent period film and the sets were *gorgeous*, especially the famous lake house.Therefore, despite a plot everyone knows, Firelight utterly charmed me and held me spellbound even after its conclusion. "},{"Title":"A wonderful surprise!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A desperate grab off the rental shelf.  Never heard of the movie, but Sophie Marceau's starring role caught my attention.  It is not the kind of story that would usually appeal to me, but the movie is so beautifully filmed that it sustained my interest until The End.   "},{"Title":"The Heat Of The Night, The Coolness Of The Day","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" William Nicholson's 'Firelight' is a visual feast. It's not high-tech special effects, extravagant sets or costumes or the scenic flowery locations that create the visual beauty but rather the simplicity of it that is beautifully captured by the camera. It is the subtlety and gentle treatment that creates an atmosphere that is cold or warm. Notice though in the scenes where the temperature is supposed to be freezing, there is a coldness between the characters but the scenes with the firelight reflect a warmth in the characters. The story itself is pretty simple. There is hardly any 'main' conflict that drives the story. Any plot device that is presented is almost immediately resolved like Elisabeth getting Louisa to study, Charles giving Elisabeth a one-month notice and then falling for her. The movie moves at a rapid pace but Nicholson has handled the sequences quite well because none of it looks rushed. The love scenes were tastefully shot.The acting is excellent. An incredibly beautiful Sophie Marceau does a phenomenal job. Stephan Dillane too does an equally convincing job. The supporting cast is good too.'Firelight' is not without its share of loopholes. For example, considering that the film is set in the 1800s, how did they manage to maintain a comatose patient so well in seemingly such good health? Regarding the death sequence, why was such a cruel form of euthanasia, by having the victim freeze to death, chosen? The happy ending also feels a bit awkward but that may be because one would normally expect a tragic solution.In short, 'Firelight' is a worthy film because of its visual and poetic beauty. I am very picky about romantic films and loath movies such as 'Titanic' but if the movie has something more than pretty props to offer, something that is both visually enticing and lyrical then I am ready to give it my time. "},{"Title":"Still As Good As I Remember","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" It's been such a long time since the last time I saw this movie 12 years ago to be exact, but the power of this movie is still strong and indeed unforgettable.Sophie Marceau is one of the good actress that can portrayed emotion into the character really well, especially for her English is not her 1st language but yet her character here as Ms. Laurrier a governess with a politeness and strong character really had shown well. Her determination to be with her spoiled and lonely daughter is really enjoyable to watch, her passion to be with the a man that she loved all of time is really memorable, her strong character really helped a lot here. The whole setting which was located in England was perfect to show the intimidation of society, however even the rules of society and time cannot forbid their love to be rekindled again. Yes it is a happy ending movie that I like.I remember, the first time I watched this movie when I was in my junior high and I didn't really get the idea about love really well but when I watched this movie I could understand the feeling of each characters especially for their desires to be loved each other. The director deserves thumb up for bringing the emotions of the actors out of beneath. "},{"Title":"Superb Insight to Real World","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I read the comments &#150; negative and positive. Firelight is an exceptional movie that I first saw and then saw again, and again and again recently (2006) on TV. I am not a Gothic romance admirer. One part that hit home was the history of efforts by Luisa to drive away governesses. The author (Nicholson) knew what he was writing. Having lost my wife when one son was almost five years old, my housekeepers were of short duration. One day, I came home from work to find the housekeeper ready to leave after my four year old had chased her down the street with a butcher knife. His statement was I chased the other housekeepers away, and I will chase any more housekeepers away, until my father brings home a step-mother.Unknowing viewers probably missed this point. What a magnificent picture so well suited to being staged in the 1800s. Photography continued to improve as I watched the show on Encore as did the script, as did my admiration for the actors, the music, but most of all for the director. One viewing fails to show the greatness of the film.To earn $786,000 in the U.S. shows the commercial results of poor marketing. This has to be one of the best cinematic ventures in years. Perhaps a reissue with promotion on the late shows would create a better result. "},{"Title":"","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" It is a sweet and touching film of a mother who loves her daughter. It is better to be published in novel also, so it can be read anytime, everywhere.  "}{"Title":"Great Romance Film for Men & Women","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  If you want to see a romance that will make everyone happy, watch 'Firelight'. It has enough forbidden love and cold, dark English mansions to fascinate every female viewer.  And with gorgeous and curvaceous Sophie Marceau secretly loving and oft disrobed at the center of the story, every male with a pulse will be glued to the screen.  This story has been written in a thousand pulp fiction romances, but usually not well done on the screen.  But this time, the director took his time choosing great leads & the producers weren't afraid to invest whatever it took to produce a quality film.  I can't think of any way this movie could be better.  While a heart wrenching love story is at the core, the story is very well developed, not weighted too heavily one way or another.Firelight isn't 'Bullitt' with the famous San Francisco car chase scene that every male alive wishes he had done the stunt driving for; but still, it is a movie a woman just might get her guy to watch all the way through without falling asleep before the end.  A very well done film and script.  I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Emotionally true and satisfying--surprisingly real","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film I have seen in a long time. I found it lovely, haunting, and quite magical. Writer-director William Nicolson set the story in the 1840s to provide a structure of duty and constraint, but the world he created feels very accessible. The entire cast give strong performances--Stephen Dillane and Sophie Marceau make an appealing couple and, as their daughter, Dominique Bellacourt is a realistic brat. The relationships they form with one another feel emotionally true in a way I rarely find in films. The non-verbals are important in this film--the script is spare. Don't examine the plot too carefully--you might get cranky over details that are really irrelevant. It's a film for the heart, not the head. Here's trivial praise-to my Northern eye some scenes were photographed in genuinely cold weather, and I liked seeing winter landscapes and bright winter complexions. 'Persuasion' and 'When the Cat's Away' have the same kind of yearning tone.  "},{"Title":"Wow.....just plain WOW!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" WOW! I just saw this movie on TV and I have to say it was one of the best movies I have seen in forever. I am a movie fanatic, especially when it comes to period romances, and this was definitely one of those. Stephen Dillane and Sophie Marceau where perfect in this movie. I was supposed to be doing my schoolwork and getting ready to go to the funeral home, but I couldn't leave this movie. SPOILER I was literally on the edge of my seat with Louisa walked over the frozen lake. I held my breath and hoped everything would be alright.I can't wait to watch this movie again. I have every intention of buying it if I can find it. Amazing. 10 stars. Don't pass this one up. "},{"Title":"Sophie Sophie Sophie","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The lights dim, the previews are over, the movie starts. It's one that your friends have recommended, it received good reviews, and you have a couple of free hours to kill this weekend. So you're here in the theater and...there's Sophie Marceau walking onto the screen and into your heart. Just like that. Took me about 5 seconds. In deep, over my head. Irreversible crush. This must happen to every male on the planet when he watches his first Sophie Marceau movie. Oh yeah, there is a movie, in case you didn't notice. In this case it's a nicely-written, superbly-directed, well-acted flick about a governess (Sophie) who seeks the daughter she gave up for adoption 6 years previously. She applies for the position of governess, and is hired by the girl's father's sister-in-law (still with me?) before the father discovers who Sophie is. What follows is her attempt to win both the hearts of her long-lost daughter (who's turned out to be a major brat) and the father. It's a nice story, although the sister-in-law ends up getting a raw deal (does anyone notice?). But let's move on to more important matters. For those of you that worship the ground that Sophie treads upon, this film definitely delivers. She not only acts up a storm but also steams up the screen with her passion and sensuality. This she accomplishes which such finesse, such subtlety. Nothing against Americans, but Sophie proves how superior European (especially French) actresses can be when it comes to on-screen seduction of the male audience. She makes it look so easy. Okay, so I'm gushing. But that's the way it is when you experience such a revelation as I have I saw my first Sophie Marceau movie. What more need be said? "},{"Title":"Sexy but really about child-raising and parenthood","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This movie was a surprise and a joy - it may be my all-time favorite. The movie is sure sexy but that was not its big appeal to me. It is really about child-raising - handling spoiled brats, reaching them, turning them around, teaching good values. It is also about parenthood - the instincts that drive us, love for our own children. It is about marriage - the loyalty we owe our spouse, the sort of person we might marry and be happy with. It it also about education - how a child learns to read and the need to be educated. But what I found most interesting was how the big advances in relationships happened when the mother/daughter and then the mother/father were set free of normal behavioral constraints... this only happened when they had a fire going in the fireplace (firelight) and when time stops still and what happens never really happened. People were freed to express themselves honestly and that is when the relationships changed. Perhaps Las Vegas's new advertising theme, What Happens in Vegas Stays in Vegas, was inspired by this movie... but I don't think Las Vegas is looking for growth in human relationships! This movie is very satisfying, and it is happy... leaving the viewer upbeat about family and life. "},{"Title":"Very romantic, beautiful, haunting tale!","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I have seen this haunting, romantic film many times. It's simply beautiful. Sophie Marceau and Stephen Dillane are a magnificent couple. Character development here is so profound that I have a hard time seeing either of them as anyone else other than their unforgettable characters from this romantic, bittersweet love story.It's especially candlelit, filled with firelight, foggy, and dim... old castle walls... beautiful costumes, bustiers, and the whole nine yards. The storyline is completely believable, sad, and still hopeful.It's JUST the kind of movie to watch on a rainy afternoon. I simply love it. Strong supporting cast and an all-but-perfect screenplay.It starts in 1836 England when a beautiful young unmarried woman from Switzerland arrives. In Switzerland, her father has been imprisoned and her family is destitute. She is answering an ad about a wealthy English landowner who needs an heir, but whose wife is in a vegetative state (and she has been for many years.) The young woman agrees to sleep with the gentleman for several nights in order to get pregnant, stay in England thru her pregnancy, and then give him the baby when it is born. In return, she will receive from him a great sum of money -- a small fortune -- the money she needs to get her father out of prison and get her family back on its feet again. All of this will be done in absolute secrecy and anonymity... they agree not to even learn each others' names, for the sake of his reputation.Doesn't this sound intriguing? It IS! It just gets better and better, too. I LOVE IT! So, rent it or buy it. Unplug the phone and darken the shades. Don't let anyone interrupt you during this unforgettable romance. ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Pignant story making America","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" England to-day is maybe a small influence in the thinking and emotion of America. This film merits great consideration. It reflects the English cultural way of life of the 1800's, a way of living, albeit in the upper middle classes and aristocracy that provided a fundament to the American society and that still survives in thin layers of Englnad. This English personality is united with a cool realistic and monetary Swiss attitude to life. An English heir (Stephen Dillane, played with great sensitivity) to a lord (Jon Ackland, epitomizing the spendthrift lords seeking only pleasure) resides in a lovely house and park with pond and bathing hut in glass. But he needs himself an heir. He pays the debt of a Swiss women owed for her father. She agrees as her part of the agreement to give birth to his child. The women is portrayed superbly by Sophie Marceau with the Swiss minimum of facial expression and restraint. A Swiss behaviour that is still noticed to-day. She arrives seven years after the birth of their child to reply to his need for a gouvernant for the child. Thus one learns a lot about some very impotent facets of the future make up of America moral rectitude, the work ethic, how to bring up children, the appreciation of natural beauty, the restarting of ones life. Most important is the sensitivity to sensual forces repressed but released when needed conception of a child despite being contracted for money, love eternal for a wife that is paralyzed, love of a mother for the best development of her child, the demand that love will be the force that unites the parents of the child and in the end the future for all three. Even euthanasia. Ironically, but so often the case, the heir has to sell his lovely house and grounds to pay off the debt of his father. Thus he and the mother of his child find themselves in the same quandary. The photography of the English countryside in autumn and winter is for dreams. A film to be seen and savoured several times. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise......","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I woke up to the movie at 700 am and was pleasantly surprised. I was captivated by the story. I like historical romance stories. I normally don't seek out movies like historical romance stories. The characters were memorable and left me wanting more. Unfortually I missed the beginning but was captivated by the story and the characters. Trying to watch it again but can't find it on cable or what channel it is on. I have search on cable on demand for the channel encore but can't find it. Any information you could give would be great. thanks... "},{"Title":"Unpredictable and believable","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I love this film because it is largely unpredictable. The story is good and the performances are believable. The characters are portrayed as real people which makes you care about them. Only towards the end of the film did my husband and I feel that the story is a little rushed, but it never loses the feeling of quality film making that makes Firelight so wonderful. "},{"Title":"Gothic Romance with a Feminist Twist","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Sophie Marceau gives a wonderfully complex performance as a fiercely proud, earthily beautiful but poor woman who must, for many years, submerge the fire of her passion in order to ultimately satisfy it.  "}{"Title":"A lovely romance . . .","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I vaguely remembered having seen a theater trailer for Firelight, when I stumbled upon this gem in the local supermarket's 'Video Rentals' section. All the better - no expectation with an excellent return.Firelight is a truly wonderful period romance - plenty of angst, passion, happiness and tragedy; not to mention a solid and convincing cast.I've since recommended this film to a number of friends, and have received positive reviews from all - quite surprising from such a diverse lot of people.Consequently - the supermarket's one and only copy of Firelight has been frequently rented, and recently, never returned! "},{"Title":"Servant Miss Louise, being educated","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Firelight is about It's a kind of magic. Firelight makes time stand still. When you put out the lamps and sit in the firelight's glow there aren't any rules any more. You can do what you want, say what you want, be what you want, and when the lamps are lit again, time starts again, and everything you said or did is forgotten. More than forgotten it never happened. 1838 Elisabeth Laurier agrees to bear a child of an anonymous English landowner, and he will in return pay her father's debt, giving up at birth, as agreed, the child. The first businesslike night is followed by the second, being on the dangerous verge to 'like-it' &#x96; while the third night is pure and forbidden pleasure. And she can't forget. The following film moments are seven years of the mothers writing of her diary To my English Daughter. Searching and finally having found her she applies for the advertised governess (the fourth in this year). The upset father has to keep her according English law at least a month. Miss Laurier, confronted with her spoiled, tantrum-throwing daughter, asks the master of sheep breeding, what forms of discipline she may use during the four weeks None. She will soon find out the hard world we live in. As long as she is in my care I will that she is happy. But Miss Laurier takes own measures. He, the father entering his house, hears his daughters screams. The servant Miss Louisa, being educated - the films most important saying. The fierce breeders-governess-confrontation compromise that she may resume. Louisa, forced to accept the new governess rule, mocks her Servant, servant, servant. And her governess-mother I am not a servant, I'm a prisoner. So will you be, telling the girl that after her marriage everything will belong to the husband and she the prisoner. If she doesn't marry, she is locked up in loneliness But they can't prison your mind. I want you to read. I want you to have your own life. The biological mother and her biological daughter take the hard way towards a relation of respect and trust both missed at birth according the deal. When the thin communicating ice holds, the film turns to the parents. Their, as remembered, started with the child breeding. Elisabeth has given her daughter rules. Able not only to be loved by her father-boy but others and the father-boy turning to a man. Much appreciated by Louisas grandfather. Louisa's eyes sense that something is between her father and this governess. And then, when discovering them in bed, the child rushes to her comforting lake-house-mother (none, not even the camera is allowed to enter the Lakehouse). The governess her mother, rushes after her Louisa, don't leave me. Only after the icy rescue time has come for Louisa to enter the governess room by her own and discovers the diary To my English Daughter. The governess is her mother. Her real mother who gave her away I didn't, I sold you.  500 is a fortune I am glad it was a lot, the daughters answer. While Elisabeths father could not pay his debts and was in prison ... the reason for the deal between Elisabeth and Louisa's father. For Louisas grandfather and father it was different a minor matter to sell the country estate. When Louisas father had relieved his wife from her pain (Louisa She was never my mother.) and Elisabeth You did it. Both have to live with this crime; she who initiated and he who executed. Three days they met. Then. The deal became different. Not meant. Seven years of search that finally ended the 'fourth day' for the father and mother and their daughter. A romantic tale that lets us believe that destiny asks for what is needed. But no it needs the active moments that has to be taken before the happy ending. "},{"Title":"Classy quality","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  There is more junk on the shelves at the video store than anything else. The attendant suggested this movie one evening when I was having more difficulty than usual finding an interesting title. I was completely unfamiliar with his recommendation. It was wonderful, a real jewel in the rough. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I dislike movies that are tragedies.  At first I thought this movie was going to be just that.  I was wrong.  A very uplifting movie, I really loved the ending.  I am going to see this movie again and again.  I place it in the same category as Sense and Sensibility which is one of my all time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable gothic romance","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  'Firelight' is a classic gothic romance with all the archetypes; the brooding man of the house, the mysterious invalid upstairs, the beautiful governess and lots of snow.  Get your lady friends together with a bottle of wine and enjoy!  You'll get to see Sophie Marceau's erotic awakening, Stephen Dillane's moral dilemma, and Kevin Anderson's extremely odd American accent (considering he is American).If you enjoy books like 'Jane Eyre', you'll enjoy 'Firelight', but because 'Firelight' is not a classic of English literature, you may have to hide a chuckle now and then (or just laugh out loud with sheer amusement at the fate of the invalid). "},{"Title":"Will this film available on dvd?  It was beautiful!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was a very touching and beautifully done film.  Sophie Marceau was extraordinary, as she was also in Anna Karenina!Hollywood really needs to bring out more films like these.  Particularly films  offering the viewer more substance.  Cheers, Lady M. "},{"Title":"A DELIGHTFUL MOVIE!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie was really a pleasure and joy to watch. The script is an original story of love and passion and the acting is superb but the cast is dominated with the marvelous Sophie Marceau.It is recommended viewing .. "},{"Title":"nice movie","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" good story, good acting. no over-acting, no under-acting. beautiful shots/scenery. rottentomatoes gave it a very low rating, but this is proof that a movie doesn't need to score extremely high to be enjoyed. i enjoyed this movie very much. no complaints really. i watch a lot of movies and sometimes they are painfully unfunny or lack creativity or even anything remotely artistic. this movie had a lot of beauty and can reach a broad audience i think. sophie marceau is lovely to look at and the daughter louisa was not nearly as bratty as max from 'where the wild things are' - you don't feel like you're watching a ritalin advert. i liked the movie because in its simplicity, minimal dialogue, etc, they were able to give me something good to watch. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed and acted, quiet movie.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A beautifully filmed and acted movie, with more of an emotional plot than a more conventional series of events. Very little actually happens, although there are a couple pivotal scenes that, in another context, might make the film a tragedy.  Emotions drive the action; emotions drive other emotions signified in the film. "},{"Title":"A most wonderful film. For me, beyond doubt, the best of the year. Wonderfully artistic - an epic.","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  At the same time extremely worrying. Worrying because of the question thrown up by the tag-line of the film, Passion has no limits. Indeed where such a philosophy can lead us is revealed in the film. The portrayal of Elisabeth, Charles and Louisa, leaving their country domain does its best to make us believe in a happy and bright future, whilst trying to suppress the murder (Charles' killing cannot by any stretch of the imagination be portrayed as a mercy killing) of Charles' wife. But then everything is okay because passion has no limits. A realistic but at the same time frightening mirror on our own society. "}{"Title":"Predictable Romance","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Sure it was uplifting and even though the sensuous beauty of Sophie Marceau and the handsome Stephen Dillane were perfectly matched, this story was predicable almost from the opening line. There was little tension, but for a tense relationship between mother and daughter where the outcome was never in doubt.  Worth seeing for the performances but don't expect too much, unless you find pleasure in uplifting, predictable endings. "},{"Title":"Loved it and hated it at the same time!","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" First, I loved it because I am such a sucker for love stories and Sophie Marceu and Stephen Dillane give superb performances...their love scenes steam up the screen...she is subtle and controlled and he is so sexy, despite his brooding character. I don't want to moralize but what I hated were the values conveyed in the film--when the lights go out, there are no rules...you can do anything you want... And that is what the lead actor does in the end--he does something really despicable--while what he does leads to a so-called happy ending--it leaves the viewer with a bad taste in the mouth. The end justifies the means. Ugh. I expected the film to have a tragic ending because of the lead actor's action--bad action leads to bad consequences after all. I just wish the script were revised to make it a truly happy ending...the moral ambiguity certainly does not make it a happy ending! The director could have chosen to end it tragically or happily with slight changes to the script. "},{"Title":"Actors good, script baaaaaaaaaaad","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am always willing to live with a little bit of cheese in a romance flick, but this movie was over the top.  Sophie Marceau was great considering what she had to work with, other actors were decent to good.One reason people go to the theater to see movies is the shared experience -- today was a great example.  The laughter kept building as the end neared, climaxing with the sister's line to S. Marceau at the funeral love him for both of us (as an aside, this after the writers expect us to believe that the sister suspected nothing after months and months of sex between the 2 main characters.  They must have built the walls thick back then!).Hey I didn't mind seeing a little T&A from S. Marceau though those looks coupled with great acting skill make for a great movie...usually.  Well maybe next time. "},{"Title":"Jane Eyre for adults","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is an adult version of the Jane Eyre/Mr Rochester romance known to all English reading school girls. Full of surprises, and with a moral ambiguity worthy of Henry James, it is a nicely played and directed gem. A wonderful, small film of a children's classic rewritten for adults. I loved it.  "},{"Title":"Major Plot Hole","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Can someone explain to me how the comatose wife lived for more than 10 years without eating!? Did I miss something somewhere? Another plot hole -- the main character manages to get pregnant after 3 nights together, but once they start having an affair 7 years later, she miraculously doesn't get pregnant. It was okay as romances went, but I really want movies to be logical in some way and this plot hole really unnerved me while watching the film. This could have been a really good period piece but it seemed to get schmaltzier the closer it got to the end. Other people said it was predictable -- which it was. And boy was that daughter pretty wise for a 7 year old, especially one isolated in a manor house her entire life. It ended up looking like a made for TV movie by the end. "},{"Title":"Melodramas are not what they used to be.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a rather boring yarn.Sophie Marceau is not much of a thespian,(in Anna Karenine she was  miscast)and she's totally unconvincing in her part of a surrogate mother.She's not helped by the plot which mixes  up elements of Jane Eyre,Forever Amber,the innocents Waterloo Bridge Madame X and others.The script is predictable,this could be forgivable if there were not this dj vu feeling,and if there were something to arouse us from our sleeplyricism,emotion ,madness...All we've got is a director filming gleefully an academic story as if he were in the fifties.Anyway Sirk,Preminger,et al,to match their brilliant skills,had a social awareness and their heroes had to fight against a hostile world.Here,Marceau's character is so self-confident and so would be intellectual that the movie becomes the  opposite of good melodrama a tedious psychological drama.  "},{"Title":"Romantic? - Um, not......","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Call me a little old-fashioned but I found the plot of `Firelight' a little disturbing....*LARGE SPOILER* Charles Godwin engages a woman to have sex with her for cash and thereby father a child because apparently he requires an heir, something his comatose wife is physically incapable of. Some years later, Sophie Marceau's  Elisabeth tracks down her child who she's consigned to a man seemingly bereft of morals. In a fit of pique, she admonishes the young girl to `develop her mind' so as to have a chance in a world dominated by men where women are viewed as mere chattels. Prophetic words, but the daftness of the plot continues when Ms. Marceau's  Elisabeth falls for the very same man who views her as little more than chattel and who, having brought his estate to ruin, finds a convenient way to have his cake, and the healthy Elisabeth, too. You guessed it - bump off the sick wife. If passion truly has no limits, then what kind of love is it where murder is justified by unrequited passion?  Such love isn't true love at all because it is, in essence, selfish. Wrap this movie up in as much sugar as you like - this film boils down to a nasty little attempt to validate euthanasia.  "},{"Title":"Why waste the time on period pieces?...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" ...if you're going to make none of the characters act in-period?That question aside, here's another  Why not spend some time making a plot by hand instead of invoking the Plot-o-Matic 3000?  Is there nobody capable of writing a script in Hollywood anymore?And another what is the point of hiring all these wonderful, top-notch actors if you force them into a setting so dreary that there's no life in them?And yet another how are we to believe that the two lead characters love each other when a typical wet match has more of a spark than they have between them?God!  I *really* wanted to like this movie going into it.  I love Sophie Marceau.  I love the style of drama the movie was trying to emulate.  But I really hate turgid, predictable plots with themes that hammer you over the head repeatedly until your skull splits open and your brain drains out of the brain pan (which, to be fair, at least gives you the means necessary to enjoy the movie brainlessness). "},{"Title":"If you know Yiddish...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Schlock.  That one word best describes this movie, which is without question one of the worst that I have ever seen.  Words like banal, trite and cliche do not even begin to do it justice.  Every line of dialogue was poorly written and even more poorly executed, and every shot was bleak, depressing and unartistic.  The movie was completely and totally predictable from the get-go, and offered no surprises and zero entertainment.  There is ABSOLUTELY NO EXCUSE for watching this movie.  Plot devices were inserted often to try and save a failing script, but to no avail.  I wish someone had held the original manuscript over a Firelight before ever taking it to a producer. "}]