[{"Title":"incredibly beautiful movie","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"66 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented Kundun to further my quest to see all the Scorsese movies I can. I never expected such an incredible movie. I didn't want this movie to end. It's really difficult to describe how I feel about this movie since I have only viewed it once and was completely blown away, it left me in complete awe.Like most when I first started watching Scorsese I thought that he did brilliant gangster films and that was his thing, but I have recently discovered that this couldn't be further from the truth.  Fist seeing The Last Temptation of Christ and now Kundun I wouldn't care if Scorsese ever made another gangster film.  It is easy to see that he is an artistic genius, the acting in the film was great, but I could have watched it on mute and still have been amazed.If, like I was, you are unfamiliar with the Buddhist religion and the Chinese takeover of Tibet this film has even more to offer.  Scorsese's risk of using real Buddhists to do all of the acting payed off better than I ever expected it would, the fact that we are hearing the story through the people it affected adds another level to this movie.I cannot believe that this film only has a rating of 7 on this site.  If you are a fan of Scorsese and are not sure you are going to like this just give it a chance, it deserves at least one viewing, if you give it that I am sure you will be amazed as I was.  Scorsese's vision's in this movie are unlike any of his films, not to mention a great score by Phillip Glass. "},{"Title":"Scorsese's most under-appreciated film?","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"52 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I was rendered speechless by KUNDUN when I first saw it, and subsequent viewing have only confirmed my impression that this is one of Scorsese's finest films. Yeah - it's slow and elegant. So what.I've long held an admittedly superficial interest in Buddhism, and also been a fan of Scorsese, liking most of his films quite a bit, so I went into this with some biases, but with every viewing this seems like a richer film. I also think that Scorsese was in some ways far more at home with this material than he was given credit for being. The cinematography and performances are excellent - the cast of mostly non-actors is surprisingly good, and much of KUNDUN is staggeringly beautiful to watch.It has also struck me that this film isn't as much of a departure for Scorsese as it first may seem - this film works well as something of a companion to LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ in that both pictures examine great faiths through spiritual figures in a way that personalizes the divine. This simply literalizes undercurrents running through a number of Scorsese's other films, which often turn on themes of loyalty, conviction and ethics (like the self-assurance, against massive obstacles, shown by Alice Hyatt in ALICE DOESN'T LIVE HERE ANYMORE). All evidence a worldview where some form of redemption or transcendance is possible. In their own ways, several memorable Scorsese characters - Sam Rothstein (CASINO), Henry Hill (GOODFELLAS), Rupert Pupkin (KING OF COMEDY), Paul Hackett (AFTER HOURS) and Alice Hyatt attempt this, some in ways that are desperate, comically misguided or just plain wrong, but they're all human, driven by some redemptive impulse nonetheless.The Catholicism of Scorsese's youth places great value on the importance of ritual, which is also true of Buddhism, which is depicted in a detailed and respectful fashion here, and the rhythm of KUNDUN - where the chronology of events isn't (or at least doesn't seem) forced, but are instead allowed to unfold in a more naturalistic and lifelike fashion also seems to mirror Buddhist ideas admirably.This is a far more complex film than it first might appear to be - far from being a simple biopic, KUNDUN is much much more. Definitely one of Martin Scorsese's least appreciated films. "},{"Title":"An exceptional film which refuses to compromise its artistic values","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun is one of those rare masterpieces that unfortunately might  be run over by more Hollywood acceptable films like Titanic and Seven Years in Tibet (both films that I still admire).  While these films were great, their primary purpose seemed to be entertainment alone.  Scorsese creates a work out of the bounds of traditional films;  Kundun is at once a spiritual journey, a compelling story despite its downplayed action, and a delight for the eyes and ears.  It is both entertainment and art.  The audience isn't captivated by dramatic action, but simply because it is so beautiful.  At the same time, it doesn't produce the slightly sleepy sensation other artistic works like The Last Emperor of China can, despite their beauty (I personally loved Last Emperor).  Not once was I tempted to turn away from the screen.Scorsese mixes symbolic images and a subtle yet emotionally stirring soundtrack into a non-traditional plot structure, creating an exotic and spiritual vision meeting the demands of its eastern inspiration.I am not a historian, so I cannot speak about its accuracy, though from what I can tell, Scorsese did his homework.  Even if that were not true, this film is not meant as a documentary.  It has the same emotional power of the finest art, with a simplicity and directness which keeps it from being pretentious.  If you add to this historical accuracy, all the better.  But it is not meant to influence via facts but via emotion.Even those viewers who don't normally sit through credits will most likely do so, simply for the chance to let the film soak in.  You need the time to digest everything you've been shown and to sit in contemplative peace.  This is a film that inspires and delights.  It is the film I wish I could have created.  Scorsese has certainly produced the best film of the year, if not more. "},{"Title":"Quite simply a great achievement","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was very pleased to discover that this film wasnt the Scorcese dud some of the user comments and critics had suggested it to be. While I am no expert on Buddhism, I know enough about it to see how brilliantly Martin Scorcese and Melissa Mathison weaved the core  philosophy into this tale of the Dalai Lama's formative years. They did it without succumbing to ostentation, sentimentality, or populist good vs evil film dramatics. And yet it showed us how human the child was--laughing as the monks meditated while a rat drank the ritual offerings; being frightened in the dark monastery; taking on the  very great responsibility of leading a truly wise, noble and compassionate religion while being confronted by the threats of the modern world. I appreciated how they didnt portray the Chinese as simple villians--by including the scene where he dreams the army personnel are explaining to him why they embrace Mao's communism. And they also presented enough of the Buddhist ritual and way of life to show us how alien it is to western religions(the scene where they cut up the body for the vultures comes to mind), though they dont gloss it over by excluding comments about the Lama's isolation and loss of childhood or the corruption surrounding his first Regent. It was also quite moving to observe the devotion of his monks and people.Scorcese really demonstrates here that he is a true film artist and master storyteller. I wholeheartedly concur with the commentator that compared this film to the Last Emperor--despite similar story frames and lengths, this motion picture doesnt drag at all. If this had been say, Steven Spielberg's project you  would have expected to see some manipulative melodramatics and insincerity. And how can one not be impressed by the performances he got out of mostly non actors! That alone was amazing. The film maintained its pace from the early years to the Lama as an adult. From what little of the man I have seen on tv, his humor, and wisdom was conveyed remarkably well by Mathison's script and the actors chosen for the role.Finally, his comment to the Indian guard near the end after being asked if he was the Lord Buddha--encapsulates the wisdom and the humility of its spiritual leader perfectly. "},{"Title":"Another religious masterpiece from Scorsese","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As The Last Temptation of Christ showed, Martin Scorsese is not a filmmaker interested in playing it safe when it comes to religion.  Instead, he wants to get into the heart and soul of it.  While that film was obviously closer to his heart, since he was raised Catholic, this one burns with the same conviction and passion.  The difference is he and writer Melissa Mathison adjust themselves to the way of storytelling needed to tell the life of the Dalai Lama.  Unlike say, Little Buddha, though, where Bertolucci seemed to have no sense of distance from his subject, Scorsese does, so we are allowed to come to our own conclusions rather than having them shoved down our throats.Visually and aurally, this is also a real treat, with the images being more powerful than anything Scorsese has done before.  And while the music here is old territory for Philip Glass, he produces a stunning score which should have won the Oscar.  The mostly non-professional cast(I did see a familiar face here and there, but I can't remember them) also does good work. "},{"Title":"Dazzling to the eye and ear  A Masterpiece","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I have reviewed this film several times, and find new details I missed. How did they film this, and using non-professional actors, as well? Mysterious, magical, educational, and dazzling to the eye and ear. Seems much careful planning went into this production, a labor of Love. The Dali Lama, must be grateful his story, can now reach the world and his personal mission, may be recognized and possible fulfilled in his lifetime?Like the Last Emperor and Little Buddha this slice of the metaphysical river, is breathtaking in its visual beauty. A story that grabs your heart and soul, and you find yourself, thinking about it weeks later.Now I have a Free Tibet sticker on my Pathfinder, out of reverence for this tiny country, raped by the political powers in control of China.Bravo to the cast, and film crews. "},{"Title":"unbearably spiritual movie","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I live in South Korea, so I didn't think I would get some insights about buddhism from a Western movie. But this movie shocked me a lot. Very beautiful and meaningful visuals, quiet but spiritually forceful atmosphere every single moments are in the movie, I could hardly breath during playing. This movie is not just about one man, but about the pain of all mankind and the way to transcend the pain and sin of ours in a very buddhist direction. China in this movie got a bad part. Ironically they were also victims of imperialism but learned the exact way to extort, destroy the property and beliefs of others by the power of machines. It was just sad to watch. But as Kundun implied, those violence's are in the shadow of our minds which should be overcame by the power of spirit. For me, this movie tells that. "},{"Title":"You can not liberate me, only I can liberate myself...","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun is Martin Scorsese's most underrated film. It's something quite fantastic to watch such an amazing film about the early years of the Dalai Lama and the plight of Tibetan Buddhists knowing that it comes from a man who has long wrestled with his own religious ghosts (witness the still hotly debated conundrum that is his Last Temptation of Christ). With probably only The Age of Innocence to compare to in Scorsese's now hallowed canon, Kundun is a breathtaking work of art--visually sumptuous (with beautiful work from cinematographer Roger Deakins), hauntingly transcendental, and deeply symbolic.As an outsider looking in, Scorsese manages to create an intimate level of detail that someone who lives and breathes Buddhism might have overlooked. Many rituals and practices are presented exactly as they are with no attempts to explain their purpose or translate their meaning to Western culture. This allows them to keep their rich symbolism, which translates perfectly to Scorsese's visual palette. From the rich colors of meditative sand art to the bright red blood spilled during China's unlawful occupation of Tibet, everything takes on a deeper meaning that leaves much to the imagination and higher mind.Wisely, Scorsese follows the same template of Richard Attenborough's equally resonating Oscar winning epic Ghandi by adapting a straight forward approach to his presentation of the Dalai Lama's most tumultuous years. Except for a few dreamlike vision sequences, he stays mostly out of the man's head, and instead shows his power through his actions and dedication to his people and the practice of non-violence. Kundun is as near perfect a biopic as one can make. "},{"Title":"An opera","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Tibet. The young boy who shall become the 14th Dailai Lama is discovered and trained. At an early age he has to deal with his country's invasion by the Chinese and is ultimately forced into exile.Those expecting a Martin Scorsese film will be disappointed. This is not his typical kind of story and - fittingly - neither does it bear his typical direction. Using a cast of non-actors for the most part and opting for a more artful photographic style (kudos to DP Roger Deakins, veteran Coen collaborator, for his mesmerizing work here), Scorsese gives a truly spiritual film revolving around one of History's great tragedies. It is a feast of sights and sounds that succeeds in making Tibet alluring and makes for even more of a heartbreak for the viewer when this country is violated and destroyed. Perhaps as important as any other collaboration - if not more so - is the score by Philip Glass providing unusual but haunting melodies and depth.Kundun is regarded by many as a misstep. It does wander a long way from the gangster territory and the familiar NYC surroundings Scorsese usually plays with. In truth, that such a comfortable veteran director might take such an artistic and financial risk is both surprising and inspiring. This will never gain the popularity of Raging Bull or Goodfellas, because it speaks of a world that disappeared. Nevertheless, it might just be, with Last Temptation of Christ, Scorsese's deepest and most important film. "},{"Title":"Enlightening","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I feel I owe a debt of gratitude to Martin Scorsese for making this extraordinary film. Especially in light of it's controversial content. Here is a story that must be told and is so remarkably entertaining while being so deeply informative that I hesitate to make any comments at all. Why why why has this director NOT received the recognition he so richly deserves for his work, especially with this epic that out performs any epic extant, including the likes of Cleopatra The Godfather and so on. Are awards for honest brilliant work politically motivated? This film may be the watermark for all ambitious film makers in the future. Keep it real. "}{"Title":"The amazing story of the fourteenth Dalai Lama.","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" ''Kundun'' is an amazing movie, who tells us the story of the fourteenth Dalai Lama, also known as Tenzin Gyatso and still alive in the present days. He was born in a peasant family in 1935, in a small village called Taktser in north eastern Tibet, and was recognised at the age of two as the reincarnation of his predecessor the 13th Dalai Lama by other Lamas and Riponches. Some informations about this movie are changed,but nothing too seriouslittle facts like the year he was born or the age e was enthroned as Tibet's Head of State. I also find this movie very similar to ''Seven Years in Tibet'' in small points, like showing the Dalai Lama trying to ride a car, he looking people and places with his telescope, seeing maps and even watching the western movies he was so fascinated for. (Saddly Heinrich didn't come to explain to him the things P )psI really hope that the Dalai Lama can come back to Tibet someday. It's so annoying the Chinese occupation / is even worst when you watch movies, because what you read about stay memorized and marked in your memory. "},{"Title":"Hard Times","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie Kundun got me through some hard times,watching this movie hours after finding my girlfriend with her new man and being the last to know the relationship was over,I completely broke down almost on every chapter of the movie I felt I was from Tibet and I had been betrayed by the Chinese,but it was much more than that.Kundun with it's realty and emotion mixed with Philip Glass soundtrack makes this a movie that you become attached to the characters and sadden by their misfortune.Every time I watch this film I feel part Buddhist and this is one of my top 5 movies ,but truly I can't express how much this movie saved and uplifted me during my struggle. Also before all that happened to me I had seen the movie years before but It's gained a few more notches on my rating. "},{"Title":"A Film from the Heart","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You can tell that Kundun was a Martin Scorsese pet project, a story he really wanted to bring to the big screen. A film about a holy man and peaceful resistance is not your standard commercial fare, but this film visually stunning and emotionally poignant. Throw in the intriguing Philip Glass score and you have quick a sensory experience.Scorsese took a brilliant approach to this film in many ways-- Casting unknown actors the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people are unpretentious themselves, casting any names in the part would not only be ethnically sacrilegious, but would have missed the point. -- When they couldn't film in Tibet, they filmed in Morocco. Yet they picked terrific locations that definitely suggest the highest plateau in the world. -- Their use of color and movement is stunning. The cinematography is beautiful, the awards this film received for this are well deserved.The only issue I had with the film were the dreamlike episodes towards the end. The film would have been more powerful if they showed some of Mao's tyranny, instead of suggesting it through dream sequences (see The Killing Fields for how this can be done).Otherwise, this is a cerebral piece, not an action piece. If you can get by this, and watch it during the daytime so you don't fall asleep during the boring bits, it's a very good film.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An excellent high quality movie","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is like a breath of fresh air, for once a topic well chosen. Very nicely produced, directed and and very well acted. a very moving tale that hinges not only on the 14th Dalai Lama but of the struggle for Tibetan freedom from Chinese communist imperialist rule. This movie should be more widely shown. An interesting portrayal of the cruel,bullying, arrogant imperialist Chairman Mao enjoying the good life whilst his citizens suffered. The film portrays the issues successfully and is memorable.We should not forget Tibet and the Tibetan peoples' desire for a restoration of independence and freedom. Marvellous just marvellous. "},{"Title":"Our way is way of peace, but do we have time to walk it ?","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I love this movie. I have seen it three times and I will watch it again. Music is wonderful, it creates strange, but nice background for moving picture. Scenes contains great pictures of Tibet. And you go in the temples where you normally cannot go in.( I am not sure of that, but I have understood so. ) One thing I really like in this movie is the silence. There is no needless and annoying noise, as in many Hollywood films. (I mean that in many Hollywood films ... Actors are over acting and everything is so big and great..lot of noise..needless..annoying)Plot is great too . It is moving in every second towards something, like a destiny. This is story of DalaiLama. From he's childhood to manhood. And there is many difficult decisions to make when everyone doesn't want to walk the way of peace. "},{"Title":"How does a Peaceful Culture React to Genocide?","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The story is of how His Holiness Dalai Lama was found as a child until teenage years as he he faces exile escaping Mao's invading People's Liberation Army. The pace may be slow but the views stunning and the moral dilemma compelling. Scorsese poses the question faced with violence, how does a leader fight for survival with Buddhist compassion? With the growing violence we see on the international headlines, this film is highly relevant both spiritually and ethically for all countries and peoples.Seen on a large screen, with a brush of the sands and my tears, this film changed my life. I support many first nations that have suffered killings and wish we can redress the wrongs. Seven Years in Tibet was also good but this movie changed my life and made me study the different branches of Buddhism and found much peace in meditation. Not bad for a few hours by an under-rated master, Scorsese. "},{"Title":"True Art","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Having in mind the actual political situation (we write the year 2008) this movie is the right one to watch. I saw it first time(s) some years ago and wept like a child (curiously every time I weep on another scene). Now again it crashed into my life in the right moment for show me who we really are - people. This is the best movie of Martin Scorsese and if I ever would have the pleasure to meet him personally I would say Thank you for making 'Kundun'.However - when I saw the rating (7 of 10) it achieved here at IMDb, I must admit, I was a bit shocked. Are there so few people out there, that are able to appreciate a piece like that? Are there so few people who are able to watch a movie with their heart, not only with the head?Maybe the essence of that film simply goes deeper than most of our members of mankind are able (or willing) to follow. This is the tragedy of Tibet - without any unnecessary outrage or false intellectualism. 'Kundun' goes a peaceful way that leads not to victory, but to the hearts of men. I'm glad Scorsese sacrificed popularity for art's sake in this case. So the ones, that are ready for the journey may have a path.Outstanding. "},{"Title":"A lovely, beautiful film","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun I think is one of Martin Scorsese's less appreciated films. Probably because it is such a departure from most of his other pictures. Like The Age of Innocence, it is a quieter more reflective film that encourages and challenges the audience to dig deeper into the film than just the visuals.Kundun is a very spiritual film without being religious. This may not make sense to most people, but after viewing the film, even if like me, you are not a very religious person, you cannot help but be moved by the selflessness and love that these characters experience.Cinematic ally, it is also one of Scorsese's most beautiful films as well.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful, beautiful, inspriational, and unique.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As a film fan & a Scorsese fan I would have sought this movie out. However as a student of the Dalai Lama's writings and a Buddhist I found the movie to be inspirational and profound.  The cinema graphical impact is stunning but it also shows the wondrous beauty of Tibet and brings home the suffering of the Tibetan people.  The sound track adds eminently to my collection of inspirational Asian music reflects the beauty of the chants that so typify the Tibetan Buddhist experience.As a historian I found the film a useful tool to introduce students and others to the Tibetan perspective on the events of the 1940's & 1950's without moving away from the essential message of Buddhism and the Dharma as interpreted by his Holiness.A jewel in my Film library and one watched many times.  "},{"Title":"Postcards of Dharma","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I think I am well versed in Buddhism to say that, contrary to the majority opinion, this is a superficial smattering of a wonderful practice. I don't know whose fault it is, certainly Scorsese's though he is an outsider so that is sort of to be expected. I suspect the Dalai Lama's circle were fine with a superficially romantic portrayal, so long as it generates awareness for their just cause.Why do I say this? The main narrative device that gives this any sort of shape (otherwise it is one long picture-pretty rambling), is the DL meditating in exile, possibly at that balcony at the Indian border, possibly at a much later time. This would be in line with the recurring motifs of prescient visions and the spyglass (looking from a distance) which is first introduced right after the screening of a silent film (the association is with memory, illusions and time gone - all things to purify the mind from in meditation).This would somewhat excuse the fragmentary nature of the narrative and quaint focus of it on young boy versus evil empire of millions, since it was all experienced from his end. Somewhat. It is still absolutely tepid as a historic film if we switch to the 'objective' pov. Now, this last segment of the crossing to India is accompanied by the one powerful visual meditation in the film, it is not mentioned but what you see is the Kalachakra initiation with the Great Sand Mandala being constructed and brushed away, a powerful and sacred occasion.Get it? This is it, this one moment. The DL is heartbroken and his courage waning, and lost in meditation, he finds peace in reminding himself of the transience of all things, which is what the ritual represents and a core Buddhist precept, the cosmos being washed away back into river-sand. The entire rest of the film is a pageant; oracles hiss, rituals go on, dances, ornate ceremonies, hushed whispers of banality.Scorsese mistakes here the theater of appearances (the religion) for the essence. He films the ritual as the thing-in-itself, as spectacle, instead of as the space that allows you to cultivate a compassionate mind. The postcard instead of the real spiritual landscape. How rich this would be if, for instance, we had contrasts between flows of remembered ordinary life and abstractions in three- and twodimensional space in the dances and mandala, and all of that (all the costumes, the ceremonies, the symbols and human suffering) understood as different sides of one image -empty- brushed away as the mind heals itself. I am in awe of the possibilities! No dice. Scorsese films operatic platitudes.Skip this if you want to know Buddhism. Go straight for Why Did Bodhidharma Left for the East? or even Herzog's Buddhist doc, which he also filmed around the Kalachakra. Blowup, if you want deep, incidentally Buddhist essaying on the roots of suffering. "}{"Title":"see it for yourself, and remain open to the possibilities","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Personally I don't understand some of the comments here. The scene where (spoiler!) the Dalai Lama absorbs the horrific news that some Chinese soldiers made children kill their own parents, though it lasts, only seconds. When I say absorbs, I mean it the news goes through him like a knife in the guts, and through any attentive viewer's guts also. I fail to see how anyone can say it never comes close to the emotional heights, there or in the sky funeral where his father is fed to the vultures. To call this empty symbolism, and some wooden acting is just to abhor Buddhist teaching itself, which emphasize calm and ritual to remain calm (only). How could something so interesting at the same time create such ennui? Easy. Because it's putting you in that state.I agree that like Baraka and Koyaanisqatsi, the devices of the film maker are important as the script and that the film is not attempting to glorify the life of an extraordinary man but instead presents a balanced look at a complex country and a complex religion. Instead of making the Dalai Lhama out to be a saint he presents him as the humble but very human man he is, caught up in the struggle for his country and his religious freedom from the Chinese in the only way that his principles and religion will allow. and that this movie is not just about one man, but about the pain of all mankind and the way to transcend the pain and sin of ours in a very buddhist direction. To say that at its heart it is also a cold, detached and distanced view may be a compliment. The very hot story requires a very cool treatment.Is it passionless? I doubt it. It does give the audience a cultural experience- to try to convey a religious state of mind through the use of the camera and the sound track. To get us in to the Buddhist mental state it must sacrifice in the script and drama departments if by those one means action and conflict. The main conflict is the political one, and it is played out in stages, especially the sequence of generals starting off with reasonable explanations of why the Communists had to rise, ending up with blank repeated orders - each lower in rank. Yes it had the best cinematography and best music, Phillip Glass outdid himself and he clearly understood the passion that lives within Buddhism. If you feel this film is passionless, close your eyes a while. Or get the soundtrack itself and play it in the dark. Really.I agree that Kundun is up there with the screen's greatest biographies (Lawrence of Arabia, Ghandi, Out of Africa) but since it is about a great Buddhist it would do a disservice not to separate itself from the emotion, from the humanity. If it ends up failing miserably to convey the horror experienced by the Tibetan people, fine. If someone was as emotionally involved in this film as I would have been in a PBS documentary on insects, then, consider, having compassion for insects, as the boy who will become the Dalai Lama demonstrates in one of the most compelling early scenes. Kundun, in my opinion, needs to be viewed as a cinematic (audio-visual) exploration of the Tibetan spirituality and the cycles of existence - birth, death, reincarnation.It is no contradiction to see it as a huge, beautifully and intricately decorated gift box which, when I opened it, proved to be empty. But your Box is the gift-- isn't it beautiful? Well sure it is... but you could have put SOMETHING inside it. Why? Religion is itself the box.I agree that in twenty years time Kundun will be recognised as one of the top ten films ever produced in motion picture history. I empathize with the fellow watching this movie hours after finding my girlfriend with her new man and being the last to know the relationship was over,I completely broke down almost on every chapter - ah, exactly the point. I saw it with a woman I had asked to marry me several times (she said no), her son who was about ten, and a good friend of ours who had been in jail in India and meditated with the Dalai Lama when he visited. I think it was the last significant thing I did with these three people. I can no longer separate my love for them from my love for this film. I think I learned its lesson. Attachment is not the point of living well.The beautifully wrapped box will always be empty - and that is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Amazing film!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen. I haven't seen any other Scorsese films except The Aviator, but that can't hold a candle to this one.The two points that really make Kundun shine are the drop-dead gorgeous cinematography by Roger Deakins, which really adds a whole dimension to the film, but that's peanuts compared to the brilliant score by Philip Glass. If anyone other than Glass had done the score to the film, it wouldn't be half the film it is in my opinion. Certainly, this is one of Glass's stronger scores, right up there with Koyaanisqatsi. The dramatic work the movie has done to build up to a climax are realized with the ending, which is amazingly poignant and really serves for a wonderful sense of closure (or not). (I've been saying a lot about how wonderful and brilliant the film is, haven't I?) And yes, something must be said about the acting. There have been complaints that the acting is stiff and unmemorable and that's true for a few cast members, but Tenzin Thuthob Tsarong as the adult Dali Lama shines.So, for my final score, I'll make it a ten, but knock one point off for some of the stiff acting, for a grand total of nine points. This is a film that truly deserves it. "},{"Title":"The New Scorsese","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun is one of Scorsese's finest pictures. It won't be appreciated until well after he's dead, but that's natural when you're dealing with artists of his calibre.With Kundun Scorsese transcends his documentary approach to film and instead relies purely on ethereal imagery and sound. Liquid images, sparse dialogue and a narrative structure (memory and recollections) that justifies it, Kundun is the perfect marriage of cinematic form and content.Scorsese's previous experiment along these lines was The Age of Innocence. That film was excellent, but its images were formal and based around rituals and rigid order. It was about an uptight society populated by constrained characters.Kundun's camera, in contrast, is free. It's about the ethereal qualities of cinema. Fleeting moments and partial recollections, memories of sound and touch stitched together and framed as a child's waking dream. The film reaches its apotheosis during a 9 minute sequence toward the end where the Lama travels to India by horse. It's the most affecting ten minutes in Scorsese's filmography.Scorsese has never been a visual storyteller. He uses violence, kinetic edits and explosive actors as a crutch. This is not a criticism, it's just his natural style. But what's great about Kundun is that allows us to watch Scorsese step out of his comfort zone.Ever since his early student films, Scorsese has been obsessed with recreating and repackaging reality as film. His stories were filmed documentaries, his Italian camera tied firmly to his characters (Travis, Jesus, Lamotta etc), the story fleshed out by focusing on the defining moments of the person's life. To drive the story forward, he uses the threat of violence. To end the story altogether, he calls down scenes of carnage. As his style of storytelling is such that he can follow his characters around indefinitely, his tales require some form of external destruction to bring the story to an abrupt close.Of course Kundun again plays to Scorsese's documentary sensibilities. It is a story about the Dalai Lama. A filmed recreation of his life. But in every aspect, Kundun transcends the old Scorsese. Instead of method actors desperately pretending to be real (Dinero), we have real human beings who are not trained as actors. Instead of rock-and-roll songs driving the story forward, we have ethereal, ever-present music acting as a tapestry upon which the images are played. And instead of violence propelling the story, we have a hero morally opposed to violence.Scorsese's film also acts as a meditation on his earlier pictures. While Taxi Driver, Goodfellas and Casino portray worlds completely devoid of spiritual values, Kundun implores us to meditate on such values. In Travis Bickle's explosions of sociopathic rage and Henry Hill's drug-induced paranoia, we witness the mirror perversions of the Dalai Lama's spiritual transcendence.Kundun is Scorsese taking his particular brand of film-making to it's logical conclusion. Any other attempt to make a documentary film after Kundun is a wasted effort and is doomed to failure. Look at his latest mess, The Aviator, a film in which he is caught between being the Old Scorsese and the New Scorsese. This artistic confusion just doesn't work.It took Scorsese two conscious attempts to become a purely visual storyteller. With Gangs of New York he started thinking in terms of cinematic space. If the Kundun experiment was about music and images, the Gangs experiment was about cinema as a location. A 3d environment in which the space is the central character. Interestingly, Kundun also features several sequences ripped from Godfrey Reggio's influential documentary, Koyaanisqatsi. Reggio collaborator Phillip Glass provides the music for Kundun, and several of the film's audio-visual set pieces (Sand Mandala/Dreams etc) owe a lot to Reggio's work.Kundun's score was also quite novel for Scorsese. It's no coincidence that he chose Philip Glass to compose the film's music. After Scorsese saw Paul Schrader's Mishima he noted that One day I would love to be able to make a film that would cry out for a score by Philip Glass. In 1980, Glass wrote a famous three-act opera called Satyagraha (meaning passive, non-violent resistance). It was about the period Ghandi spent in South Africa (1893-1914). Each act of his opera took a historical figure as a sort of spiritual guardian (Leo Tolstoy, Rabindranath Tagore, and Martin Luther King Jr) who represented the past, present and future of non violent resistance. Just like Kundun, Glass's opera was about both historical time and politics, and showed it's audience how to be truly civilised in a gratuitously hostile, indifferent world. How to be holy in an unholy world.10/10 - Critics seemed to hate Kundun because they believed it to be too passive. American cinema is largely a cinema of action. A film like Kundun, where inaction is action, rubbed them the wrong way. But make no mistake, Kundun is great cinema. Watch Taxi Driver and Kundun back to back to appreciate both Old and New Scorsese perfected. Watch Departed, Bringing out the Dead and Aviator to see him regress.Worth multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Not Brooklyn","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" What slaves we are to our culture! My own test of a great filmmaker is not whether they can make an effective film, but whether they have the navigational skills and propensity for risk to take us to unfamiliar places. That means unfamiliar to the filmmaker as well.Scorsese has made some powerful films for sure. But they are all about New York Italians. Even the Jesus story is forced into this mold. He is obviously aware of this limitation, so we have 'Age of Innocence' and this.How sad it is to see his inability to wrestle a coherent center out of the richness of Tibet and the era. We do get some lovely images, and a few heartfelt performances, but never anchored to any new mysteries. We learn or experience nothing new here. What we get, he has mapped to the familiar.Verdict Scorsese is not on my list of masters worth watching. "},{"Title":"Emotional Transportation","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Though I see a lot of films (usually 100+ in theaters per year), I can't say that I'm much of a student of films. I go to be entertained and/or moved. And Kundun moved me in a way I don't think has ever happened before.I saw the film in the multiplex in Phipps Plaza, probably Atlanta's most upscale shopping mall. At the end of the film, when I walked out the theater exit into the mall, I was emotionally stunned. Scorsese had hypnotized me into the world of Bhuddist simplicity and wonder. Seeing the activity and commercialism (which I normally love) of the mall was a shock.Peter Weir once said The true test of it is when you come out of a picture and you can't remember whether it was day or night when you came in. I think that barely remembering what country I was in shows that for me, this film passes that true test. "},{"Title":"Long and slow, but interesting to watch if you are interested in the story of the Dalai Lama.","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Budhism is still hot in Hollywood. Although the newest religious hype is the Kabalah, it is a fact that several actors and actresses, directors, scenarists, music composers and many more others have converted to the ancient religion which Budhism is and that's probably also the reason why the subject Tibet has been used a few times in the movies. In the same year, 1997, we got Jean-Jacques Annaud's Seven Years in Tibet with Brad Pitt and Martin Scorsese's Kundun with no known professional actors.It's not easy to tell which movie of the two was the best, because each of them has some good and lesser things to offer and both have a completely different approach to the subject. While Seven Years in Tibet told the story from the perspective of an Austrian mountain climber, who got stuck in Tibet after the Second World War broke loose, met the young Dalai Lama and became friends with him, you'll not find anything of that in Kundun even though both movies are said to be based on real events.Kundun tells the story of Tibet's fourteenth Dalai Lama, from childhood until adulthood. In 1937, in a remote area of Tibet close to the Chinese border, a two year old child is identified as the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and is taken to Lhasa two years later. Here he is schooled as a monk and thought how to be a good head of state. When he's only 14 years old, the Chinese invade Tibet, claiming that it has always belonged to China and that they only come to help the Tibetans to reform their country. In reality they enforce an oppressive regime upon the peaceful nation and the Dalai Lama is forced into a shaky coalition government. He travels to China where he meets chairman Mao and returns to Tibet afterwards, confident that he can stay with his people. But in 1959 he sees no other option, but to flee to India. He's ill, has a lot of difficulties to make it to the border and has visions of his people being slaughtered by the Chinese, but eventually makes it to safety.I'm sure that what is told and shown in this movie all is very accurate and that the Chinese really oppressed (and still do) the Tibetans and their culture. Of course the Chinese government isn't too happy with that and they would like to see a different story, because this doesn't belong in the perfect image they want to show to the world. But apparently the truth hurts and that's why the people who made the movie were banned from China (as were the people who made Seven Years in Tibet). I guess this only proves how historically accurate this movie actually is. But next to the historical accuracy I also liked the nice costumes, the buildings with their beautiful interiors,... It's very clear that they have put a lot of effort in it to make it all look realistic and believable and that certainly adds to the value of this movie. Also the fact that the actors were real Tibetans is nice, although I don't really understand why they had to speak English in about 99% of the time. Only a couple of times you get to hear them speak in their native language. Is that because this movie was shot by an American director, for an American public who isn't used to read subtitles while watching a movie? I don't know, but I believe that it would have given an extra touch of realism to this movie if they had chosen to let them speak Tibetan all the time or, if that wasn't possible, not to use Tibetan at all.And the language wasn't the only thing that 'bothered' me. This movie is very detailed, but also very slow. Especially during the first 1.5 hours the movie sometimes seems to drag on for an eternity. Perhaps that's the way the life of a holy man like the Dalai Lama should be told, or perhaps it is a part of the Budhist culture that for everything you should take your time, but sometimes I really wanted that it all went a bit faster. Also the fact that it wasn't filmed in Tibet, but in Morocco is sometimes very obvious for the keen observer. I'm not saying that it isn't well done, but the Atlas mountains can't be compared to the Himalayas in structure and scenery.Nevertheless, I must say that this is a movie that certainly deserves to be seen by a large audience. Even when you aren't very familiar with the Tibetan and Budhist culture (like me), this movie is worth a watch. Only when you aren't interested in it at all, you better leave it alone and go for another movie. Personally I give this movie a score somewhere in between 7/10 and 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and eye-opening...","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun was beautifully done, adding true portrayals of the practices of the Tibetan Buddhists - their chants, artwork, dances and costumes.  Also, Philip Glass did a wonderful job with the soundtrack- combining the sound of damarus, ghantas, conch-shells and mantras with his own unique sound. Unlike Seven Years in Tibet, Kundun concentrates on the plight of Tibet through the life of the Dalai Lama.  This perspective allows for the audience to realize the ideals and morals that define the people of Tibet, through the eyes and life experiences of their own chosen leader. Focusing on a character other than the Dalai Lama allows for too many distractions within the plot of the movie, especially when the script for Kundun was taken from a biography of His Holiness.  This film employs most of the senses in order to allow the audience a fuller understanding of the Dalai Lama, his people, and their struggle against the Chinese. Kundun may be lengthy, but it is well worth the time. "},{"Title":"Visually haunting film","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"   This is an extremely ambitious project that tries to tackle very complex and profound philosophical and spiritual subjects. The film fails to impress one as a comprehensive account of the Dalai Lama's life (and I don't think it was meant to be one, although various reviewers have commented on how the movie fails to deliver the goods). Kundun, in my opinion, needs to be viewed as a cinematic (audio-visual) exploration of the Tibetan spirituality and the cycles of existence - birth, death, reincarnation - a continuity  being preserved physically and spiritually while rejuvenating mind, body and spirit generation after generation, or if you will, cycle after cycle. Consider too, the title Kundun, by which name the Dalai Lama is called. The word literally means a presence. In an ephemeral world, is this a reference to the one constant cosmic presence or guardian spirit that presides over Tibet, inhabiting a succession of Dalai Lamas even when the physical presence is itself in exile far away from Tibet?  To approach Kundan as a docudrama or biography of the 14th Dalai Lama would be to deprive oneself of the appreciation of the visual metaphors illustrating the paradoxical aspects of Tibetan Buddhism, or for that matter many Eastern spiritual concepts. Scattered images of the Tibetan sand painting mandalas occur in the movie at critical points in the narrative. These ritual paintings are made with great care and reverance and routinely swept up just a few hours after they are created. The coloured sand is collected and dropped into a river or stream where the spiritual elements inherent in the mandala are symbolically returned to the earth to rejuvenate it. This process is a metaphor for life itself  Nothing, however precious or beautiful, is permanent - yet even after it has been destroyed in one form, it retains the capacity to rejuvenate and be reincarnated in another. The editing in the scene where the colours in the dismantled mandala reflect the colours of the robes of the lamas in the stark landscape of the plateau with the sacred mountains in the background as the sand is dropped in the stream is one of the the most poignant sections of the film. The imagery not only emphasizes spiritual concepts but also serves as a premonition of events yet to transpire.  Even as the Dalai Lama grapples with the spectre of Chinese control of Tibet, his own safety, the loss of Tibetan culture and religion, his duty to his people, and the possibility of living in exile - the vivid fleeting interspersed images of the mandalas remind us that nothing is permanent - only that there is hope of rejuvenation and rebirth. Similarly, the scenes of the funeral rites involving the vultures is yet another way the theme of life and death is explored.  (The symbolic and spiritual aspects of the mandala paintings are beyond the scope of this review but interested readers can find information on this subject at various web sites or libraries).  This is a multi-layered and multi-dimensional presentation of a complex subject. The experience of viewing this film will no doubt be enriched by familiarizing oneself with background information on the various facets of Tibet - its culture, its history and politics, spiritualism and Buddhism, and a fundamental appreciation of Eastern concepts dealing with the non-permanence and cyclical nature of life and death. Kudos also to the cinematographers for creating the illusion that this film was set in Tibet when, in fact, (if the filming locations listed are to be accepted as accurate,) the film was shot in Canada, USA and the farthest East the film makers went was Morocco! As additional background,  Arthur C. Clarke's short story about counting the names of God will also shed some light on interpretation of Tibetan beliefs. This movie is recommended to all those who have the patience to look beyond the obvious and attempt to comprehend the obscure. "},{"Title":"Visually haunting film","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"   This is an extremely ambitious project that tries to tackle very complex and profound philosophical and spiritual subjects. The film fails to impress one as a comprehensive account of the Dalai Lama's life (and I don't think it was meant to be one, although various reviewers have commented on how the movie fails to deliver the goods). Kundun, in my opinion, needs to be viewed as a cinematic (audio-visual) exploration of the Tibetan spirituality and the cycles of existence - birth, death, reincarnation - a continuity  being preserved physically and spiritually while rejuvenating mind, body and spirit generation after generation, or if you will, cycle after cycle. Consider too, the title Kundun, by which name the Dalai Lama is called. The word literally means a presence. In an ephemeral world, is this a reference to the one constant cosmic presence or guardian spirit that presides over Tibet, inhabiting a succession of Dalai Lamas even when the physical presence is itself in exile far away from Tibet?  To approach Kundan as a docudrama or biography of the 14th Dalai Lama would be to deprive oneself of the appreciation of the visual metaphors illustrating the paradoxical aspects of Tibetan Buddhism, or for that matter many Eastern spiritual concepts. Scattered images of the Tibetan sand painting mandalas occur in the movie at critical points in the narrative. These ritual paintings are made with great care and reverance and routinely swept up just a few hours after they are created. The coloured sand is collected and dropped into a river or stream where the spiritual elements inherent in the mandala are symbolically returned to the earth to rejuvenate it. This process is a metaphor for life itself  Nothing, however precious or beautiful, is permanent - yet even after it has been destroyed in one form, it retains the capacity to rejuvenate and be reincarnated in another. The editing in the scene where the colours in the dismantled mandala reflect the colours of the robes of the lamas in the stark landscape of the plateau with the sacred mountains in the background as the sand is dropped in the stream is one of the the most poignant sections of the film. The imagery not only emphasizes spiritual concepts but also serves as a premonition of events yet to transpire.  Even as the Dalai Lama grapples with the spectre of Chinese control of Tibet, his own safety, the loss of Tibetan culture and religion, his duty to his people, and the possibility of living in exile - the vivid fleeting interspersed images of the mandalas remind us that nothing is permanent - only that there is hope of rejuvenation and rebirth. Similarly, the scenes of the funeral rites involving the vultures is yet another way the theme of life and death is explored.  (The symbolic and spiritual aspects of the mandala paintings are beyond the scope of this review but interested readers can find information on this subject at various web sites or libraries).  This is a multi-layered and multi-dimensional presentation of a complex subject. The experience of viewing this film will no doubt be enriched by familiarizing oneself with background information on the various facets of Tibet - its culture, its history and politics, spiritualism and Buddhism, and a fundamental appreciation of Eastern concepts dealing with the non-permanence and cyclical nature of life and death. Kudos also to the cinematographers for creating the illusion that this film was set in Tibet when, in fact, (if the filming locations listed are to be accepted as accurate,) the film was shot in Canada, USA and the farthest East the film makers went was Morocco! As additional background,  Arthur C. Clarke's short story about counting the names of God will also shed some light on interpretation of Tibetan beliefs. This movie is recommended to all those who have the patience to look beyond the obvious and attempt to comprehend the obscure. "},{"Title":"KUNDUN","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun provided for an amazing experience, leaving me in almost true movie nirvana. From the beautiful cinematography, the costumes, the musical score, the truly brilliant and amazing acting by every single participant in this motion picture the movie delivers a true perfectionism by Martin Scorsese. The only negative side I can truly think of is the fact that there is simply not enough information given about Kundun himself. But this is because I was so drawn to this movie. I was actually fortunate enough to meet(well listen to, anyway) the Dalai Lama and he is a remarkable man, whose wisdom and kind words have done a great and immesurable deal more than a whole nation did to the people of Tibet.    9/10 "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Movie was great, showed how bad the Chinese are and that they said they tried to help tibet but didn't. The acting was pretty good, since the monks did not back down, until the end, but it shows how bad the Chinese really are, when they made the kids kill the parents, that part was bad, over all this movie was a very good one and I am very pleased, many people should watch it, it keeps you on your feet, even though it is weird and hard to understand, you are looking to what is going to happen next. I think that many people should watch this movie because it showed what has happened to Tibet, and now their leader can not go back, and he needs to and the Chinese army should back down. This movie in my opinion is a must see, watch it. "},{"Title":"No Academy Award?  Good.","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Upon reflection of the idea that Kundun did not receive an Academy Award, I find that fact more and more fitting, the more I think of it.For this film to receive an award from an industry which is famous for glorifying violence, (and which is also rife with the politics of desire), such a bestowal would go against everything this film appears to stand for.Awards are prizes of pride, and withholding such prizes from this film actually propels it further towards the perfection of its message.Simply stated.(Here is my minimum ten lines, moderators; I apologize for not having had enough.) "},{"Title":"I wept.","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Not many movies moved me ever as much as Kudun. Not only the shots are great, but also the score, both together create an amazing atmosphere that really catches your mind and soul. The story itself is wellpaced and sticks very closely to reality. Concerning the acting there is not to much to be said besides, well done. An interesting tidbid about the casting is that most of the roles of the Dalai Lamas Family including himself were casted with actual relatives of his Holiness.Much much superior to Seven Years in Tibet and to me the contrast of this pair is an example of a masterpiece in comparison to mediocre fast food on celluloid. "},{"Title":"An Underappreciated Masterwork","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It's hard to believe some of the comments I see on this site regarding Kundun.  Those who think the film is slow or fault it for not being a strict documentary are simply obtuse beyond belief.If one wants only explosions and throbbing music cut on the beat of such destruction, one will will surely find it slower than a Bruce Willis or Arnold Schwartzenegger vehicle.This is a true film masterpiece, the action, drama, and conflict of which take place and evolve in the viewer's *mind and consciousness* -- assuming he or she has either, which from reading some of the previous reviews I find doubtful.Scorsese evokes a time, a culture, a sense of identity of a people and a place that no longer exists as they did and does it with images rather than explication or dialogue, as any great cinematic director does.I find previous comments about wooden acting by the non-actor cast inexplicable, given the extraordinary performances in the film.If one has difficulty understanding why the rest of us rated this film so highly, perhaps one would best look to individual sensibilities rather than poo-poo Scorsese's abilities or his achievements in this film.Kundun, unlike the vast majority of junk movies that are hyped and enjoy temporary box office success -- and which are evidently preferred by some who reviewed it -- will still be worth watching for the perspective on human consciousness, conscience, and moral choices it presents, 50 or 100 years from now. "},{"Title":"The rape of a nation","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You don't need to be Buddhist to love this movie. It's the story of the rape of a nation along with the biography of the man who leads that nation. The images, the dialogues and the music are very powerful. Of course it omits the question of democracy under the rule of Dalai Lama but anyway nothing can be worse than Chinese oppression and total violation of Tibetans' human rights under the eyes of an indifferent West which seems to think that human rights must not be equally valued everywhere and that human rights of Kosovars are more important than human rights of Tibetans. And we won't discuss either in this context if religion is the opiate of the people or not. In this case we prefer to state that we respect all religions and beliefs. As a matter of fact Buddhism is more a philosophy than a religion. The important thing to say is that this story is true and we hope that movie will contribute to open the eyes of the so called democratic countries to the drama of those people and force them to condemn Chinese authorities overtly for it and stop the hypocrisy of showing great indignation (sometimes feigned)for some human rights' violations while at same time disregarding some others even more brutal. "},{"Title":"Wonderful photography and artistic direction does not save this unmemorable take on one man's historic journey","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is best viewed *without* reading HH The Dalai Lama's autobiography beforehand. Having read the book, having been emotionally involved in the religious aspects, the heady politics and in the man himself, I expected much of this movie.The movie looks great, is well shot and Scorsese paints a wonderful and strangely glamorous view of HH Dalai Lama's early life as spiritual leader of Tibet. But at its heart it is also a cold, detached and distanced view.You always feel removed from the characters, feeling that you don't know them or somehow don't understand them very well. The Buddhist mentality and ceremony is captured credibly to a degree, but without the true warmth or conviction of the real thing.The movie skims over and misses huge chunks of HH The Dalai Lama's story. Leaving us with almost a brief documentary of a life rather than a movie of one. The story was too big for Scorsese's hands I think.Wonderful photography and artistic direction does not save this unmemorable take on one man's historic journey. "},{"Title":"May be excellent on American standard, but I felt uneasy thinking about Buddhism","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" First, I will say I am one of the strongest admirer of Scorsese work. He is on my top list with movies like Taxi Driver, After Hours, Goodfellas, the Age of Innocence.However Kundun did not felt right. Yes the cinematography is stunning, the editing perfect, the music original. Yet I felt this movie did not reach the truth of the actual Chinese/Tibetan drama. This was not the great movie it should have been.The fact that Tibetans and Chineses were speaking English was quite annoying. Philip Glass music was too much. I longed for silence, for this Buddhist silence. Mysticism was underplay, the political plot took over. The actors were not really convincing - the one playing the Dalai-lama and Mao especially.Is this a bad movie? No. You are captivated. You learn if you did not already know about this terrible war, genocide, invasion. You feel the pain. But yet, you don't feel it the way it was felt there, you feel it as an American would the struggle between the good guys and the bad guys. "},{"Title":"Good-looking and shallow","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Martin Scorsese recounts the official version of the Dalai Lama's biography from his birth until the onset of his exile in India in 1959. In stunning images. That's it. And that's not enough. None of Marty's extraordinary narrative style is apparent here (although the movie is a showcase for cameraman Roger Deakins, who has since become the cinematographer of choice for the Coen brothers). Since the Dalai Lama is a real, and really ambivalent, political as well as religious figure, offering up a glossy 2-hours commercial on him simply isn't enough. The most egregious example of the movie's intentional superficiality is when the deposed Tibetan regent Reting Rinpoche perishes in the dungeons of the Potala palace and the Dalai Lama reacts to this by ... erm, performing a noble blessing gesture and then doing feck all. Was he in on it himself, or at least aware that there was a conspiracy, which he chose to ignore? But for what reasons? This movie won't tell you. It just wallows on in beautiful images. "},{"Title":"Disappointing entry into a master's canon","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In an early episode of The Sopranos two of the younger gangsters are forced to wait for entry into a nightclub when Scorcese pulls up and is ushered into the club as a VIP.*I* liked Kundun! shouts one of the gangsters, irony oozing out of the screenplay.I had received that episode of The Sopranos through my rental queue and Kundun was due to arrive as the next disc. Spooky. That comment made me think it was not going to be a good film. And it isn't a good film The first 30 minutes are greatly hampered by some very stilted performances from a cast clearly struggling in an English language project. They manage to convey less emotion and commitment than the puppets in Parker & Stone's Team America.As the film goes on the central performances improve but the pace of the thing never really picks up. The plot manages to be both epic (nations collide) and small (boy grows up) at the same time, but it is ultimately the smallness that you are left with  the story simply never takes off.The Dalai Lama is, rightly, played with a stillness and spirituality but there are not enough moments where this stillness is played off against more fiery elements or where any wit shines through - we're simply expected to look at the unblinking face and think aaaah. Such wisdom! Well, sorry, I need a bit more than that.Finally, there are some arty shots that look reasonably attractive but are not made transcendental as they seem not to add anything to the surrounding (in)action. They appear to be put in just for their own pretty sake.A very disappointing film from the man who directed Goodfellas (one of my top 5 favourite films in history). "},{"Title":"Martin Scorsese should do a documentary instead","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The 13th Dalai Lama had died and the search is on for the 14th incarnation of the Dalai Lama. Several lamas arrive at a small child's home to test if he recognizes some of Dalai Lama's objects. They bring the boy and his family to Lhasa. The Chinese Communists invade. The Tibetans are overwhelmed. The situation becomes more and more oppressive. The world turns its back on Tibet. Dalai Lama tries and fails to come to terms with Chairman Mao Zedong. With more atrocities, the Dalai Lama resorts to guerrilla action. He is forced to escape to India in the dead of night.Director Martin Scorsese has created a good looking movie. The need to follow the real story may be too much to overcome. The actors do their lines mostly in a detached manner. There is a sterile unemotional feel to the movie. It may be better for Scorsese to consider doing a documentary about the Dalai Lama. This is like faithfully praying in a movie theater. It may hold some interest but not a wholly compelling viewing experience. The history is interesting and there are some compelling stories. I think there is a better way to tell it. "}{"Title":"Well-intentioned, but dull","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Well-intentioned, but dull. Seven Years in Tibet gave a good and interesting account of the life of 14th Dalai Lama, particularly the Chinese invasion, capture and oppression of Tibet. I was expecting the same of Kundun. I was overly optimistic.Martin Scorsese does capture the outrage and injustice of China's invasion of Tibet, but only to small degree. Too much time is wasted on scenes and sub-plots that go nowhere. The movie moves at a glacial pace.However, cinematography is great. Some amazing landscapes. Sadly, not actually of Tibet. Strangely, the Chinese wouldn't let Scorsese film there.... However, you wouldn't know the difference, showing how well the locations were chosen.Performances are very flat, and contribute much to the dullness of the movie.Watch Seven Years in Tibet instead. "},{"Title":"The unofficial sequel to The Last Emperor? Not Scorsese's cup of tea.","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The tale of the 14th Dalai Lama is very much like the story of the Last Emperor of China, Pu Yi. A boy handpicked to be a ruler of a country, grown up within confined solitude, kicked out of reign from Communist China, and then labeled as a criminal. The only real significance is that Pu Yi faced years in a concentration camp while the Dalai Lama managed to escape to India. That aside, it is not surprising to find in Scorsese's Kundun that he was heavily inspired by Bernardo Bertolucci's epic film The Last Emperor. There were times when I was watching Kundun that I could not help wonder if this was an unofficial sequel. The costumes, techniques of candle lit lighting at night, story arc, and overall biography character-type was similar. I am not claiming Scorsese a copycat at all. It's just these two films are so alike. Just one happens to be about China's ruler and the other Tibet's. What worked so well for The Last Emperor is that despite its fancy set pieces and costumes, Bertolucci punched good in character drama and an overall intriguing plot. Kundun lacks both of these. Each scene in this movie drifts from one part of the Dalai Lama's life to another chronologically and in a sort of schizophrenic nature-the movie itself does not seem to know what it is really about. This is the biggest danger a filmmaker can fall into in making a bio-pic film, trying to cover too much ground without enough time nor interest to piece it all together. The acting suffers not from bad actors, but bad writing. Every moment is devoid of emotion, depicting every Tibetan character in a careless monotone. Then again, most characters are Buddhist monks and emotion is not their strong point. When I watch a movie, however, I expect to be engaged by an actor's talent. This magic is lost in this movie.Kundun does succeed at least in the technical aspects. Roger Deakins cinematography is stunning to watch and almost pushes the barrier on what can be done with a camera, whether it be an elaborate steadi-cam shot or a detailed close-up. Philip Glass's score creates a sort of mood that hints to an ethereal supernaturalism, combined with a brooding choir, a lush percussion, and bombastic brass. It supports the visual images nicely. I admit that it seems to take over the movie to the point that there is no other sound present, especially with the horn blasts of flatulence caliber. The one factor that presented mild interest for me was how fair Scorsese treated the Tibetan culture. Little nuances like the funeral rites, the teachings of Buddha, and the Dalai Lama's philosophy are interesting. Yet great cinematography, a sublime soundtrack, and a good treatment of a lost culture cannot save a film. It is a bit disheartening since Scorsese has made some very good movies outside of the gangster genre (ex Hugo, Shutter Island). While he kept his visuals and artsy elements at full throttle, all other elements are at a loss. This kind of movie is clearly not his cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Master on Master.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Life of the Dalai Lama in peace loving Tibet. Along come the Chinese army to destroy the harmony. Every technic gels in this glorious film. With the artful production and fashion design by Dante Ferretti that goes hand in hand with the photography of Roger Deakins, that goes hand in hand with Philip Glass' music, that goes hand in hand with Thelma Schoonmaker's editing, that goes hand in hand with Melissa Mathison's screenplay... And all of this under the great direction of the master, Martin Scorsese.  "},{"Title":"A colorful window into a fascinating culture","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is not for everyone. This film is for anyone who is open minded, inquisitive and not convinced they already know everything.This film contains powerful truths; truths about human nature and the nature of human conflict, the simplicity of non-violence and the complexity of a non-violent way of life. This film contains beauty; almost indescribable beauty in the greatest of mountains and the smallest grains of colored sand, in youthful discovery and the bright eyes of a clever child. This film is poetry; the poetry of a culture that has been almost lost and a world that has been hidden away, and of a simple, brilliant man with ideas that must endure. Understand that this film is not a primer, nor is it a definitive biography. It is art; it is one telling of a powerful story. Scorsese has a talent for powerful visuals, and he utilizes that skill to great effect. This film goes beyond the magic of Seven Years in Tibet (1997), deeper into the early life of the Dalai Lama while painting a more vivid picture of Tibetan culture and shedding more light on the Chinese `liberation' of Tibet.Kundun is as authentic as I can imagine for a Western film about an Eastern culture. "},{"Title":"Great and disappointing","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Great and disappointingThe cinematography, costuming and attention to detail were all world-class, but... This film attempts to tell a story about a country being ripped apart. It is a true story that is filled with extremes of emotion, but the film attempts to separate itself from the emotion, from the humanity, and ends up failing miserably to convey the horror experienced by the Tibetan people. I was as emotionally involved in this film as I would have been in a PBS documentary on insects. In fact, this film would have benefited greatly from a voice-over explaining a lot more about Tibetan culture and philosophy, then at least it would have had some educational value. To take such a massive epic and reduce it to a show of pretty cinema is inexcusable. I grant a single star only because there is no lower rating on this web site. "},{"Title":"All combines into a great film.","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The use of minimalist Philip Glass's music brings alive the sense of other-worldliness required to understand this young man's search for knowledge of his job as the Dalai Lama, in what is to us all, a very far away other world. Beautifully shot, with fantastic photography, sets, and costumes, it is one of those rare moments in the cinema where you become so engrossed you feel the heat, and the heartache behind this story of one of the world's great men. Scorsese and his team are to be praised for their refusal to be dragged into showing the ghastly harrowing of the Chinese in Tibet, rather to stay with showing the greatness of the Tibetenese in Tibet. "},{"Title":"whatever","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  So while I certainly do appreciate Scorsese and how great he is, this movie bored me silly.  It was pretty to look at, and many of the scenes were good (esp. those colored sand pictures).  I also find the story of Tibet and the Lama to be fascinating.  But despite all of this, I was completely bored during the movie.  How could something so interesting at the same time create such ennui?   "},{"Title":"Cinematically brilliant, moving and inspiring.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun is charming because it is fresh and relatively free of the usual Hollywood pretence. It is beautifully filmed and the score is marvellous.Although background knowledge of the Dalai Lama and Tibet does serve to highlight scenes which might otherwise be considered exclusive, Kundun remains a thoroughly touching account of a man and nation torn by the terror of communist Chinese abuses.At times the English is a little hard to follow as the actors are all non-professional. But that really only serves to creative more ambiance.The film could have been improved by creating a more exciting plot base and so I have only rated it a 7/10. The Dalai Lama's tale is far more exciting than has been portrayed. Yet the film captures well the mystique and experience of the man and his people. Great film. "},{"Title":"Scorsese, Mathison, Deakins and Glass Through the looking glass","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun is the best movie about Tibet yet, and a towering biopic coming close to Bertolucci's The Last Emperor (1987). Scorsese seizes the opportunity to tell a historical tale with profound meaning, menace masqueraded as magnanimous philanthropy, and repercussions that last to this day two decades later.Scorsese is adapt at his craft, and gets good performance from his actors. He also relies on the strong poetry and beauty of Melissa Mathison's script who scratches the surface of Buddhist teachings. Roger Deakins' masterful cinematography gets the intimate scenes' impact and showcases Tibet's beauty on occasion. Philip Glass's haunting score is the cherry on the Sunday and the movie ends when we are ready to continue the journey.Great monologues and dialogues including delivery by the chilling and charismatic Chairman Mao are memorable. Kundun's growth as a human being and leader as well as his relationships are coherent and telling. We draw from his inner strengths, his dilemma, his weaknesses and hope for the best.We feel, we think, we learn. The movie is a slow burn and the writing, cinematography and music all become more intense until the fateful and beautiful final scene. A joy for the senses and a feeling that we do not want to movie to end.Top notch cinema which puts together the best elements for posterity. "},{"Title":"Badly Written Love Letter To A Theocrat","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Since the name Scorsese has cropped in a couple of recent reviews of mine I thought I'd go the whole hog and review one of the few films of his I hadn't seen . In many ways KUNDUN remains the unknown film by Scorsese . I remember it being released but I very much doubted if it played outside established art house cinemas in big cities . I also remember it being very difficult to get on VHS/DVD which led me to wonder if it was ever released on this format . Despite being made almost twenty years ago I can't recall it ever being broadcast on even the more obscure and unwatched TV channels . Therefore I was somewhat surprised to see it uploaded on perhaps the most obvious platform - youtube . After watching the movie all I can say is that it probably deserves much of its obscurity Now I've got to put my hand up here and say I have militantly atheist views . As Richard Dawkins is fond of pointing out You're only one God away from being an atheist and so it is with all religions . I have done a bit of travelling to exotic lands and I'm often amazed how Westerners are quick to reject the idea of the Abrahamic God but are extremely open to the suggestion of Eastern mysticism along the lines of Hinduism and Buddhism . It's understandable in many ways because people are superstitious by nature and a belief in karma is only a slight extension of this superstition . Bad things happen in life and they are as common as air . Good things happen and they are as rare as the most precious commodities and we're all wondering why this must be . I'm digressing but what I should point out is that the reason I disliked this movie was not down to it being a biopic about the 14th Dalai Lama but simply because it is a badly told story regardless of its subject matter Scorsese isn't really someone who cares much for plotting . You could never see him making a high concept plot movie along the lines of MOMENTO . Instead his movies are character driven with those characters trying to find an aim in life ( Often an illegal aim ) having it all , losing it and at the end being worse off than when they started . A story like KUNDUN should be easy for Marty to develop in theory . In practise however he doesn't even try and you never for a second get the feeling you're watching a film directed by America's greatest cinema auteur According to the trivia section on this page Melissa Mathison's screenplay went through fourteen different drafts . Some people might claim the story has been rewritten to death but it's impossible to think any of the drafts could have possibly been worse than the final product . It contains two distinctive parts of the Lama's life - his childhood and then his escape from Tibet which is annexed by Red China . Both parts contain a whole lot of nothing . The screenplay drags at a snail's pace which makes for a very boring and totally uninvolving film Scorsese seems unable to improve upon the very poor material as though his heart isn't in the story . The worst aspect is that he's made a film with a totally amateur cast . Worse than that despite being an obvious amateur cast it's an amateur cast who don't speak English as a first language which means they deliver their lines in an absolutely dreadful way . You've probably seen less wooden acting at a primary school play . To give the director his due he has given the cinematography gig to the legendary Roger Deakins so at least we have a good looking movie and the costume design is very impressive but at the end of the day KUNDUN is all about faith and our faith as a cinema audience is left unpaid regardless of our religious views "}{"Title":"I liked it... and despaired of it.","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm a Buddhist and absolutely adore the Dalai Lama. His kindness and compassion are simply breath-taking and I felt that from this film, which is undoubtedly beautiful, but a few parts irked me. For example, the constant referral of Buddhism as a religion (both verbally and implied), which felt very Western - as if people wouldn't understand that Buddhism is a way of life - a desire for enlightenment and attainment of peace, so it was Westernised into it being a religion as an easy explanation. As the 14th said himself, My religion is very simple. My religion is kindness.. I think people get spirituality and religion mixed up way too easily - the whole Buddhist portrayal was actually rather shallow, which is deeply sad. I found the blaring music to be entirely over the top. It blares out, over and over, sounding as if it should be in a high-stakes action movie. It was loud - too loud, I thought, for a pretty gentle film.I didn't really enjoy the cinema of the film (I felt it was meant to be art more than anything) - I did enjoy the portrayal of the 14th, and it made me cry more than once. I read that a few people found it passionless, which I didn't - he is a Buddhist monk - they are non-violent and seek to master their mind - of course there are going to be subdued reactions from himself and others. Another quote from the 14th, When we meet real tragedy in life, we can react in two ways - either by losing hope and falling into self-destructive habits, or by using the challenge to find our inner strength. That said, the scenes in which he cries were incredibly powerful. So... I liked it and disliked it. It was emotionally powerful but not at all a good representation into Buddhism or even fact - there is more than one part that have been nay-said by not only the Lama himself, but also his mother, and by photographic evidence of the events in China. "},{"Title":"Kundun Summary","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Kundun is a movie about the search for the Dalai Llama. In the beginning, a monk comes to search for the next Dalai Llama. He finds a young boy named Lhamo, who initially seems like a very self-centered, short-tempered child. However, the monks give Lhamo a test by placing a series of objects in front of him, to see if he will chose the objects that belonged to the preceding Dalai Llama.Then, upon passing the test, Lhamo is taken to the monastery where he begins to grow up and mature. He meets Regent Reting Rinpoche, who was the man that discovered Lhamo's existence through a vision he had while sleeping. However, the Chinese Communists imprison and kill Regent Reting Rinpoche, and Lhamo meets with Chairman Mao Zedong. Mao Zedong expresses to Lhamo that religion is poison, and they are never able to settle on any agreements. Lhamo, upon being pursued by the Chinese, flees to the Indian Mountains. At a mountain border crossing, an Indian guard asks Lhamo if he is the Lord Buddha, and Lhamo replies, I think that I am a reflection, like the moon on water. When you see me, and I try to be a good man, you see yourself.Personally, one of my favorite parts about the movie was the scene where Lhamo is picking up the objects that are placed in front of him by the monks. It's a very exciting scene, as Lhamo initially gives off the impression that he is a very spoiled child, and it's hard to imagine that he will chose the correct objects and eventually train to become the Dalai Llama.I would recommend this movie to anyone who has a particular interest in the process of discovering the next Dalai Llama, and is interested in the political aspect and implications of being the leader of a religious group. "},{"Title":"Kundun Movie Review - WR 9/10","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I saw the movie Kundun recently, directed by Martin Scorsese. This movie was somewhat reminiscent to that of The Last Emperor (the movie depicting the life of Puyi). But rather, takes on more of a religious perspective, showing the life of the 14th Dalai Lama. The movie was set in a beautiful location, with magnificent views of the Tibetan mountainous region. The music really went well with the visuals. It didn't draw attention nor did it put me to sleep. The graphics and setting of the film was spectacular and one of the best. I especially liked the scene when Kundun was washing away the sand mandala. The costumes of the Buddhist monks were very well detailed and interesting. I enjoyed the serenity of the backdrop, which really gave a relaxing feel to the film. I felt that this movie left out a lot of significant parts of the the Dalai Lama. They left out how his life after his exile, which I think is important as to the development of him today. It should include scenes where the Dalai Lama was appealing to foreign countries for refuge and aid. The actors of the film were good portrayals, especially both of the young and middle-age Kundun. The only bad portrayal was of Mao Zedong. The actor didn't really resemble him well and his acting as Chairman Mao had gone overboard. The entire movie revolved mostly around the Chinese Communist Party claiming Tibet and forcing the Dalai Lama out, instead it should focus more on the Dalai Lama's spiritual journey at the same time. The theme of government against religion is significant in today's ever changing society and I believe it was well filmed. There should be a balance of Dalai Lama's religious influence yet at the same time showing his history. The film had it's good points especially the fascinating process of finding Kundun and how he dealt with other people. This film is more suited to those who enjoy a great historical depiction of a man who went on a religious journey influenced by politics of the Chinese Communist Party. The also had brilliant scenery. This is definitely one of Martin Scorsese's best films so far. "},{"Title":"Only interesting if you are already into the subject, I guess.","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Probably the foremost reason why most people are disappointed with this movie is because it's a Martin Scorsese movie, without anything about it that screams out Martin Scorsese. It probably was simply a subject he had a real interest and love for, which blinded him it seems. Sure, it focuses on its main subject but everything surrounding it gets completely ignored it seemed, which made this movie mostly a disappointing watch.Don't go watch this movie expecting to learn everything about Tibet, Buddhism or the Dalai Lama. Seriously, after watching this movie I don't feel like I have learned anything. It doesn't explain anything about the religion and rituals, or tells you what the Dalai Lama is all about and what he stands for. It actually made this a very shallow movie experience, which I never could feel involved with. The only way I could see this movie being interesting, is if you are already into the subject and have some basic knowledge about it.For a movie with a subject such as this one has, it's surprisingly lacking depth. You would expect the movie to be filled with ancient wisdoms concerning spirituality, knowledge and peace. Absolutely none of that present in this movie. It simply follows its main subject around and that's it really. Evertyhing that happens around him and every story aspects that potentially could had been interesting gets handled poorly and all remains very underdeveloped.Another thing that felt wrong about this movie was its acting. The movie uses non-professionals of Tibetan descent, forced to speak English. If first of all feels wrong to hear them all speak English but next to that, the acting itself from most of the actors is far from anything too impressive.No, it's not like I hated this movie. After all, it remains perfectly watchable but it never got interesting or involving enough in any way. What saves it is that it's still a technically well made movie, that is great looking as well. Most people will praise the cinematographer or director for this but in some cases, such as this one, you should simply give most credit the natural environments. I mean, I don't think it was possible for the film-makers to let this movie look ugly, even if they tried really hard to do so.Too distant and shallow to call this a great or recommendable movie.6/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"amazing in every respect","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is one of the few that I've seen that I continued to think about for weeks after seeing it.  It's definitely best experienced in a theater, and worst experienced with the lights on and interruptions.The cinematography, costuming, and music are all incredible, as is the story.  It's a very intense emotional and psychological movie, and very low on action.I loved this movie! "},{"Title":"A really beautiful treat for the eye, mind, and spirit.","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A pleasure all around; solid acting, lovely filmwork, history, thematic depth and substance etc.... Perhaps this film contains a means for the world to find a way to avoid self-destruction via compassion and non-violence. It offers an introduction to one of the most positive world figures today--the Dalai Lama. It also offers a really creepy Chairman Mao. It also raises questions about the USA and Great Britain when it comes to which countries requesting aid. This is an all round beautiful film. "},{"Title":"made with great care, great love and great reverence","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  What is interesting about adding a comment about Kundun in 2001, is to see how over the years since it's release, there have been so few reviews or comments from Buddhists.  I would have very much like to have read their thoughts about this film.I found it to be an utter joy to watch, and greatly appreciated the effort that has gone into every aspect of the production, from adapting parts of His Holiness's 1990 autobiography Freedom in Exile to the intricate sand mandalas edited so effectively into the film.  I find comparisons to films like Seven Years in Tibet hilarious.  This is not a film about Heinrich Harrer, it's a film about His Holiness the Dalai Lama.  Are we saying that every European that made it to Tibet prior to 1959 should be featured in the personal story of the 14th Dalai Lama?!  What amazing Eurocentric arrogance!This is a film that has been made with great care and great love and great reverence. Everyone - and I really mean everyone - associated with it has my overwhelming thanks for making the richness and beauty of Tibetan culture and Tibetan Buddhism, and the life story of His Holiness, accessible to us all.  As Phillip Glass says in a recent interview with Vickie MacKenzie Kundun provided a document of a world that no longer exists...a world which is not recoverable.  Glass goes on to tell the story of a young Tibetan woman watching the filming of Kundun did it really look like that?she asked an older Tibetan friend Yes, it did.  Our culture was really that rich?. Yes, it was and Glass remembers how she cried.  It was an honour and a privilege to see this film. "},{"Title":"Scorsese's trip to the east","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Martin Scorsese always has a touch to add to movie-making. He not only can tell a story (usually a lot better than others because he usually doesn't direct plot) but he adds true human emotion and feeling to the characters in his films. And like in many of his films, this film shows about a person who wants to make a difference, not matter how significant or insignificant. This film is a story (true as in some of his films) of the 14th Dali Lama in the 20th century and how he was found to be this figure as a small child. It's fairly well done, especially considering all the actors are all non-professionals and can bring such great feeling into the characters. Because you can have a great story, but the actors leading it make it good or bad. Marty Scorsese knows this, and that makes him a great director for this subject matter (anyone else would've used standard Hollywood types). Some faults lie with not enough room covered in the subject matter, but it's still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Scorese couldn't have done a better job.  Roger Deakins (DP) creates an incredible collection of visuals.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Scorsese and Deakins have managed to produce the best film on the subject to date.  See it, for the story, the history and the amazing cinematography.This film left me feeling sad and at the same time filled with the joy of life.  It is reality. "},{"Title":"Beautiful in all ways...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is the most beautiful collaboration or acting, direction, cinematography, scenery, and it's stunning soundtrack by Phillip Glass.I would recommend this film to all people familiar with the Dalai Lamma's life, all that are just interested, and all that enjoy good films. This film far exceed's the mis-guided Seven Years in Tibet. Scorsese shows that he can do much more than his brilliant genre of gangster films, and with his direction; the viewer receive strong within the smallest scenes. I hope this film is as equally dazzling for you. =) "}{"Title":"A wonderful life","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun is up there with the screen's greatest biographies (Lawrence of Arabia, Ghandi, Out of Africa) and is a great achievement. Scorsese is one of my favorite directors and this is his second best for me after Age of innocence. A character study, which the film world will see more often in the near future. "},{"Title":"Thank you Martin.'KUNDUN' isn't a film. It's an experience!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  O.K. Lets be honest here. There are many who will find 'Kundun' slow, ponderous and dull. For those I have two bits of advice. Check your local video store, 'Rambo' is in. Secondly, go home your mother has cookies and milk on the table. 'Kundun' is beautiful, tragic, spiritual, depressing, uplifting, simple, complex, obtuse, and insightful all at once and all the time.  Martin Scorsese honors his mother's memory well by dedicating this movie to her.  He honors himself by having made it.  "},{"Title":"Wow, I really got into this film...","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Maybe it's because Martin Scorsese is amazing, maybe it's because I find the subject matter, being Buddihsm, facsinating. Those were just my feelings before seeing it. Okay, we get a brilliant score by Philip Glass, filming on location in beautiful mountains, and amazing imagery. There is one scene in particular where the Dalai Lama is standing amongst the dead bodies of his people that only compares with Akira Kurosawa. Why was this overlooked at the Oscars? Was it even nominated? It's one flaw was that it was too short. I wanted it to continue but I suppose the actual story isn't complete yet. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The story of the fourteenth Dalai Lama might seem an odd subject matter for Martin Scorsese to tackle, but Kundun is definitely not your typical Scorsese film. I have admired and enjoyed Scorsese's movies, but Kundun was so gentle and poetic a film that it is hard to believe that this movie was from the director of Taxi Driver,Raging Bull & GoodFellas. Beautiful cinematography and art direction, fine performances from a cast of(to me at least)unknowns and an apt and at the same time unobtrusive musical score from Philip Glass.  "},{"Title":"one of my all time favorites","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This visually impressive, flamboyant and colorful film is tended to be miss interpreted.In my opinion it comes to give the audience a cultural experience- to try to convey a religious state of mind through the use of the camera and the sound track.  To get us in to the Buddhist mental state it must sacrifice in the script and drama departments (those who'll come looking for these two elements will be disappointed), but that is forgiven for the power of the magical ride Scorsese is inviting us into is overwhelming.For me, this is the best and most wholesome religious movie ever made- in no other film  has any director captured  such a vast and complex culture and way of life via the cinematic lens.There are scenes that still make me shiver with exhilaration after the 10th time I've seen them.  "},{"Title":"Good, maybe great.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Scorsese might just be one of the best directors of all time. This film, which was Definitely overlooked. Now, Scorsese has made many masterpieces (such as GoodFellas, Mean Streets, Raging Bull, Taxi Driver,The LAst Temptation of Christ  etc.), this one didn't have one thing that would have made it a masterpiece.......DeNiro! C'mon! He coulda been chairman Mao. He coulda gained more weight! Of course, I am just kidding. this is truly a visual masterpiece. Sometimes boring, but good. "},{"Title":"Why didn't this film get everything it deserved.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film was the best film of the year. From art direction to cinematography to directing.It doesn't matter if this film didn't recieve all the awards it deserved, and Titanic got all the awards it didn't deserve, in twenty years time Kundun will be recognised as one of the top ten films ever produced in motion picture history. "},{"Title":"The Master Doing What He Does Best","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I think that Martin Scorsese is the greatest director of all time. I love every film I've ever seen of his and this is one of his best. He has taken a topic which would not normally seem to be movie making material and made it into a fantastic film. I have read other reviewers of this film say that there was not enough dramatic tension to hold an audience's attention. This is simply untrue. I found this film not only fascinating to look at, but also very interesting to listen to and follow where the plot was going.I'm just a 16 year old middle class white kid with ADD and I was totally engrossed and captivated by this film. I am most definately going to buy the sound track, which was a work of art in itself.I cannot say whether this film was accurate or not, but now I understand and certainly respect Buddhism.This movie is a rare work of art. "},{"Title":"A fascinating work of art","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I am a big fan of Martin Scorsese films. I've liked just about every one. But this film affected me more because of the topic. It was a heart-warming, fascinating, inspiring, gripping journey about the Dalai Lama and the sad opression from the Chinese and how he is forced out of Tibet. Great music, camera-work, direction, acting all rolled into one creates a masterful, breath-taking, emotional experience. This is a complete departure from the streets of New York for Scorsese and I like his new arrival. It is a change of pace, although this film will not attract to everybody. One of the greatest films I've seen in a long time that has moved me like this. "},{"Title":"Beautiful.  Simply Beautiful.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I think I am a reflection, like the moon on water.  When you see me, and I try to be a good man, you see yourself.  Kundun was definitely worth watching a second time, though it did drag a little.  When I saw it the first time, it was in the theater and I was awestruck by the amazing scenery and vibrant colors.  It got my vote for best cinematography.  I got the soundtrack, which is just as beautiful.  When, after watching it the second time, on the small screen, they announced it won the award for best cinematography and best music, I felt vindicated.  If you're renting, go for letterbox if possible.  Scorsese may have only released it that way.  Stop waiting for Hollywood plot complications, this is non-fiction.  "}{"Title":"Insight","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is an utter masterpiece. A work of visual beauty that will not leave you. The concepts are so simply woven and consistent that you must feel for those put before you. Anyone in existence should see this film, simply for understanding. "},{"Title":"A disturbing work of art","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The acting, scenery, artistic composition and overall cinematography in Kundun are all remarkable, and combine to make a deep impression on the viewer.  At the same time, the film tells a story which is historically and culturally significant.  Unfortunately, the persistently mystical and impressionistic approach leaves the viewer wondering, at many points throughout the movie, whether what is shown is fact, memory, dream, vision, or simply a sensory/emotional impression the director wants to give the audience.  A sense of death and doom pervade the movie, along with a vague fear of irrational forces acting through - or around - otherwise highly rational characters.  Kundun is a work of art, but it is a dark art; a rewarding but not a satisfying experience.    "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Absolutely beautiful","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This story of the fourteenth Dhali Lama as viewed by film legend Martin Scorsese captivated me with its images and colors. I have been waiting for a good film that focused on the fourteenth Dhali Lama, and this was exactly what I had been looking for, a true-to-life, well-told drama. Having watched Scorsese's 'Personal Journey Through American Film' the night before, I noticed how he took advantage of all he spoke of in this film--the wonderful combination of colors, the widescreen advantages...He never strayed from the story. Amazing, but you need to be awake when you start watching. "},{"Title":"This is rapture in pictures","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Scorsese's most restrained and finely crafted film demanded the 4 viewings I gave it. Opposition to this film has largely been on the grounds of it lacking a traditional narrative form, and the socio-political complexity such a subject demands. That's a shame, for this film is as deep, complex, and compelling as the viewer allows it to be. The script operates as it should, in recount/vignette form, the recollections of a man that wash over the screen with compelling imagery like a series of impressions. Like Baraka and Koyaanisqatsi, the devices of the film maker are  important as the script in conveying storytelling at its finest. The typically risk adverse Academy gave to James Cameron's spectacularly banal Titanic the awards that should have gone to Dante Ferretti's sumptuous production design, Roger Deakin's golden cinematography, Thelma Schoonmaker's seamless editing, Phillip Glass' ethereal score, Kundun's costumery, Barbera Defina's production, and, of course, Scorsese's perfect direction.The verdict? 11 out of 10. To quote Time - ...for the open mind and eye, this is rapture in pictures.  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A lushly produced and superbly directed overview of the life of the Dalai Lhama.  Martin Scorsese is to be commended for not attempting to glorify the life of an extraordinary man but instead presents a balanced look at a complex country and a complex religion. Instead of making the Dalai Lhama out to be a saint he presents him as the humble but very human man he is, caught up in the struggle for his country and his religous freedom from the Chinese in the only way that his principles and religion will allow. "},{"Title":"Another Scorsese masterpiece.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Life of the Dalai Lama in peace loving Tibet. Along come the Chinese army to destroy the harmony. Every technic gels in this glorious film. With the artful production and fashion design by Dante Ferretti, complimented by the photography of Roger Deakins, complimented by Philip Glass' music, complimented with Thelma Schoonmaker's editing, complimented with Melissa Mathison's screenplay..... And all of this under the great direction of the master, Martin Scorsese.  "},{"Title":"A minor Scorcese","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun is a fair movie, but unfortunately not more than that. Even the very talked-about cinematography is exciting, with some exceptional moments.The topic is never explored with more detail (the life of the Dalai Lama), and for sure we stay with the feeling that something is missing.It's a movie that should be seen, but more as an appetizer for learning more about a great man. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Done","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented Kundun the first day it came out at blockbuster. I knew it would be good but it was better than that. I very dissapointed with the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded best Cinematograghy, Art/Set Decoration, and Original Score to Titanic because Kundun deserved them more. Kundun is an outstanding film showing Tibet in all of its wonder. This is a film that everyone would enjoy watching. My Score 10/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie of 1997","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A serene, stunningly beautiful film detailing the rise and exile of a serene , beautiful human being, the fourteenth Dalai Lama of Tibet. There are those who say the film is too slow and stoic, but I think that much like the intense, hallucinatory feel of Last Temptation of Christ, Scorcese has crafted a movie that matches the mood of its' chief subject.  A film of impeccable grace and genuine spiritual wisdom.  Roger Deakens'  cinematography is gorgeous.  "},{"Title":"Shamans and Science","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" With close study and observation, concerning the Tibetan People, I have come to consider, that not so much Buddhism has come to Tibet, and created the likes of what can be seen all over, people in want of spiritual guidance or protection from the horrors of life, but that this particular multitude, the Tibetan People and with the whole of their Sprit World, truly converted to, and thus became, a true Buddhist People, a living Body, a Disciple of the teaching of Gautama Buddha.If you watch Kundun, the 1997 official story of the present Dalai Lama, notice the Shaman, the fortune teller. When possessed, he speaks in an 'ancient' tongue, very different from the Tibetan language. Notice the Dalai Lama is completely at easy when the Shaman, and this Shaman being in his usual rather frightening state of traced possession, comes near to the Dalai Lama. The Shaman, notice this, in his rather terrifying state, imagine yourself being present, is considered a completely 'normal' part of the Dalai Lama's reality, as a familiar face, a 'good' spirit, a close adviser from beyond.Also, notice, that in consideration to the Dalai Lama reincarnation, there is no 'superstitious belief system' at work, rather, a 'scientific method' is practiced by the official monks, in their search for the Dalai Lama reincarnation. Who's object is this? they ask the small child, a trick question. And later; Please pick the objects that belonged to you, when they present the small child with a multitude in variety of the same objects, laid out in front of him on the tabletop. This is a method of objective interrogation, this is a method of pure want for discarding false positives. This is a people who do Not want to be Fooled. And take their measures accordingly.This is also a People, one can expect, that through their homage, daily, hour by hour, truly expressing their joy of having become part of the teachings of the Gautama Buddha, and when one looks closely, of submitting, or rather of a total submersion of the whole body of the Tibetan people, in this belief system, this Body of Works, and that sprouted from the Buddha teachings towards Sangha 'the way of the monks', this People that is led by its Order of Monks, that this Attracted guiding Spirits, Spirits for Protection, Spirits for Healing, etc.And that in this arose from the High Planes and Mountains of Tibet a People that always surrounded themselves, submerged themselves, with not only a new Guiding principle, but also kept close at hart, all the time and intensely, the roaming spirits of their ancestry, and their whole existing Cosmology of Sooth Sayers and Shamans. And they would not be fooled. Not only was reincarnation not just a belief to be believed, or a dogma to be preached at or be submitted to, no, so truly pure is their belief system, that though however vast this edifice of Tibetan society was build, they would risk it all, every time again, when in search for their newly incarnated Dalai Lama.Can their be second thoughts to this? The occurrence of very ill behaving Dalai Lama's in the past (and 'forgiven' by the people), and today's ill fortune of the Tibetan People brought upon them by the Republic of China (and foretold I'm told) must make one reflect, not only of the amazing character of the Tibetan People through hardship and misfortune, but also one would wish to comment them to the extend of advise. That theirs is a truly admirable culture and character, and that one prays with them towards spirits that might want to protect them, that though the impenetrable Laws of Karma and Dharma are always right, because that is their definition, the Buddhist still must show the perseverance and true self disregard towards a future that involves their emancipation and liberation, and must include true self reflection about their place in the order of Things. And that their efforts deserve the attention through out, through out all of the human race, their quest and the happenstance for any Truth unveiled, and never to be veiled, disguised or bent, and such is the Teaching of Buddha that such is the Path towards Enlightenment. "}{"Title":"Why bother reading IMDB . . .","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" . . . when semi-illiterate Ebert wannabes will slag off a great and underrecognized picture like this? My belief is that this will be remembered as one of Scorsese's greatest, most beautiful and resonant epics. Criticisms in the main have bemoaned the lack of a voice-over explaining everything, or the snail's pace of the man's life story, forsooth, or the fact that the filmmakers should tryo to make it fun.This is a film which grows richer with each viewing, an extremely well-crafted work of cinema. That's right, cinema -- telling stories with pictures, from a particular point of view, using words and sound when necessary. Martin has brough us a rich tapestry of a vansished Tibetan world, and marvelous acting performances from Tibetan non-actors -- particularly from the men playing the Dalai Lama's regent and (especially) prime minister. Warm and thoughtful efforts all. It should be remembered that this film is noit meant to be a sweeping history of Tibet -- it is the story of the Dalai Lama told from his point of view. Critiquing a film because it's not written from the point of view YOU'D have writtent it from really negates the thrust of one's arguments.Please, if you are a fan of cinema and don't demand that you be spoon-fed the plot a la 7 Years in Tibet, enjoy this fine film, alas in a cheap DVD presentation (like almost all of Marty's flick(. "},{"Title":"Staggering direction","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The film 'Kundun' isn't as I expected. However, from a cinematographical / directorial p.o.v., it was awesome. Yes, the acting was fine and the story was good, but Tibet really lends itself to all those panoramas, and the way Scorsese kept on at us with all the tricks he uses..... This film was superb in its filminess, and I think is a great example of how a film should be made. "},{"Title":"Definitely not a must-see movie...","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After Little Buddha and Seven Years in Tibet this is the third movie about the Dalai Lama and Buddhism in general which I've watched recently. The one thing they all had in common was that they were all stunningly beautiful, especially Kundun. The movie was filled with shots which were fit to be framed and put in a museum. But that's about all there was to the movie!! Cool shots accompanied by vague Buddhist sayings about life, death and enlightenment, and a flimsy storyline about the Chinese invading Tibet. For some reason all the acting seemed static and thus you slowly got the feeling you were watching a documentary or an educational program instead of a real movie.I think Scorsese made this movie out of his interest for Buddhism and to give everyone an idea of what it's like. In that he succeeded superbly, but as a movie Kundun misses something. It's the constant disturbances in the story line with visions, shots of sand paintings and Buddhist sayings which keep you from being pulled into the movie. The movie is more like a big, long commercial for Buddhism. In beauty Kundun surpasses both Little Buddha and Seven Years in Tibet, but as a movie Seven Years in Tibet is far better.  "},{"Title":"To watch this film, as a Chinese","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Yes,I am a Chinese, for now. the meaning of for now is that the day I woke up, my heart was not belong here anymore.I don't know what to say after I watched this movie, I am sorry for all those f**king crazy people had done? We are all criminals, We are all victims.I even don't care if Taiwan is a part of China,as it if Tibet is belong to China in history. The most important thing is,if they don't want to stay together with us ,why should we force them by violent just in the name of unity? people's life and will were so cheap?Why?I was born in Shanxi province of China, and still living in China. that means it's dangerous for me to talk about all of this. Yes, as you know, It's really dangerous here for speaking and thinking independent.It just can't breathe.I'm a collage student. as I know most of Chinese are still sleeping, they believe what the government want they to believe, they hate who the government want them to hate. I've tryed but I can't even change a little bit of the reality. they hate Jananese,Korean,even American...just as they educated and they got the information filtered by the government.Most of Chinese,they would agree to kill thousands of people in the name of Nation,they think the nation's benefit is higher than anything else,so they will be agree to send the military to Tibet and even use nuclear weapon against Taiwan! Are they f**king out of their mind? No,this is called the mixture of communist and fascist.A friend of Korea saidPeter,you are special...I mean...unique in the Chinese people I've seen.&#x97;&#x97;that why I feel lonely here, nobody could understand me.I don't know How long I can live, but if there is only one thing I am sure, that will be I don't love China anymore as they told I must do since I was a baby. The place with freedom,truth,justice, the place with the standards and values I agree from my heart, is my own homeland that I will love and guard it with my life.I will try but I don't know if I can get out of here and touch any civilized land of freedom before I die,disappear or assimilated.Sorry for the torture of reading this sh*t by my tough English.Go back to this movie, I am really sorry for what Chinese have done to Tibetan, seriously, I just can't do anything to change. Made the Buddha,his holiness be with you,Tibetans.In more three days will be the twentieth anniversary of the event of Tian'anmen square,we will never forget the students,I pray for them.Can God bless me when I'm not believe in him yet?watchzerg June 1st,2009 "},{"Title":"Great Martin Scorsese Film","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Greatly enjoyed this film which deals with the Dalai Lama from childhood to adulthood during the 14th Century and how the Lama had to deal with the Chinese oppression in Tibet. This film shows in great detail the temples of Tibet and the country scenes which have never been seen before and Scorsese looks deeply into the history of the Dalai Lama and how his religious convictions make his people love him from the bottom of their hearts. The Lama is subject to a great deal of ridicule by some people but deeply respected by his faithful followers. This is a great story that shows how strong a man's own faith can keep people in peace and control their own minds and souls. Great film and excellent photography and all the actors were outstanding. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Story That Should Be Seen By All","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In this day and age of strife and conflict, terrorism and unrest, a story like this of a man who stands before the world as a true pacifist and an idealist is refreshing. Martin Scorsese deserves compliments for taking the time to portray the true story of the life of the fourteenth Dali Lama, a life that began in the turmoil of twentieth century conflict and continues today to appeal to the world to right the wrongs imposed upon his native land and people. He serves as a beacon for those of us who wish for a time when all the people of the world will accept and respect each other regardless of custom, religion or national identity. This often overlooked religion could serve as a light for those who use their religion for hate and imposition upon others. I enjoyed the cinematography and music. This film shows how wrong the Oscars can be when they overlook a work as well presented as this. "},{"Title":"no mention of Heinrich Harrer","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Prior to 1997, I had known loosely about China's occupation of Tibet. That year, two movies came out that vastly opened my eyes to the whole ordeal Seven Years in Tibet and Kundun. While the former stars Brad Pitt and focuses on Heinrich Harrer's experiences with the Dalai Lama, the latter stars non-professional actors and focuses on the Dalai Lama himself. We see him go from a boy suddenly thrust into the role of this important figure in Buddhism, to a man having to deal with the Chinese occupation of his homeland.Probably the most important thing that the movie does is show that the Dalai Lama is more than a red-clad figure talking about peace and goodwill; he's a normal human being like the rest of us. I will say that the focus on his life becomes so overwhelming that it's rather hard to digest; in my case, I started thinking to myself that the Buddhist architecture looked like an apartment complex. But overall, I would say that this is one of Martin Scorsese's best movies; back when he was making Taxi Driver and Raging Bull (also masterpieces), who would have ever guessed that he would make this? I wonder why the movie never mentioned Heinrich Harrer. "},{"Title":"A great Story that you should hear - but not a great movie.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You would expect more from a director like Scorsese on an epic story such as this one. The Chinese occupation of Tibet and the escape of Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, are certainly stories that have the potential for great movie-making. These are also important parts of human history and of the way our leaders deal with conflicts. In this case Non-Violence is a constant theme in the film. Scorsese has instead obviously wanted to concentrate on the story of the life of the 14th Dalai Lama as a boy and young adult and not on the Chinese occupation of Tibet, or the spiritual message of Buddhism. Either of these last two might have been better choices. In spite of this effort, character development is actually quite poor. One of the reasons this film tends to be boring at times is the fact that the characters are not played by professional actors. Perhaps it is for this reason that their characters are not being allowed to develop. Keep in mind though that these actors are actual Tibetans, closely related to the real story and to the Dalai Lama himself in real life. The decor is beautiful, and you often can't tell that the film was not shot in Tibet but in Morocco! This is a great story, but it is more a dramatised documentary than an entertaining movie. I would still recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Sad story of Tibet's loss of their sovereignty, beautifully told.","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Thank you Martin Scorcese, Melissa Mathison, and everyone involved in the production for filming this story so that those who will view it can begin to understand the way that Tibet's sovereignty was usurped by Chairman Mao and the Communist Chinese. Thank you for honoring so beautifully the 14th Dalai Lama and portraying his life up to the time of his forced exile, for honoring the rich and unique Tibetan culture, and for accurately portraying the Tibetan people and their sad plight at the hands of a corrupt Chinese regime since mid-20th century. To decode and further elucidate Karl Marx in the 21st century Communism is the opiate of the masses. Chairman Mao appears foolish, neurotic, boorish, and full of falsehood in this film because this was a large part of his nature. What a disappointment from such a profoundly rich and capable culture.In a broader sense, this film also conveys the difficult gap that exists between humanity's compassionate nature and our so-far-impracticable inability to co-create a world where this nature prevails over one where power and dominance create more and more continued suffering.In the final minutes of the film, the Dalai Lama's Buddhist classic prayer of compassion for all sentient beings, even for his enemies, and the realities of Tibet's losses at the hands of their uncompassionate, more powerful, and violently conquering neighbor stand in monumentally stark contrast.Before sadly leaving his beloved homeland to escape to safety in India, the Dalai Lama sees his successful journey and his successful return. Despite current evidence to the contrary, I also pray and hope for the eventual safe return of the Dalai Lama to his homeland and the restoration of self-determination of their country to the Tibetan people. "},{"Title":"Tibets King and Spiritual leader, & the true story of  a nation besieged and slaughtered","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Several fair movies have been produced, concerning the Chinese unauthorized occupation and hostile take over of the most peaceful nation on earth. Many others have failed and caused boredom, where this brilliant perfectly produced movie of Kundun aka His Holiness the Dalai Lama stands above the others in many ways. No other movie emphasizes the Tibetan way of life, rituals,way of living, in general Scorcese defines the small details and specifics, which make realism all the more integrated throughout his movie. It reveals how Holiness is the virtue of all Tibetans alive. Perhaps the only civilization other than Mustang and Bhutan, where though ruled by a theocratic person, who uses a board of advisers, much like a president and congress. The democracy shown in this movie is in the knowledge of the Tibetan Holy way of living, which Scorcese also reveals exceptionally. Martin also goes deeper inside to reveal the hidden traditions which lay unspoken and dormant for decades in the schooling and how the Dalai Lama was brought up in politics and spiritual matters as a child to a man. Several persons who saw this movie could not see this point, that Tibet perhaps was the best ran democracy without internal problems, due to their treating all sentient beings as their wisdom and religion teaches them. Yes Tibetan Buddhism is a religion compared to say Zen Buddhism. Tibetans have numerous rituals and are like the Catholic Church of the Buddhist world, as the Dalai Lama is like the president and Pope all in one. Zen Buddhism on the other hand is a way of life, and a focus to refine. Only one other movie I will suggest later comes very close. However with Scorcese's movie, we see the deep inner workings of a child tulku (re-incarnation of the 13th Dalai Lama) and Tenzin Gyatso is sought out and found to become the 14th Dalai Lama. This film reveals from the start how a Dalai Lama is found and chosen, what the requirements are to decide without doubt they have the right re-incarnation, which often takes hundreds of separate bands of of men, years to search for. and many years to find this diamond in a hut shack. It is revealed here for example that the Tibetan people do not refer to the Dalai Lama as anyone but His Holiness, while only his house servants, teachers, and other high Lama's who see over the countries financial and food needs, only they call him Kundun. The name of this movie and breaking of that barrier, is exactly the best way to describe how Scorcese made this movie, by breaking down all barriers. Prior to the movie being screened, the Chinese rebelled, and threatened what little they could, until they determined if Disney released this movie then they could not build a Disney Land in China. So Disney distributed it through it subsidiary company Buena Vista, which appeased the unknowledgable Chinese. This movie also shows a horrible but true, and perhaps even tuned down for spectator, how the Chinese marched into Tibet to reclaim the land for themselves, and in the process marched into monasteries and slaughtered innocent women, children and harmless holy monks. Over 6,000 monasteries were dynamited, some of these buildings averaged 2 to 3 thousand years of age in construction, a couple dated to 6,000 BC and were laden with priceless artifacts of the Tibetan culture. Artifacts which can never be replaced, statues made of solid Gold, one 37 feet tall and huge around, which the Chinese melted down tons of all the golden statues and other priceless antique trinkets, and destroyed many a ancient painting or fresco. No wonder the Chinese did not want the world to see this. To this day, during the blessing of the favorable nations status, Pres. Bill Clinton would not sign the favorable treaty trading status with China until they promised to at least direct talks toward it. Of course politics played out and it was signed, with a promise America would hold a hard line on China to give Tibet back, as politics prevailed the tens of thousands of protesters standing outside the building meeting held in Seattle who had their hopes up our government would finally stand up to China's inhumane treatment of Tibet, and illegal occupation. To this day Tibet remains under strict Chinese rule, and even their religion has been replaced with a false form , yet China fails to even lend a ear to this untouchable subject, the one most Civil Abuse against a society which still is going on longer than any other civil abuse in the world. Enjoy Kudun , I know you will. "}{"Title":"A beautiful but empty box","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The feeling I had after seeing this film was the sort of feeling I might have felt when I was an excited little kid on Christmas morning, if I had only gotten one present but it was in a huge, beautifully and intricately decorated gift box which, when I opened it, proved to be empty.  But your Box is the gift-- isn't it beautiful?  Well sure it is... but you could have put SOMETHING inside it.Kundun is a pathetic shell of a movie, all style and scenery, no substance or soul.  Why did Scorsese take the horrific tragedy of the rape of Tibet and prostitute it into mere eye candy?  He could have done SO much better with this.   "},{"Title":"subject deserves poetry, gets prose","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Far be it from me to detract from the luminescence that surrounds everybody's favorite lama. Well, not everybody's -- I've heard he's none too popular with certain tyrants in Beijing. Suffice it to say that I admire His Holiness as much as the next heathen does. I like Martin Scorsese too. But something tells me that when he took on Kundun, which tells the Dalai Lama's story from his selection as a small boy to his flight into India, Scorsese's story-telling skills were put on hold. Yes, the D.L. is inspirational. And yes, his story -- and the shocking story of China's brutal and criminal occupation of Tibet -- is one of the world's most riveting dramas, one that is still being played out.But as a movie there just has be more structure or the story just doesn't engage us. I even felt guilty that I wasn't engaged -- I certainly wanted to be. Melissa Mathison's screenplay is surprisingly linear. You are left watching a series of events and disconnected vignettes. It's not a story, but rather a timeline, and there aren't many real-life situations that arrive packaged to work as stories.Scorsese and Mathison's nobility of purpose also seems to underlie the decision to use only actual Tibetans in Tibetan roles. This is a nice idea, and doubtless infused the set with a sense of mission. But that's not enough to overcome the weak plotting. One wonders if a few trained actors in key roles could have closed the gap a little.Kundun is a decent introduction to the recent history of Tibet. The scenery is gorgeous (although the panoramas are often cut short, just as you wish to linger), and the visuals a delight. But I was an easy audience. I should have walked out of this movie feeling angry and inspired, not disappointed. "},{"Title":"marginal improvement for Scorsese","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  King of Comedy (1982) and Last Temptation of Christ (1988) are two of my favorite films.  I have been sorely disappointed with Scorsese since; GoodFellas and Casino, for example, seemed to be all flash and little substance.  Kundun is a beautiful film to look at, but Scorsese continues to shy away from the extended dialogue and intricate character development of his earlier films. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Shot Film Tanks on Delivering the Goods","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It must be said that this film has beautiful camera work.  Unless you are a graduate student writing a dissertation on the history of the contemporary Dalai Lama, its all for nothing.Now, don't get me wrong.  I'm not saying that the occupation of Tibet by Chinese communist forces is not worth spinning a yarn about.  Au Contraire.  I simply felt that the film spent more time trying to be artistic, while glossing over atrocities.  In my estimation, not a good trade off.I was taken by Robert Lin's cool portrayal of Chairman Mao.  The affable Mao seems to be someone whom the Dalai Lama can deal with.  Of course his benevolence gives way when walking the Dalai Lama to his car.  Mao expresses his true Marxist beliefs by castigating religion.  This was frightening and well done.However, it wasn't enough to save the full tenor of the film.  I was most annoyed by the tranquil scenery shots being regularly interrupted by loud sounds belonging to technology.  The effort was clear.  Contrast and compare the old with the new.  Unfortunately, it was repeated so often as to destroy any subtleness that might have been garnered by the technique.In summation, Kundun is a beautiful film whose message is obscured in artistry.  The hard facts of Tibet's collapse are mostly ignored.  Mao is presented as a friendly mentor whose evil derives from his ideology.  We don't see enough of him, even though he is far more striking to the viewer than the Dalai Lama himself. "},{"Title":"worthy but passionless","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Knowing very little about the history of Tibet and the Dali Lama I was fascinated to learn more about it, and through this film I did learn something. But although it touched my mind it left my heart rather cold. Kundun comes across like a worthy B.B.C./P.B.S. docu-drama crossed with a beautiful travelogue film. The acting is not bad but passionless and the story is told as if to educate not entertain. There have been  films that have managed to do both sucessfully, like Ghandi. I was also disappointed with the Phillip Glass score which recalling earlier works only accentuated the distance between you and the film.(6/10)  "},{"Title":"Commendable effort, muddled results","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This effort is unfortunately is betrayed by its execution. It is a very pretty movie, beautifully shot, but with no real point outside of its most obvious one (that the Chinese coming was a disaster for Tibet and the Dalai Lama (kundun), and that that Dalai Lama guy, hey, he's pretty cool).  It fails to engage the viewer, making do with empty symbolism, and some wooden acting from what I assume are probably real Tibetans.  This movie has an important story to tell, but fails in the telling.  "},{"Title":"Sick of saint-stories","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed of this movie. When you try to make a movie, that's supposed to be realistic or documentary, you have to stick to the truth as tight as possible. And then I'll have to ask does Scorsese really see the Damai Lama as a divine human being ? Someone incapable of failing ? I don't mean to be racial about this, but if this movie had been about a european or american white male, it would have been killed by the critics for being too black/white and much too saint-like in its portrayal. The truth about the tibetian story is, that the chinese aren't just demons and the tibetians not just defenseless innocents. I don't know the truth about the Dalai Lama as a person, but he can't possible be anything like this. Unless he really is a god of some sort. I doubt it.  "},{"Title":"A sometimes uninspired story about an inspiring man.","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" OK. Lately I've watched nothing but horror movies and silly comedies so I thought I would broaden my horizons somewhat and grab a more serious film and perhaps try to learn something for a change.I've now done that and can't say I feel that appreciably better for the experience.It must be a pretty weird feeling for a 2 or 3 year old kid to be told he is to run a country, and one that I might never experience - given I am nearer 40.The problem with Kundun is the subject matter. The movie concerns the discovery and life of the 14th (and current) Dalai Lama, and of course there is a fair amount of time focusing on the Chinese invasion and occupation of Tibet. Now I am not saying this isn't a worthwhile and amazing life, only that most people with a 7th grade education know this already, and unlike say Saving Private Ryan, where we know the story but go for the ride because of the action, there just isn't much action to be found in Kundun.We meet the 14th Dalai Lama when his folks still call him his given name, which I don't remember hearing. Once he is chosen, he is immediately taken from his parents for training over the ensuing years to be the spiritual leader of Tibet. Being a pre-pubescent leader of a nation has its disadvantages believe it or not, at one point the young Dalai Lama is being briefed on the less than friendly intentions of neighbouring China, being reasonably practical he asksHow many soldiers (does Tibet have)? 5,000 So many! That's a lot, well we are safe here.Of course then China decides that when you are a billion strong No doesn't necessarily mean No, they invade and commence an occupation of Tibet. They attempt to influence the people and grease the wheels through manipulating the Dalai Lama - who initially fled for his safety, only to return to face the music and be a figurehead to his people.According to the film the discussions and dealings between the Chinese and the Dalai Lama were cordial and mostly above board, again in reality history has not been so kind to the Chinese where the dealings with the Tibetan people are concerned. I am amazed with the access that the Chinese people had that they never killed him, regardless of the backlash from a people that already resented their presence.As we all now know the Dalai Lama is one of the most revered pacifists on the planet, and unfortunately relations between Tibet and China are still frosty at best. Throughout the entire period of exile - which now spans many decades - he has maintained that China must leave Tibet but has never suggested violence or aggressive action of any kind. His teachings are followed (more than) fervently by millions and in reality the world would be a far better place if even more people lived a little more like him. But I am not discussing his life or existence, merely Martin Scorscese's representation of it, and unfortunately while it is a worthwhile story that deserves telling, if you are aware of the basics it doesn't bring much more to the table than a Movie of the Week.Final Rating for the Dalai Lama &#x96; 10 / 10. Great bloke. We should all try to be more like him in our daily lives.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. If you don't know the basics of the 14th Dalai Lama's life, watch it for the information. If you do it doesn't bring much more to the table.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Perhaps The Most Significant Biography of the Century....","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  ....perhaps the Millennium.  I rate it 5*****'s, no Double that! Cinematography, Audio, Musical Score Editing all par excellance`. And considering the Cast was Composed of Largely Non-Actors, it puts New Meaning in, The World is but a Stage, and We All Actors upon it..  The Story, of course, Speaks for itself. "},{"Title":"TIBET TALES","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a beautiful film to look at, and I only wish I'd seen it on the big screen and not cable. The film's great strength is the way that it captures the Dali Lama's eccentricity and dignity. As Scorsese struggles to repeat the glories of 'Taxi Driver' and 'Goodfellas', this film stands out as an honourable success. Did this film get a release in Beijing?     "}{"Title":"So good, I bought a copy","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Kundun is a brilliant movie. The actors were real people and not professional actors and they did a great job. A real eye opener. Don't forget the tissues. "},{"Title":"Unforgiveable lapses Caucasian Chinese and U.S. Military Trucks","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Sure, I enjoyed the film.  It made the Dalai Lama appear quite human, not at all the reincarnation of a deity.  Lucious colours, excellent actors, etc. But why, oh why, did Scorcese go for the cheap option of trying to pass off Caucasian extras as Chinese soldiers?  And apparently so few people now have a background of military service that the director decided to fob off U.S.-made military trucks - the venerable deuce and a half, no less - as Chinese military equipment!  In a world awash with former Soviet military equipment it would not seem so difficult to obtain a few old eastern bloc trucks.  The Cadillac V-8 sedan seemed a bit out of place in Peking, too.The point is that the director should pay more attention to detail.  The movie goer wants to concentrate on the feast that the director is serving up, and not be diverted by the proverbial fly in the soup.  "},{"Title":"You know you're in trouble when Chairman Mao saves the picture","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The Last Temptation of Christ and The Age of Innocence were Scorsese's most artistically successful departures from his usual street grit. Kundun, I'm afraid, will be misconstrued by many as a great picture because of its stunning imagery. That's enough to make an interesting film, but not a great one. A biography of one of the world's great spiritual leaders and the long struggle of an oppressed nation should be compelling. Alas, this is not. The Dalai Lama in his youth may have been naive, but was he really as stupid and dull as portrayed here? It's actually a relief when Chairman Mao's hordes overrun Tibet--at least in dramatic terms. Goofy parallels popped into my mind between the good monks and their little acts of defiance against the Chinese and the nice nuns in The Sound of Music when they pulled the battery cable on the Nazi's car. In contrast to the Dalai Lama, the sinister portrait drawn of Mao here is fascinating. One can easily see how his charms might undermine suspicion; how one might sign a treaty with him even when you knew he'd break it. Mao, the charming snake, has the depth here that the Dalai Lama seems to lack. In a way, this film is sort of like Stephen Spielberg's Empire of the Sun, a big, bloated, visually pretty, self-important historical film that, for all its big statements and atrocities, is respectable and rightfully forgotten today. The best scene in the movie is at the end, when the Dalai Lama sees a vision of the near future the corpses of his monk entourage atop their horses. Too bad we had to wait more than two hours for the movie to get interesting. Whatever the case, Roger Ebert was, as usual, dead-on correct in his analysis. Scorsese is so respectful of and dazzled by the Dalai Lama and what he represents that he fails to create a three-dimensional portrait of a human being, and ends up with a poorly defined icon. Too many of the posters here, awed by the icon, have let their faith get the best of their critical judgement.     "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I found this movie a heart warming insight to a fascinating culture and a wonderful person. The cinema-photography was outstanding with many scenes that seem to be lodged firmly in memory. Interesting portrayal of Chairman Mao. A must see. "},{"Title":"Spectacular and morally important","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Martin Scorsese is a great director indeed who expressed one of his better sides, which is deeply respectable. Kundun is a glorious movie, remarkably relaxed from the first piece of celluloid to the last one. Superb acting, amazing script, moving editing and beautiful landscapes share from the glamour of the 14th Dalai Lama's biographical film. It is a shame that there are not more people thinking just like he is. They live in Tibet in a such a well-organised society that I can say I really envy Tibetean people. The film introduces the upcoming problems the Dalai Lama had to face during the WWII. The entire film is like a dream, an allegory. Pretty much enjoyable. Do not believe to the critics.My judgement is 9 OUT OT 10. "},{"Title":"Kundun Undone","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I know that when one reviews movies, one's perspective is different - not necessarily better - just not the same.I like Martin Scorsese as a great director, as well a fascinating individual. Still, the fact is, no one is successful in any area all the time. I consider Kundun one of his lesser works.I liked the fact that he had the guts to use actors unknow to the Western world. I cannot argue that the film is visually a work of art. Hiring Phillip Glass to write the music worked to underscore the visuals.The fatal flaw in the movie is that it never comes close to the emotional heights its essentially spiritual story requires. And that area is primarily within the director's job description. In other words, with the cinemaphotography and other visuals, the sets and the music, a director normally collaborates with others. So, if a film such as Kundun does not really move us despite the exquisite visuals and music, then one can only imagine how pedestrian it would have been without them.The process of transferring an idea from paper to film is a difficult and exasperating experience. Before I wrote about movies, I worked in them. My gut feeling is that a director's greatness is made through a minority of his output. For example, Spielberg fumbled the ball in Amistad, but turned right around and unleashed the triumphant Saving Private Ryan on an unsuspecting world.Martin, your next film should be a doosey!    "},{"Title":"Raging Awe!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Unfortunately, the news, at least from this sporadic reviewer, is not great.   KUNDUN, the life of the Dalai Lama from birth to 1959 when the Chinese  took over Tibet and he fled.  What the film is, a colorful mosaic of missed  opportunities  a writer and director awed by material way over their heads , unable to do more than present a series of sterile events.  The film has  no substance, pastiche texture, Tibetan costumes and pageantry, beautiful  photography and the glorious music of Philip Glass attempting, with success  only with the tabloid critics, and perhaps with not a single spiritual  intellectual, to cover professional ineptitude.  "},{"Title":"I believe I am a reflection, like the moon on water. When you see me, and I try to be a good man, you see yourself.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Scorsese has made nearly a dozen films based on real lives, except with Kundun, which would appear to be at many right angles from his other work, the real-life figure is taken very literally at face value, perhaps the only literal thing about this nonrepresentational construct. It essentially exists as a conjectural impression of the world through the transcendent view of a life in a very spiritual culture. The reason it is difficult at first to comprehend most things that everybody does for the first half hour is because this figure through whose eyes we're seeing had no concept but a present-tense experience of any of it. That's also the reason, I feel, why there is no plot but this purposely disjunctive succession of installments. If we knew what fills the blanks in between this experiences that we see, the abstract effect would be spoiled. Every scene brings us in cold. There is even a streak of Herzog in the odd or uncanny being seen as incidental and off-hand, as in a couple of formal gatherings where a mouse is allowed to sip freely from the drinking water.One could argue this is not minor Scorsese, even though not even my biggest fellow Scorsese admirers seem to have ever breathed a word in conversation about it, because it's one of his boldest visions. He marshals a series of images in sync with sound and music he feels are more effective the less we know about the cultural and narrative details. How easy it would be for most filmmakers, even other great ones, to allow that to translate practically as, The less coherent I make it, the more it will seem exotic and spiritual. But Scorsese's earnestness in and integrity to his intentions are so for real that doubt never arises. But my experience of this film may be, and probably is, very different from yours. You need look no further than Raging Bull, his most highly revered film at least academically, to see that he is a poetic filmmaker, an intense visual and emotional thinker. And despite how baffling the departure of Kundun seems to be for so many of his fans, it may be his furthest distilled achievement at creating a cinematic experience that can't be described objectively but can only be seen and heard.Sometimes this doesn't come off successfully. Some scenes end up with us not knowing whether to have already understood what goes on between the cuts or to just accept a character's take on whatever it is. Early, for instance, young Kundun is playing a board game with a Lama comprised of battle figurines. The cutting speeds madly through the game by merely whittling down to Kundun saying, I have more men, the Lama saying, I have smarter men, until the Lama finally says all the figurines are his men and gathers them up. He's won, and he tells Kundun he may win tomorrow. The scene is pared down to that inherent lesson in humility, but they seem to be making up the rules of their game as they go along, so we don't feel we've experienced the lesson alongside the characters.Tenzin Topjar, whose name I just copied down because I've never been able to retain the names of this cast, is a great child actor. In playing a spoiled and proud little Dalai Lama, the vanity he projects is always as guileless and dopey as every kid aged five to ten that you've ever met. The contrast between the pure showcase of his age and the stateliness he takes on is one of the various intrigues of Tibetan culture that drives the abstract fascination of the film. He loudly sucks up drool from his lip when saying the words, I take refuge in the three jewels until I attain enlightenment. His tutor tells him Dalai Lamas aren't supposed to eat eggs, so he makes a face at him and gobbles down an egg. Spiritual leaders remain extraordinarily patient as he snatches precious things from them and saying, Mine! Idiosyncratic fascination with the story's culture itself is perhaps the most potent thing about the film, made explicit by the 1940s episode in which an adolescent Kundun reacts with wonder to various Western conventions, including an unexpected hint of slapstick in his unsuccessfully trying to drive a car, as well as his captivated discovery of old Melies reels hand-cranked through an old motion picture projector, which is as good as Scorsese's written signature on the screen, though it's apparently a true memory of the real-life 14th Dalai Lama. The most poignant of these moments, though, is the clash of East and West as these young Buddhists look on at footage of the atom bomb destroying Hiroshima.I appreciate this sonnet of textures and stillness for being so wholeheartedly faithful to its vision, for being keen to disentangle from audience expectations and abide by its heart. I esteem it for its formalistic grace. And yet Scorsese seems to be rummaging here for something that's not part of him and never could be. What normally characterizes a Scorsese film is his fervent knowledge of exactly how his character feels at every moment. Here, I perceive him asking himself conceptually about who Kundun is. "},{"Title":"A dull movie that explains almost nothing about Tibet","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is basically a failure as a dramatic experience. The plot is virtually non-existent. The viewer will learn almost nothing about the real internal struggle of Tibet. The music (by Phillip Glass) is unlovely and grating after the first hour (yes, I don't like Mr. Glass as a composer, give me Steve Reich any day). I can't fault the visuals of the film, parts are lovely, the depiction of life inside the Potala Palace of Lassa was nicely photographed.As a movie, as a art form that seeks to combine visuals with human acting and sound to create a film this is a failure. There was no acting to speak of (with the notable exception of the man who played Chairman Mao. I believe this is the very first time I've ever seen someone perform Mao and I found it fascinating). There was no plot, just short little scenes from a life.The comparison with the film Gandhi couldn't be more unfavorable to Kundun. In my opinion, Gandhi had it all super acting, brilliant visuals, stirring music and the incredible story about how one man helped India gain its independence. By contrast, Kundun has nearly no acting, music I never want to hear again, and a plot that shows one small boy being pushed around by older people for his entire life.Minor note Heinrich Harrer, the man who wrote Seven Years in Tibet does not show up in this film. Instead it is the Dalai Lama who is shown running the movie camera (a task which Harrer performed). The film Seven Years in Tibet is vastly superior to Kundun.Political note One thing is certain, the Tibetan practice of investing political power in the hands of a child, raised from a very young age to be a Buddhist monk is seriously flawed. From 1937 till 1950, a critical period of world history and critical for Tibet, the country was, in theory, ruled by a child (first a regent acted for the child, then a senior council acted for him). Perhaps no one could have saved Tibet from a victorious Communist Chinese government, but if Tibet had real political leadership during the intervening 15 years, it might have had a chance at independence. Obviously the Dalai Lama can't be blamed for the system which he inherited. He tried to make the best of situation for which he was personally and educationally ill-equipped to handle. Its sad that he failed, but not surprising. "},{"Title":"Documentary version of 'Seven Years in Tibet'","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Well photographed and well acted story of the last Dalai Lama. VERY slow going, lacking the drama of Seven Years in Tibet which is essentially the same story. If it had been made as a documentary, the film would rate very high, but for dramatic entertainment it is very hard going. "}{"Title":"Splendid and Entertaining Historical Drama","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is quite a long movie, as most historical type movies tend to be. Kundun clearly has meaning for the Darli Lama and I have watched this movie for first time thirteen years after its original release, a filler in summer 2010 when there are no more good movies to watch at the moment. Watched it with my 12 year old son who turned to the net afterwards to check information about the Dar ly Lama and Tibet and also the Chinese invasion of Tibet. It is a beautiful film and the story is well told, if a little slow and tedious at times. this is in a different category of film making for Martin Scorsese and this will for me stay in the memory. A film for all ages, nothing graphically or verbally uncomfortable about this movie, it does the job of entertaining me one Sunday afternoon! "},{"Title":"A slow, but authentic movie.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I found this movie to be a bit too slow for my taste.  It starts off just plain boring and then just moves on with no particular conflict.  I can see it is hard to work around a history like this and make it fun for everyone, but they hardly even tried.I did, however, love the music.  It is very authentic and was done very well.  The tribal dances seemed authentic (I have never seen one in person) and the entire setting worked well.  I found this to be much more educational than entertaining.I found the younger two Dalai Lama actors to be very annoying, but they did well for little kids.  I can almost see where the nomination of this movie for best picture came from, but I would never have let this win.  Maybe I just am one of those people who does not find Tibet's history to be interesting.I give it a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I think this movie didn't tell the true history, if you don't agree, you can ask Dalia lama himself.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" it is a good movie, but it didn't tell the true history, last night i just saw the movie at the ATV station, in my residence. I have to say that the directer have not studied the Tibet's history seriously and carefully. One thing is the several meeting about Dalia and Mao, actually in real history they never met. Second, in the movie it was said Mao bring 3 requirements to Tibei in 1944, it is real big mistake. everybody know Japanese was defeat in 1945, and then China began civil war, in 1944, Tibei's affair were controlled by Jiang.but anyway it is a great movie, except it didn't tell some of the truth, although most was true. "},{"Title":"Big holes in the biography of the Dalai Lama","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I don't know why this film gets such a high rating . The only thing I found interesting in this film was the decoration . The story is full of gaps and it moves at snail pace. It also fails to give any introduction to Tibet's brand of Buddhismn. Nor did I find out what the spiritual function of a Dalai Lama should be - and that there are more than one at a time. Presenting the Dala Lama as a peace lover - in the western sense of peace not in the buddhist way of peace - is a big mistake of this film. Presenting the Dalai Lama with the Peace Nobel price is only another western way of mistaken identity.  "},{"Title":"The best movie on the nature of Buddhism I have ever seen","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I excepted a lot from this movie, and it did deliver. There is some great Buddhist wisdom in this movie. The real Dalai Lama is a very interesting person, and I think there is a lot of wisdom in Buddhism. The music, of course, sounds like Koyanisquatsi because it is by Philip Glass. This adds to the beauty of the movie. Whereas other biographies of famous people tend to get very poor this movie always stays focused and gives a good and honest portrayal of the Dalai Lama. All things being equal, it is a great movie, and I really enjoyed it. It is not like Taxi Driver of course but as a biography of a famous person it is really a great film indeed. "},{"Title":"Mandala","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Martin Scorsese's life of the 13th Dalai Lama is the least successful of his seventeen features. In a strange misreading of the Buddhist principle of non-attachment, Scorsese's mission here appears to be to abdicate all the gifts that constitute his genius as a filmmaker, and to express spiritual life through barer means than he has ever used before. He must have intended this hagiography to have been a journey toward the transcendental style of Ozu and Bresson, but he can't resist his sweet tooth for lush surfaces and sensuality; rather than austere, the movie's texture is chichi-baroque--Bertolucci-ish. You notice the elegance of the shot construction and the dreaminess of Thelma Schoonmaker's dissolves, but, for the only time in Scorsese's career, he seems to have no particular interest in the characters--they're as remote as allegorical figures on a windblown fresco. There's no evident obsession with the life of the Dalai Lama, or Tibet, or Buddhism in general you get the feeling Scorsese wanted to will an Eastern masterpiece into existence as if through telepathy. The result suggests watching Michael Jordan stare at a basketball on the floor, wishing it to leap up through the hoop.   "},{"Title":"Not great","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You wait your whole life for a film on Tibet, and then bang, two come along in the same year. Just what have we done to deserve it?Unfortunately this is at the same mediocre level of Brad Pitt's offering. It's slow and laboured pace does it no favours at all and we are asked, like children, to stare in spiritual wonderment at things that are not worth the time or the effort. Martin Scorsese finds himself well and truly outside of his usual territory here and instead of the stunning personal storytelling we're used to from him, we are bogged down with all sorts of ridiculous mumbo-jumbo and a somewhat confined take on the history of China and Tibet. I can't imagine he enjoyed this experience much.Not to say the direction and cinematography isn't great, Scorsese is a born filmmaker and knows what to do with a camera, just that the choice of project does him no justice whatsoever.The first of the 17 Scorsese films I've seen that I'll be avoiding like the plague from now on. "}]