[{"Title":"Superb comedy from start to finish...","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rather fail to see how anyone couldn't find this film funny. It still makes me laugh uproariously every time I see it, and I've seen it many, many times.Special congratulations must go to Cleese and Kline, both of whom give exceptional performances, and there is a real sense of joy that comes through from the various situations in which these characters find themselves. Although Cleese's character is somewhat 'Fawlty-esque', and let's face it - this is what he does best, I found it thoroughly enjoyable.Jamie lee Curtis and Michael Palin do equally well, though Palin's character is almost as frustrating / annoying as was his role in 'Wanda', but I don't think this detracts from the enjoyability factor of the film.This is an uplifting, and heart-warming affair, packed full of laughs, but with a more than reasonable plot line, and I really liked the ending, which cleverly capitalizes on Klines excellent character acting.If I had to level any sort of criticism at 'Fierce creatures', it would be in the soundtrack department - i just didn't think it was as good as it could have been - but this makes little difference to the overall flow of the film, and I have no hesitation in awarding it 9.5 out of 10, and recommending it to anyone that enjoys a well made and endearing, quality comedy.  "},{"Title":"I have a sneaking fondness for this movie","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I know it wasn't as good as A Fish Called Wanda (which it was the unofficial sequel to - being not a continuation of the same characters, but featuring all the same lead actors, in roughly the same configuration and relation to one another as in the previous film). And yes, it's clear that John Cleese has lost a step or three on his precision and comic timing (though John Cleese at half speed is still funnier than most comic actors working today). But this film has such a sweetness and a general good spirit to it that I find it impossible to dislike. The story itself is rather convoluted, and one could make a fair claim that it seems more a hodge-podge of stitched together ideas than a seamless throughline. That is so, and yet since it is a hodge podge of almost entirely *good* ideas, it's harder to find fault with. Cleese stars as an ex-cop who is hired by a huge Rupert Murdoch-like conglomerate to run an English zoo that they have picked up in a mergers acquisition. Needless to say, the zoo has absolutely no inherent interest to the company, but they are willing to keep it going if it can return a profit at a certain rate. Cleese plans to do this is by appealing to people's bloodlust, and only keeping the most dangerous and fearsome of the animals (the fierce creatures of the title). Things change somewhat when Jamie Lee Curtis and Kevin Kline show up to take over Cleese's job (but keep him on as an employee). A brainstorm by Kline (playing a character every bit as hilariously slimy and petty as his counterpart in Wanda) introduces the notion of corporate sponsorship into the zoo-going experience. Eventually, all the employees are decked out in animal costumes (like mascots at a Zoo Land amusement park), and Kline has even begun the process of introducing animatronic creatures behind the bars. All the while, a budding romance between Cleese and Curtis is playing out behind the scenes, and the two eventually join forces to try and save the zoo from the clutches of the crass and evil conglomerate.Any one of the comic scenarios the film-makers bring up would be worth exploring to the end. The fact that they cannot seem to keep one satirical conceit going for any stretch, and feel the need to overhaul the plot in a new direction every twenty minutes or so, definitely lessens the impact the movie could have had. And yet, for example just because the writers beg off early on the fierce creatures idea doesn't make it any less hilarious - both as a concept and in execution. The scenes of the kindly zookeepers trying to sell their individual cute little animals as dangerous is one of the funniest scenes in the movie. But then, later, when that concept has been forgotten, and we instead see Kevin Kline leading around a group of potential financial backers, giving them his notions of how corporate sponsorship could work at the zoo . . . well, that's one of the funniest scenes too. What I'm saying is, though a strong focus is something the film lacks, it makes up for it by filling its running time with enough entertaining and well devised comic moments to make you feel like you got your money's worth. The performances help. As in Fish Called Wanda, Jamie Lee Curtis is not particularly noteworthy as an actress OR a comedienne, but she gets by on her general sultriness and willingness to play cheerfully along. Most importantly, she keeps out of the way of the big boys and lets them do their stuff. As I mentioned, Cleese is a little moldier here than usual, but there's still no one who does high-strung fussiness better, and he holds down the screen nicely. As with Wanda, though, it's Kevin Kline who really steals the show - this time in a dual role, as the Murdoch-like head of the conglomerate and his stupid slimeball son who has big plans for the zoo (as well as getting into Curtis's pants). The sheer *energy* he throws out is infectious, and his ability to play off himself - in the scenes between father and son - is nothing short of superb. Blessedly, the dual role bit is revealed as more than just an actor's stunt by the way the movie is resolved had Kline not been playing both roles, the movie could never end the way it does. That, too, was a nice touch.Genial, breezy, good spirted - this is Fierce Creatures. Nothing in the masterpiece league but, especially if you've seen A Fish Called Wanda, it's a nice evening spent with old friends - with some new and well devised jokes thrown into the mix.  "},{"Title":"Tacky, but funny","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't tell you how many times I've seen this movie; a rough estimate would be at least half a dozen times, just through three or four years. And amazingly enough, I laugh every single time. It may be that Michael Palin is just so damn funny and typically Monty Python-like in the film, it may be that Jamie Lee Curtis has a surprising amount of comedic talent, it may be that Kevin Kline is excellent in both of his roles in the film... heck, it may even be John Cleese's entertaining performance... and I'm not even a fan of him. The film manages to be incredibly funny despite being very tacky and downright tasteless in many, many scenes. The plot is pretty good, and, as far as I know, quite original. It deals with a multi-billionaire and a zoo, which (obviously) doesn't make a lot of money, like the billionaire wants it to. The film has a good pace and is rarely - if ever - boring. The acting is very good, but one wouldn't expect any less from such names as John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline and Michael Palin. It was also a nice surprise to recognize Richard Ridings, who plays one of my favorite characters in the Luc Besson film, Jeanne D'arc La Hire. I recognized him almost instantly by his very distinguished laugh. The characters are well-written, well-cast and well-acted, as well as credible. I thoroughly enjoyed most of them, even though they are mostly caricatures. That just added to the humor of the film, I think. As in several other of Kevin Kline's films, he plays two parts, and he, as always(well, nearly always, anyway) does so very well. I understand that this is, in some ways, apparently a sequel to the late-80's comedy A Fish Called Wanda; now, I haven't seen that film, so I can't really comment on how the two relate to each other, but if Wanda is in any way as funny as this movie, I'm gonna have to see it sometime. The humor is excellent; black, crude humor at its best. All in all, a very good comedy if you don't mind some tacky humor. I recommend it to fans of any of the actors, fans of tacky/crude/black humor and even fans of Monty Python, since both members involved in this are great. 7/10  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of all time","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...WAY funnier than A Fish Called Wanda. I enjoy Wanda, but Fierce Creatures should get the acclaim that earlier film does. It has a few weak moments of sentimentality, but they're quickly forgotten; nearly every scene is packed to bursting with witheringly literate putdowns and rejoinders, performances given just the right amount of push over the edge, and someone's best-laid schemes unraveling in hilariously improbable fashion. Kevin Kline oozes handsome, clueless yuppie smarm from every pore; John Cleese plays a take-charge-but-eventually-beleaguered Basil Fawlty variation with his usual timing mastery.A should-be comedy classic that doesn't get the praise it's due. "},{"Title":"Lots of harmless fun","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fierce Creatures was marketed as a somewhat adventurous endeavour in teaming up much of the old team from the highly acclaimed A Fish called Wanda to do another film that was completely different and had nothing the same, except much of the cast.Does this have the same sparkle? The short answer is no, but it is still good viewing. It tells the story of a highly greedy and successful business magnate, Rod McCain (Kevin Kline) who has just taken over a zoo in England. However, business regulations require that the zoo return 20% of revenue or it will be shut down. Put in charge is Rollo Lee (John Cleese), who is then somewhat overthrown by new recruit Willa Weston (Jamie Lee Curtis) and McCain's 'idiot' son Vince (also Kline). Essentially the film deals with the three of the new directors and their different schemes for making money and raising the revenue to 20%, but with plenty of sexual tension and comedies of error along the way.It's a lot of fun, I think I've made that clear. It's by no means the best comedy put on film but it has a lot of the same laughs as a normal Cleese-written comedy; in some ways the character of Rollo Lee is very much like the character of Basil Fawlty. Kline is brilliantly hilarious as usual, he's the standout, while Curtis, Michael Palin, Robert Lindsay and Ronnie Corbett all give spirited performances. It's also nice for an Aussie to see Bille Brown making his big screen debut as the terrible right-hand man Neville.Overall, it's an above average piece of writing, directing and performing that gives you a laugh. Perfect for a night in. 3 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Lemur Called Rollo","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me take it out of my system first. There never will be another A Fish Called Wanda. That comedy was one and only, perfect, brilliant, mean, witty, the best film about culture clashes, the best backstabbing comedy, the best - everything. For me, Wanda is a Citizen Kane of the comedy. Period. What makes is outstanding, are the four partners in crime as written by John Cleese and played by Cleese himself, Jamie Lee Curtis, Michael Palin, and Kevin Kline that were simply incredible, and, let's face it, despite being criminals and back-stabbers, you would love them all. I know I did.When Fierce Creatures was released 12 years ago, I ran to see it and I was bitterly disappointed. I expected Wanda, Part 2 - which is impossible because ...see the first paragraph. Last night I caught FC on TV and I have to admit that it IS a good and funny film. It knows that it is a follow up to A Fish Called Wanda. It references to the perfect predecessor, makes you laugh, and lets you meet again with the fabulous four and many supporting players from Wanda. Fierce Creatures has gained Cult Status with years, and I am now a part of its following. The script was written by John Cleese and the plot is convoluted and silly at the same time. The best, the funniest moments play off mistaken assuming that John Cleese's character Rollo, ex-cop appointed the London Marwood Zoo Director, is a sexy beast for whom one woman is not enough. The scenes between Cleese (Rollo Lee) and Willa Weston, an American business-woman (Jamie Lee Curtis) are the funniest. The weakest links in the movie are IMO Michael Palin who unlike his character Ken in AFCW can talk and he just would never shut up. His character became boring and annoying very soon. The same sadly should be said about Kevin Kline playing two roles, the Australian billionaire Ron McClain, ruthless, obnoxious, and vulgar, and his weakling loser son Vince whom his father despises. Needless to say there is not much love lost between an arrogant father and his estranged son. The film has so many hilarious jokes and witty references not only to A Fish Called Wanda but to Monty Python series that by the time of the conclusion, I had enough fun and laughs to tolerate and forgive the loud and messy final act. "},{"Title":"only good if it makes money...","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The first thing that you have to understand about Fierce Creatures is that it isn't a sequel to A Fish Called Wanda. Rather, it makes fun of the notion that things aren't good unless they make money. Specifically, John Cleese plays a zoo owner who thinks that violence draws big crowds and thus wants to get rid of all cute-cuddly animals. Kevin Kline plays a double role as a media mogul (obviously based on Rupert Murdoch) and the mogul's parasitic son, totally indifferent about animals; both characters will probably make your skin crawl.Most of the humor here involves things such as men getting caught with their pants down and Freudian slips. But no matter what happens, it comes out as a great movie, maybe better than AFCW (the former was sort of silly, this one makes a political statement). Jamie Lee Curtis and Michael Palin play the only two 100% respectable characters in the movie, but you gotta love the other stars' performances. Definitely one that I recommend.A vampire cop. Indeed! "},{"Title":"This comedy is a lot of fun, if you are a fan of A Fish Called Wanda.","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When a old farting heartless corporate mogul (Oscar-WinnerKevin Kline) takes over a failing Zoo. The mogul is hoping to make money out of it by hiring a new Zoo director (John Clesse) by making the animals fiercer under the supervision of a bright business woman (Jamie Lee Curtis) and the dumb mogul's son (Played by Kline also). The new Zoo director has to deal with a resentful staff and other complications.Directed by Robert Young (Splitting Heirs) and Fred Schepisi (Mr. Baseball, Roxanne, Six Digress of Separation) made an uneven but entertaining fitfully comedy that doesn't quite pays off as it should but it is Kline's comedic dual performance comes off best. The sexual tension between Clesse and Curtis is quite funny also. The film was originally filmed in 1995 by Young and then largely re-filmed by Schepisi. Then they edited Young's and Schepisi's version together into one film. Clesse, Curtis, Kline, Michael Palin, Maria Aitken and Cynthia Clesse. Which the six actors are in this film, also were together before in the instant classic comedy A Fish Called Wanda. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Farcical, entertaining comedy with some genuinely funny moments.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This isn't a very important film so I'll be brief in what I have to say. Fierce Creatures is a generally amusing and quite enjoyable comedy. It stars the same four leads as did the 1988 hit, `A Fish Called Wanda' and even contains some in-jokes on that same film. While never groundbreaking or thought provoking, Fierce Creatures does what it says it should do. The concept is quite imaginative, the four leads perform their roles superiorly and there is an impeccable comic timing.Those with low expectations will come out very satisfied, and while it's easy to nit-pick and find faults, Fierce Creatures is a very good film that's not to be taken very seriously. 6.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Creature Comforts","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let's face it guys and gals, Animals are funny. So is John Cleese, Michael Palin, Kevin Kline and Jamie Lee Curtis.Fierce Creatures is not a sequel to the hilarious A Fish Called Wanda from 1988, it just a film that contains the same main actors playing entirely different characters.Cleese plays Rollo Lee a former Chinese policeman now Director of an English Zoo for a new parent company ingeniously named Octopus Inc. It is Octopus's policy to bring all businesses up to a rigid 20% profit margin or risk being closed down. Lee's philosophy is to get rid of all the sweet and cuddly animals and in his own words have 'a lethal weapon in every cage' Fierce Creatures only.Willa Weston starts work for Octopus only to find that the arm of the business she was to control has been sold off by Octopus's head man Rod McCain (Kevin Kline). She asks McCain if she can go to England and run the Zoo. What she doesn't count on is that the boss's embarrassing son Vince McCain (Kevin Kline) is going with her.Back in England the animal keepers are doing everything they can to convince that their animals are predatory killers in order to keep them at the zoo knowing that as placement in other zoo's are unlikely the animals face certain death.Willa's intention is to run the zoo well while still bringing the profit margin to the required standard but Vince's constant interference sees the chances dwindling with not only his embezzlement of funds but his tacky and degrading sponsorship deals.In A Fish Called Wanda, Michael Palin played Ken a guy who could hardly talk because of a debilitating stutter. In Fierce Creatures he plays Bugsy the Arachnid keeper who is an incessant talker the verbal contrast between the two characters is a bit of an in-joke but an hilarious one and I'm sure that this contrast was not lost on the audience.Like in A Fish Called Wanda Kevin Kline totally steals the show with his double role as Father & Son. Rod McCain is a tough confident Australian mogul so obviously based on Rupurt Murdoch it's untrue while his son is relatively unsuccessful an embassement to his father and has real issues when it comes to dealing with people.I found Fierce creatures very funny and in many ways far superior to 'Wanda'.Some great appearances by other wonderful actors such as Ronnie Corbett, Maria Aitken, (who played Cleese's Wife in Wanda), Billie Brown as Rod's sycophantic Assistant Neville, Carey (yummy) Lowell and Robert Lyndsay. Cleese's daughter Cynthia also appears as she did in Wanda playing the small Mammals keeper. For those devotees of British Children's TV of the 70's and 80's look out for Derek Griffiths too.Cleese once said that his two biggest regrets in his life were marrying his third wife and making fierce Creatures. I can say to Mr Cleese now that Fierce Creatures is nothing to be embarrassed about it's a great and funny movie and one he should be proud of.Another in joke is that the zoo is called Marwood Zoo, which incidentally, is Cleese's middle name.Enjoy!!! "}{"Title":"Enjoyable Fluff","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like A Fish Called Wanda, you'll probably get a kick out of this farce, in which an Australian magnate sends two Americans to a British zoo to make it turn a profit. The bad guys are Kevin Kline, Jamie Lee Curtis, and John Cleese, at least until Curtis and Cleese fall for each other.Cleese intends to make money from the zoo by offing all the cuddly little animals and replacing them with fierce creatures. The tree huggers who run the zoo and love all the animals try to convince the dim-witted Cleese that the cuddly things are in actuality deadly when provoke, telling him tales of people who have torn to shreds by an angry lemur and other nonsense.Cleese is persuaded not to kill the animals but he advertises them all as Dangerous to Man and, to boost profits, drags in merchandising in various forms. A fully grown Bengal tiger wears a kind of table cloth advertising Absolute Vodka with the logo Absolute -- FIERCE. A brand new panda is installed but it's a robot and all it can do is slowly raise and lower its head.Other absurdities abound, some funnier than others. Curtis, wearing a very low-cut dress and a smile, bends down to pet a coati mundi or something and the distracted Cleese mutters, Yes, that's one of our breast mammaries -- er, best mammals. The whole set-up is in a way a distraction. Everything seems to rush by. People fall down. It's a little exhausting and lacks some of the earnest wit of A Fish Called Wanda. There is no line here that's the equivalent of, The philosophy of Buddhism is not 'every man for himself.' Still, it has some laugh-out-loud moments, at least for me. I think the one I enjoyed most appears near the end. Kevin Kline has been playing the grasping and nasty Australian billionaire with a farcical Australian accent, and also playing the billionaire's son. The elderly billionaire shows up at the zoo, discovers the fraud and confronts his son, whom he holds responsible. Says the ruthless magnate, The last words you'll hear from me is -- A shot rings out from off screen and a bullet hole appears in the Australian's forehead. Without any change in his expression and after only the slightest pause, he continues, you're fiiirrred. But his voice has slowed down and become baritone, like a tape recorder with dying batteries. Holding the same angry posture he slowly flops backwards to the grass, a mannequin, evoking images of Saddam Hussein's statue in Baghdad. "},{"Title":"fish 2","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this film is an underestimated masterpiece in the British comedy film file...cleese, Curtis,palin and Kline lead a British cast of legends....including the wonderful Carey Lowell(bond girl) and most of the cast from Wanda all making returns.Set in a zoo that needs to make money brings on lots of set pieces that could be so easily lengthened..but they are tight and funny.Ronnie Corbett, Robert Lindsay and Derek Griffith's lead the Brits with their usual aplomb and this works seamlessly with a bunch of people really enjoying their job and this shows.it didn't get the acclaim that Wanda got...that is a shame... because its a different movie and i think the critics were expecting a sequel of Wanda...what they get is something even more original, even funnier and in keeping with British farce with a plot...we get good comedy, beautiful ladies and brilliant performances from the animals...one of the funniest scenes is the hotel spider set always makes me laugh.If u ever need to introduce a fierce creatures policy - watch this film on NOT how to do it.....its an education "},{"Title":"Hilariously sinister return of top comic team","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some critics have decided this film to be a flop. Pardon me, but I thought a flop was a film which had lost money. This one made over 11 TIMES the estimated $3.6M budget at $40M, and it's rated at a 6.1 by IMDb users. How is that, on any grounds, a flop?All that not withstanding, this movie is extremely enjoyable, though it is a bit of an acquired taste. The wit found is for the delicate palette, for without appreciation of the quaint, one finds him/herself at a loss.This movie has a clever and unique script, a dark and twisted sense of humor, and the same quality of well-timed comedic performances as did A Fish Called Wanda, making for a truly wonderful comedic experience.While I do like A Fish Called Wanda better, this attempt is still a beautiful example of cinematic comedy.It rates a 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Wacky without funny","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Willa Weston (Jamie Lee Curtis) is the new executive in Octopus Inc. run by Rod McCain (Kevin Kline). She joins with Rod's son Vince (Kevin Kline) to manage the newly acquired zoo. Rollo Lee (John Cleese) starts out as the director sent by Octopus to raise profit margin to 20%. His idea is to have only fierce creatures. The shocked zookeepers dare Rollo to kill some of the non-fierce creatures. He pretends to and instead keeps the animals at his place. Willa and Vince mistakenly thinks that Rollo is a ladies man. After an incident, Rollo is demoted. Willa is still fascinated by Rollo's supposed womanizing and Vince has even crazier ideas for the zoo.This is a real disappointment and a giant step down from the same crew that made 'A Fish Called Wanda'. It's a lot of wackiness without being funny. The story is completely stupid without being funny. The characters are all crazy without being funny. It's like the gang decided to pile on wacky things on top of wacky things. But none of it is funny. If it has any chance, the movie should have started in the zoo. The opening at the corporate office is a waste of time that achieved nothing. "},{"Title":"Fierce Creatures","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So back in 1988 there was a highly quirky, sexy British crime heist movie with a mix of top cult British and American stars, it was a huge (and surprising) success. Nine years later the same team were back in this sort of sequel, or maybe prequel, no one was really sure. In the end it was just another comedy utilising the same cast, however, the novelisation of the film actually explains how both movies connect, but no one cares about the book so...The plot is radically different from the 'A Fish Called Wanda', this is not any kind of crime comedy but it still involves unscrupulous people. Its all about John Cleese's character Rollo coming to look after a small typically British zoo of mainly small harmless animals, which he then tries to convert into a zoo full of fierce creatures. He has to do this because the main company he works for (that own the zoo) wants better revenue from the attraction hotspot. Thusly he is instantly at odds with the zoo's team of caring keepers who obviously are against this. At the same time Rollo must contend with Willa Weston and Vince McCain (Jamie Lee Curtis and Kevin Kline) who are overseeing this latest acquisition by the company to make sure it makes money.You see the problem with this comedy is the fact they have tried to basically remake 'Wanda'. Many of scenes in this film are rehashes from the original and are going for exactly the same laughs, the cast are playing virtually the same kind of characters and in the case of Jamie Lee Curtis her characters name has clearly been made as close as possible to Wanda (Willa). I really don't understand why they have done this because everyone knows this kind of thing hardly ever works, it doesn't matter how grand your cast roster is.Much of the said cast is of course taken from the first movie, and I don't just mean the main cast either, many smaller roles and cameos feature actors/actresses from the first movie. Does that somehow make things better? are these actors suppose to connect this story to the first movie somehow? Apparently not as this is supposed to be more of a stand alone movie...so why use the same cast then?? I mean sure the use of the classic British comedic legend Ronnie Corbett is very nice, a nice addition, but he barely does anything and is clearly there just to ramp up the star meter. Its an all British type affair so lets get some British gems of comedy...yeah OK but at least make use of them, at least make a good film with them.I mean watching Cleese in this is actually cringeworthy, he's doing all his usual typical funny little quirks he's done his entire career because that's what people expect, but its old hat now. He brings nothing new to the table here which isn't entirely his fault because (like I said) people wanna see that but you gotta try and break the mould guy! In short Cleese is basically Basil Fawlty in charge of a zoo...but not as funny, sweet idea, but like I said its not as funny as it sounds. At the same time watching Cleese trying to act sexy and dashing whilst cuddling up to Curtis (again) is horrible!! its like watching your aging dad trying to be sexy n cool with a younger woman, God no! As pointed out already Curtis plays the same character again too, a sexual female predator that is after Rollo but has to shake off the ever lurking Vincent (Kline), yet again. This leads to Kline who (as in the first movie) is head and shoulders above the rest giving the best performance. Kline seems to be really really good at playing the brash, pig-headed, egotistical Yank that won't think twice about being a complete sh*t no matter who's watching. He's rude, arrogant and cruel (yet again) and has his target set on Cleese's character Rollo (yet again), you notice I'm having to type 'yet again' quite often here. Do I have to mention Palin and his character that bares a remarkably close resemblance to his character in 'Wanda'? Nope, its the same character.Don't get me wrong this isn't a terrible movie, its not all bad, there are some nice moments of farcical humour, just not that much is all. It has everything you'd expect from a naughty British comedy that has two Pythons in it (no not the scaly reptilian kind). Characters running around in their underwear (Cleese again!), lots of sexual double entendres, silly visual gags, pratfalls, slapstick and the odd hint of violence which you of course don't actually see. Thing is, the first movie was a smart, witty, sexy, dark comedy aimed at adults. This movie is a childish, immature, infantile, watered down excuse of a comedy that isn't really aimed at anyone. The kids won't appreciate the performances (or at least what they were aiming for) and there's nothing too visually appealing going on for them either, whilst its way too dumb and soft for adults. There's no point having Jamie Lee Curtis looking all slinky if she's not gonna actually do anything.I think the idea for a quaint little British zoo battling against corporate suits is fine and has promise, but its been completely squandered here. For the first time ever I would have to say that the shenanigans of both Cleese and Palin actually bored and annoyed me at times. I've never really come across a movie that has tried to pretty much copy its predecessors formula so blatantly. I mean seriously! why would you even watch this when you have the first movie which is exactly the same and so much better.4/10 "},{"Title":"Great funny film","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Any one of the comic scenarios the film-makers bring up would be worth exploring to the end. The fact that they cannot seem to keep one satirical conceit going for any stretch, and feel the need to overhaul the plot in a new direction every twenty minutes or so, definitely lessens the impact the movie could have had. And yet, for example just because the writers beg off early on the fierce creatures idea doesn't make it any less hilarious - both as a concept and in execution. The scenes of the kindly zookeepers trying to sell their individual cute little animals as dangerous is one of the funniest scenes in the movie. But then, later, when that concept has been forgotten, and we instead see Kevin Kline leading around a group of potential financial backers, giving them his notions of how corporate sponsorship could work at the zoo . . . well, that's one of the funniest scenes too. What I'm saying is, though a strong focus is something the film lacks, it makes up for it by filling its running time with enough entertaining and well devised comic moments to make you feel like you got your money's worth.The performances help. As in Fish Called Wanda, Jamie Lee Curtis is not particularly noteworthy as an actress OR a comedienne, but she gets by on her general sultriness and willingness to play cheerfully along. Most importantly, she keeps out of the way of the big boys and lets them do their stuff. As I mentioned, Cleese is a little moldier here than usual, but there's still no one who does high-strung fussiness better, and he holds down the screen nicely. As with Wanda, though, it's Kevin Kline who really steals the show - this time in a dual role, as the Murdoch-like head of the conglomerate and his stupid slimeball son who has big plans for the zoo (as well as getting into Curtis's pants). The sheer *energy* he throws out is infectious, and his ability to play off himself - in the scenes between father and son - is nothing short of superb. Blessedly, the dual role bit is revealed as more than just an actor's stunt by the way the movie is resolved had Kline not been playing both roles, the movie could never end the way it does. That, too, was a nice touch.Genial, breezy, good spirted - this is Fierce Creatures. Nothing in the masterpiece league but, especially if you've seen A Fish Called Wanda, it's a nice evening spent with old friends - with some new and well devised jokes thrown into the mix. "},{"Title":"A Pythonesque Poke at Big Business","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My first impression of this movie is that it is very Monty Python. This is not surprising considering that John Cleese wrote it. The film comprises of the actors from A Fish Called Wanda, but unlike the previous movie, the comedy in Fierce Creatures is much more Pythonisque. The most Pythonish part of this movie is the first part where the zookeepers are trying to convince Cleese that these cute, cuddly, animals are actually vicious creatures.An executive, Willa, quits her job to go and work for the most powerful businessman in the world. The problem is, is that the company that she was going to oversee he had already sold, so she decides to take up the offer of running a zoo. The bosses son, who likes Willa and wants to sleep with her, goes over to England with her to help run the zoo. The rules are that the zoo must make a 20% profit margin or it is deemed too useless and is torn down. This is a problem because there are a lot of animals in the zoo that will be killed with it. But the tycoon doesn't care, he just wants his money.Fierce Creatures is a poke at big business and the way that it sacrifices that which makes life interesting for money. The boss is willing to kill all of the animals in the zoo, and in fact didn't fire Cleese because he thought he did kill some of the animals. It also has a go at Rupert Murdoch because the Tycoon is a New Zealander and has a very bad Australian accent. In fact, the minute the boss enters the movie you immediately know that he is an Australian, though the claim to be a New Zealander really bad because New Zealander accents are nothing like Australian accents (well, okay, they are, but listen really closely when they say six).It is also cute the way Cleese is set up in a way that he seems to sleep with multiple women. One can see a set up happening, and it is always done in a way that it seems he has multiple women, which is quite cute. The thing is that Cleese does not have any women in the movie except for Willa at the end. And of course the bosses' son is quite jealous about this.Fierce Creatures is a pretty good movie and sticks to what is expected from Monty Python. Those who appreciated Monty Python will find that this movie is just as enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Must see!!!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why I hadn't seen this movie sooner, but I wish I had. I just happened to be flipping through the channels last night when I caught this just starting on Starz. It was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a while. It literally had me howling and rolling on the floor. I'm sitting here chuckling thinking about parts of the movie as I right this. He's drinking her blood!  lol See this movie!! "},{"Title":"A Great funny movie","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A fish called Wanda was a classic Adult comedy.this has a PG so its more Carry On.this has its share of belly laughs.the movie has a Terrific cast.Kline was great as the inept son.Cleese was also excellent.the supporting cast Robert Lindsay Ronnie Corbett and Derek Griffiths are given little to do which was a shame.the music score by my favourite composer is probably his worst score ever.Carey Lowell one of the best ever Bond Girls has a thankless role.but as a comedy it made me laugh.nice and colourful a great movie. 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Hilarious follow up to Wanda","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie stars the big three from A Fish Called Wanda, but it is not a sequel. It is however, hilarious in its own right. The interplay between Cleese and Curtis is again very funny with a fine edge of sexual tension. I really enjoyed this movie, though perhaps not quite as much as Wanda. It is more open comedy as opposed to the black edge in Wanda.Some terrific slapstick scenes, but also some good verbal laughs as well.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Just give it a chance, and you'll love it.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Admittedly, my standards were very high after seeing A Fish Called Wanda. Which is probably why I was disappointed with the first twenty minutes or so.And then as soon as Cleese accused an injured woman of faking her pain, tasting her blood in one of those characteristic, hallmark misunderstandings, I was hooked.From then on it was excellent. I laughed and laughed. A stellar cast provided a ton of jokes, although I was saddened to see Michael Palin's diminished role.Other comments about this film state that the authors gave up after twenty minutes. What a pity, because if they'd have stayed for longer, they would have loved it.A word of advice don't watch this movie with A Fish Called Wanda in your head. View it with an open mind. It has nothing to do with Wanda (except for a small in-joke or two).Finally, it's great to see Cleese returning to writing comedy. The combination of subtle British and in-your-face American humour make this comedy a must see. ***** (5/5). "},{"Title":"still laughing","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest I have ever seen, even funnier than the Monty Python Holy Grail, almost as funny as The life of Brian(if that can be done), there was not even a minute when i wasn't laughing.  Jon Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline and  Micheal Palin make this one of the funniest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"A hoot and a half!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fun, engaging, bright, and positive. In spite of some grave misgivings when I started to watch, I was definitely engaged with this farcical comedy. I have finally figured out why I was so taken with it--the animal actors!Part of the appreciation of a work almost always is due to the sympathy one feels for the characters. That sympathy is won primarily by assorted Lemurs, Ostriches, Roos, etc. in this film. "},{"Title":"It's got John Cleese, what else is there to say?","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fierce Creatures is an hilarious flick! If you like zany subplots, bizarre running gags, silly costumes, and crazy endings, then see this movie! "},{"Title":"No words but excellent","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are no words for this movie than excellent, one of the greatest comedies I saw "},{"Title":"Fiercely funny!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fierce Creatures is one of my favorite films. It might be because (unlike probably many Americans) I have seen a lot of English humor from childhood. It might be because I'm an environmentalist. It might be because I'm a Monty Python-fan. But this film, with finally an original plot line, an unlikely couple, a parody of modern multinational businesses and a lot of not-so-cliché animals really gets me. Yes, it is funny. And what's more, it happens to have a real message, unlike most of the supposedly hilarious Hollywood comedies. Not something like be yourself or don't put work first, but a message about what we're doing to the environment, and what is our responsibility. In a way, this film is trying to do exactly what the zoo in the film is doing using its form of communication not to satisfy cheap audience tastes (though that might also work with the gags and the superb acting) but to teach them a different way to relate to animals. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Fish called Wanda, but I don't mind.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't understand why some people don't like this movie.. I personally think that it's very very very funny!! yes, not as funny as fish called Wanda, and you shouldn't expect it to be as funny, because then your expectations will be too high and you get disappointed. I think Michael Palins character should've been more central and get more attention and lines. To tell you the truth I expected to see more Palin and I got disappointed partly.. the plot however wasn't as well written as in Wanda, but as I said before you shouldn't expect it to be.. It's hard to get to the same level because Wanda is a absolutely fabulous movie. I laughed my head off watching this movie.. but not as off as in Wanda. "},{"Title":"See it as a movie on itself, rather than to compare it to A Fish Called Wanda","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Despite the fact that this movie isn't a sequel to A Fish Called Wanda, many people like to compare this Fierce Creatures with it. Some even seem to see that as enough reason not to like this movie. Personally I wouldn't go that far. For as far as I know the only comparison that can be made between the two is the fact that its story deals about animals and that most actors from the first movie also played a role in the second one. I don't think that's reason enough to like or dislike this movie and since I try to see it as a new and separate movie, I'll not make any further comparison between the two.When a massive company - which is active in all kinds of industrial and commercial branches - takes over the failing London Marwood Zoo, the cruel tycoon Rod McCain is only interested in bringing more business to the zoo or in case that isn't possible, to sell it to Japanese owners who will turn it into a golf course. Octopus Inc. (that's the well-chosen name of the company) hires a new manager, called Rollo Lee, who almost immediately comes up with a plan that will definitely attract more customers. The zoo will have to get rid of all animals that aren't ferocious or dangerous enough, because according to him the audience is only interested in dangerous things. This new policy shocks the zookeepers, who will do anything possible to make him change ideas. But in the meantime Rod McCain wants to see results and when he doesn't get them quickly enough, he sends in his son Vince McCain and the up-and-coming business executive Willa Weston. They will have to take over control from Rollo Lee, but once they are there, Willa's views on zoo management completely change. While Vince comes up with a lot of merchandise, fake robotic animals, a lot of publicity boards all over the place,... she starts to realize the true value of these animals. Together with Rollo and the staff, she tries to prevent that the McCain's will completely destroy this zoo...Overall the quality of this movie is quite good and the acting has a lot to do with that of course. I guess not everybody appreciates it as much as I do, but I really like John Cleese's style and in my opinion his interaction with Jamie Lee Curtis really works. Also interesting is Kevin Kline in his double role, Michael Palin as the bug-loving zookeeper,... I'm certainly not going to say that it's the best comedy I've ever seen, but I had a good time with it. Even though not all the jokes and gags worked perfectly, there were enough good ones to make me forget about that. And being a marketeer myself, I had even more fun with the jokes about the publicity. In our business it's very easy to go too far and that's something that was shown very well in this movie. Now don't think that I believe they should show this in every class about the do's and don't's in publicity, but it worked for me and that's all that counted when I was watching this movie.Overall I had a good time watching this movie, but I can understand that not everybody appreciates it as much as I do. Personally I love all animals, but many people don't and may therefor not be that interested in this movie. Seeing so many of them in this movie, together with those fine and famous actors, really gave me a good time though. Add to this a simple, but decent story, some fine jokes,... and you know why I liked this movie. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen in ages","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After A Fish called Wanda i knew that the team, especially John Cleese would have a tough job beating it.  Although this is very different from Wanda i found it absolutely hilarious.Michael Palin yet again stole the film with his chatterbox insect keeper. But the best scene of the movie involved Terry the tarantula.Overall this movie has cheered me up and will do so every time i watch it "},{"Title":"It's from the same people who gave the world a fish called wanda!!","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is from the same people who starred in the english comedy a fish called wanda!!A tycoon takes over a zoo. Thre tycoon wants to promote the zoo by saying it has fierce creatures. Of course the tycoon encountes some problems during the movie!The tycoon is played by Kevin Kline(in a dual role,yes like Wild,Wild West!!). Eventually the son and the zoo staff come up with a way to save the zoo!!If you Kevin Kline(in 2 roles),John Cleese(The Out of Towners,The World is Not Enough), Jamie Lee Curtis(True Lies,Halloween) and Micheal Palin(I dont know anything about him,Sorry!!) , then you might like this farce about a very strange zoo with the fish called wanda gang!!! "}{"Title":"A Reunion Of The Wanda Cast In A Fun Movie With A Weak Story","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The problem that Fierce Creatures has to overcome - and, to be perfectly honest, the problem that it doesn't and probably couldn't overcome - is the inevitable comparison to A Fish Called Wanda. I thought Wanda was gut-wrenchingly funny; one of my favourite comedies ever. Fierce Creatures reunites basically the entire starring cast from that movie (John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Michael Palin and Kevin Kline) but gives them a totally unrelated and original story to work with (although the very last scene of the movie does pay homage to the earlier movie, as Cleese's character inadvertently calls Curtis's Wanda.) So this isn't a sequel in any way, shape or form. It's just the cast reunited in a different project. But if you've ever seen A Fish Called Wanda you're going to be painfully aware that this isn't as good.In this, Curtis is actually playing Willa Weston, an employee of a media mogul who's just bought a zoo in England and - unknown to Willa, who's sent to take charge of it - is planning to close it. Cleese played Rollo Lee, who had been in charge of the zoo and had planned to maximize profits (and thus hopefully save the zoo) by getting rid of all the gentle, timid animals and keeping only the frighteningly fierce creatures, believing that those animals are the only ones people come to see. (Cleese is perhaps the only one of the stars who I thought was as good and as much fun as in Wanda.) Kline played both the mogul and his son Vince, sent with Willa, and in love with her (and equally convinced that she's in love with him) while Palin played one of the zookeepers, with a particular soft spot for tarantulas.It is, in fact, nowhere near as good as A Fish Called Wanda. What I liked about it, though, was that it did make me laugh out loud several times - and many so-called comedies don't do that, and don't even come close to doing that. Some of the content is actually quite funny, especially some of the misunderstandings about Rollo's sexual activities that arise from people hearing only parts of conversations and not understanding what's actually happening. It's not really original, but it is funny enough. What doesn't work, though, is the story. There isn't enough to hold a movie together. This basic plot would have perhaps made for a great half hour TV sitcom episode. Trying to stretch it out over an hour and a half (and thankfully no longer than that) was overkill to say the least. To me at least, the story had no real cohesion. It's also exceptionally confusing at times. The beginning of the movie, for example, seems to set Rollo up as the bad guy, but then there's a sudden shift as Rollo turns out to be a softie, and Vince and his dad become the real nasty characters. The shift in the Rollo character was a bit too sudden for my liking, and Kline's Vince was too over the top in a way that wasn't really either funny or likable.I still liked this and had fun with it and laughed at it. But the weak story takes its toll, and the unavoidable comparison to A Fish Called Wanda makes this one suffer. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Where Does the Third One Go?","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Just a collection of skits, mostly misses. But here is Jamie Lee as a redhead. Pretty much the whole enterprise revolves around her reactions. This is a very specific type of film humor. Pretty hard to do it seems. Wonder why Jamie Lee never was a big success, given how she holds this together, keeping up with Cleese and Kline.My theory is that some actors depend on very specific conditions to thrive. Just look at her few scenes without Kline or Cleese to see how ordinary she usually is. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Insanely funny","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rollo is the director of a London zoo which is not making enough money for billionaire Rod McCain, who doesn't need the money but doesn't care. His idea is to get rid of all animals that are not fierce creatures because the less dangerous animals don't produce enough revenue. The zoo employees try in vain to persuade Rollo that some of the animals are in fact fierce, but it doesn't work. Rollo's solution turns out to be quite hilarious, and not as demented as it might seem.But Rod is not happy with the job Rollo is doing, and he sends Vince and Willa to make improvements. With hilarious results. The zoo employees look like NASCAR drivers and every exhibit appears to have a sponsor.Add to that a naughty sense of humor. For example, while Rollo is hiding some of the less desirable animals in his sleeping quarters, Willa (on the phone) thinks he has numerous women with him. Plenty of other evidence of Rollo's supposed womanizing gets him in even more trouble. And then there is the time the woman falls down steps and needs an ambulance. One has to forget the concern that might be felt for characters in pain in most movies or TV shows, and just enjoy the moment.John Cleese and Jamie Lee Curtis both do fine jobs here. Cleese has an insane sense of humor, though his consideration for others lacks the outrageousness of Basil Fawlty. That's probably a good thing; Kevin Klines's two characters do enough of that sort of thing. Curtis does her best work when not even saying a word, making expert use of facial expressions. Plus she has a hot body and shows it off in tight and often revealing outfits.I don't think I'd recommend this for children. But it might appeal to the Monty Python fans. "},{"Title":"Hardly Fierce!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fierce Creatures (1997) Dir Fred Schepisi, Robert Young / Cast John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline, Michael Palin, Robert Lindsay Not a sequel to the superior A Fish Called Wanda as it is a reunion of the cast. Title may be suggesting man as nature's most destructive domination. Interesting concept involves a failing zoo and the idea of presenting the wildlife as more fierce. Any animal that is not considered fierce is removed. To prevent this employees go about faking injuries and scheming up stories of wild anteaters. Very creative until a rather corrupt ending. Directors Robert Young and Fred Schepisi are backed by fine imagery but the screenplay had potential, which failed to come together with the clever result of the other film. John Cleese pulls off any humour as the zoo owner who feels some regret and sympathy for the rejected animals. The rest of the cast fail to repeat the previous brilliance. Jamie Lee Curtis is plainly not funny and mainly seen as a romantic ploy. Kevin Kline is flat as a father and son duo. Michael Palin as a janitor tends to overact. A Fish Called Wanda is a clever caper with top notch acting from this very cast. Fierce Creatures had potential before it went to the dogs and that is something considering what it fails to measure up to. In the end it is just a lousy follow up to A Fish Called Wanda, which was far more fierce. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A funny movie (from a different perspective)","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had to say it's a good movie. When I first saw this, it was a year and 6 months since I became a fan of Kevin Kline. (He was so nice to me and my mum when we met him as my early birthday present.) I watched a scene where Vince was stripping and goofing off and that was what brought me to rent this on Netflix. I now have it in my own home. Whenever I see Kevin play two characters or more, I say stuff like He's talking to himself the whole time. It's like he's doing everything at once. He was so handsome when he's in his 50's and he's still handsome to this day (in his late 60's.) I don't usually watch Monty Python but I liked the skit where John Cleese was at a pet store and told the manager that the parrot was dead. I admired John for more than a decade since Shrek 2. And I admire Jaime Lee Curtis since Freaky Friday in the summer of 2003. "},{"Title":"A day at the zoo with Cleese and company","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Although it has the three main characters from A Fish Called Wanda, this film sure isn't a sequel to that one. It's a whole new plot, and though not quite a funny as their first, the three stars still are quite hilarious here.Fierce Creatures pokes a lot of fun at a lot of things &#x96; most, very subtly. The PG-13 rating is right on. I suspect whomever decides those things did so here because some children might be offended because they don't understand the treatment of animals. Actually, the film is quite adult in its humor with its subtle sexual innuendos. They are mostly very funny. Most young teens today probably wouldn't get them either. This movie clearly was made for adults, and it's a real hoot. I don't know any other comedy actor today who can play the naïve (almost) innocent guy of good intentions who turns out to be such a buffoon. John Cleese (as Rollo Lee) always nails such roles. Those, and his sardonic Basil Fawlty are great sources for tons of laughter. All the roles are played well here. Kevin Kline is very good in his double role. His Rod McCain seems overblown, but I suspect it's meant to be so, and is still quite funny. Some of the greatest humor is in the scenes where we see Jamie Lee Curtis as Willa Weston, and her look of fantasy with a smile on her face. They happen each time there are innuendos of Cleese's Rollo having various sexual trysts. One can imagine her thoughts. This is a very funny film that many people are sure to like. Here are some sample lines to whet one's appetite. The zoo staff is trying to convince Rollo, the new zoo manager, that their small animals are ferocious. Rollo wants to feature the ferocious and scary to draw more crowds. Sydney, played by Robert Lindsay, has a sign up warning people about the dangerous meerkats. Rollo tells him it's preposterous. Sydney, Oh, you've never been attacked by one, sir. Rollo, Nobody's been attacked by one. Or, rather, if they have they never noticed.Rollo, Look, look. I have to be hard-nosed. All the time. I mean McCain demands it. All the time. You've gotta be tough, tough, tough. God knows why. Willa. You mean Octopus is ruled by fear? Rollo, No. No. By terror.No other zoos will take their small animals. Rollo tells the staff they will have to dispose of them. They bring the animals to him to shoot. Pip, played by Cynthia Cleese, says, You will make it quick, sir, won't you? Rollo, What? You mean I'm not allowed to torture them a bit first just for fun?  Pip, You wouldn't do that? Rollo, I wasn't serious, you stupid girl. Later, the zoo staff are gathered and they hear shots. They find Rollo patting the dirt on top of several apparent graves. They think he shot the small animals. Until later when they discover he has them as pets in his apartment.If this were a Marx Brothers film (in place of the three leads), it would be called A Day at the Zoo. "},{"Title":"Not 'Wanda' but don't let that put you off","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After the massive success of A Fish Called Wanda, there was a lot of pressure on the four main stars to reunite. Then, when the 'sequel' (which isn't actually a sequel, simply a new story with new characters, played by the original four actors) came out, it was a bit of a let-down (apparently).I can see where the negatives reviews came from, not because Fierce Creatures is a bad film (it isn't - I find it hilarious!), but because it's so radically different from its predecessor. A Fish Called Wanda was dark and adult in nature, plus its plot of double-crossing bank robbers and corrupt barristers was definitely suited for adults into black comedy. Therefore people expected Fierce Creatures to offer something similar. It doesn't. It's a bit of a mish-mash of comedy styles, but I see it more like a modern form of a 'Carry On...' film.It's light-hearted, it's bawdy, it's corny, it's basically a farce of a film and it never tries to take itself seriously. I almost expected Benny Hill to run on at any stage, followed by a small bald man having his head patted - it's that sort of level. However, if you're into that (and the great Benny Hill proves that that sort of humour has international appeal), you should enjoy it.Seriously, it's also as clever as Wanda, poking fun at a large 'News Corporation-style' company buying a British zoo and trying to use awful mass-marketing techniques to try and increase revenue. It's just a totally different form of humour. Fans of Monty Python will revel in (the much underused) Michael Palin's character and although Kevin Kline didn't deserve another Oscar for his performance, he was almost rivalling Cleese in his madcapness! If you've seen and loved A Fish Called Wanda, don't judge Fierce Creatures too harshly. It was never meant to be a sequel, just some harmless fun with animals (and only the one bullet to the head). "},{"Title":"Zygomatic Parc (tv)","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, if it wasn't for Jamie Lee, i think i would never have watched this movie and it would have been unfortunate as it's indeed very funny. The pitch seems to point the opposite but it has some crazy characters interacting in a a lot of mad situations. I like this kind of humor as it's more than just spoof or jokes and needs a very detailed imagination. In addition, along the accurate clichés about eccentric Americans and uptight British, the movie is also a witty analysis of actual family entertainment like a Zoo! The new methods of management are truly strange as they lead to anything except making money and closing the zoo! Next, the casting is just extraordinary as each one just acts their best. So it's a excellent appetizer before the famous fish&#x85; "},{"Title":"Let's just hope there won't be a AFCW series like there was Halloween...","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" G/d forbid the Fish Called Wanda fundamentalists do like the Halloween 1 absolutists, and go around denying any existence or relevance of any subsequent films.That doesn't mean this is a great flick or that the inevitable comparisons to AFCW will not or should not happen. But who could hate a movie that features baby ostriches and pocket-sized kangaroos?? Everyone loves a movie that makes fun of marketing people at corporatist companies. Especially me. So yes, I ended up enjoying the portrayal of McZoo as well as the oh-so-ironic product placement sight gags by Absolute, Guiness, Lego, Sunkist, etc.Fans of the Jamie Lee Smirk and her trademark scene-stealing cleavage gimmicks will find plenty to amuse themselves, too. They could have left out the bonding moment with the gorilla, though. That was entirely too weird.6/10. A nice letterbox version might have made it a 7. "},{"Title":"Jeeves and Wooster","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Feel strongly opposed to comments directed at Jeeves and Wooster. Botched?!It's impossible to imagine better casting. Stephen Fry is such an obvious choice, and is just about perfect, even if he is playing within himself. What's amazing is that his long term comedy partner, Hugh Laurie, is also perfect. Anyone who thinks contrary to this is coming from a very odd angle.  But that's just me, I suppose. I quite enjoyed 'Fierce Creatures', even if it did suffer by comparison. "}{"Title":"Don't compare this with A Fish Called Wanda","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is a pity that some people can't view this funny little movie without comparing it to the classic Wanda. It was probably a mistake to have used the exact same cast and have near identical advertising photos done for the films' release too. Viewed free of comparisons this film holds up really well. Kevin Kline and Michael Palin come off as funniest, given the most extreme characters. The ending is terrific. "},{"Title":"Good, not great...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although it doesn't quite hold up to it's e-quel, A Fish Called Wanda featuring the same cast, this is quite a funny movie. The storyline clearly doesn't matter much, it's simply a device to hang some great performances onKevin Kline is typically compelling (playing two roles), Michael Palin, who played a virtually non-speaking role in Wanda, is riotous here as a zookeeper who won't stop talking. However, it's the imagined sexual chemistry between John Cleese and Jamie Lee Curtis that steals the show for much of the movie. There is one very funny scene of Cleese dropping a series of Freudian slips as he is flustered by the sexy and very forward Curtis.If you pay attention, you'll hear some echoes of classic Monty Python sketches (it's just a flesh wound, sir), so if you're a fan of that and all that followed, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film reunites the cast of A Fish Called Wanda. I've never seen it but I have seen Fierce Creatures and Kevin Kline is one of my favorite actors.When I watched this film I laughed as much as I laughed during Monty Python and the Holy Grail.  Non stop laughs and a simple plot make this a fun movie for a few kicks on a weekend.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Silly in the wrong meaning of the word.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The makers of 'Fish Called Wanda' (which I quite liked) needed money fast and forgot to think up some real jokes. Silly in the wrong meaning of the word. I (together with 4 friends) stepped out of the theater. Someone give me back my money! Not recommended for fans of Fawlty Towers (Fatty Owls / Farty Towels) "},{"Title":"No cure for a bullet in the brain.....","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Corporate conglomerate, Octopus Inc, run by shrewd tycoon Rod McCain, purchases a UK-based leisure company, and the failing London Marwood Zoo.Octopus hires a new manager, Rollo Lee, who promptly comes up with a way to increase profits, do away with all the animals except for the ferocious ones.This new Policy shocks zookeepers, led by unendingly talkative Adrian Bugsy Malone.Eventually, McCain's son Vince, along with business executive Willa Weston, take control of the zoo and revoke the Policy.Vince instead comes up with many schemes to attract customers-unauthorised celebrity endorsements, shoddy, overpriced zoo merchandise, and using robotic animals.Vince is also stealing from the zoo's funds, and when his father finds out, he rears to turn the zoo into a Japanese-owned golf course.But Willa has grown to love the zoo, and, along with her newly-reformed love interest Rollo, plot with the zookeepers to save the zoo from the McCains...The say lightning never strikes twice, and even though this movie has some very funny moments, it isn't a patch on A Fish Called Wanda. And the trouble is that the majority of the cast literally look like they are trying too hard.Kline is annoying in this (in both roles) and Cleese just looks a little bewildered. Palin is good, but again, over hamming it, and Curtis has the look on her as if to say, i'm the most famous one here.So thank heavens for the rest of the cast, they are truly hilarious and bring the film to life. If the film had been a little more scathing in it's humour, rather than cuddly, then it could have been a winner.it appears that it's trying to be too safe for it's own good, as if it wanted to appeal to a wider audience.Instead, it starts, charms a little with it's innuendo, and then goes, like a sweet great aunt. "},{"Title":"Insipid And Poorly Performed","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A little background first I remember reading a magazine article where John Cleese talks up this movie as being very funny. But later on I would learn that the original movie, after being shot, got a bad reception from preview audiences so they redid the whole thing. The revised version is hardly good either.A trite premise a conglomerate head (based on Rupert Murdoch but not resembling him) happens to obtain a failing zoo as part of a major package purchase and wants to make it profitable by eliminating the cuddly animals and retaining the fierce, and therefore supposedly exciting ones. (He's never heard of petting zoos?) Of course the people at the zoo try to resist the plan.A confusing plot, recycled and overused jokes, and poor performances by all involved make this a dud. I didn't like A Fish Called Wanda that much but it was certainly far better than this. "},{"Title":"Decent Flick!","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A follow-up to the wildly popular 'A Fish Called Wanda', starring the same four legendary actors, John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline and Michael Palin. 'Fierce Creatures' is a Decent Flick, that hasn't managed a cult following, that is because, it's comparison is to a really mighty film! If a direct sequel, I also would've been a tad underwhelmed. But, as it plays it safe by claiming it as a follow up, I didn't go thinking of watching another 'Wanda'. To be honest, 'Fierce Creatures' is dumb, but at the same, it's funny, nonetheless.'Fierce Creatures' centers around a British zoo which has recently been acquired by New Zealand businessman Rod McCain played by Kline and put under the management of Rollo Lee played by Cleese. In order to boost profits, Lee decides to institute a fierce creatures policy that means, that only potentially deadly animals will be featured in the zoo.Clesse's Writing is funny at parts, but at times, it's dumb. Yet, I found the climax to be fairly entertaining. Fred Schepisi and Robert Young direct this comedy well. Cinematography, Editing, Art Design, are proper.Performance-Wise Kline is excellent in both the roles, and truly is the funniest of the lot. Clesse, like always, gets his timing right. Jamie Lee Curtis is good. Michael Palin doesn't get much scope here. Robert Lindsay is passable.On the whole, A Decent One-Time Watch. "},{"Title":"Cleese at His Best","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie breaks me up every time I see it; it is hilarious. One of my favorite films, released before this one, is A Fish Called Wanda. Fierce Creatures shares most of the same cast and is at least as funny. John Cleese is unsurpassed in his ability to deliver unbelievable lines with a straight face and then appear to be completely surprised by what he has just said. He is at the top of his form in this movie. Kevin Kline's part is not as good in this as in the earlier film, but he plays it to the hilt, especially as he has a double role. Jamie Lee Curtis is as sexy and funny in this one as in the first one, and Michael Palin is even better in this one than the earlier one. I am surprised to see Cary Lowell playing a small (but good) part, after seeing her with a major role in the James Bond film Licence to Kill. Even Maria Aitken, who was great as the wife in A Fish Called Wanda, has a small part in this film, which she plays well.The script for this movie is excellent. The situations in which Cleese finds himself remind me much of the great scenes he had in the British TV series Fawlty Towers, the first performances I recall seeing of Cleese. He is certainly one of the funniest movie or TV comedians I have ever seen. I will enjoy watching this film often. "},{"Title":"Saddam Hussein presents&#133;Fierce Creatures","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Fierce Creatures is the quasi-sequel to the great A Fish Called Wanda, a movie I need to revisit as well. More of an excuse for those stars to get back together and have some fun, the film brings out some big laughs with its farce, overacting, and Monty Pythonesque absurdity of events and wordplay. It may not be great comedy, but there is enough heart and enjoyment to have a good time. Really, whenever you can see John Cleese and Michale Palin on screen together, take it as a rare treat that may not happen again soon enough.The plot serves as a backbone to the jokes with a wealthy entrepreneur, buying up companies to either make a profit or turnover to sell for more, making a recent purchase of an English zoo. Sending one of his TV men over to take control, Cleese, the zoo finds itself trying to get rid of all the cuddly animals for fierce, violent creatures that will bring people in. This aspect brings some nice moments as the zoo crew attempts to fool their new boss on what the true definition of fierce is. Back in the states, however, a young businesswoman, played by Jamie Lee Curtis, and the business magnate's son, a fantastically manic Kevin Kline, come up with a plan to run the zoo with advertising and drive revenue through the roof. When these two arrive at the zoo with the already incumbent Cleese, the comedy really starts to get going.Most of the laughs come by way of Python style, not surprisingly since Cleese is one of the credited writers. The humor comes out of words most times as well as misunderstandings which snowball into stammering excuses and ramblings of innocuous information. Cleese and Palin are the kings at both respectively and their confrontations are always entertaining. Curtis, then, is pretty much the straightman in this ensemble. She has good comedic timing, but mostly the others play off of her as her body doubles as a prop to create situations of humor around. Kline, on the other hand, plays both father and son of the business family. Whether he is the loud, brash, aging billionaire or the conniving, simple-minded son biding his time until he takes over the business, he steals many of his scenes. Sometimes even stealing them from himself as the two roles go at it on screen together at multiple occasions.No one will be picking up this movie for its storyline. It is all about the actors and their improvisations and reactions to what is played off of them. I'm sure there are plenty of slip-ups and laughter to fill a gag reel almost as long as the film itself, but in reality, Fierce Creatures is somewhat of a blooper reel itself. The plot is really only there in order to loosely hold the comedy skits together. I wouldn't be surprised if the gags were thought of first and the story then written around them to tie it all up. Either way, if you are looking for a good time with some laughter and levity in an otherwise depressing day, you shouldn't be too disappointed with this selection, especially if you are a fan of British-style humor. "},{"Title":"One to Watch","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film contains most of the cast from A Fish Called Wanda and is extremely good. A Very funny film where Cleese is sent to Manage a Zoo and to hilarious result.Rating Four Stars out of Five "}{"Title":"Fierce Competition to the Quartet's Predecessor.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Arguably the greatest quartet of actors (John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline and Michael Palin) assembled for a movie return one more time in Fierce Creatures, an unofficial reunion of the major players from the excellent A Fish Called Wanda. All the actors play totally different characters this time as an English zoo becomes the main focus. The zoo is about to be closed, but there is an elaborate scheme by an evil businessman (Kline in some heavy makeup) to kill all the gentle animals and just leave the fierce creatures. Kline's son (played by Kline again) and new employee Jamie Lee Curtis come to take over the duties of former director John Cleese (keeping him on in a lesser role) and Curtis falls in love with the way the zoo is while Kline thinks about nothing except making money. Thus he creates less of a zoo and more of a theme-less theme park that is little more than a bunch of advertisements and crazed exhibits. Of course Palin is also along for the ride once again as one of the upset zookeepers. Fierce Creatures is overall an enjoyable film that is funny, but little else. The romance, intrigue and intelligence that made A Fish Called Wanda such a success are all absent this time. Losing the late Charles Crichton as director was a blow, but the performers still make the movie worth your time. Kline, in particular, dominates once again. Overall a good companion to the quartet's initial venture in 1988. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Monty Python for animal lovers","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie, while certainly funny and endearing, seems like it's all been done before. The jokes and gags all seem more than vaguely reminiscent of those thinly disguised sex-joke skits one used to see on Monty Python, Benny Hill, On the Buses and other BBC-produced sitcoms. If you like that kind of humor, then this movie is for you.The entire premise of the film - about a bunch of assorted oddballs all trying to save a British zoopark from being put out of business by a Rupert-Murdochian sort of business tycoon by turning it into a sort of wacky, gaudy, ultra-commercialized theme park - seems like it could only have come from the writers of Monty Python. Of course, if you check the writing credits, sure enough, you will see that John Cleese and Iain Johnstone both have Monty Python heritage.But this is a well-crafted film, expertly filmed and staged. It moves along at a fairly fast clip. All the lead actors in it are instantly likeable, and do an admirable job with delivery of their lines, almost all of which require precise timing in order to make the comedy work. In this area they do not fail. I also love the facial expressions of Kevin Kline as he expertly handles two different roles in the film. John Cleese is particularly funny as he deadpans his way through his role of zoopark manager. I'm glad that John Cleese has landed the role of the guy who's replaced 'Q' in the new James Bond movies. But I also hope we get to see more of his comic genius on the big screen in lead roles such as in this movie, Fierce Creatures.In summary, get yourself in a silly mood and watch this wonderful, wacky comedy. Then, go take your kids to the zoo! "},{"Title":"A satisfying follow-up to A Fish Called Wanda.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While not as good as it predecessor, Fierce Creatures is still worth a look. The cast is still great as is the script.Rollo Lee(Cleese)is determined to change the image of his zoo by only putting fierce animals in the cages for the public to see while his staff(which includes the always funny Michael Palin)tries to stop it. His zoo is then bought by the greedy Rod McCain and he sends his son Vince(Kline)and his new worker Willa Weston(Curtis)to manage it and Willa is angry when Vince turns the zoo into a giant media circus of corporate sponsors.That may not sound too intriguing but I couldn't give away the best stuff without spoiling the movie. Some people say they didn't like this movie because it had no connection to 'Wanda'. Well do you know how much less sense the movie would've made with the same characters as 'Wanda'. None whatsoever.If you enjoy Monty Python or A Fish Called Wanda this should be at least a fairly satisfying viewing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fierce flop","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it's a flop, but an interesting one, and it has its moments. The Murdochian mogul is a crude caricature (even the Simpsons have done him better) and Kevin Kline's frenetic son is tedious - he's too ordinary a twit to be really funny. John Cleese in Basil Fawlty mode as the zoo director is only half as silly/funny as usual. Jamie Leigh Curtis is fine as Wanda Mark 2 - she's sex on legs anyway - and the assorted keepers are nearly as appealing as their animals. There is lots of aimless rushing about and misunderstanding (John Cleese the sex symbol?). The production problems show through. Pretty setting though. A shame Charles Crichton (director of A Fish Called Wanda) wasn't available to do this one. "},{"Title":"No Sale","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The cast from the highly succesful film 'A fish called Wanda' is back, with a film totally unconnected with it. That is to say, none of the actors involved in the two movies -  John Cleese, Michael Palin, Jamie Lee Curtis and Kevin Kline - play the same characters, and the setting is completely different. It also means that this film was completely unsuccesful. So, why is it that the same actors and author (John Cleese) responsible for a film that caused a man to die laughing in the theatre (really!) make another movie which is totally ignored and forgotten?Search me. But this movie is ignored, and in my opinion that's a good thing. It's not nearly as good as A fish called Wanda, which deserves to be remembered.To me, this movie fails not so much in the comic timing or its delivery - the situation development is clearly Cleese, and smacks of the classic 'Fawlty Towers' episodes - but the subject matter. Whereas 'A Fish called Wanda' and 'Fawlty Towers' always put the protagonists in enourmously embarrasing situations, due to their own stupidity coupled with circumstance. You'd laugh till you cried as you saw Basil Fawlty again and again unintentionally convincing the psyciatrist that he really was completely insane, or the way Michael Palin in 'Wanda' managed to crush those little dogs without fail.In 'Fierce Creatures', all that Clessesque talent to build situation is spent merely on convincing his american bosses that he's having a lot of sex. To me, this is not particularly embarrasing. Maybe to a tight-lipped Englishman it is, but not to me. Therefore, already the film's comedic potential - to me - goes down the tubes.And that's before the plot even gets going. Allright, so 'Wanda's plot was a little wierd too, but this is just strange. OK, it's original, but it seems a little thin to build a whole movie on. The premise is thisA big multinational firm buys a chain of companies, which includes a zoo. The big brash head of the company (Kevin Kline) demands a 20% return on his money from all his enterprises, so he hires a chinese ex-policeman called Rollo Lee (John Cleese - and no, he doesn't look chinese at all) to supervise the zoo's earnings and get them over the 20% limit. To do this, he demands that the only animals allowed in the zoo are supposed to be fierce man-eaters, to get the audiences.Well, the boss sends two supervisors; his son (Kevin Kline again, he can't resist those roles where he gets to dress up) and a girl called Willa (Jamie Lee Curtis). And so it goes - Willa falls in love with the zoo and Rollo, and Kevin Kline is just an idiot.They are fighting to stop the big boss from selling the zoo. But in my Wanda-saturated mind, I was already saying No Sale. "},{"Title":"Brute Farce","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When Cleese and the Game Keepers enter, the show turns on some real comedic volume. The farce is droll and silly enough until the plot takes a conventional, sentimental turn. I felt like someone was beating me over the head with wooden bananas when Jamie Lee had the enlightenment scene with the gorilla. It turned the film to sentimental slush. I didn't find anything to laugh about after that though I kept hoping the movie would return to the dark side of the farce. "},{"Title":"No A Fish Called Wanda, but still funny","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Obviously, this begs comparison to A Fish Called Wanda, one of the funniest films of all time, since the four acting principals reunite for this film, and John Cleese, who co-wrote Wanda, co-wrote this one as well.  And after the delays and the other director and the re-shoots and so forth, expectations were dimmed.  And the result?  Well, of course it's no A Fish Called Wanda, but be realistic; how often can one obtain perfection?This still has a lot of laughs for me, like when the zoo workers try to convince Cleese how dangerous some actually harmless animals are, or the corporate sponsorship gags, or even how Kline and Curtis mistook Cleese for a sex machine.  Admittedly, I would have liked to have seen more of Palin, yes the reshoots were obvious, making the end somewhat mismatched, and yes, there were some slow spots.  Still, all the principals were good, and it's funny enough to reccommend. "},{"Title":"A fine comedy... and so much more!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, the comedy quad of John Cleese, Jamie Lee Curtis, Michael Palin, and Kevin Kline have done it again.  This one equals, if not betters A Fish Called Wanda.  Each and every one of them is just perfectly suited for each other, and it's a wonder they don't do more acting together.  This movie, which details a small zoo's attempts to stay open, is riddled with subtle jokes and not so subtle jokes.  A big pat on the back to Kevin Kline, I don't think i've seen him do better, especially when he's imitating the character he was playing already.  A must see, and okay for the kiddies to watch, too!  "},{"Title":"His bark is worse than his bite!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Cleese has always been a favorite - because his body is such a comedic tool. Though a lot of this is preposterous it is good to see Michael Palin as the bug man and one of the Ronny's. The tit jokes were crude but funny and the sight gags silly-like making the help wear ads on their coats. Kevin Kline is truly dislikable in both parts.... A nice ensemble comedy for those who like animals and silly jokes.     "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest pictures I have seen .Even though their was some confusion regarding if this was a sequel to a Fish Called Wanda which it wasn't.People just thought that because of the actors.but this movie is hysterical and a little violent but funny violent not morbid.**** "}{"Title":"John's and Kevin's characters were not as interesting to watch in this film when compared to their performances in a fish called wanda","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Cleese is much more enjoyable as characters who more closely resemble the refined, innocent man finding himself turning to sinful desire and being conflicted about the entire process (such as he played in a fish called wanda) and is not nearly as interesting to watch as the fast talking, sarcastic, hyper, off-the-hinge, raspy voiced, domineering man in charge (such as he played in fierce creatures and rat race). Sadly the latter has become his go to role and it lacks depth of some of his former roles of conflict over innocence and desire.Kevin Kline was much more interesting to watch as the dangerous, manly, cunning, jealous, criminal airhead that he played in a fish called wanda more so than the character he played in this movie which was more less masculine, more effeminate (scarf wearing entrance), metrosexual, suit and tie, submissive, airhead, incompetent son who pervertedly and awkwardly pines for dates with the ladies. "},{"Title":"Grim reminder of that Python wit mixed with Kevin Kline bombs is a bad idea","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was looking forward to seeing this movie when i saw a preview on one of the film revues on TV. I didn't really enjoy A Fish Called Wanda mostly because of the total lack of scenes between Cleese's character and Michael Palin's. Then I saw this rather disappointing followup and must say that Wanda looks like pure art in comparison. Like in the former, Kevin Kline plays an obnoxious, idiotic character, but here he simply drowns the film with temper tantrums. In Wanda he was simply clueless but he annoyed me immensely with his insane laughter and his voice sounds like a parrot (how ironic) through most of the film.As for Palin and Cleese, they do have a number of scenes together but they don't really generate laughs. They simply consist of Palin going on and on with his boring ramblings and Cleese trying to shut him up.Jamie Lee Curtis is not given much to do except look sexy which she of course does, but it's a shame that she couldn't have reminded us that she is also quite funny (look at her in True Lies). Here she simply falls for Cleese without much convincing just because he is there. She is not even the most gorgeous of the actresses in the movie when compared to former Bond-Girl, Carey Lowell.The most funny thing in the movie is the scenes where Cleese talks to the animals and that it is mistaken for Cleese having several women in his room and that is not much to recommend seeing it. It's a shame that Cleese have squandered his talent in rather mediocre roles. Just look at his rather embarrassing cameo in the Eric Idle comedy Splitting Heirs. It's a blessing that we still have memories of his glory days of Python and Fawlty Towers. "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A group of really talented people and all those beautiful animals, the director and producers of this movie could avail themselves and make a good movie. Movies are about story telling. There is nothing in this movie that merits the audience's time and money.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely better than A Fish Called Wanda.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie failed at the box office because it was mistakenly assumed to be a sequel to A Fish Called Wanda, just because it contained the same starring cast. That's a crying shame, because not only is it irrelevant to Wanda, it's a good 10 to 15 times better. Wanda was about two pairs of crooks(American and British) with annoying hang-ups who try to pull off a huge heist in London. In this movie, the cast tries to protect a zoo from a corporate takeover which will ruin it. The company in charge wants the zoo to get rid of all their cuddly animals and focus completely on,...well you can guess by the title. Michael Palin's character is nowhere near as pathetic as in Wanda, and Kevin Kline's character(or at least one of them) is someone you can be far more sympathetic with. Plus the ending is much happier.Pick this one over A Fish Called Wanda the next time you're browsing through the DVD sales rack. You'll be better off with it. "},{"Title":"Somewhat sappy, occasionally fiercely funny zoo satire","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brings together much of the cast and creative crew of the classic A Fish Called Wanda with less impressive, but still amusing, results.  The bulk of the movie, whose story concerns a zoo in the process of being formed into a corporate ad opportunity, is only mildly funny (premise is stretched further than it should be), although there are a few really hilarious moments.  The film pitched a topic (conservation) which its creators could not resist being earnest about, which forces the whole film to be too sincere for its own good as madcap comedy.  Kline is too much like his Wanda character, but Cleese and Curtis create another convincing pair of unlikely lovers, probably the film's best solid asset.  Mild, unobjectionable fun, suitable for children or adults. "},{"Title":"Creative ideas!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie thru a cable TV in 2002. An already old movie when I saw it. But, the movie really amused me very much. I laughed and laughed by myself since there was nobody with me at that midnight. I could not resist my admiration to Jamie Lee Curtis. She was marvelous. The idea of the movie was very creative and --probably-- very much original. If you need a movie that can give you an amusement and if you like creative comedy story, I recommend this. But if you need an Oscar-class movie or movie with many serious thougth of the rationale of the story, look for other movie. "},{"Title":"A few funny moments","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first ten to fifteen minutes after the credits have some good laughs in it.  The last fifteen minutes become a wonderful exercise in dark comedy.  But all the stuff in between is incredibly tedious.  A blatant attempt to cash in on the success of A Fish Called Wanda, though a good attempt was made at making all the characters different from Wanda characters -- and though Kevin Kline turns in another very good performance -- this time the magic doesn't work.  Wanda, with which comparisons are unavoidable, depended on a taut storyline of a bank heist, and all the characters were in danger.  This time none of the characters are in any personal danger worse than unemployment, and the storyline depends on whether or not a rich tycoon (a thinly veiled cross between Ted Turner and Rupert Murdoch  with an Australian accent, but headquartered in Atlanta) will close a backwater zoo.  A game cast, larger than Wanda's and more unwieldy, gives it a good go, but the laughs simply aren't there.  Worse, what's sandwiched between a promising start and a rousing finish is preachy;  the film might've been patched together by the most cloyingly self-righteous animal rights special interest groups rather than professional comedians, becoming more a documentary on giving animals respect than a comedy movie.  In Wanda Michael Palin was an animal rights extremist who endured the indignity of having to assassinate doggies and watching his pet fish eaten, and it was hilarious.  This movie might've, on the surface, been written as payback to powerful animal rights lobbies to make up for Wanda's indiscretions.Despite the poor script, the movie, as mentioned before, does have a great finish that all but makes up for all the tedious previous hour.  If they'd had just the opening credits, the first fifteen minutes, the final fifteen minutes, and ten minutes in the middle to set up the plot, they'd have had a howlingly funny short feature.  As it is, when you're watching this movie, once it gets rolling you don't have to put it on pause to go into the kitchen and fix a snack.  You won't miss anything until the climax.   "},{"Title":"Suffers because of what it's not","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After the massive, and entirely deserved, success of 'A Fish called Wanda' there was pressure to produce a sequel. In fact, the idea was so long in development and writing and rewriting, and starting from scratch etc. that what we ended up with, seven years on, was a film that reunited four people from the Wanda cast, but which was otherwise an entirely different film.But the public were expecting a sequel, similiar too, and funnier than Wanda, and were always going to be disappointed, if that's what they were looking for. Plus Jamie Lee Curtis was losing sex appeal rapidly by 1996.Fierce Creatures is a good film, if slightly directionless. There are plenty of in-jokes, and nice ideas, but it's fairly obvious that the script/plot has been taken apart and put back together so many times, and this adds to the lack of any co-ordinated structure.That said, compared to most of the dross out there, it's one of the better films that's ever been made, just not quite in Wanda class. "},{"Title":"A silly farce, but worth checking out","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You should try watching Fierce Creatures without comparing it to A Fish Called Wanda, but of course that's difficult inasmuch as the studio advertised it as such. John Cleese is rather stuck in his character from Fawlty Towers but he also was in AFCW and that worked very well. This film is certainly not as good as AFCW, but it is pretty funny nonetheless. Michael Palin is, if anything, even more irritating in FC, but that is by design. Kevin Kline playing two parts doesn't really work all that well. There aren't a lot of laugh out loud parts to this film, but a couple of the running gags get better and better as the film goes on.Jamie Lee Curtis is one of those actresses, I don't know, you see her in, say, still pictures, and she doesn't seem all that attractive, but when you roll the film...Her half worldly, half embarrassed, smirk when she thinks she hears Cleese in an orgical situation, (it's a word, look it up) is just soooo charming. OK, back to comparing this movie to AFCW. It lacks the comic darkness in some of the characters that was pulled off so surprisingly well in the earlier film. It is much less edgy. I liked the movie, though. Gave it a 7.  "},{"Title":"A little irritating and stupid but still a fairly good film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My Age 13A cruel tycoon, Rod McKain, played by Kevin Kline, purchases a zoo which isn't profiting enough.  He hires a new manager, Rollo Lee, played by John Cleese, who has an idea about how to raise the profits - get rid of all the animals except for the fierce ones - which satisfies the people's violent minds.  Naturally, the animal holders at the zoo, led by Adrian Bugsy Malone, played by Michael Palin, are horrified by this.  Soon, Rod McKain's son Vince, also played by Kline, and Willa Weston, played by Jamie Lee Curtis, take control and return the zoo to normal.  Vince comes up with some zany ways of bringing in profits - unauthorized celebrity endorsements, animatronic animals - he is also stealing, and his father threatens to turn the zoo into a Japanese golf resort.Fierce Creatures is often quite irritating, for example Rod McKain and Adrian Bugsy Malone's voices, and also quite often has some stupid plot points, for example Willa Weston's contact with the gorilla, but the film is also quite often funny, for example Vince McKain's perception of Rollo Lee's bed habits.  Overall, I think the funny parts overwhelm the stupid and irritating parts, and I must admit that I enjoyed the film's hilarious finale quite a lot.Australian Classification M 15+ Low Level Coarse Language, Sexual ReferencesRating 69 out of 100 "}{"Title":"Funny enough?  Yes, but only just.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Kline is one of my favorite actors.  John Cleese and Michael Palin are comic geniuses.  Jamie Lee Curtis makes you think wonderful and interesting thoughts.  So why is that this film isn't quite as funny as it should be. It is funny.  I laughed at several appropriate moments.  Somehow the film wasn't quite funny enough.  If you want to see a comedy, and have seen all the really good ones, then see this one. "},{"Title":"Animal crackers","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fierce Creatures is a fun little romp about a tycoon who dispatches a couple of exec's to England to shore up the profitability of one of his lesser properties, a zoo. The film works much of it's comedy around zoo animals and the core cast waxing increasingly vaudevillian as it wears on. A gag a minute with a minor romantic thread, this wacky flick is less than sophisticated, quite tame, and very slap-sticky. An okay couch potato watch those in need of comic relief. (B-) "},{"Title":"A Fish Called Wanda it ain't. Really awful.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Among the worst films I have had the displeasure to see, and not in a way that can be good, on any level. There can be no pleasure gained from seeing it, just a sense of acute discomfort and vicarious embarrassment, especially on behalf of Michael Palin, a talented actor whose desperate struggle to rescue this failing vehicle is admirable, but painful to witness. A Fish Called Wanda was hilarious, but this one is went very rotten.  "},{"Title":"Not a total loss.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The new owners of a zoo decide that they will henceforth only house animals capable of causing serious injury, and the zookeepers do their best to subvert this policy.  A decent enough idea.  Unfortunately the idea was push-processed, with the script still being tampered with up to the moment of filming, resulting in a mess of a film.There are many classic Cleese lines and situations (Cleese's little diatribe about meerkats, of all things, is hilarious), none of which are allowed room in which to breathe.  Michael Palin very convincingly argues that his (harmless) tarantula ought be classified as a `fierce' creature, and John Cleese reluctantly agrees.  This ought to have been taken further, with Palin piling sophistry upon sophistry until Cleese was forced to admit that butterflies are fierce; at the very least, the conversation ought to have SOME consequence or other.  It doesn't.  It's merely interrupted, so that we can watch more and still more zany zookeeper antics.  Every scene, every idea, every tension in the script, treads on the toes of every other scene, idea, and tension, with the result that NONE of them are as funny as they could have been.It hurts to say this, but there are also too many old chestnuts - like the one about the blithering John Cleese who is unable to utter three consecutive words without referring to Jamie Lee Curtis's breasts.  Actually, that scene is one of the most cleverly written in the film.  Really, it is.  But so what?  It's out of place and doesn't go anywhere.A good comedy needs a backbone AND good writer.  `Fierce Creatures' has the latter only - and fitfully at that.  Still, it's vastly preferable to the OTHER kind of half-baked comedy, where the writers cook up a good story and forget to include any jokes. "},{"Title":"John Cleese's worst film","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seemed that after the legendary Monty Python films and TV series, the brilliant Fawlty Towers and the hilarious A Fish Called Wanda, writer-actor John Cleese couldn't go wrong. But this is incredibly bad.You can feel the desperation in this movie, hopelessly trying to latch on to Wanda's popularity and brilliance. The ending had to be reshot several times until test audiences approved. Cleese even included some references to Wanda and the Dead Parrot Sketch, as if to say I know this is bad but I wrote Python and AFCW, so please forgive me.The plot concerns some half-baked idea about a zoo being taken over by a money-for-the-sake-of-money Rupert Murdoch/Kerry Packer-type magnate, who sends his idiot son and an ambitious female manager to set things right in the zoo. The jokes are old and cheap, more like a Carry-On film than Python/Fawlty. Rather than laughing, it pained me to see such a talented cast as Cleese, Palin, Kline, Curtis and  Aitken wasted in undeveloped roles as they waddle through this puerile, unfunny and badly written film.How can people say this is better than Fish Called Wanda? There aren't any of those outrageously hilarious scenes like Wanda hiding in Archie's lounge room while Otto tries to cover up for her, K-k-ken assassinating the old lady's dogs or getting chips shoved up his nose, the scenes of complete confusion in court, etc. I think the box office takings speak for themselves Wanda - US$150 million, Fierce Creatures - US$20 million.I tried watching this film a second time, to see if it gets better, it didn't. It got worse. Whatever you do, forget this piece of trash and watch something by Monty Python or A Fish Called Wanda, which is John Cleese at his absolute writing and acting best. "},{"Title":"'Fawlty Towers' transferred to a zoo","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A strong cast and direction couldn't rescue this disappointing effort. It was like watching 'Fawlty Towers' set in a zoo,  or a combination of that and John Cleese's management videos.A few laughs and some mildy amusing slapstick kept my wife and I going for an hour, but by then we'd seen enough and gave it away.  On a 1 thru 4 star rating I give it **.The NZ accents of the Octopus men were risible -- the usual UK bastardisation of broad working class Australian, Sydney style. The characters entirely missed the not-very-subtle differences between the NZ and Australian accents.  "},{"Title":"The Invisible Comedy !","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A comedy ??! Maybe. But for me the misunderstanding points where (John Cleese) was considered as a loose stud went on and on and on. I only liked the first one of the telephone call. The matter of (Kevin Kline) playing 2 characters wasn't understood. Even the 2 characters were so silly themselves; especially the father's one; it gave us free farts along the way for nothing but exciting the nausea. Another character, the one played by (Michael Palin), was totally unfunny. In fact the comedy in this movie suffered from being nonexistent. The talking scenes are plenty with no ironic stuff; unless it's about (Cleese) being a playboy!. Save the sequence of thinking (Cleese) as a killer, the action comedy was miserable as well. I freaked out due to the huge spider which they used more than once. Not to mention the idiot ending where everything was simply solved by the death of the original owner. If one thing was watchable and entertaining then we're talking about seeing (Carey Lowell) while being just in her black underwear. Although I'm not of the ones who see how the first gathering of the four leads (A Fish Called Wanda &#x96; 1988) was the greatest comedy, or a great comedy, but undoubtedly it's more thrilling and comedic than (Fierce Creatures). Maybe this one would be interesting to some middle aged, middle class men who would feel attached to John Cleese's character, since the crazy situations make him win the love he wishes and never had the boldness to achieve it. Otherwise it's one heavy movie with empty circles that alleges being funny. Therefore saying that this is a comedy is like saying that you saw the Invisible Man in no Invisible Man movie; it's possible !! "},{"Title":"just as good as Fish","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Surreal, unique comedy dealing with behind-the-scene dramas at an English zoo. It's not as sophisticated as A Fish Called Wanda, but it's not exactly Loose Screws, either.I was talking to the lemur!This enclosure used to be the home of our lions but, as it's no longer suitable for animals, we use it for middle management. "},{"Title":"uhhhh.... more minuses than pluses","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't too good. I mean it's a comedy, a stupid one, with stupid people and usually bad jokes. There are though some good funny gags, but throughout the whole movie you can't escape the feeling of boringness. Kevin Kline is good, but the rest aren't. Vote 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fiercely mediocre.","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Fish Called Wanda crew is at it again  Kline, Clease, Palin, & Curtis.  This time, though, the sum doesn't quite equal the parts.  A conglomerate takes over a zoo & wants to close it & take the profits, so in order to save the zoo, & the animals, the staff goes to extreme lengths. Each performance is at least adequate, but somehow the film just doesn't hit the mark. "}{"Title":"Very Enjoying","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The great team does it again 1. John Cleese 2. Kevin Kline 3. Jamie Lee Curtis 4. Michael Palin They are excellent together with a lot of fun and excellent comedy for all the family. They cooperated in at least three movies that I'm aware of and all are very good. It is a pity they don't have anymore comedies together. In their last movie Fierce creatures they even laughed at the end of the movie about themselves. John Cleese remarks towards Jamie Lee Curtis Wanda like by mistake. In fact, it refers to their first movie together and that seems to be an unofficial good by remark. I do hope they will return with another director. Go and see them all. "},{"Title":"Good title, lousy film.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never liked A FISH CALLED WANDA, so I wasn't expecting much from this film, but I didn't expect a catastrophic embarrassment like this. The direction, screenplay, editing, acting and choreography of the farcical scenes are all slack in the extreme, the flatulent Rupert Murdoch caricature seems fifteen years too late and everyone seems horribly embarrassed. By throwing in familiar faces like the A gin and orange, a lemon squash and a scotch and water guy from Fawlty Towers and very obvious references to Monty Python in the dialogue, it's obvious that Cleese is just clutching at straws. And Kevin Kline is one of those horribly irritating actors who just makes my teeth itch, so the large amount of screen time he gets to throw his mannerisms in your face makes this one very hard to sit through, for this viewer at least. If you want vintage Cleese, dust off some old Fawlty videos. "},{"Title":"Better than A Fish Called Wanda...","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A Fish Called Wanda seems to pale into insignificance in the presence of this far superior remake-cum-sequel. The dialogue is always amusing, and Kevin Kline uses his brilliant comic timing to rival the longstanding comic genius that is John Cleese. There are several running jokes too, such as the one involving Rolo's apparently bizarre sexual habits, and these serve the film's comic effect tremendously. Kline plays a similar character to the one he adopted in Wanda - a self-obsessed loser with no moral purpose; meanwhile, Cleese reprises a role similar to his infamous portrayal of the inept Basil Fawlty. There were really only two weak links - the ridiculously lamentable jokes to which Michael Palin and Robbie Corbett were subjected. Palin was a one-joke character (The Man Who Can't Stop Talking, and Corbett was his usual irritatingly small self. True, this film could have been much better, but looking at most of the other so-called comedies around these days, it looks as if Fierce Creatures may have pulled the trump card. "},{"Title":"Good movie, excellent.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No words, about such a good comedy! Good script Very good play script! Excellent casting!  "},{"Title":"Dire, fantastically bad.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Bafflingly awful. Even with the considerable talents involved it would be hard to imagine the makers of this piece of garbage doing any worse, even if they were trying. Frightening.  "},{"Title":"Should have been put down.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's no good saying Don't compare it to Wanda - the makers rode on Wanda's coat-tails for publicity and there's an in-joke about it at the end between Cleese and Curtis. Also, some scenes are virtual remakes of others from Wanda (Cleese caught in state of undress! My aching sides.)Even without its brilliant predecessor, this movie stinks on ice. If you find silly animal costumes, flustered man sex jokes (Titsbits! I mean tidbits! - repeat ad nauseam), repeated shots of JLC's cleavage (not on as good form as in Wanda, it has to be said) and fart gags entertaining then hallelujah! You've found your ultimate movie. For my part, I find all of the above tedious, hence my antipathy towards this movie. Cleese does his Fawlty schtick AGAIN (SORRY!! WHAT?!? etc), Palin does the same routine he's been doing throughout Python, Life Of Brian, Wanda etc. Kline is almost always funny, but even he labours in this. He gets marks for his suicidal line towards the end, but he seems in a state of panic throughout. The recurring theme of Cleese being caught in compromising positions and as a result being thought a sex-maniac was old when the Carry On team did it to death in the Seventies. Similarly in Barbara Windsor territory were Curtis' lines in front of the Lemur cage - Aren't they beautiful? Don't you just want to fondle them? - while Cleese gurns like Sid James eating a nettle. We're entitled to expect better from these people. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Ten times better then A Fish Called Wanda!","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who wants a complete farce watch this movie.  It is ten times better than A Fish called Wanda (contained same cast and writers). The roll of humorous lines flows like a river.  Teens and adults alike will love watching it.  My best friend and I were laughing for days.  Great for a party! "},{"Title":"Godawful Comedy!!!!!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are 2 words that sum up this movie - COMPLETE RUBBISH! From the start of the film it is just so boring and unfunny. 'A Fish Called Wanda' I thought was hilirious but obviously this movie tries to cash in on it by using the same actors and the director probably thinking he can't go wrong! Well he was WRONG! Please people don't waste your time on this one! 1/10 (AWFUL!) "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't think I lasted even half an hour with this thing. It was painfully unfunny. I didn't really expect it to match up to Wanda, but I couldn't have possibly imagined that Cleese and Palin could be involved in anything this awful.The script was appalling. Cleese must have spent all of twenty minutes on it. Wasn't he concerned about putting his name to such rubbish?The Australian accents were reasonable approximations. Pity the characters were supposed to be New Zealanders.Finally, Ronnie Bloody Corbett.  "},{"Title":"Desperate gags written by desperate men","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pathetic! Truly pathetic!  This over scripted, over written piece of trash totally wastes the excellent cast.  John Cleese appears to now have got lucky with his previous effort, A Fish Called Wanda as this garbage, masquerading as a comedy fails to meet any criteria required of one.The crude caricature of an Australian media magnate, played by Kevin Kline sums up the movie.  Miss it at any cost!  "}{"Title":"Forget Wanda. This is funnier & furrier.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a Python fan, I am ready to try most films with John & Michael. I dislike Kevin Kline but there are likeable performances from everyone else. The animals are cute & amusing. There are hilarious scenes throughout (except those involving K K) Now don't shoot me but I wasn't that keen on Wanda. I'd much rather watch this.  8/10 "},{"Title":"McCain Family Values","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If Fierce Creatures does not make you appreciate the number of people who volunteer to care for the exotic animals in today's zoos who were never asked if they wanted to leave their habitat to be on exhibit than I don't know what will. Even worse the thought of privatizing zoos to someone who is a philistine like the father that Kevin Kline plays.Kline plays the Rupert Murdoch like father who heads an international conglomerate and he also plays his wastrel and oafish son as well.Father Kline introduces what he thinks is a new policy, the zoo will only exhibit the most dangerous and Fierce Creatures to give the public thrills and chills. Obviously this lugnut has never heard of petting zoos. He sends new director John Cleese and Jamie Lee Curtis to run the place. Soon though they are on the side of the staff, but still have to make the zoo be a money maker to satisfy the boss.A lot of the humor in Fierce Creatures involves the various crazy marketing techniques designed. Since along with Cleese a whole lot of the Monty Python alumni are in this film you know it is going to be zany.Lots of Monty Pythonesque type humor in Fierce Creatures and that's always good. "},{"Title":"Fierce Creatures","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I should say first (and this is absolutely true) that my Mum and brother applied to an advert to be extras in this film, filmed at Marwell Zoo, and we have pictures of all the cast, and my brother with stars Michael Palin and Ronnie Corbett, it's just a shame their scene was cut. Anyway, A Fish Called Wanda was a fantastic comedy written by John Cleese, this follow-up may not be as funny, but it is quite fun to watch. Basically Rollo Lee (Cleese) has become the new director of London's Marwood Zoo to raise more business after being bought by America's Octopus Inc. run by tycoon Rod McCain (Kevin Kline). Rollo says however that they will get rid of all cuddly and gentle animals, and only keep the fierce ones, for more excitement, making the animal keepers including Sydney Lotterby (Robert Lindsay), unendingly talkative Adrian 'Bugsy' Malone (Palin), Reggie Sea Lions (Corbett) and Cub Felines (Licence to Kill's Carey Lowell) very unhappy. Soon enough though the Americans, McCain's son Vince McCain (also Kline) and up-and-coming business executive Willa Weston (Jamie Lee Curtis), come to the zoo to take control, and revoke the fierce animal policy. Vince instead creates a series of vicious schemes to attract customers, such as unauthorised celebrity endorsements, overpriced zoo merchandise, and robotic animals (such as a panda) instead of real ones. Meanwhile, Willa has grown to love both the animals and a reformed Rollo, and with the zoo keepers, they all plan to stop Rod McCain, who knows about Vince stealing from the zoo fund, from turning the zoo into a golf course for the Japanese. It is when Rod is unintentionally shot that Vince has to become him and save the zoo, which he does, and everything is put right in the end, Rollo even bags Willa with her thinking he is a sex mad man. There are some good small jokes, the cast members all get their individual giggles, so there are some things to be liked about it. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Not A Sequel","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember FIERCE CREATURES being marketed , if a not a sequel , then at least a follow up to A FISH CALLED WANDA , but this is misleading and was probably the reason for its poor box office showing . Instead of being a transatlantic comedy on  The special relationship  FIERCE CREATURES is more of an Ealing farce about trying to save a zoo . It has a few funny moments and is in my humble opinion funnier than WANDA but a lot of its potential is unused . John Cleese most succesful career highlights include a man walking into a pet shop with a dead parrot and the owner of a hotel with a rat on the loose so as a zoo director I was expecting a comedy masterwork which unfortunately didn`t arrive . There are a few laughs though which makes it worth watching  "}]