[{"Title":"Chick Flick With a Bite","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie. I must admit that I had my doubts at first, as it looked far too sugary for my taste. Poor marketing I guess. However, this is the first movie in years which I watched and then watched again the next day.  Hope Davis' character, Erin, elicits many emotions -- the first of which is pity.  Having been dumped by what is clearly the wrong man, we witness her attempt to re-enter the dating scene. She is immediately catapulted back into the world of losers, married men, and guys who are downright scary. She handles all of this with grace, but more than a hint of cynicism. You can often see the depression in her face, as she moves from one date to the next, always telling her friends that there's no such thing as destiny.  And yet, there is (as she discovers.)Her character seems very much the essence of the modern young single person She tells herself she is happy alone, but quietly yearns for the depth of true love. She is never rude, except when it's deserved, but she is never particularly friendly either. She inadvertantly wears the scars of years of dating on her sleeve. A very subtle and clever performance from the ethereal and under-appreciated Hope Davis. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED "},{"Title":"A subtle, magical realism","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie's realism, juxtaposed with a certain magic, i.e., fate, karma, destiny - and the question of whether these elements exist in real life.  Here, the possibilities unfold and are played out as quietly, subtly and unexpectedly as they can and often do in real life.What surprised me most is that when I was doubting whether our heroes (Alan and Erin) would get together at all, I realized that it was okay - disappointing, but okay - if they didn't; as long as they found happiness, that would be fate calling the shots.  The movie as a whole puts a positive spin on being alone with yourself, on the importance of taking the time to find what you really want and need.  Which is something we all need in life, but how often does Hollywood promote that philosophy?All the actors were terrific, especially the two leads, Alan Gelfant and Hope Davis; they were people you might really know - quietly passionate in their pursuits, sometimes just struggling to get through the day.  There's a lot of humor too in the prickling, loving tension between Erin and her mom; in the bar-table philosophies spouted by various characters; and particularly the in blind-dating montage - I will attest to how true to life this is!See this movie - heck, buy it.  The more you watch it, the more you get out of it.  "},{"Title":"Next Stop Wonderland","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is exactly how romance was meant to be portrayed on film. Love leaves you vulnerable, completely exposed, mad, and yet it is all worth the road where it takes us. This movie shows you that road for two people, and paints it so beautifully. It has been a long time that I have laughed at moments so familiar. This movie takes us places we've all been, or where we are right now. I am so angry at my friends for never telling me about this movie. I found it on the IFC channel today 5/11/05. This movie ranks in my book up there for romance movies w/Say Anything, Frankie and Johnny, and A Little Bit of Romance. Watch this film, it'll enlighten you and make you smile. Now who doesn't want to smile? "},{"Title":"Blame It on the Bossa Nova...","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Next Stop Wonderland is a lovely, very underrated indie romantic comedy, co-written and directed by Brad Anderson (Happy Accidents, The Machinist). The always wonderful Hope Davis stars as Erin, a nurse from Boston who's dumped by her boyfriend, Sean (Philip Seymour Hoffman). Her liberal mother (Holland Taylor) places a personal ad for her in the paper (without Erin's consent). Initially appalled by the idea, Erin's life starts to change when she decides to meet the guys who answer the ad.Next Stop Wonderland gets away from stupid Hollywood clichés, and is romantic without being corny. Anderson's and Lyn Vaus's witty script has some amazing dialogue, and Hope Davis brings the right emotional depth/low-key humor to her character. This movie is similar to the recent Broken English (starring another indie goddess, Parker Posey), only better. Honduran actor José Zuniga plays a Brazilian guy (hopeless romantic or prick?), speaking a very mannered Portuguese (more like some kind of portuñol, a mixture of Portuguese and Spanish) that doesn't beguile the most naïve Portuguese speaker - which is very annoying for native Brazilians, specially considering that there are so many talented Brazilian actors out there that would've fitted the part. Of course I'm not saying foreign people can't play someone of a different nationality, but when the actor can't pull a decent accent, that's a problem. Anyway, that's a minor flaw, and Next Stop Wonderland is definitely an adorable flick. The soundtrack, full of classic Brazilian bossas (a rarity in American movies) is a plus, and the perfect complement to the movie's bittersweet atmosphere. 8.5/10 in my books. "},{"Title":"For true romantics only","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Erin (Hope Davis) is recently single (her boyfriend moved out), a nurse and looking for Mr. Right. Alan (Alan Gelfant) works at the New England Aquarium, is a student and has no time for love. Naturally they're made for each other. We watch their separate lives all through the movie slowly intertwining them and drawing them to each other.This is a very small independent film, shot in Boston and picked up by Miramax. If you know Boston and the surrounding cities some of this is amusing. Erin lives in a huge apartment in Beacon Hill--there's no way a nurse could afford that. Also she meets all her dates a bar called the Burren which is located two towns away in Somerville! But they did get Wonderland right--that's a station on the Blue Line subway where Alan lives near.Those little goofs aside (actually they're pretty funny) this is a very nice, romantic film. A perfect date movie. It's got a very laid-back feeling that is absolutely charming. This is helped with a very soothing music score. But be warned--this movie is only for true romantics! If you look at it in a serious frame of mind you're gonna hate it. But if you're a romantic (like me) you'll love it! Davis gives a very nice low-key performance (but she could have lightened up a little); Gelfant is good also--and has beautiful eyes. Also well-directed by Brad Anderson. Not believable for a moment but boy--is it romantic! I recommend it. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Great Views of Boston, my Home Town!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take a tour through some gorgeous Boston sights, even some kinda grubby under the (soon-to-be-erased by the Big Dig) elevated streets.  I loved the Puffer-fish in our wonderful New England aquarium.  And is this Gelfant guy sexy-----whoah!!!  The sight of him and the flirty student he's mentoring eating each other up on the whale-watching boat was OUTSTANDING!! With all his obvious knowledge of the girl's crush and her wiley ways, he STILL gives into the animal chemistry in a surprising rush.  I am SO tired of obviously phony kisses onscreen that this one caught me off-guard.If you've ever done a dating ad thing, you'll empathize with the  heroine's disgust at the pitiful and revolting lines of the many 'candidates' she meets.  When one lowers his pseudo-intellectual facade long enough for you to see the human being behind, you want to scream, Why didn't you show THIS part of yourself to her before you lost the chance?  Of course, the 3-way bet by the scum bums ends well as they get their just desserts.  The well-meaning but meddling mother behind it all who placed the ad is well-written and well-played.It's enough to watch the superb photography to buy this movie, but the many boy-girl angles portrayed also make it worthwhile.  It could have been entitled, What Not to Do on a First Date.  I own it and am looking forward to giving it to my unmarried son as a tutorial.  I also lend it out to people I want to lure to Boston. "},{"Title":"Next stop joy land","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was surprised by my own reaction to this movie. I felt the loneliness and anxiety that the characters demonstrate. The movie really catch me and became one of my favorites. The wait for the meeting between a nurse and a plumber gave us several moments of pure joy by the intelligence in those takes. As a Brazilian person I have to say that the soundtrack is delicious. We have here some sweet pieces of Bossa nova that harmonically fit in to the story and give us unforgettable moments in the movie. And what about that friendly baloonfish? Its already a character apart. I certainly recommend this movie to the ones who demand a reflective story about human anxieties admirably conduced by sensitive and intelligent Brad Anderson. Thanks, Brad, for the experience. "},{"Title":"Great Date Movie","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this last night, while on a date...and I'm glad that I listened to my friends who recommended it.  This is a PERFECT date movie.  Enough of a romantic comedy to put you in that oh-wouldn't-it-be-great-to-be-in-love mood, but unpredictable and un-corny enough to slip away from the usual Hollywood trappings.  I won't ruin it for anyone, but the linoleum moment was priceless, and Hope Davis is terrific.  I'm renting The Daytrippers this weekend. "},{"Title":"Shimmering","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike most romantic comedies that get distributed, Next Stop Wonderland is neither star-peopled nor entirely plot-driven.  Although the film was marketed as another Nora Ephron knockoff, it is very different from the slick, syrupy Meg Ryan vehicles viewers were led to believe it would resemble.  Brad Anderson's beautiful, shimmering treatment of light, and his pleasingly idiosyncratic manner of filming the Boston urban landscape (and the lovely Hope Davis), well serve the sympathetic honesty with which he treats the search for love in the modern American city.  A magnificent film. "},{"Title":"Hip, wistful, and devilishly delightful","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Next Stop Wonderland is a fresh, fun, smart, and sassy romantic comedy which sticks Davis out in front as a typically jaded revolving door dating single who is on a collision course with Mr. Right (Gelfant). There's not an ounce of fat on this lean little indie which is imbued with a sense of destiny, the sound of Brazil, and scene to scene unpredictability with periodic poignant pauses and brief philosophical passages all seeming unique to Anderson's auteursmanship. Intelligent and hip fun for romcom junkies. (B) "}{"Title":"i love this movie!!!","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! Hope Davis is amazing, she always gives great performances in all the films that she is in and this is just another one of this performances. The lead male is this film is also very good, and come to think of it the whole cast is really excellent. this is film is about a lonely woman (davis) and the main guy, and them almost meeting each other but never actually doing so. This movie sort of reminded me of the film serendipity, but this is a much better film, with more interesting and much more believable characters. All in all i feel that this is a movie well worth seeing because everyone can relate to the loneliness in the film. "},{"Title":"Boy almost doesn't meet girl","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spiffy little romance/comedy which didn't follow in the footsteps of most in this genre. Perfectly paced with nice doses of nifty dialogue, a plethora of all sorts of characters, and a pair of leading players who came off as real people with the same needs as all of us. The leading lady was torn between her need for a mate and her distaste for all the hubbub that such a search entails. The leading man didn't appear to need a mate as much as he needed to shuck his routine job in favor of the more interesting marine biologist. This, at times, paled in comparison to his money problems and having to deal with a shady character and his muscle bound crony lurking menacingly just behind. Good film, and you'll love that aquarium. "},{"Title":"Delightful Magic Realism Romantic Comedy","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Next Stop Wonderland was an absolutely wonderful romantic comedy. It right away became one of my favorite of the genre of magic realism bringing lovers together genre. It helps to like the New England Aquarium and Boston (the title is a pun on a transit stop) - hey who doesn't.Hope Davis was wonderful in Daytrippers and she shines here. It's just a matter of time until she gets cast as the sister to Lisa Kudrow in a movie.Terrific use of lovely Brazilian music all through. (originally written 4/11/1999) "},{"Title":"a casually dramatized enjoyable flick","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love the feeling of watching this kind of movies... It gives me a sense of resilience... Hope Davis shows a brilliant shining personality that is so appealing. Alan Gelfant shows a diligent integrity and yet a sense of modern gentle.  "},{"Title":"In which Erin and Alan (almost) always miss each other and the nature of Destiny is examined","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I like the moment in this movie when Erin and her friends are discussing Destiny, and she confidently asserts that she doesn't believe in any force that guides our lives. The rest of the movie is a valentine to Destiny, and a joyous one at that.Two plots revolve around each other like the double helix of DNA. In the first one, Erin Castleton (Hope Davis), a pretty (but not beautiful) Boston medical worker has various amusing episodes in her love life after being dumped by her boyfriend Sean (played dead-on by Philip Seymour Hoffman). Erin's mother (Holland Taylor - another little virtuoso semi-cameo) sets the plot in motion by putting a singles ad in a newspaper for Erin (although, as Erin notes, the ad describes the mother more than it does Erin). Against her better judgment, she starts to accept getting-to-know-you dates with the sideshow of guys answering the ad, with some very funny (and some missing the mark) scenes. My favorite is with the guy who sells little rubber things that go on the underside of things to keep them from skidding; you see Erin's eyes glaze over in spite of herself, yet the next time she gets on the phone .... she turns it over to look at the little rubber things!The other plot concerns Alan Monteiro (Alan Gelfont), a plumber who works at the aquarium and is portrayed as a really Good Guy, the Guy That Erin is Supposed to Meet By the End. Alan's life and desire to improve himself by studying marine biology is complicated by a sleazy gangster (Victor Argo) to whom he owes money, an immature girl in his class with a major crush on him, a fish kidnapping, a dad with a gambling habit, and a repellant brother and friends (all of whom date Erin - see how this starts to get complex?) ........Spoilers may Follow.......... (although you can't spoil this movie if this is your kind of movie!) The whole point of the movie, of course, appears to be that Erin and Alan are Just Perfect for Each Other, but Will not Get Together Until The End of the Movie (not unlike  Sleepless in Seattle or You've Got Mail). This is a pretty standard form; Brad Anderson's conceit is the ability to keep them revolving around each other using amusing coincidences and near-misses. For example, at one point near the beginning of the picture, he actually walks right by her and she is gazing in his direction when ..... WHUMP! a flashbulb goes off in her face, causing her to blink her eyes just as he passes right by her.But there's more going on in this than just a lot of business to get to the final meeting. Erin's life, in fact, has been badly affected by her father's leaving home and going to Brazil. This point isn't pounded home, but it is a recurring theme - she's a tough cookie, but she's not all as independent as she would like her friends to believe, so that near the end of the movie she is almost persuaded to up and leave Boston and her friends and go to live in Brazil with a man she has known less than a week. (The case could be made, by the way, that these Brazilian links exist mainly to justify the use of Antonio Carlos Jobim's wonderful music throughout - one of my favorite features of the film). And, although she declares that there is no such thing as destiny, she keeps following the instructions of the old bookseller she meets at the beginning of the film. He tells her to tell her future by opening up a book with your eyes closed and letting your finger fall at random on a word. She continues to do so throughout the movie and it becomes one of the movie's recurring motifs.The episodes and plot points dealing with Alan are less philosophical and romantic and more prosaic. To forgive his debt to a loan shark, he is asked to kill Puff, the aquarium's prize exhibit blowfish.  How he figures out how to avoid this is actually lots of fun, and has a few comedic moments. Other than that, he comes across as somewhat of a judgmental prig; in fact it's surprising that, on repeated viewings, neither of the characters are really that likeable. In most movies, I consider this a detriment, but in this, it actually serves the plot well, because you get to pay attention to all of the other little things that are happening in the movie, as well as appreciate the way the plot almost connects them over and over. In fact, it's nice to see people on screen that aren't as good-looking, perky and perfect as Julia, Tom, Meg and Nicholas - every character on this screen is unglamorous and seems believable.This is the sort of movie I like to see over and over again. There are a lot of little things to appreciate on subsequent viewings; just a few include Sean's  why I am breaking up with you videotape - you know all you need to about him when you see him digging in his ear _and examining the contents_ while he's taping himself. (As always, Philip Seymour Hoffman is worth the price of admission). Understanding Erin's relationship with her father as an unspoken key to her personality. The parallel between that relationship and Alan's relationship with _his_ father. Erin's co-worker's distressful speech when she tells Erin that she finds out that Bob is gay. The repetition (to the point of ridiculousness) of Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds  - uttered by the littlest minds in the movie!Parts that don't work are The general foolishness and venality of Erin's dates from the ad. This kind of went overboard. The subplot where Erin, figuring out that she's being set up for a stunt, plays a practical joke on the three guys by having them all meet at a restaurant and watches as they fight each other and get thrown out. A bit heavyhanded. Bob's bits. Way heavyhanded. Alan's treatment of Cricket. Beats the heck out of me what he doesn't see in her.This isn't everyone's pint of beer. It's obviously an indie flick, but lovingly made. It's more than just a little comedy, and has fewer pretensions to importance than just about any movie out of Hollywood. The best thing that I can say about it is that every time I see it I'm sorry it's over.  "},{"Title":"recommended","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has been a while since we have another good romantic comedy. It was about 2 people, who seemed destined to be together, but through accidents and unexpected events missed the opportunities to meet.Erin, a night shift nurse, does not believe in fate. After being dumped by her protest-crazed boyfriend, her mother, believed Erin was lonely, set her up by placing an ad on the personal page for her. Even she believes that a woman can be content being alone, Erin can't help but tries to see if she can meet the right person from one of the 64 suitors who answered the ad. Whereas Alan, an ex-plumber now student, who works as an voluntary-diver at the Boston Aquarium, wants to make his own destiny. He does not want to be like his plumber-father, who has to borrow money to bet on races, and he does not share his brother and friends point of view on relationship. After a series of hilarious events (Erin's interviews with different suitors, her revenge on those whom she realized was having a cunning scheme), they eventually meet ...This movie is the kind that if you don't believe in the characters, it will not work. Here Ms. Davis (who is beautiful and projects a kind of dignity, that you know she is not desperate to look for dates) does a successful job of making you fall for her, hoping she can find someone who shares the same view as hers. Whereas Mr. Gelfant, does a good enough job as Mr. Right. Director/editor Brad Anderson, besides picking the right script, gets great help from the leading and supporting performers,  which together make this quite an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't really expecting to like this movie (chick flick!), but it really was entertaining.  Several of the dating scenes are very, very funny, but you still come to care about the characters.  Definitely a recommended rental. "},{"Title":"Metaphysical and believable","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Next Stop, Wonderland is written, filmed, and acted in a sincere, non-contrived way, reminiscent of sex, lies, and video tapes. Hope Davis' character is brilliant in its uniqueness. I've never seen a character like her in any film, though I've often longed too. She has some of the greatest dialogue since Pulp Fiction.The romantic aspect of this film was a real long shot for the director to try. It seems like Sleepless in Seatle, but it was so much more. The romantic connection worked because right from the minute you meet the two future lovers, you know they are special in a way that no one else is. Some people is the world are unwordly and special in the same way. These two characters had this special bond, even before they met. So the whole time the movie unravels, you feel they are together because of their unworldly similarities.The supporting cast was wonderful. Particularly Phillip Seymour Hoffman, and Hope's friends. The director directed his cast to invigorate a feel of the familiar for his viewers. The situtions presented in this film, particully the conversations, and emotional reactions, felt so every day and familar. But, at the same time, the movie revealed a side of man that is rarely ever addresed in films the need for solitude, and experiencing this solitude with a person who has such a similar soul that being with him/her is like being with yourself. Very metaphysical and believable. "},{"Title":"A terrific date movie","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie a bunch of times, and I still totally get into the originality and realism of the movie.  Although it has some rough edges, which make it all the more down-to-earth, the dialogue, the characterization, the use of music and poetry and the role of destiny all had me thinking even as I was smiling at the goings-on.  The characters, with all their foibles and quirks, were ones I could relate to in a way that I completely couldn't with a big mainstream flick like Good Will Hunting, also set in Boston. Alan Gelfant, the male lead, was sensitive, charming, attractive and a real catch. But it was Hope Davis who really captivated as the solitary romantic trying to find love and companionship on her own terms.  Realistic but romantic, this is a great date movie if you want to have a good conversation with your date afterwards. "},{"Title":"An indie flick that is worth the hype","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every year there are numerous independent films that are really hyped up and considered must-see films. Most of them are overrated. This one is not overrated. It is well done. The acting of both lead characters is very good, conveying how they are at once satisfied with themselves, and hence don't need to cling to any other person, but are nevertheless lonely and would like to find someone to share their lives with. The subplots exist merely to deepen the understanding of the characters, to show the conflicts which they face and which shape them. The camera-work makes the film seem almost like a documentary, which helps keep it from being cheesy and highlights the natures of the various characters. Overall a well-crafted movie.  "}{"Title":"There's still Hope!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was, for my money, the best movie of 1998! Granted, I am a worshipper of the romantic-comedy, so I'm prejudiced whenever I come across a film worthy of a great tradition (it died in the fifties/sixties and began making a comeback, thank God, in the late eighties...) As a student of Transcendentalism, I cannot help but be gratified by the prominence Emerson enjoys in this movie. Consistency may be the hobgoblin of little minds, but Hope Davis is consistently wonderful. This is her finest role yet, as the sausade (content, but sad) night-nurse. She projects warmth and wit like no one since the heyday of romantic comediennes Jean Arthur, Barabara Stanwyck, and Irene Dunne. The rest of the cast is fine as well, and the marvellous script rings true to anyone who has one eye on the romantic ideal, and one on the real world. The personal ad encounters are the most priceless moments in a glorious film. "},{"Title":"Very good film!","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a well-done and unconventionally written film about the nature of destiny. People who are still convinced that they have no control over their fate (which is still most of the world's population) aren't going to like the challenge the two central characters pose to the intellect.But for those of us who feel that we create our own luck and can change the course of our 'destiny' (whatever that means) this is a really sweet and intelligent love story.I particularly liked the way the two story-lines run parallel to each other throughout the film. I can see how some viewers would not care whether these two people ever met (I didn't either), but that's not the point. Hope Davis once again plays an extremely savvy, independent woman (Her choices of scripts lately has been superb) who shows that you can find meaningful contentment without a 'soul mate' (again, a relative term).There is some very smart writing and Davis helps carry the film with her solid understanding of her character. I'd highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"BOSSA NOVA","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like BOSSA NOVA, this very beautiful brazilian music, you must watch Next Stop Wonderland. A beautiful romance, with songs like The Girl From Ipanema, Wave, Corcovado, The Jazz and Samba and others, by Antonio Carlos Jobim.  "},{"Title":"As usual with overrated indies, this is quirk for quirk's sake.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Davis as Erin is beautiful, sad, unfulfilled, recently dumped by her clueless socialist live-in boyfriend, and coping with the memory of her beloved father while living in the shadow of her overbearing mother. She smokes, she drinks, she's quick with a sarcastic one-liner. And, naturally, she's looking for love.Alan Gelfant as Alan is pensive, rugged, ambitious, sensitive, dedicated to his budding career as a marine biologist, and coping with his father's failings while living in the shadow of his successful attorney brother. He smokes, he drinks, he's quick with a sarcastic one-liner. And, naturally, he's looking for love.Erin and Alan are perfect for one another, so naturally, they keep missing opportunities to meet and fall in love. Isn't life ironic?Here's another quirky attempt to cash in on the Sleepless in Seattle scenario (say that seven times fast) by having two made for each other characters walking the same streets, leading parallel lives, looking unsuccessfully for love, but only meeting at the end, and then only by happenstance. This one is a slight notch above last year's abysmally unfunny and uninvolving Til There Was You, but only because the dialogue's a little better and the main characters aren't quite so cloying and uncharismatic (or in Dylan McDermott's case, plain unlikeable). Otherwise, this one is just as uninvolving, but as usual we get plenty of by-now cliché insights into the perennial difficulties of finding the right one in an urban environment populated with literally millions of wrong ones.We young urban singles get the point, and so does everyone else. Our romantic struggles are not that interesting as entertainment. Can we move it along now? "},{"Title":"Another Overrated Indie","Date":"29 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three-quarters of the way through Next Stop, I realized that I really didn't care whether these two people ever met or not.  Neither is particularly likeable.  There's some fairly amusing dialogue, but isn't that pretty easy to come by these days?I was particularly looking forward to seeing Hope Davis, after reading so much about what a brilliant actress and ethereal beauty she is.  Perhaps this film is not the best introduction to her skills, because she plays Erin as a one-note sad-sack (not unlike the brunette Gwyneth in Sliding Doors, which was actually a much better romantic comedy).  And she looks like Boy George, with her big pointy nose and weak chin.  She's also overly made-up, so I couldn't really detect any glow.All in all, I'm not sure what made this the six million dollar movie.  Worth seeing only as a diversion. "},{"Title":"Fish in Sea.","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" (Spoilers) The best way to classify this film would be to say that it is an indie romantic comedy. Going into it, you already know who will end up with whom, as they encounter each other in a multitude of ways, as if fate is knocking on their respective doors. There is a lighthearted theme throughout of destiny versus random events, but that is just part of this talky, at times seriocomic and sardonic, and other times genuinely affecting and somewhat enlightening film. Furthermore, it doesn't matter that you know they will end up together; this is about THAT journey, about fish in sea, or singles in bars, and the painstaking, embarrassing and asinine things we'll do to seek that proverbial 'one' out. It is replete in imagery as well, half the time the characters are in what seems to be The New England Aquarium, including a little side story with a blowfish. Philip Seymour Hoffman is hilarious as Erin's activist ex-boyfriend, lost in his own little idealistic world too. However, in the end, boy meets girl, and they wander from Wonderland Station. "},{"Title":"A very nice story, some excellent acting and wonderful music, what more can you wish for?","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always known it and seeing it on this website only proves that I'm right about it A really good movie never gets the attention or the rating that it deserves. That's also the reason why I always try to tape and watch as many unknown movies as I can, just because very often they are so much better than all the famous blockbusters. With this Next Stop Wonderland it isn't any different. I hadn't heard of it before, but gave it a try, willing to be surprised by it and that's exactly what happened.The story on itself isn't all that different from other romantic movies. Erin is a nurse who has been dumped by her long-time boyfriend because he couldn't change her into the 'perfect' human that he tries to be (caring for the unfortunate, fighting against globalization,...). As soon as her mother hears about the break-up - which she finds more than OK, because she couldn't stand the man - she places a personal ad for her daughter in the local newspaper. Many men react, but none of them is what Erin is looking for. In the meantime we also follow the life of Alan, a plumber who works at the local aquarium, but who dreams of becoming a marine biologist. Alan and Erin would be perfect for each other, but is there anyway that they will ever meet? And what will happen when they do?When you see how many people have seen all those unrealistic, over-the-top romantic comedies and you compare that number to the number of votes for this movie, than you can only be surprised. This movie may well have the same kind of story, but the overall execution of the movie is so much better. The emotions for instance feel a lot more realistic and are never too much. In fact the entire movie has that feeling of realism without ever being corny and that's in my opinion more than just a pleasant surprise.But what would a romantic comedy be without humor? Indeed, nothing. But once again this isn't like you are used to see in all those other movies. This movie doesn't exactly try to make you laugh by adding some crude jokes to it. No, this movie doesn't even try to make you smile at all, but succeeds more than once and that's exactly what makes this movie so special. Also more than OK was the acting in this movie. Hope Davis was really very lovely and believable and made me forget in an instant about all the Meg Ryan's and other Sandra Bullock's of this world. She reminded me a bit of Julie Delpy in Before Sunrise and Before Sunset and trust me, that's a big compliment. Also very good and certainly worth mentioning are Philip Seymour Hoffman, Holland Taylor,... But there is one thing that I haven't mentioned yet and which certainly plays an important role in this movie. I'm talking about the music. It was just wonderful and it gave this movie that fine finishing touch which you never find in all those other movies in the genre.All in all this is a wonderful romantic comedy / drama that deserves a lot better than the actual rating of 6.8/10 after 1,577 votes. Personally I give this movie a rating of at least 7.5/10, maybe even an 8/10 and I'm sure that I'll see it again and again as soon as I can find it on DVD. "},{"Title":"A wonderful (and surprising) romantic comedy","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I viewed this film last night for the third time and was struck againby how beautifully Brad Anderson tackles a deceptively trickygenre, the destiny-themed romantic comedy. Particularly, asanother reviewer pointed out, since this film more than echoesClaude Lelouche's And Now My Love (probably my all-timefavorite film), it reaches for something where the bar is already setfairly high. Even the more gimmicky elements -- the hand-heldcamera style, the pervasive Brazilian bossa nova music, theincredibly horrible dates -- all seem to work. In short -- a wonderful,charming film that makes you believe in love and romance. "},{"Title":"Next Stop Wonderland a Wonderful Ride","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Brad Anderson presents a wonderful reflection on the human need for order in the face of an apparently random reality. Erin and Alan roll wildly about on the pinball board of Boston, never quite colliding, but always sharing the same system of tubes and bumpers. Erin is trying to come to terms with the death of her adored father, a death that has left her damaged, if not destroyed. Alan is trying to escape the intellectually narrow confines of his working class family, but continually finds himself shoved back into the roles of plumber, oldest son, and debtor to the mob. Both of them have come to see life as random and meaningless, filled with inescapable pains; although Alan has found a true love in marine science that points a way toward meaning for him.The most astonishing thing about this movie may be the number of stories Anderson and Lyn Vaus manage to squeeze into 104 minutes. The mystery of the balloon fish, the frustration of Alan's job, Erin's trip to the party to rescue a girlfriend who decides she doesn't need rescuing, the visits to Erin's work life, complete with surprisingly real friends, Alan's father's debts to the loan shark, the diversion of the would-be lovers for Alan and Erin, and, most wonderfully, Erin's adventures with the suitors all carry enough plot force to be their own movies, yet at no time does the plot seem crowded or forced.All the performances are terrific, with the possible exception of the clown Bob, whose work is probably exactly what Anderson wanted, but may have been too broad for this subtle movie. I will single out Hope Davis in this cast of splendid players, if only because it is her nuanced performance that sets the tone for the whole ensemble. Able to convey a complete change of attitude with the smallest move of an eyebrow or cheek, hers is the kind of performance actors can marvel at and learn from.As the characters glide and collide past each other -- Alan's brother is one of Erin's suitors, Erin and Alan ride the same subway car regularly, the loan shark Alan is trying to avoid hits on Erin -- Anderson explores the delicate forces that shape our lives. Erin and her co-workers explicitly discuss this theme in a scene set in their local hangout. Her story about how her parents met serves as a foreshadowing of the end of the movie as well as pointing to the philosophical antinomy in the question of fate versus entropy.No discussion of this movie would be complete without a mention of the delightful bossanova score. Yes, I love the music of your country, Andre da Silva, and I love the movie you have made, Brad Anderson. If you love fine acting and superb storytelling, you should make your next stop, Next Stop, Wonderland. "},{"Title":"I have seen this movie sooo many times!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is watched more than any in my collection. Funny thing is, I don't even know why. I read some of the other user comments, and it seems as if this film has cast the same spell on some of them as well. I think it was mostly a combination of everything! First of all, Hope Davis is great, in anything. She is this beautiful woman and great actress who is so real and not sugar sweet.I loved the soundtrack that goes with this movie... the bossa nova south american music was really original and really added to it.I also loved all of the personal ad dating scenes. Even though some of the men were a little bit stereotypical, maybe some of them are really like that... Im sure there are a lot of creepy men out there that put in personal ads, especially the ones who put walking on the beach as a favorite thing to do.. I think i remember this from a movie, but some character said, if everyone likes to walk on the beach, how come you never see any of them out there? basically, people can be so fake and pretend they are someone else, so this movie captures that whole feeling.I especially love the main character, Erin, because she was very independent and didn't feel that she was only complete if she had a man. I don't find a lot of women that are like that in real life, so I really admired that her character for that. It's a great movie, with such a funny cameo by Philip Seymour Hoffman in the beginning (also a great actor---watch everything he has done, especially happiness!)I totally recommend this movie to anyone who is a bit jaded by love and the idea of soulmates, but who is also dangerously romantic---bad combo!!> "}{"Title":"Very well written and fun","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The characters are real.  The dialogue is real.  The action is smooth, not forced.  This is a very well written film.  Erin (the female lead) is smart, hip woman who doesn't hate all men, just stupid ones.  And there are plenty around.The male lead is Alan, a sometime-plumber who is going back to school to improve himself, and break away from his family legacy in the process.There are plenty of clever twists and turns along the way that lead to a very gentle but stirring conclusion.Look for Holland Taylor (Judge Roberta from _The Practice_) who does a funny turn as Erin's mother.  Also, to me, Hope Davis (playing Erin) is a very good actress and should be recognized in the broader film community as such.Indie's are not always good, but this one is.  Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"Imperfect characters create an interesting believable movie","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We thoroughly enjoyed this movie which features believable,if imperfect characters, in an all too real 90's atmosphere of trying to connect to find love. Hope Davis projects the frustration in trying to find Mr.Right, all the while finding too many Mr. Wrongs. The humorous (and sometimes really funny) writing makes no attempt to conceal the real difficulties of finding love instead of one night stands. This is, at it's heart , a feel good movie and cynics need not watch. And by the way, don't be too persnickety about coincidence and serendipitous happenings. "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie, one of my favorites.  Great date flick.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why this movie enchanted me so much but I've watched it 4 times and still love it.  The easy pace and down-to-earth charm of the main characters, combined with the slightly magical yet believable circumstances they encounter make it a joy to watch.  Definitely a chick flick, or a good date movie. "},{"Title":"Lovely film","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I want to refute all the negative commentary which has been posted about Next Stop Wonderland.  It is a truly lovely film, with excellent performances by Hope Davis and Alan Gelfant.  It is beautifully filmed and unique in the feeling it gives the viewer.  Next Stop Wonderland conveys a gentle humor and an effervescent hope.  Don't hesitate, just rent this brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"a monumental achievement in editing","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another one of those films that comes across as another romantic comedy in the midst of them all, but as a filmmaker, I can assure you that it is not.  The story is simple, but well written.  The dialogue is nice--and doesn't try to impress beyond its capacity.Also--the editing is phenomenal.  The camera work is quite innovative, very flowing and full of interesting jump cuts.  Basically, the only way I can sum up how the picture looks is that the filmmaker tried to emulate on film how a person actually sees.  It is beautifully chaotic, full of energy and worth renting.  I for one, own it. "},{"Title":"A fine study of the single life travails and happiness.","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  Not slick and glib like so many Hollywood flicks. Hope Davis is an attractive, believable chick. If you like films..you will like this one. If you just wanna to see a movie..don't. "},{"Title":"Endearing movie with a lovely setting","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Part of that may be because I'm from boston and seeing one of my favorite places (the Aquarium) on the big screen made me happy.  And many local people had cameos- my favorite DJ, Charles Laquidara was one of the potential phone calls for a date, steve sweeney a local comic was a cabbie.  i loved the story and all the people in it. "},{"Title":"Only connect","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Relationships are difficult and dangerous things.  Two of my other favorite films this year (Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss and The Object of My Affection) concern themselves with ongoing relationships.  Next Stop Wonderland focuses its attention on that preliminary occurrence without which no relationship can exist, that moment of mystery venerated by E. M. Forster in his novel Howards End the making of a connection between two people.  Writer-director Brad Anderson demonstrates a clear understanding of connections (both good and bad) between people, as well as how they do and don't come about.  Hope Davis is delicate and vulnerable as the jilted, insecure, lonely Erin, and Alan Gelfant is sincere and ruggedly attractive as Alan Monteiro, the man Fate may or may  not have in mind for her.  In Howards End, Forster tells us that things would be better between us poor human beings if we could only connect.  I won't spoil things by giving away its ending, but this delightful film allows the viewer to be consumed by the mystery of whether Erin and Alan will, or will not, ever connect. "},{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was a pleasant surprise because I didn't really have any idea what it was about before I saw it and it unfolded in a very low-key realistic way (with some glaring exceptions) even though the theme (fate directing completion) is rather fantastical.And I have to laugh because I see comments that criticise this film for not falling into the Indy mold.  Is there an Indy mold?  Isn't one idea of Indy to be free of expectations?  Then there are those who were looking for a Hollywood style traditional romantic comedy and didn't find it here.  I didn't find this film to be an attempt at emulating Sleepless in Seattle, a movie which I find unwatchable because it is so manipulative and begging for empathy.  (If Meg Ryan plays yet one more unbelievable role where she's supposed to represent the common woman so that common women can associate with her trying sooooooo hard to be likeable, well, I'm gonna hurl chunks.)There is an awful lot of smoking and gum-chewing in this movie and I have to laugh because it seems like I know someone almost exactly like each of the six or seven main characters in real life.  My recommendation is see this movie but don't go in expecting anything in particular. This film doesn't fall easily into known thematic categories and it's likely some people will like or hate it no matter what the reviews and comments say.The best thing about this movie, as with most independents, is it has not been edited for formulaic audience reaction, sort of like events that unfold in real life.  "},{"Title":"A quietly charming film about people who don't need to fall inlove","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Next stop Wonderland is a small, quietly charming film by writer/director Brad Anderson (The Darien Gap).  The film is about finding life and love in Boston past your mid 20's.  The film follows the lives of two main characters, Erin (Hope Davis), and Alan (Alan Gelfant), and their quest not only for love but for intelligent life in the Boston dating scene.Predictably, our duo has difficulty finding either.  This is true despite the best efforts by Erin's overbearing mother (played by the wonderfully overbearing Holland Taylor), and by Alan's egomaniacal younger brother (Sam Seder of Loose Caboose).  Taylor even goes as far as putting a personal ad for her daughter, to surprising and humorous effect.See, unlike many heroines of romantic comedy, Erin isn't all that interested in finding someone, especially after breaking up with her activist boyfriend (Boogie Night's hysterical Philip Seymour Hoffman). Erin prefers to spend time on her own.  This is no wonder given her friends' penchants for dating insecure, obnoxious, homophobes.Alan isn't interested in relationships much, either.  He is a former plumber who falls in love with Marine Biology, and is getting his Masters Degree in the field while volunteering at the New England Aquarium.  He loves Marine Biology, and is very serious about his studies  perhaps too serious.  His brother (the egomaniacal lawyer) describes his work ethic with the quote Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.  This Emerson mantra is repeated throughout the story, each time without context or meaning, until the end, when it makes perfect sense.During the course of the movie, Erin meets a myriad of potential suitors (most through the personal ad).  Three of the suitors are Alan's brother and his two yuppie friends, who make a crude bet about their conquest.  With these three and many others, we see Erin, intelligent and thoughtful, refusing to play the annoyingly adolescent games of love that all the suitors seem to partake in.  Finally, when she meets a charming and handsome Brazilian man at her Hospital, we think she may have finally found her match.  Alas, it turns out that the Brazilian man is only better at playing games than the rest.Alan does not quite go through the same dating loopholes as Erin.  He gets bogged down in a plot about the politics of the aquarium that may have been entertaining in a less thoughtful and ambitious work, but seems cartoonish and out of place here.  Alan does meet an attractive women from his Marine Biology class, but he has far too much depth for a serious relationship with the woman.  The woman likes him, and they do become physical briefly on a whale watch, but Alan and the audience realize that the woman likes lots of guys, including their professor (Robert Rees of Cheers fame), and isn't quite right for Alan.This leaves us with the final scene, the one we've been waiting for, the scene where our stars finally meet.  The concept of two romantic leads meeting for the first time at the end of the movie has now become a romantic comedy cliché.   But in this movie it seems strangely fresh.  Maybe because our desire that these two people meet and fall in love is less because of a plot device than because of our belief that these two people truly do belong together.  We believe that not because they are two characters cut from the same cookie sheet (The Wedding Singer), or because they have many cute near misses (Sleepless in Seattle), but because these are two thoughtful, intelligent, kind, three dimensional characters who have waddled through the mire and realize what they want, and that is each other.In that final scene where they do meet, the film does not step wrong. These are quiet, thoughtful characters, and a dramatic meeting would be out of place.  Instead, we get a meeting born out of dating frustration that ends with a quiet, subtle, and wonderful conversation that is more richly satisfying than any contrived dramatic ending could ever be.  We don't need to be told how their meeting turns out, because we already know.Another point that the movie successfully makes is that being in a relationship is not the be all and end all (especially for women).  We see a sharp, strong, intelligent, and beautiful woman in the center of the picture, who has resolved that she will not be with someone on anyone's terms but her own.  What makes the ending triumphant isn't that she ends up with someone, but ends up with him on her own terms.Not to say that this movie is perfect.  It is not.  The supporting characters are not well drawn (except for Taylor), the picture of single adults in Boston is at best pessimistic, and the aquarium subplot was contrived, unnecessary, and poorly done.  That being said, this may be the best, most satisfying romantic comedy this year.  "}{"Title":"Good movie, great performance from Hope Davis...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What really made this movie good was the performance from Hope Davis. She lit this movie up and made it a pleasure to watch. There have been many movies made similiar to this one in the last couple of years and some are better than others. I have been a big fan of Hope Davis ever since The Daytrippers, and I HOPE she keeps putting out quality work. "},{"Title":"Guys, this movie IS NOT a chick flick, you can go see it.","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A well done, low budget, no big stars movie about dating and relationships.  Some very clever moments that we should all be able to relate to.  Filmed entirely in Boston and loaded with local color and characters. "},{"Title":"A charming romantic comedy -- the first film from Brad Anderson","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This independent film written and directed by Brad Anderson is neither a barrel of laughs nor a deep dramatic piece -- and that is its charm. Rather , it is paced just as our lives are a bit of laughter here and there, some sad moments that make you cringe and a *lot* of introspection. Hope Davis does an excellent job as Erin, the female protagonist -- she ably carries this film. Alan Gelfant's performance as her romantic opposite is a bit more ragged, but there are moments where he shines as well. The supporting cast is strong, with a standout performance from Philip S. Hoffman as Erin 's ex-boyfriend. The story is a discussion of romantic fate -- does each person have a special someone, or is there more than one path your romantic destiny can follow? Anderson handles this storyline with aplomb. Viewers from in and around Boston will have an added treat of watching for cameos -- both of the Boston environs and of semi-famous Boston comedians and personalities. One final note -- my husband and I *both* enjoyed this film -- so please do yourself a favor and don't simply write this one off as a chick flick. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Preston Sturges Style Movie","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If Preston Sturges was alive today, this is the kind of film I imagine him making. It's that good! Next Stop Wonderland is witty and full of clever dialog. The story is hilarious, but captures more depth than the typical romantic comedy.There are surprises and twists, but I don't want to spoil the plot for anyone. It definitely makes you question destiny versus luck.The nice thing about the film is that it's not a chick flick either. It may be told from the point-of-view of the heroine, but she is not whiny, wimpy or trying to be cutesy in every scene.It kind of reminds me of Swingers, but told from a female's point of view. Hope Davis isn't desperate like the lead in that film though. She's quite content to be alone most of the time, but the world keeps thrusting her into comical situation that break her bubble of solitude.This film is a winner. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie really makes you think... It's one of those times when you are watching TV, and you just keep changing the channel, and then you see a scene that makes you watch a little bit longer, and then a little bit longer more, until you end up watching the entire movie. If you expect a overly romantic film, this is not for you, I believe this movie was made to observe life and it's mysterious ways to get you to fall in love, You make (what it seems) a silly choice and it affects you in everyway possible, but the best thing it's that you don't know it, and in the end everything is going to be all right. It also portrays very well that life doesn't start when you fall in love, but it gets better. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this one in spite of myself.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is almost enough to give hope to those of us driven to cynicism about romance. I enjoyed it enough to add it to my collection and to recommend it to others. It is well written and has enough humor and intelligence to offset most reservations about plausibility.Like some other male reviewers, I do think that our gender is overly portrayed as hopeless losers, but I realize that the film concentrates on the female perspective. It could easily be done in the opposite way. My major objection is to the female lead's incessant smoking. As attractive as she is, I would pass her up because of that horrible habit. That's probably another reason why I'll be watching this enjoyable film alone. "},{"Title":"Have a bottle of red with this one.","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are you a movie-watcher that enjoys intellectual stimulation rather than popcorn-mastication? Open a bottle of red and watch this movie. It's not fast-paced, it takes its time for you to come to get to know the characters, but it eventually gets where you want it to be. It's funny in  a clever way, not in a slapstick way. People with high IQs tend to give this movie higher ratings. No offense to all the drongoes out there. I think this is a great film and an excellent choice for a nice, satisfying (again, I'm talking about intellectually satisfying) movie evening with your partner. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  intelligent, original romantic comedy","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Next Stop Wonderland is safe for you guys who let your girlfriend drag you to see romantic comedies. It's funny, well-paced, and actually has something to say about life, similar to High Fidelity. The acting is good and it's just an all-round superb independent film.The film takes a look at online dating, and the weird little quirks of dating and romance. The romantic tension is fantastic and the film is quite intelligent.Who should see this film-- romantic comedy lovers, a must-see-- Boston people, a must-see-- guys like me who are wary of romantic comedies, this one's goodI'll give Next Stop Wonderland a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had read a review calling this an indie version of SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE, but this is much better than that movie (which I didn't like). Writer-director Brad Anderson actually takes the road less travelled here, exploring the characters of Erin and Alan before they actually get together at the end, so we can see if they're a right match, and not having them fall in love just because convention calls them to.  Hope Davis is really good as Erin; she avoids making her flighty and cutesy, but makes her into a real person.  You can also see the thought processes in her head as she checks out each guy she's set up with.  Alan Gelfant takes a little getting used to, because he's not like anyone we've seen before, but he's good too.Some of it does fall back into convention, like the whole mobster subplot, but this is mostly fresh and funny.  I particularly like the running joke involving the Emerson quote, and Davis' revenge on three friends who take her out on a bet. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite films","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film may not win over everyone with its subtlety and relaxed pace, but it is one of the most genuine depictions of love and dating in this day and age. Hope Davis gives a wonderful performance as a jaded young woman, tired of meeting too many Mr. Wrong's, yet still maintaining some hope that the right one is out there. Her performance is nuanced and very believable. Alan Gelfant is wonderful as her other half, so to speak, someone also searching for his path in life, and someone who understands him. He is amazing in this role and makes you fall completely for him. Just watch for his smile, which will make you melt. Great film for someone who wants to remind themselves that there might just be the one out there waiting to find you. The soundtrack is excellent, providing the film with a sense of melancholy and nostalgia. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"It was not good, it was not bad, it was as interesting as porridge.","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Erin's boyfriend (Sean) has dumped her. I see why immediately. Why she would ever do anything with Sean is not so easy to see.The film is irritating and all too self-aware; incidental music is all too often wretched.Halloween at the hospital; nursing staff scares the hell out of the toddlers.Erin's mother Piper places a personal ad for Erin in the local newspaper without advising Erin.Sub-plot the aquarium where Alan is working is planning an addition. Not everyone likes this, and the aquarium grounds are vandalized. Arty Lesser and his construction company want to build a prison there.At an aquarium party, Frank asks Alan to kill one of the aquarium attractions and Alan's money loan from Frank will have the interest removed.The ad does it's work; Erin gets 60 messages on the first time she checks. Yikes, so many people, so many losers, at least in their telephone presentations of themselves. She skips most of these, and the skips most of those that she meets. The men she meets are unacceptable for one reason or another. The Emerson quote (a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds) was a deal-breaker for three of the possibles, one of which was Alan's brother. She notices that two men watching her with a third were men she had met before.'The only person who can help you is yourself.' Right. Women do not need men. Point asserted again and again and again.Seventy-eight minutes into the film, she still has not met Alan, but a Brazilian man (Andre) is very interested in her. Erin likes Brazil and Brazilian music, so that goes smoothly for a time. Alan is with Julie; this is doomed from the start. Alan with Julie heats up for a moment; so does Erin with Andre.Sean comes back and wants to re-unite with Erin. No such luck.Andre is about to go back to Brazil, and wants Erin to come with. She gears up to do this.Alan gets to meet Arty Lesser, who tells Alan that he is at a turning point in his life.Erin gets held up in traffic. She tries to make it using a train. More rotten camera work.Missed connections. Erin does not go to Brazil. Alan does not solidify his position with the big-time gangster Lesser.During the last two minutes, Erin and Alan connect on the Emerson quote, and go for a walk on the beach.----Scores----Cinematography 4/10 Never in focus. The poor framing and wobbly camera movement is distracting and counterproductive as well as amateurish.Sound 7/10 Some of the jazz by named artists is rather good, but does not really add much.Acting 4/10 Hope Davis is uniformly bad; the extra layer of chain smoking was a layer I could have done without. Holland Taylor was fine, Alan Gelfant was OK. Hoffman was as irritating as usual. Just about nothing seems to have enough buoyancy to counterbalance the dead weight of Hope Davis.Screenplay 6/10 Slow developing. Is the payoff worth the long wait? No. So many sub-plots were left unresolved. The Brazilian trip goes down the tubes. Too many characters, too many dangling ends. "},{"Title":"Next Stop? You never really know","Date":"27 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So we have two single thirty somethings not in search of their soul mate. They have each found contentment in their loneliness. One is surrounded among friendly co-workers intent on discussing their on-going efforts to couple, an overbearing mother and a comedic slew of male suitors who all sadly paint the world of Nurse Erin Castleton (Hope Davis). On the other side is Alan I don't want to be a plumber for the rest of my life Monteiro (Alan Gelfant), who despite his studies, seems doomed to just that. Their worlds start to mingle and you can see where this is going, it's a rom-com at face value. But what gives it more than passing interest is that writer/director Brad Anderson says that while it's fun to see what gets people together, what's really interesting is what keeps people together. The only fault is that there is no answer even hinted at. The talk and music focuses on saudade (nostalgia for something gone and contentment in desiring something that may not return) found as a constant theme in Bossa Nova music predominant throughout. Combining cold Boston weather with warm Brazilian music is brilliant for the intriguing trip from saudade for these two. Worth withstanding the predictable rom-com format. "},{"Title":"The hurrying world","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Davis elevates Next Stop Wonderland, a slight romantic comedy written and directed by Brad Anderson. Davis plays a melancholic nurse who paradoxically yearns for love and hungers to be alone. When her mother takes out a personals ad, Davis' character finds herself inundated with men, most of whom attempt to force themselves upon her.Eventually Davis meets a marine biologist played by Alan Gelfant. The duo instantly fall in love, having spent the rest of the film repeatedly just missing each other. The film ends with our lovers discussing a quote by Ralph Waldo Emerson a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. Elsewhere it contains quotes by Wordsworth from our better selves we have too long been parted by the hurrying world, and droop, sick of its business, into solitude. And so Davis' character believes herself to be trapped in dull, stifling routines, routines which are out of sync with who she believes she really is. Gelfant, in contrast, creates rigid routines and proudly sticks to them (he even refuses to kill a fish for money etc). Through him, Davis thus learns the value of self-worth. She accepts her own consistencies as not being foolish, but rather valid and intrinsic parts of what and who she really is. Emerson's quote is itself from an essay titled Self-Reliance, essentially a parable about trusting yourself and shrugging off outside pressures.The film contains a good supporting role by Philip Seymour Hoffman, some good dialogue, but Anderson's messy editing is less subversive than it thinks it is, and a subplot with local mafia men is atrocious.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Blame it on the Bossa Nova","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What I liked better in this pleasant and well directed movie is the background of Brazilian Bossa Nova music playing in a very nordic and WASP Boston. What I liked less is the gallery of negative male characters, hinting that every possible man in the market is spending most of his time trying to fool around young ,single women. It would be a statistical disaster if, in order to find the right match,a woman should rely on a casual encounter with a fish-nut!  "},{"Title":"Improves on re-viewing (especially on video)","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No slight tribute to the director that Next Stop improves immeasurably on second viewing--on video rather than on screen. The theatrical release was often irritating to watch due to the claustrophobic closeness of many shots and jump cuts (and the lack of master establishing shots). This flaw disappears on viewing as video. Hope Davis is charming--real looking rather than affected as so many stars are. The dialogue is excellent, and even the overtly PC stuff is handled lightly enough not to intrude on an otherwise nicely handled plot of two paths slowly coming together.  "},{"Title":"It felt real to me...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you read all the comments on this movie, you get the idea that people either love or hate it. It's that kind of movie. I really like it, I own it, I watch it when it comes on cable. Someone commented on Philip Seymour Hoffman's videotaping of his reasons for leaving Erin and then taking the VCR, and asked is life really that cold? Yes, it is. People are a part of it, and they can be that petty...and that's what this movie is about - people. Good, bad, honest, dishonest, charming and otherwise... And the characters all look and talk and act like real people, people you might know. Okay, the whole gangster thing could have been excised, and the fake Brazilian guy was annoying, but all in all it makes sense. I like the fact that Erin is, what, 31? and Alan is 35...I'm 35 and it seems like everyone these days in movies is about 26. Nice to see people my age!And hey, any movie that can make the Blue Line look romantic and Revere Beach look beautiful has to have something going for it! "},{"Title":"A charming and entertaining little film","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This low-budget film should be judged from a different level than a big-budget production, I suppose. Yes, it was similar in a way to 'Sliding Doors' and at times seemed like a poor man's Woody Allen. But, I enjoyed it. I liked Erin in spite of, or maybe because of, her quirks. I found Alan to be a very noble and charmingly flawed man. I liked that the film focused on the lives of the two main characters separate from each other. How they almost meet is reminiscent of 'Sliding Doors'. Erin's string of bad dates is a bit of a cliche, but well-done just the same. I enjoyed this movie, it has a lot to offer and is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"a film about being sad and happy at the same time","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this movie soon after I rented it. I thought that it was funny, thought provoking, and unique. I love Hope Davis's character, Erin. She is the type of woman that we all secretly want to be and not be at the same time. All in all I would recomend this movie to everyone who has ever found someone just when they were happy being alone. If you liked Sliding Doors, see this!!! "},{"Title":"Boy Meets Girl, But Not Typical","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, a lot of people said this was over rated like much of the new indie type films coming out of Hollywood.  So I do have a preconceived notion before viewing this film .... that it was going to be another parade of the beautiful 20-30something people, with little or no acting ability.  AND to  have the horror amplified by over done edgy, trendy soundtracks, that make it next to impossible to hear most of the dialog.Wow was I surprised.  Not that the actors in this film are unattractive, but they look, act, talk, interact, etc _more_ like the rest of world.  True to life representation of the dating scene.  I highly recommend this film.  There is a particularly funny scene revolving around a restaurant .... hey just give it a chance, sometimes the hype is well deserved, this is one of those movies. "},{"Title":"Fashionable Cynicism vs. Romantic Fate","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Call it a romantic comedy for the cynical, people-in-black crowd.  Your life  won't be changed but this gently sweet film will send you home with enough  optimism to survive at least half of the evening news.  The editing and  cinematography are interesting enough to keep your attention without jump -cut, handheld-shot induced nausea.  The theme of two people fated to meet  may be a little corny but is carried off without an overdose of Hollywood  saccharine.  Bottom line  fun date movie; enjoy the show and leave feeling  smarter than the kids at the google-plex. "}{"Title":"Cute Romantic Comedy","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a thoroughly enjoyable romantic comedy with a very inventive score which helped push the movie along.My only two complaints with the movie were that the editing was a little too radical and the lighting was too dark for this type of movie.  I would have been much happier if the editor had chosen to cut the movie in a more traditional way.  There are a number of scenes where the jump cutting just got in the way of the dialogue and the story. "},{"Title":"Fate Versus Happenstance. Which Do You Believe?","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hope Davis has become what I like to call a hidden success. Her movies don't make a gazillion dollars at the box office and you'd probably hardly notice her if she passed you on the street. But what she does &#151; and does well &#151; is create lovable and memorable characters on celluloid. Most recently she was paired with Greg Kinnear in THE MATADOR, a role in which her underused talents still shone brightly with every scene she appeared.I decided to watch NEXT STOP WONDERLAND for the sole purpose of checking to see how well Mrs. Davis stood as an actress in a starring role. I wasn't disappointed.The story is that of a nurse named Erin (Davis) who comes home one day to find her boyfriend, Sean (Philip Seymour Hoffman, CAPOTE) moving out. Angry and spiteful, Erin quickly decides that being alone is okay. In fact, she firmly entrenches the philosophy of aloneness within herself ...until...Erin's domineering mother, Piper (Holland Taylor, THE TRUMAN SHOW), discovers her daughter's recent break-up and places a personals ad in the newspaper for her. Initially upset by this, Erin eventually decides to take on the task of dismissing all of the loathsome men who try to court her. The comedy here is striking and philosophical as the men do whatever they can to get into her pants only to be rebuffed by Erin's formidable intellect.On the other side of Boston (where this story takes place) we find Alan Monteiro (Alan Gelfant, TURN OF FAITH), a plumber turned marine biologist who volunteers at the local aquarium. He's struggling with debt, school (still working on his biology degree), and an aggressive younger classman who's infatuated with him. Strangely enough, too, is the fact that his brother is one of the guy's trying to bed Erin via the personals ad.As Erin and Alan mingle within their own circles, they come close to orbiting one another but never quite make contact. Brief glances, telephone calls that pass them by, invitations to the same restaurant parties, the two seemed destined to fall into one another's arms ...yet these encounters slip past. It's wonderfully frustrating to watch, and these almost encounters are never forced.But in the end, director Brad Anderson doesn't let us down. Serendipity intervenes and the two strangers end up hugging one another on a transit train after a strange set of circumstances pulls them together.Romantic comedies are okay if done right. You know the type that kind of make you feel, eh, just okay; You've Got Mail, Pretty Woman, Sleepless In Seattle. But this flick gives you more for less. Made as an independent film on a $1 million budget, Hope Davis' excellent acting and the perfect script make for some thought-provoking and downright funny moments. While those other RomComs I mentioned have a basic feel-good to them, NEXT STOP WONDERLAND has much more. The philosophy, romance, and comedy all build to a very satisfying conclusion and one that will invite discussions about the probabilities of fate versus happenstance. "},{"Title":"We're together when we are not","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my life objectives is to watch every single movie with Phillip Seymour Hoffman in it. Since I saw him in a movie I've said I never finished watching (State and Main), I have been in love with his way of working; his body language and mostly his voice. While I may sound exaggerated, it's something I'm trying to do, and it gets me to peculiar places; like Next Stop Wonderland.Hoffman is not an important player in the film, even when he appears at the beginning. As Sean, he is dumping his girlfriend, Erin (Hope Davis), the most important player in the film. How the filmmakers have created Erin is remarkable. It had been a long time since I've seen a well-rounded character like this one. She's eccentric, tough, and now extremely depressed as abandoned by the man she loves. She spends her lonely days reading random phrases in a book written by her father. She loves that.However, her elegant mother Piper (Holland Taylor) puts an ad in the newspaper, proposing a single, outgoing, charming and likable woman looking for a couple. That's not me mom&#133;That's you!, Erin tells her mother gently. Now Erin finds herself with calls and messages from men whose ages start in 30 and end in 50; no advices from her gay friends.Continuing, Erin encounters different guys in one bar, and they try to win her with metaphoric phrases, without knowing the authors she knows by heart; cultured comments she knows are clichéd, and in one case sweet talking that ends up in a wedding ring falling out of a wallet. This scene shows the comedic talent of director Brad Anderson, and his writing collaborator Lyn Vaus. They also show other talents, like the dramatic one, as they keep their characters realistic enough so we understand how they feel when things occur to them.Some guys are making a bet to win Erin. One of them is Alan's (Alan Gelfant) brother. Although this seems like the other side of the world, it's in the same city where this Alan works in the aquarium as he studies to become wiser about that. He's already an old man, but is cultured as no one around him, and passionate about what he does (kind of like Erin, right?). Even when Erin and Alan are so similar; each of them doesn't know the other exists. They have crossed sometimes probably, but while Alan experiences a relationship with a younger girl that claims to love him, Erin is approached by every old guy in a bar and almost conquered by a Brazilian Latin lover&#133;But it doesn't seem right.Brad Anderson loves his characters and when his camera moves fast at times and slowly at others, we sense he cares about his actors work. That's why Hope Davis shines in this role, which is comedic and different to what we usually get from her. Besides, she got into the park, and so did Alan Gelfant, who talks and looks like a young Sylvester Stallone but with more comedic gifts than the latter would ever dream of.Don't bother yourself asking if these two characters belong together because thy do. But at 100 minutes of film, Brad Anderson stops in Wonderland and encounters the leads. But he is so original and so far away from typical film-making that he won't give you what you're expecting for, like everyone does. He will leave it to your imagination. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite all time films","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderland is one of my favorite all time films. The opening scene with Erin (Hope Davis) walking up to her apartment to find her boyfriend (Phillip Seymour Hoffman) loading his car and telling her he's leaving her...it's all on the tape had me in stitches. I was hooked. There was humor, irony, fate, and love. More a woman's film than a man's, as the reality of the dating scene was easy to relate to...and easy to see why men might find it offensive...a little too close to home. The placing of the Ralph Waldo Emerson quote A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds... is misused by three potential dates who answered an ad Erin's mother placed for her and comments on how looking for love isn't usually fruitful, but that when you are secure with yourself, you are more appealing. Love will more easily come around...and of higher quality.I loved this film...and watch it every so often. If you didn't get it...give it another try and look at it a little deeper.  "},{"Title":"An underappreciated gem.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Next Stop, Wonderland when it first came out, and was struck by its simplicity.  There are not a lot of bells and whistles.  No beautiful people.  No sex, no violence, no one-liners volleying back and forth.  Just a delightful little movie with excellent acting, intelligent dialogue and an intriguing plot.  I never cared much for bossa nova music and, while I still don't love it, it definitely works here.  The city of Boston is treated like just another character in the film, and this works like a charm.  I own it on DVD and watch it regularly because it never grows old. "},{"Title":"a casually dramatized enjoyable flick","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love the feeling of watching this kind of movies... It gives me a sense of resilience... Hope Davis shows a brilliant shining personality that is so appealing. Alan Gelfant shows a diligent integrity and yet a sense of modern gentle.  "},{"Title":"My mother makes the BEST BRISKET!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Odd how the smallest details can stick in one's mind.If you've ever been on a blind date, or if you are fond of fish, or of women who resemble Julie Delpy, or of Ralph Waldo Emerson, and you enjoy a long walk by the fireplace with a candlelit beach, this is a very fine film.   See it with a date. It will most likely get you laid. "},{"Title":"They should have researched a little more","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I started watching Next Stop Wonderland, I was pleased to see a movie with those beautiful Bossa Nova songs. But in the middle of the story, I realized that the producers didn't know that much about Brazil. First, they put a latin (not Brazilian) actor in the role of Andre da Silva, singing and speaking with a Spanish accent. Later, he described the plane flying over Rio de Janeiro, and asked Erin to go with him to São Paulo. One last detail (only a Brazilian know this, I think) he had a ticket to Brazil from the company Varig, but I'm sure the plane wasn't from that company. Despite of all these mistakes, the movie has a lovely soundtrack. "},{"Title":"MOVIE ABOUT A WOMAN AND LOVE WHICH IS NOT CHEESY","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apart from being brilliantly directed, this movie is very smart, presents a woman who is not just plain sweety-sweety-darling and  describes some real situation of young, urban, intellectual woman who is single, alone and, even though not too happy, not too desperate about her situation either. There is a sentence in the movie, uttered by Erin (the leading character) which is very true, but also said in a very convincing way, considering Erin's situation and behaviour that we had an opportunity of seeing earlier I like being alone. I am not lonely when I am alone; I am often lonely when I am with other people.(spoiler! don't read if you don't want!)I like the fact that movie doesn't end in either tragedy or they lived happily ever after, but it leaves you to imagine what happened next.Also brilliant is the soundtrack with lots of Brazillian jazz. See it! "},{"Title":"enjoyable romantic comedy","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a well-done and enjoyable romantic comedy with interesting people we come to care about. Viewers in the metro Boston area will get particular enjoyment out of identifying all the locales. A modest delight. "}{"Title":"A good one for us romantics","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie.  It's a tad boring at times, but Hope Davis is really great as this visibly weak and fragile girl when really, she's a very strong and independent woman who actually doesn't mind being single one bit.  I am a sucker for these kind of boy-sees-girl-from-afar-and-falls-in-love-at-first-sight type movies, and the tension over when and if these two would EVER cross paths was what kept the film going.  A little slow, yes, but overall a good one for us romantics. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the dullest, most boring movies we've ever tried to watch. I don't know what movie the positive reviewers saw - it couldn't have been the same one!We made it through 22 agonizing minutes, and only stayed around that long because of the rave reviews. We kept hoping it would get better, but it only got worse and worse.The writing is blah, the acting wooden, and none of the characters seemed like real people. Forget this one, and see Sleepless in Seattle instead.I liked Hope Davis in Mumford - a far better film. She just looks tired and bored in this one. "},{"Title":"Half an hour in and bored stiff","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love that jerky camera work. Not.Love the going nowhere story. Not.Wait, does that leave anything? Nope.Now to pad this review to the appropriate length...This movie is currently rated 6.3 out of 10. Given that it is a 1 or 2 out of 10, that must mean that the votes higher than that are studio shill votes. Well done lads and lassies.Seriously, what on Earth is to like here? It is filmed in the most amateurish way imaginable. There is no story, none. There is no character that we care about. Music is non existent or forgettable.This movie is great for taking a shower to. Or to view while shredding a large number of credit card offers. Or while taking a long walk.Save yourself the disappointment a rental will bring.No stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing Next Stop Wonderland because Hope Davis was so good in Daytrippers.  What a disappointment!  Ms. Davis's character in Next Stop is whiny, self-obsessed and thoroughly unappealing. In addition, the story is burdened with too many silly, unnecessary sub-plots and the shaky hand-held camera work made me nauseous.  The only good thing about the film is the bossa nova music on the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Hope Davis shines, but the quirky story is dull and uninteresting.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Next Stop Wonderland aims to ease the heart, but it nearly achieves the opposite effect.  On the surface, the film is a romantic comedy about two people who find each other in the middle of today's lonely society. Unfortunately, the underlining tone is dour and it left me feeling unhappy. With the exception of the two leads, and a handful of others, the supporting characters come off as losers with few redeeming qualities.  Erin (Hope Davis) frets over her departed lover (Philip Seymour Hoffman), but he is a confused anarchist. He states his reasons for leaving her on a video tape, but has taken their VCR.  Is the world really this cold?Hope Davis shines in the starring role, and keeps the film mildly interesting.  She displays a radiant beauty while still revealing Erin's fragile emotional state.  Her romantic counterpart, Sean (Alan Gelfant), is a determined, content man who has grown past his younger days of craziness. His eyes deftly convey his peace with the world, even while he remains alone.  Davis and Gelfant possess a good chemistry, but they unfortunately only have a few scenes together near the end of the film.Although both of the lead actors are excellent, the side plots are mundane and sometimes terribly awkward.  I wasn't too interested in Alan's debts, Erin's coworkers' love lives, or the heist of the aquarium's prized fish. Presented with more wit and skill, these plot elements could have added some needed comic relief to the film.  Unfortunately, the scenes are written and executed in a mediocre fashion.  In striving for an inventive comedy, the writers should have cut some extra material and focused on developing the central plot.Hope Davis possesses all of the qualities necessary to become a major actress in the film industry.  In the Daytrippers, an excellent 1997 comedy, and in this film, she has created three-dimensional characters that show a wide range of believable emotions.  Her beauty shines from within, and she doesn't need an elegant outfit or contrived situation to express it.Next Stop Wonderland lays the foundation for a superb romantic comedy, but it loses its focus and strays in too many directions.  Davis and Gelfant are a pleasure to watch, but they can't save the film from presenting its sad outlook on life.  If you look past the main characters, their world isn't much of a wonderland.  "},{"Title":"great soundtrack, but just ok movie.","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being from Brazil myself I enjoyed very much the soundtrack. But thought they could've made more effort on their research of the country. The character that is supposedly from Brazil speaks with a painful Spanish accent and cannot even pronounce some Portuguese words. Since the movie was filmed in Boston, the biggest Brazilian colony outside Brazil, the least they could have done was find the real mccoy to play the part. Other than that it's a sometimes funny, with fairly good dialogues movie. I could've waited to see it on video though, 8 bucks it's a little too much for this. "},{"Title":"There's hope for ugly straight men","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That seems to be the 'message' of the movie, anyway.  If you're an ugly, straight male, you can find happiness with someone who looks like Hope Davis.  Seems that's all she goes for.  From the obnoxious ex-boyfriend to her final scene with 'leading man' Gelfant, she seems to run across (and date) every ugly 'straight' man in Boston.  And in the end she gets the nebbish with little or no personality to speak of.  At least that seems to be all the charisma Gelfant can muster.  I watched this movie (on video, thank goodness) because I'm a local Boston actor and I  wanted to see some of my friends on screen.  Other than that it was a waste of time.  This is the kind of film gives the word 'indie' a bad reputation.  Go see a Mike Leigh film.  At least they're about real people.  "},{"Title":"A nice vehicle for the star, Hope Davis","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film, if nothing else, serves as another piece to showcase the beautiful, talented actress, Hope Davis.  The movie itself is short enough to be engaging although the material seems to wear thin.  The climax is too long in coming and ultimately unsatisfying.  I do, however, look forward to more movies staring Ms. Davis.  I hope mainstream Hollywood gives her the chance she deserves.  "},{"Title":"Quirky Indie Film Is Missing Only An Effective Ending","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why is it with so many good indie films, the story, dialogue, and characters are engaging, yet the films abruptly end without a catharsis or denouement? In Next Stop Wonderland, the film revolves around the character Erin, played by the fine actress Hope Davis, who finds just the right balance between toughness and vulnerability in her character. Erin has just been dumped by her boyfriend (Philip Seymour Hoffman), and she now must field a steady stream of phone calls from men responding to a personal's ad placed for her by our heroine's mother! This good premise leads to a string of effective romantic scenes with snappy contemporary slang expressions and nice location footage in Boston. There is also a beguiling sound track of Latin songs, which recalls for the protagonist her relationship with her beloved father, who apparently spent time in Brazil. The film provides a solid ensemble of actors and an engaging profile of a woman in her 30's in our stress-filled era. The writers needed only to return to Playwriting 101 to tie together all of the story's loose ends (including what happened to the protagonist's father) and leave us with a satisfactory final scene. "},{"Title":"one of the worst romantic comedies I've ever seen","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  in this movie, I only see a snobbish woman who regards too high of her own appearance. And in order to prove that she also has brain (not just a Bond girl), she is given 'depth' by knowing a famous quote from Emerson, which every dummy keeps misquoting except her 'destined' sweetheart. Big deal. Worse, the director or someone in the production came up with this 'brilliantidea of portraying every single woman as the most miserable human beings on the earth. This is pathetic. screw the whole production. The most lousy 'romantic comedy' I've ever seen. I didn't bother to find out whether Erin finally got together with Allen. I turned the tv off when she didn't get off at the airport stop.  "}{"Title":"Next Stop, Boredom","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is perhaps the most boring I have seen in sometime. I rented it based upon critical acclaim (I guess that should have given me a clue that it would be dull), expecting it to be funny and different. However, Wonderland ended up being stale and formulamatic (don't know if that's even a word). The characters were listless (or was it the acting) and the story lacked any substance. I'm not sure if the problem was in the script, the direction or the acting, but I suspect it was a combination of all three "},{"Title":"Amusing and sweet even if it is quite forgettable","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Erin's boyfriend leaves her after years together with nothing more than a video tape featuring the reasons why he has left. Finding herself single again, Erin is forced back into the market when her mother puts her in the classified ads. Meanwhile Alan is a plumber pursuing his dream of becoming a marine biologist. However volunteering at the local aquarium doesn't earn him any money which is a problem given the gambling depths that his father has amassed with loan shark Frank.A very slight film, this indie-romance will appeal to those who see the false sentiment of Hollywood romcoms as below them but yet also yearn for the sweet, fated romance that they normally contain. This compromise is well delivered in this film that will appeal to the same audience that seek this mix. The plot has the elements of the contrived hand of fate and it is amusing the way the two characters drift around one another. It doesn't have a great deal of substance to it and it will annoy some viewers because of how knowingly kooky it all it is. It is rarely hilarious but it is sweet and amusing throughout. The presence of Anderson as writer and director drew me to this film as I know him as a name from Homicide, The Shield and the brilliant The Wire. This film has little in common with these but is still worth a look for doing what it does do well.The cast help matters greatly by turning in indie performances while delivering the rather sentimental material. Davis is a fine example of what I mean as she is very much a kooky type while also having enough humanity about her to make her character interesting. Gelfant is very much a secondary character of the two but he does well enough considering he is supposed to representing Mr Right. The support cast compliments the overall feel of the film with turns from Argo, Hoffman, Buono, Zúñiga and The Wire's Gilliard Jr all in small roles.Overall then a kooky romance for those who want the silly emotion of the Hollywood romcoms without all their gloss and sweeping music. Slight and an acquired taste perhaps but amusing and sweet even if it is quite forgettable. "},{"Title":"A barely acceptable time-killer.","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We need more movies like this one  then we'd all get a lot more work done.There are few few funny, almost unique moments, and the overall feel is fairly  up-beat, light, and non-offensive.  -But that's about it.  90% of this thing is  formulaic and cliche'd, and there's nothing in the plot to care about.  even the  romantic angle is extremely subdued, by chick-flick standards.OK on a lazy afternoon if you literally want to veg, or if you've recently had a  frontal lobotomy. "},{"Title":"Can one truly find true love?","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish that I could actually rate this movie because I was able to watch the entire thing, but I was getting so seasick from the way too much jittery, and stop-action, camera work that I finally had to turn it off. Which is too bad, as Hope Davis is a pleasure to watch and a fairly decent actress (not too many of those around), and Holland Taylor is a hoot, as always (well, in a lot of the movies I have seen her in lately...one of those actresses that really came into her own once she got past 45). And the story looked promising, I mean I was interested in what was going on and why. Why must audiences be subjected to this nonsense? It makes sense in some movies (Blair Witch Project, Quarantine, Cloverfield), but not in movies like this. And more and more of them are being filmed like this (Lilya 4-Ever comes to mind), ruining the entire movie-watching experience. Audiences should not have to take Dramamine in order to watch a movie. But if you have a strong stomach, or do not mind this type of camera work, I'd say check this movie out. What little I saw was okay. "},{"Title":"Offbeat, and a little off center.","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" NEXT STOP WONDERLAND (1998) My first viewing of Next Stop Wonderland occurred about three years ago, when I was pretty green on the subject of film. My first viewing led me to call it my favorite romantic comedy, for it was something different than I was used to seeing. It sparked an interest in Hope Davis, who has since become one of my favorite actresses (If you don't know her work, seriously check her out, she's great). So I bought the film about a year ago and haven't watched it since. Until this week, that is. And so comes my reevaluation..THE GOOD The thing I love most about Next Stop Wonderland is the fact that it's a romantic comedy that avoids most of the clichés the genre has been burdened with. The two main characters are far from unattractive, but it's no Kate Hudson/Matthew McConaughey duo. The film doesn't capitalize on anything shiny or cheesy. These are real people in real situations. The two main characters are people stuck in ruts, waiting on their lives to change. And it's very true to life. Here we have a nurse whose boyfriend has just left her. Her mother tries to interfere in her life and get her back out there as far as dating. She doesn't want to and is pretty dismal throughout the majority of the film. Meanwhile, we have a serious man who volunteers at an aquarium while trying to afford schooling to become a marine biologist.Hope Davis absolutely shines in her role as Erin, the single woman who is too proud to admit that she's lonely. Another standout is Phillip Seymour-Hoffman, pre-Capote, in a small role as Erin's politically aware ex-boyfriend.THE BAD I try not to judge a film on it's predictability, but it's hard not to do so. As far as this is concerned, it's obvious what's going to happen from the third scene. Obviously the lonely woman and the hard working single guy are going to find each other and fall in love. I guess one could say that it's watching them get there that is important, which I kind of agree with, but it makes you really want to tune out and fast forward through all the meaninglessness and skip to the end.The ending is kind of a let down. Like I said, it's impossible to not see the outcome from the beginning, but the actual climax is pretty disappointing. You expect to see some kind of interaction and connection between the two future lovers, but there is none of that. There's one final scene with them together and it's truly not worth what they endured to get there.THE RESULT I guess the good outweighs the bad here. It's a simple concept and it mostly succeeds with what it's trying to do. Far from groundbreaking, but it is delightful entertainment and a suitable alternative to typical romantic comedies. There are some truly amusing moments here, but nothing really laugh out loud. Worth seeing for some good performances, some originality.7/10, down from 8/10. "},{"Title":"Clueless meets The Road Traveled way too Often","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Hope Davis-she's beautiful, radiant, and the camera loves her. In some ways I have seen similar on-screen characteristics in Kate Winslet , or Julianne Moore..maybe Meryl Streep before we knew her too well. She comes into the frame, and you're naturally attracted to her. You want to share with her everything she brings to the screen.Sadly, no one can save Next Stop Wonderland, this pathetic waste of time. You could put Olivier in it, and the critics would still hate it. There is not a single original word or concept. Someone's friends and relatives put up the cash to get this one made--I'm telling you.I caught a whiff of it even before I turned it on--right there on the box--Alan Gelfant, the male lead. You mean &#145;The Destiny of Marty Fine'? THAT Alan Gelfant? A man who couldn't carry a movie with a $16 budget? My stomach started to turn. It didn't take much longer. The kiss of death Robert Klein. Now the turning has become churning.By the time the opening sequence was completed, I was retching. Lame dialogue, weak characters with names like &#145;Cricket' and &#145;Rory', &#145;Piper' and &#145;Lowery'. Then more lame dialogue followed by weak actors, then more lame dialogue. It was like a bad soap opera script that Brad Anderson pulled out of the rubbish and made into a film.I would hope that by now, Anderson has found other work-maybe Henry Jaglom needs someone to trim his hedges. But, the way Hollywood works he'll likely be directing the Godzilla sequel-you know where Godzilla's wife leaves him and he travels a neurotic journey through coffeehouses and indie bookstores, group therapy, and homosexual urges. I mean someone let Scott Kalvert direct &#145;The Basketball Diaries' didn't they? Jeremiah Chechik is still working, and rumor is Kevin Reynolds may direct again.Eighteen minutes, and I was out. Save yourself even that much time. I looked up the original production company, Robbins Entertainment in an attempt to see what other films I should quickly avoid-thankfully Next Stop Wonderland is the only one listed.Poor Hope Davis, who IS very talented. Poor Victor Argo. Doesn't Roger Rees have something better to do?The rest get what they deserved. "}]