[{"Title":"Great film - if you set your expectations correctly","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  You can't please everyone.  If you have a story that's easy to follow people will say its boring and predictable.  If you have a richly complex story, people will say its labyrinthine and confusing.  The trick is to have something in the middle, and that is what Goodbye Lover gives us.The central thread is simple.  The complications happen on the periphery.  You can't watch this movie with one eye closed.  You have to pay attention!  How can you have a mystery when you already know whodonnit?  Ah, that is the question.  Are you up to the challenge?This is a comedy.  Comedies have license to be wacky and over-the-top.  Patricia Arquette and Ellen DeGeneres give standout performances.  I love this movie.  Its very entertaining, very clever, very funny, fast paced, never boring.  Isn't that what a comedy should be? "},{"Title":"Very pleasing neo-noir with good cast and lots of humor","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I wrote this comment mainly because there are so many negative reviews posted here and fewer positive ones and I think this film definitely deserves better. I liked it very much, have seen it twice, once on the big screen and just now on DVD. It was not the least bit boring the second time even though the film relies heavily on its plot twists and the suspense they produce. I think many people just don't come to terms with cross-overs, they want either a suspense film that takes itself dead serious or a clear cut comedy. I liked the humor in the film and its outrageous characters well played by a perfectly assembled cast. Patricia Arquette is just great, a pleasure to watch! She deserves the price for the funniest sociopath femme fatale ever seen on the silver screen. Vincent Gallo in his tiny role as contract killer is the icing on the cake! The film is superbly shot and directed and features a brilliant soundtrack. I voted it a 9. "},{"Title":"Image is everything","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover is a quite good dark comedy about -- as Jake Dunmore says quoting his brother Ben -- Image is everything. Everything in this movie is about image, and yet nothing is at it appears. And in this respect the very context of the movie sustains the content exceedingly well it's a beautifully shot movie -- too pretty, in fact. So pretty it's easy to miss the fetidness just beneath the surface.Almost every shot is too shiny, too glossy, too seamless, too meticulously composed. Many scenes are suffused with those ubiquitous cinematic blues and oranges contemporary DPs and directors like so much, but raised to such a degree that it almost enters the realm of the fanciful. Many other scenes are done in hi-tech blacks, whites, and grays. Everything is window dressing -- reality is nothing more than appearance, beautifully symbolized by mirrors everywhere. Lots of mirrors, shiny surfaces, glass & windows, all reflecting everyone to everyone else, a world of appearances without substance, without soul. And when people aren't being reflected in mirrors they're being framed behind glass, a diorama for display. The world is just one big department store window.Yet just as a structurally crumbling, termite-ridden house can be painted to look pristine and beautiful, so does this shiny veneer hide the most vicious, rapacious, cynical behavior. Indeed, the world in which this takes place may look beautiful, but it is very very empty and ugly. And as such this is a kind of morality tale that shows the dangers to a society that lives strictly for appearance.There are few movies I can think of which so excellently explore this tense boundary between the shiny packaging, and the rancid stuff it hides. As Ben Dunmore says, People worry that it's a dangerous and sh*tty world. And it is our job to make it look safe and clean. Thus our hero works at a PR firm, packaging a morally bankrupt politician as a wholesome, devout family man; the president of the PR firm pretends to be a holy man -- a rather inherent contradiction; our two principals work in a church that obviously serves Mammon over anything else religion is just another accoutrement, something to accessorize the soul; and then there's the wedding chapel in Las Vegas, where an unctuous smile sells ersatz sincerity. Sorry. Etc. (In fact, it's surprising how many such examples of this there are in the movie -- the writers were very inventive and consistent in coming up with such a profusion of image vs substance motifs.)The only person in this world of appearances who doesn't belong, Detective Rollins, is a F*cking Mook -- as his partner, Sergeant Rita Pompano (Ellen Degeneres), calls him. For him, appearance *is* reality. His sincerity is regarded with mocking disbelief by everybody he obviously doesn't understand the rules of the game that everyone else is playing. Even we, the audience, take sides against him -- that's how subtly subversive and well presented -- even seductive -- this world is.And speaking of Ellen Degeneres, she is great in this movie. Others complain that she isn't funny or witty, merely insulting. But in one of those delightful twists where the line between fiction and reality dissolves, this is her payback for the flack she took from the forces of christian oppression after she came out of the closet. Ellen obviously relishes this role -- she mercilessly mocks her Mormon partner, gets to be a guy (and, for an attractive woman, she is laudably unattractive in this role), and, at the end of the movie, looks ridiculous when she dresses in drag.This may also be Don Johnson's best movie. For once he gets to play the kind of character he seems uniquely equipped to play a high-end used car salesman, all style, all flash, sexy in his way, but empty and sleazy. It's very fitting that when he says he's trying to get something real in his life, he unknowingly gets quite the opposite.  And, since he wants to leave the game, he no longer belongs in this world -- and is appropriately removed from the game.Sometimes the symbolism is a bit heavy-handed (Go For It billboard), as is the writing (You need to go down on your knees for her. Well, someone obviously did.). But it's all in good spirits, and I'm willing to accept its blemishes (as it were) 'cause it succeeds admirably in most other respects. And the acting in general is uniformly solid -- in fact, it's very well cast, even the curiously unfatale femme fatale Patricia Arquette.The movie ends on a wonderfully humorous note to the tune of Climb Every Mountain as image thoroughly triumphs over substance, much as it does in real life -- which may be the reason this movie doesn't sit well with many people.The filmmakers obviously had fun making this movie, and it shows. All in all, it's a very well-made, fun movie -- if you scratch its surface. 8/10  "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'd never heard of this movie and came across it as it was starting on cable last night.  I only intended to watch a few minutes of it and then go to sleep but I ended up watching the whole thing.  I was particularly intrigued with Ellen Degeneres' character, a hard-boiled, seen-it-all detective with a great sense of timing and humor.  I was also very impressed with the direction and editing, the movie moves at a fast, bright clip, it's quick and sexy and funny.  And I liked Patricia Arquette as the conspiring wife, she plays her role with deft accuracy.  Unlike the first reviewer of this movie who found the plot twists predictable, neither my husband nor I saw them coming.  I thought this was a thoroughly enjoyable movie, I'm only sorry we missed seeing it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"A sexy, noirish thriller that keeps you guessing","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The opening scene of Goodbye Lover is perhaps the most subtle part of the whole film Patricia Arquette as Sandra, an LA realtor, is shown driving down a busy LA freeway while listening intently to a self-motivational tape. With this as evidence, we just _know_ this chick's nuts. And as the movie goes on, our suspicions are proved correct we watch as Sandra schemes to kill her husband, Jake (Dermot Mulroney), along with her lover, who also happens to be Jake's brother, Ben (Don Johnson, in a particularly solid performance). But after Sandra's plan succeeds, we learn that things aren't nearly as simple as they seem.Rather, as we meet more and more characters, we find that each one is secretly screwing the other (In both senses of the word). A good girl played by Mary-Louise Parker and a cynical LA cop played by Ellen DeGeneres become embroiled in Sandra's web of deceit, and as each person succumbs to his/her avarice, the script gets funnier and funnier. In the end, it's a close tie between Arquette and Ellen for the most memorable moments in the film, but both characters have certain qualities that make them enjoyable to watch. Arquette's Sandra is a seductive and especially shrewd femme fatale who hums choruses from the Sound of Music while prancing about other people's homes (Arquette is the perfect Real Estate Agent From Hell). Meanwhile, DeGeneres' Rita Pompano is hilariously aloof to the lives of the people around her, casually dropping off-hand (And almost always crude and sarcastic) comments that demonstrate just how wise she is to Sandra's lusty motivations.Sorry to say, I can't divulge too much of the film without spoiling it, but Goodbye Lover is something like a cross between The Last Seduction and Wild Things. However, unlike the ridiculous series of plot twists that just about ruined Wild Things, Goodbye Lover manages to avoid being too obvious in order to fulfill one's desire for a satisfying conclusion. Overall, I'd have to rate this sexy, noirish thriller with a well-deserved A.  "},{"Title":"Exhausting twists and wrong turns...","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Shady married couple conspire to knock-off the husband's rich brother, but when the wife finds out her husband is in cahoots with the brother's spouse, she does some conspiring of her own. Over-plotted mystery-comedy-drama sat a long while on the shelf. Highly mediocre picture does have a great character for Patricia Arquette to play, but it still isn't funny enough nor convincing enough to make much of an impression. Though directed by the esteemed Roland Jaffe, this is just a cartoonish doodle that only served to give several under-used actors (Don Johnson, Ellen DeGeneres, Dermot Mulroney, Mary Louise Parker) a chance to be colorful. End result is exhausting and tedious. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Love the actors in this movie","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" But I HATED the movie. First, Ellen (sorry I love her) was terrible. She just is not that person and can't pull it off. Her having a trashy mouth and being a hard as nails cop just doesn't work at all.After that everything else pales.If you like Mary Louise Parker, watch Weeds and Fried Green Tomatoes and Boys on the Side, and Saved and The Client, and Angels in America, but do not watch this movie please.Patricia Arquette - love her and actually I did love her performance in this movie, but the rest of the movie was just so awful it's a large price to pay to see her performance. "},{"Title":"Quirky, twisty Film Noir, well worth watching.","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you've got nothing better to do one night and manage to catch this little gem on late night TV, then it's worth an hour and a half of your time. A stylishly shot quirky film noir with a plot that twists and turns like a twisty-turny thing. With a sizzling performance by the weird femme fatale Patricia Arquette, and great dialogue from Ellen de Generes as the laconic cop, it's a very entertaining thriller.Be warned if you are a cynic, Citizen Kane it ain't, but if you're a fan of the genre and into the Likes of Last Seduction, Bound, Palmetto etc., this underrated piece of work may just tickle your fancy. "},{"Title":"Brilliant mix of noir and comedy!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover is the remedy for a person in need of sizzling, film noir mystery or laugh-out-loud comedy. Patricia Arquette and Ellen DeGeneres carry the film and both seem right at place as their characters. Arquette plays Sandra Dunmore, Don Johnson is Ben, her husband's brother. Dermot Mulroney is Jake Dunmore, Sandra's husband. A plan is being woven and you don't always know by who, as insurance money is what everyone wants. I won't give anything away, even though twists aren't the only thing this film has going for it. Like I said, I spent half the time laughing hysterically. Ellen DeGeneres is Rita Pompano, a lazy detective who hates the human race and is only in the force because Every once in a while I get to shoot somebody. The film's script is smooth and well written, full of the right dose of thrills and laughs. Despite what many may say about this film, it is the perfect example of what film noir is all about. Not just mystery, not just comedy, but a little bit of both. A fantastic film.  "},{"Title":"A disjointed comedic film noir that's not very good - 40%","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It is extremely difficult to sleep in weather like this, especially if you're off work and not doing much during the day. That may sound like the understatement of the year but it's the only reason I can think of for watching this anonymous film last night on BBC 1. Described as a comic thriller (surely an oxymoron if ever there was one), I was reminded of so many other films whilst watching Goodbye Lover and nearly all of them were better than this. Despite an impressive cast, its lack of cohesion causes the plot to twist so much that it ends up eating its own tail. A shame, really, because Patricia Arquette's femme fatale is such a good character that she doesn't deserve to languish in this turgid mess.Don Johnson plays Ben, a PR guru working alongside his alcoholic brother Jake (Dermot Mulroney). But Ben hides a secret - he has been having an affair with Jake's wife Sandra (Arquette). After meeting and falling for Peggy (Mary-Louise Parker) at work, Ben decides to end the relationship with Sandra but she is reluctant to let go of him. Before long, things take a murderous twist and it's up to foul-mouthed Detective Pompano (Ellen DeGeneres) and her buttoned-up partner (Ray McKinnon) to solve the case.In what must be the heist of the century, this film borrows so much from other films that it must be a criminal offence. It reminded me of things like Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct but while there is nothing wrong with these influences, Goodbye Lover is a long way from those giddy heights. It had that awful 'TV movie' feel to it all and at times, it looked cheap and tacky. Credit is due to the actors, especially Arquette and DeGeneres who comes across quite differently from other things I've seen her in. But the writing is the biggest let-down and by the time the climax had arrived, I was no longer surprised by yet another twist. I'm sure, if you pay attention to things like this, you'll see them all coming but personally, each new twist came as a disjointed shock to the system and made the whole film feel disconnected and written on the fly. The only character I had any sympathy for was poor murdered Ben and it's not right that the character you empathise with the most is only in it for the first third of the movie.I honestly don't feel as if this movie is worth all the praise others seemed to have heaped on it. It's silly, not that funny (unless people making love in a church is your idea of comedy) and unlikely to hold your interest for too long. Yes, Arquette steals the movie with vampish ease but if I want to watch a decent modern film noir then I'll stick with Body Heat which is better, sexier and much more enjoyable. This, by contrast, is needlessly convoluted and not nearly as much fun. Serves me right - I should have been trying to get to sleep instead of watching this. "}{"Title":"Goodbye, chance at a good movie","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm usually very forgiving of movies (I'm a loyal defender of Speed 2 and The Postman), but I simply can't condone this awful, boring, and unpleasant movie. Every murder that happens is to utterly predictable that you just sit there in your seat begging for something interesting or original to happen, but it never does. Don Johnson's character is the only interesting one in the entire movie, but he's not in it for long, and things just go downhill from there. Not that I have anything against this kind of movie- one of my favorite movies last year was Wild Things, but that movie was smart, funny and interesting, and had fun characters. This loser of a movie has none of those things; the jokes are totally unfunny, and the plot developments are not the least bit interesting. Patricia Arquette is not the least bit convincing (or all that attractive, really) as a femme fatale wannabe, and Ellen DeGeneres, a great actress who could have made this character smart and funny, instead makes a character who is boring, annoying, and rather depressing to watch. Take, for example, the way she makes fun of her Mormon partner- there is no cleverness in her jokes, only rudeness, and so they all fall flat. The main reason that I was interested in this movie was because I kept hearing about all the great plot twists. Beware there aren't really all that many, and none of them are the least bit believable. If you want a good neo-noir with fun plot twists, go rent Wild Things or The Usual Suspects, but leave this loser alone- it's not worth the film it's printed on. "},{"Title":"Without hyperbole, one of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The death of Goodbye Lover obviously came in its editing.  Because watching it, you do see that hidden within the numerous layers of ridiculous bile, there was at some point, an actually coherent plot.  Not to fault editor Bill Steinkamp too terribly, because while the story may be choppy and often unexplained and lacking a central arc due to the cuts made, one gets the overwhelming impression that, with or without editing, this film *stinks*.It doesn't know whether it wants to be funny, tense, smarmy, sexy, or devious.  It is literally as if the writers drew slips of paper titled things we like about movies from a hat and put it into the script.  Director Roland Joffé (who did The Killing Fields - what happened?!) does his best, I guess, but that is not enough.  The cast tries hard enough that it's only fair to warrant that it isn't their fault.  But, there's nothing that could have saved this movie short of never making it. "},{"Title":"fetishistic but no fun","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Six pages of reviews, and after all these years, nobody mentioned the obvious fascination the camera has with legs, feet and footwear. Ain't got no nothing' against some fetishistic fun, hell no, but here it falls flat. It also doesn't stay with what is pretty. The close-up of Ellen's foot as she lies there on the desk, DUCK!Patricia Arquette drew major attention for TRUE ROMANCE, but this is years later. She still has got the legs, but wears what can only be described as a horrendously awful wig with a bad cut that sits askew, and with the coming of age, she looks like she is fast turning into Dame Judi Dench, while she sounds just like Melanie Griffith. Not a recipe for success, in my opinion, though if it floats your boat, you're welcome to it, but I'll pass. Ellen Degeneres further grated. Luke two aircraft carriers scraping together. That much. Was reminded of that other fetishistic movie EXIT TO EDEN that also fell flat, with Rosie O'Donnell (can't be bothered to check up on the spelling, who cares?), you know, unattractive bothersome screen presence waddling like a wrecking crew through the movie...Not at all as good as some reviewers make it. They must have watched some other version. That's the one I should have bought.P.S. Mary-Louise Parker did great! "},{"Title":"Hello Arquette.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Goodbye Lover (1998) Dir Roland Joffe / Cast Don Johnson, Patricia Arquette, Dermot Mulroney, Mary Louise Parker, Ellen DeGeneres Strange dark comedy that is both clever and insulting. There is no love or lovers in this film, only deceit, lust and murder. Don Johnson plays a big corporate boss unable to control his aggressive brother. He is having an affair with Patricia Arquette who is married to his brother. When Johnson becomes involved with Mary-Louise Parker he breaks contact with Arquette who threatens blackmail. He receives a threatening call from his brother, which leads to murder. Subplot involving the doctor is not necessary and the sequence between Johnson and Arquette at Church is revolting. Then there is that Sound of Music cassette that plays a role of its own. Director Roland Joffe keeps everything uncertain with Arquette well cast as the vixen poisoning the minds of all for the sake of control. Dermot Mulroney plays the drunken aggressive brother. Johnson is excellent in the lead struggling to maintain a certain level of dignity in the midst of a police investigation. Parker is also superb as the lover who also becomes entangled in the web of deceit. Ellen DeGeneres is terrific playing a cynical cop investigating the crime and spewing one-liners. Strong theme regarding deceit marred with aggressive sex, which viewers will either engage or bid farewell. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Climb Every Mountain!","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I caught this movie last night on television. It is quite entertaining actually. Ellen DeGeneres plays a Los Angeles homicide detective who arrive after Ben's tragic death. Don Johnson is good at playing Ben. Dermot Mulroney plays his younger brother Jake. Ben is having an affair with his sister in law, Sondra (played by new Oscar winner Patricia Arquette). The cops investigate the accident closely. There is a huge insurance payout. My only problem with the film is the ending where justice isn't done at all. There are enough twists to keep you watching, Mary Louise Parker is also good in the role as Ben's widow. The film was made in Los Angeles, California. Ellen's role of cop adds humor but with ulterior motives. I just wished the ending was better and just. "},{"Title":"Semi-farce in which Patricia Arquette has deadly plans for her husband and that's just for starters","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Goodbye Lover is a neo-noir farcical comedy, with a tone something like Bound. This movie has many messages. Appearances deceive sociopathic murderers look like anyone else. People who work in fancy offices, dress to the hilt, drive fancy cars and live in fancy homes still can want others dead for the sake of money, more money. No one can be trusted in the amoral world of Goodbye Lover, even those whom you love and trust the most. In fact, lovers are the most to be distrusted. Everyone is game for everyone else.The production design, sets and script work very well to bring all of this out. The movie visually shows us glitz and public relations types who deal in appearances, double crosses and murder.Scene after scene is done with a smile or a smirk, as black comedy. This is not comedy in the manner of jokes, nor is it exactly satire. It is more like people doing serious things and being affected seriously, while taking it all lightly or farcically. This is closer to farce than anything but it holds back from being complete farce. Too many serious events occur for this to be complete farce, not unless the direction and script were of the highest order, but this is not Billy Wilder and not Some Like It Hot.Neo-noir is not easily given a semi-comic treatment. Instead of a blend that suffuses all the proceedings, a constant tone, we get changes in tone as first one, then the other predominates. We do not have a central character constantly being witty, often at his own expense. No Bob Hope movie is this. The script tried to achieve this somewhat with the character of Ellen DeGeneres, but her character was so dour that her witty lines often fell flat, being more nasty than comic. The Arquette character was much more at the movie's center, but neither could what she was doing be regarded comically.The movie can easily sink between two stools, even if it does not fall. It has some heavy-duty noir and noir twists being treated farcically, but not really coming off that comically. The neo-noir side tends to predominate for me, enjoyably so as a noir fan, but for others the farce may seem to predominate. Overall, it's a decent movie. You pays your money, you takes your choice. "},{"Title":"Music Tracks For The Movie","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I confess, I bought the movie because my best friend, Porfirio Mojica, performed the soundtrack at the point where Don Johnson is playing the keyboards in the organ loft. This particular scene (a love scene with Patricia Arquette) is pretty steamy, I admit. Saint Mathew Passion, I believe, is the piece they used. I recognize Pro's (our nickname for Porfirio) style because I grew up listening to him play. Unfortunately, he was not mentioned in the credits because he is not a member of the Screen Actors Guild. Porfirio still performs and teaches music at Mount San Antonio Community College (MTSACC) in Walnut, California. I watch the movie from time to time to hear him in the soundtrack, but I give the movie itself an average rating of 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good ole' Trashy FUN!","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What an under-rated gem of a film! Why Warner brothers did not push to promote this in 1999 is a mystery to me. Sure, it is a mix of genres. that is what makes a good and interesting film. The cast is just perfect. Patricia Arquette clearly relishes in this role, as the sultry, devious, silly, and obsessive Sandra Dunmore. Here blunt bob haircut says it all. Don't mess with her. As always, her performance makes most of the film, and easily holds the audience attention through each twist and turn. Ellen Degeras is a bit over the top in her role as Rita Pompeno, the over eating and negative detective, however is still funny. If you want to sit back and have fun, mix up a cocktail and watch this film with friends. You will all be smiling. "},{"Title":"One of few positive comments on this film","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion, this movie is highly underrated by most reviewers on the IMDB. Yes, I like this movie and here's why.This movie does not pretend to be anything more than it is. It has great characters, a great cast and some funny plotlines. The story however is not that great, but the director saves the film.If you like Don Johnson's The Hot Spot (1990) you will certainly like this one, even if it's not that good. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Passable but deeply flawed","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Things are not well in the Dunmore family.  Sandra is an improvement tape freak who's marriage is rocky as her husband Jake hits the bottom of every bottle in the bar.  This affects his work (but luckily his brother owns the company.  However Ben is having sex with Sandra.  This drives Jake to the point of suicide, however when Ben comes to stop him Ben becomes the victim of a plot that sees numerous twists.I didn't have a clue what this was about when I watched it &#150; and that helped.  The start is OK and sets it up as a quirky film, with Arquette listening to self-improvement tapes and `The Sound of Music'.  However it then gets dark with the murder itself but then veers between comedy and noir right till the end where we get a `to the camera' final line.  The plot itself is OK &#150; not great but passable.  However it's not helped by the film not really knowing what it is &#150; a comedy or a noir.  Due to this it fails to do well in either but is watchable as both.The thriller/noir bits don't work because they are damaged by the comedy and the slightly farfetched nature of the constant twists.  The comedy doesn't work because it's either too quirky or just plain tired  - witness Ellen DeGeneres deliver one dull putdown after another.  However it is still enjoyable &#150; merely because it's glossy and moves fast.Arquette is sexy at some points but annoying at others &#150; she is OK but I wouldn't pick her as my choice for femme fatale.  Mulroney is OK but unmemorable.  Parker again is good but I can't remember much about her character &#150; she had little to do.  The best bits come from the cameo of Gallo and a good early role for Don Johnson.  DeGeneres is poor because she's lumbered with a poor role and no jokes to work with,Overall I wasn't bored and didn't hate it.  However it is a mix of styles and in no way is it a neo-noir of any description.  However from the director of `The Big Easy' and a good cast of good actors I really expected more. "}{"Title":"stupid yet entertaining","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover is a thriller-comedy that keeps you watching although it's obvious the movie doesn't take itself too serious. Patricia Arquette is married to Dermot Mulroney and she has a lover, Don Johnson. She convinces John to kill her husband, but there's one problem her husband is his brother.The film is very predictable, with only 2-3 exceptions. All the murders come along absoultely normal and if you add a totally annoying sick-of-life cop, Ellen de Generes, and her help, a incredibly stupid guy from Salt Lake, you get as a result a not-so-great film. One thing saved the whole movie the ending. Pretty original and not expected.A good watch, if you're in the mood for a simple thriller. Good performances from the actors. Vote 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"good cast, weak script","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This had the chance to be a very good movie. It's quirky and dark, but the script needed to be cleaned up. There are too many coincidences and loose ends, and some important plot points are not adequately explained.In a consitently good cast, DeGeneres is a stand-out. The role is perfect for her, and she handles it very well. The doofus partner thing is a little much, but it's fun watching her dump on him -- my guess is that they expanded his role a little to give her a chance to be mean even more often. I can't really recommend this movie, but if you like noir and DeGeneres, you might want to take a chance.  "},{"Title":"Climb every mountain.","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" NO,it's not the killing fields .It 's a thriller which verges on parody,and the unexpected twists come at such a speed it's not always easy to follow the plot.The cast is perfect Patricia Arquette is marvelous as a sexy blonde ,who listens to Julie Andrews (I mistrust people over 10 who still listen to the sound of music  says cop Rita);but the stand out is ,IMHO,her colleague ,the cop Ray Mc Kinnon ,and his fortune cookies philosophy ;His I arrest you is priceless and he delivers the last line with such a naivety he almost makes me think of Joe Brown's nobody's perfect .Another hilarious scene shows Arquette and Johnson making love in a church to the sound of sacred music and getting an ovation. (for the music ,needless to say) "},{"Title":"Goodbye Love !","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is brilliant movie for sure. It makes you think, enjoy and sadden as well ! The basis of the non-stop deception and killing is just super, managing to give you both the thriller time and the deep melancholic meaning (the sadness part!). It was also some kind of prophecy about the widespread presence of the twist technique in a lot of the American movies in the next decade. Yet here it was more sane to a classic status.I liked the way this movie's dirty world was shown, along with its deformed dictionary of relationships where there is no brotherhood (the brother kills his brother), no happy marriage (the husband cheats on his wife) and there is no real friendship at all, even the one who finds himself in love so refuses to betray it (Johnson when rejects his affair with Arquette) he becomes, according to this formula, the weakest person in such a world so he naturally must be the first to die, because pure love in such circumstances is a sign of murderous weakness ! (Arquette)'s character herself was pushed by her love to commit a crime (killing her husband and his mistress) yet blinded by this love she didn't do it thoroughly however she got away with it ONLY by the power of money&#x85;the new rescuer love.Harmonize with that many swift but so effective points; for instance beginning the movie with an act of obscenity taking place in a church, while everyone there thinks How great and imposing; that summarized - in smartly ironic way - the whole disordered logic of this cosmos, so its double-faced nature.So it was bright also to make the field of the leads' business center around publicity (read  duplicity) and relating that at the last shot to the political figure when appears so polished while in the same time the 2 female killers are loose and innocent more than ever; like saying nicely what a world of colored lying we live in.Look at the passion of Sound of Music as a good irony between the ethereal spirit of music as perfect embodiment for love so its power of changing on one side and the translation of all of that according to our ugly modern time on the other side where there is no sound or love but for the green !Or look at the little appearance of the character of the serial killer; firstly as someone this world produces and needs, so secondly as someone with all the evil in the world doesn't have a chance in front of 2 greedy and sharp women, not because simply 2 killers are more powerful than 1, but because this is a crazily violent world where you're whether deadly or dead ! Thus it was a priori to have the only character that doesn't belong to this formula (DeGeneres' partner) as so naive (even if he's intelligent), so dull and so queer expressly when he doesn't think about making money or being bloody opportunist, or even suspects something dirty around.And what a dark message this movie delivers eventually about love in today's world whereas it ends its events with 2 women live for enjoying money and money only. It was smart move not to show them as lesbians because that would've transformed their relationship into a case the emotion got to do something with it, but who said that there is originally a smell of love in this very sick world ?!As for the dialog it got some of the cleverest lines I've ever heard in a movie, meaning of course all what was written for Ellen DeGeneres' character as the melancholically cynical yet deeply materialistic investigator, making it one of the most memorable characters in the history of Noir film. Save the way DeGeneres discovers the whole matter at the end so easily to fabricated extent, it's fun like a remarkable black comedy about the despotism of the materialism in our present life. Delivering the pessimistic message of goodbye love cynically as it should be. P.S  there is amazing Indian remake 10 years after (yes, believe it or not it is AMAZING !) which could make you wonder did Goodbye Lover utilize all of its chances or not?! "},{"Title":"Film Noir gone over the top.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHThis movie was really really out there. There are more twists and turns in it then one can count and after awhile you sort of give up and decide to either 1)turn the darn thing off or 2) sit back and enjoy the over the top ride! The second choice is the one I made and actually started enjoying this in a weird, you've gotta be kidding sort of way.The movie features an excellent cast and is filled with one dislikeable character after another. Seriously.... I'm not sure there was one likable person in the whole movie. Likewise, nobody cares about anybody and there are so many ulterior motives and double crossings going on this movie could put Melrose Place to shame. That's OK though after awhile, because as the movie goes on, you kind of get the idea things are not going to calm down, they are only going to get more twisty and more over the top. Once you know that though, you maybe can start predicting what some of those twists might be.I am not going to say this is a great movie but I will also admit I enjoyed this. It is a prime example of a guily pleasure type movie. Normally I would not give such a movie a 7 rating but hey I did just recently see the movie Derailed(to which I also gave a 7) and which is not unlike this in several ways although I actually think Goodbye Lover is a little more fun to watch overall. The movie never slows down in its twists, there's a bit of the comedic mixed in with the dark drama, the performances are for the most part good(Mary Louise Parker impressed me most) and the movie has so much happening that you have to pay attention and stay focused.Seriously-this is the type of movie where if you turn away for 2 minutes you might miss something. And for anyone who digs Film Noir this is like Film Noir gone over the top in a dizzying, what the heck kind of way.But it's a somewhat enjoyable movie though it's never going to win any Oscars. I guess I would call this movie campy only the performers don't play it that way. Arquette is almost the only one who seems to get into that area on occasion but mostly they play it pretty serious. Oh....the second exception is the obnoxious police officer. That brings me to the line your under arrest which he says at the end. I think the movie missed a chance for another twist. It would have been a better ending if they HAD been under arrest and that officer wound up as a really sharp guy having been suspicious of them all along. Instead he's about the only character who is what he appears to be. But as it stands, though this isn't a movie I'd say is great or even very good, it's not bad and a bit above average just for the watchable aspect and the cast. More twists and turns then a roller coaster and an over the top somewhat enjoyable movie. I'd say it's a low 7. "},{"Title":"Indulge! (minor spoilers)","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover may start out like pure trashy nonsense what with Don Johnson (as Ben) and Patricia Arquette (as Sandra) running around in the church having enough sex to make a person cross-eyed. The story finally takes off when the characters do more talking and we find out that the couple's affair (Ben's sleeping with his brother's wife) turns awry once Ben decides he's had enough and Sandra's decided that he's not getting off light, even though he'd like to forget the whole mess, her included. But, lo! Someone plunges some forty stories to his (or her) death, someone with a life insurance policy worth millions (of course). Now, if you are literate in modern noir, you know that there is always a financial motive to murder, that more than one person is after the money (including not-so-clean-cut investigators and other law enforcement), and everyone is willing to turn on another (with the body count rising) to get away free with the riches. That's the kind of story we have here, and sometimes it is a little confusing as to what exactly the plan is and just who is in on it, as we are thrown a few clever surprises here and there. Bottom line trust no one. The movie is pretty funny, despite the creepy characters and their shameful and casual approach to stuffing their pockets. And much of the comedy element comes from Ellen Degeneres who plays Sgt. Pampano, a cynical sarcastic investigator who knows that the inital murder (which set off the other chain of events) is no accident, and that everyone has a darkside, despite her optimistic, and often naive partner, Rollins (Ray McKinnon). It is quite an entertaining thriller, once you get past the first ten minutes or so. Once the victim plunges to his death from the top floor, the movie actually starts to become a pretty interesting, wholly involving story. A funny one, too. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Best costume design for a Patricia Arquette movie!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie! I thought it was funny and very refreshing.  Patricia Arquette is my favorite actress, and I loved to see her playing a more evil charactor.  There are some plot twists, but the reason to see this is not for the plot twists, it's for the quirky sets, Patricia Arquette showing off her beautiful assets in numerous funky outfits, and the extremely funny deadpan humor of Ellen Degeneres. I thought Ellen was hilarious in a role that one wouldn't normally see her, and found the humor refreshing as it was not like her stand up humor at all. The film attempts to cast itself as a film noir and I think it achieves that in a tongue in cheek way. It's not classic film noir, its funky film noir! If you are a Patricia Arquette fan or like movies with a touch of wackiness, then you should see this film. "},{"Title":"Wickedly Funny and Sexy","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very entertaining and wickedly funny and sexy movie!  It will keep you guessing as to what will happen next.  Don Johnson is still a babe!  My only complaint is that Don was not in every scene!  Ellen D. is really great in this movie too!  I could see her doing this character in a weekly series. Oh yes, Don Johnson, yummy, yummy good! "},{"Title":"This movie was smart, unpredictable, and thoroughly enjoyable.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I went to see Goodbye Lover. All I knew was that it had Ellen DeGeneres in it and I would see anything with her in it. I didn't know whether I would actually like the film or not. Well, I wasn't disappointed. Goodbye Lover was a perfectly dark comedy, perfectly meshed with a well-written thriller. There were quite a few tricky camera shots that impressed me as well. I won't summarize the film, as it would take away from the plot-twists and their effect while you are watching the movie. But this movie is highly recommended by me and the people I went to the film with. It's a unique movie, you're unlikely to see anything like it anytime soon. Go see it while you still can in the theaters!  "},{"Title":"well!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this on T.V.  That's about right.  Only thing it lacked was the words true life and starring Brian Deneheney  to be a true T.V movie.........Horrible.   After years of miami vice it gives Don Johnson an excuse to swear and have nudity scenes... Well that was worth it.  And as for Ellen appearing... "}{"Title":"Why is this entertaining flick rated so low?","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is fun movie making. Nothing earth shaking. Will not go down as a top ten of the year, but is made for an evening of relaxation and pop corn. I can't understand why so many people pan this film, especially when you consider other movies they liked. If you did like this film you might check out True Romance on the video dollar rack. "},{"Title":"Liked it, don't understand the negative comments!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie last night after my boyfriend said he'd liked it. We ended up quoting lines and scenes at each other all day today. I checked in here to verify a cast member, and saw all these negative reviews... I have to say, I don't get it. It's got good actors having fun with over-the-top roles, and lots of funny and memorable tidbits. It's worth watching for Mary-Louise Parker alone. The only clunker was the bartender knowing Dermot Mulroney and Don Johnson were brothers because they look alike - not! It's maybe more camp than noir, but definitely entertaining. "},{"Title":"Nobody's so bad at being so bad","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this film because of a good review I read in a magazine, and because there's Mary-Louise Parker on it. I doubt I'll ever buy that mag again. And indeed I found MLP the only redeeming factor of this fiasco of a movie. Its twisty plot twists in all the wrong, utterly unbelievable directions, Roland Joffé manages to show what a great director he is (in the same wrong way as Gus Van Sant in To Die For, ie, not letting us forget for a minute he's there), the humor lacks a certain, ahem, sense of humor, the thriller aspect doesn't thrill in the least bit, the social comment on Americana is way too obvious, and the acting is terrible even coming from some otherwise good actors (plus Don Johnson). This kind of movies have to be very smart to put you in the necessary suspension of disbelief, and this is absolutely not the case here. Luckily, I got over it and still think the world of Mary-Louise Parker -and I think this must have been like the ultimate test. All in all, an experience best avoided.  "},{"Title":"Why oh why was this movie made ...","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Film noir can be some of the best cinema to make it to the big screen. A depth of characters, a complex and winding plot, dark humor that makes you laugh involuntarily, a shocking ending that leaves you exhilarated can add up to a thoroughly enjoyable experience. But when these things go horribly astray, oh what a disasterous result we can have. Goodbye Lover is one of the latter, mixing bad acting, comical plot lines, and one of the worst casts ever assembled (why are Don Johnson and Dermot Mulroney allowed in Hollywood?) to create a horrible moviegoing experience the likes of which have only been matched by movies involving Roland and Emmerich. What the studio was thinking when it combined the cast of phillistines it did I will never know. What I can tell you is this movie will go down as one of the more laughably bad experiences of my life (right up there with Showgirls, I Know What You Did Last Summer and, unbelievably, its inferior sequel).  "},{"Title":"funny neonoir","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Once again I have to say I don't see where all the negativity is coming from. This is a very funny movie. I am not a DeGenerus fan, but I thought she was hilarious here. Patricia Arquette is one of my favorites and I thought she was great! Sexy and smart and innocent in a way notwithstanding all her scheming. The three main male roles are played well. I have a job where we watch a lot movies and I have shared this with 10 or 12 others, and each of them has loved this film. Give it a chance if you like laidback, funny neonoir. "},{"Title":"Good black comedy","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I read all those negative comments. I rented this movie yesterday because first I couldn't decide which film I want to see. But finally I was pleasently surprised by this good comedy and by the acting of Don Johnson and mainly Ellen DeGeneres. Her detective Rita Pompano is very funny and I love her cynicism.This is the main reason why I vote 7 to this movie. "},{"Title":"Somewhat confusing movie, sort of a black comedy, 6 of 10 rating.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover was a Blockbuster favorites that I got as my weekly free rental.  It was pleasantly entertaining but an easily forgettable movie.CAUTION -- SPOILERS --In the movie trailer you are led to believe that Don Johnson's character killed his brother to cover up his affair with his brother's wife, played well by Patricia Arquette. Just the opposite happened. There is a somewhat confusing wedding in L.V. where we think Johnson's and Arquette's cahracters wed, but a photo shows up which indicates that she wed her real husband. There is insurance money, and a silly cop played by Ellen Degeneres, which demonstrates why she is not an employable actress. I saw it 5 days ago and already I forgot how it ended!  Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Too many Wild Things","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I guess, the director enjoyed the excellent Wild Things, but his attempt to copy it in many ways did not really work. Too many illogical twists in the storyline did not surprise, but irritate me. However, it is nice to see Don Johnson appear on the big screen again. He and Ellen DeGeneres make the movie worth watching. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Go Ellen! Go Ellen! Go Ellen!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Not ever being an Ellen DeGeneres fan, I was surprised to find her my second favorite part of the movie. My first being Patricia Arquette who is at her finest in this lusciously evil role. Her outfits are tip top and her femininity is delicate, yet she kicks da bootie. What I really like about Patricia is that she doesn't suck up to Hollywood by choosing silly roles. If you like black comedies, don't miss this film. Oh, and Vincent Gallo is the cherry on top of this movie as Mike, the hitman. "},{"Title":"Twisted and corrupt overdone.","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover is another run of the mill film about lust and betrayal.  A man (Don Johnson) sleeps with his brother's wife (Patricia Arquette), and soon the brother (Dermot Mulroney) finds out about it.  Soon enough, people are being murdered accidentally left right and centre.  A detective (Ellen DeGeneres) finds herself enthralled in the case, and soon enough the whole movie falls apart after a could-be intriguing intro.The movie is intensely artificial and beaten to a pulp.  Just when you think the movie might end, another lame plot twist is thrown at you, but it's always something which has been done before.I didn't despise this movie.  The acting was decent, thought at times a bit corny and fraudulent.  As for a fresh and innovative script, you'll have to search for somewhere else. "}{"Title":"hysterically funny...","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made me laugh many times...funniest movie I've seen in a long time.Cinematography was also outstanding (framing of shots particularly interesting). "},{"Title":"Rent it if you can't find anything else you really wanna see.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has some interesting developments , however, Patricia Arquette's character gets annoying pretty fast and isn't very convincing as a femme fatale. Just suspend all disbelief when viewing this movie and go with the characters. Even if what they do makes hardly any sense at all. Sandra and Jake have every reason to be worried the police don't believe their story because no sane person would be convinced by them, and yet they plot another murder... "},{"Title":"This is the director of The Killing Fields?","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Phew, I cannot quite believe that the same person who directed such a powerful story as depicted in the Killing Fields dared to market such drivel.  Arquette has, occasionally, given good performances (True Romance), and admittedly her acting is not bad, it's the script that stinks.  The extremely silly (but oh-how-I-try-to-write-witty-one-liners!) remarks by Degeneres, plus the Salt Lake City partner incompatibility plot line, forced me to stop watching the movie about half way.  I'd had quite enough of the politically correct kinkiness (Oh look how naughty Arquette and Johnson are!) anyways, even before the smartmouth & countrybumpkin cop duo appeared they merely catalysed the fast rewind and eject action sequence by me. "},{"Title":"Sexy thriller with unnecessary comic tone. *** out of ****","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I have had a busy week of watching  movies. I just finished a positively negative review of The Waterboy, which I screened last week. I am in the middle of writing a critique of Night Falls on Manhattan, that I viewed yesterday. Now, I am on to putting together my thoughts of what I just saw a little less than three hours ago. This is the kind of movie where you have to remember everything, but reveal absolutely nothing.Movies like Goodbye, Lover give me a hard time reporting about. You see I can't explain the actual plot of the movie because that would give too much away for those who plan to see it.The movie starts out with a phone sex conversation and only gets more pervasive. The characters in this movie are more like pieces on an overly crowded game board as they are actual people. Here are the main players' involvement's with one another. Patricia Arquette is a female fatale named Sandra who is seductive in the most devilish of ways. She is married to Jake (Dermot Mulroney) who is the brother of Ben (Don Johnson) who is Sandra's lover. He is having an affair with co-worker Patricia (Mary-Louise Parker) who has a love life her own, JakeAfter all of the above contracts, an event that leaves one of them dead has the rest of the key players are all scheming over four million dollars in insurance money. The most notorious of the characters plan a murder with an old friend, whom is bought out by another character with other plans.Also playing an importing role in the movie are the following events a serial killer called The Doctor who kills young women by injecting poison in their veins with a doctors syringe, a gay senator who is involved with a hustler, a motorcycle vs. car chase scene that leaves two dead, the sex scene in a church's organ room, S&M handcuffs and a leather black mask, and the wedding chapel in Vegas that reveals overwhelming evidence.Goodbye, Lover is stylishly directed with a sense of sly wit, and uncensored audacity. All that and the movies strong but stark feeling of tension can be thanked by the engaging soundtrack, which doesn't have a whole lot to do with what is going on, but is nonetheless very effective.Roland Joffé  (The Scarlet Letter, 1995) shows sign of excessive talent.The movie does keep audiences guessing, until a certain time in the movie in which all the secrets are revealed, and the viewer stops thinking there. Another problem with whodunit movies lately are the ending, which doesn't even come close to hitting the mark. Wild Things is a good example of an appropriate ending, while A Perfect Murder, is a bad example.The movie is undoubtfully intriguing the whole way though. With enough twist and turns to hold attention and a plot thick enough to cut with a knife, how can it not be? But a rightful problem with the movie's context is an inadequate comic tone in the material, no matter how dark of murderous. The key to making a movie with lots of unexpected surprises is to load on the suspense, not the comedy. This movie doesn't know where to draw the boundaries.Goodbye, Lover is a movie not as challenging or imaginative as we desire it to be. However, the style and sexy twists hold the watchers attention. Please do not reveal any of the movie's mysteries, for the sake of other filmgoers. So go see it, then shut up about it.  "},{"Title":"Ellen Degeneres is sharp as a knife","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I just caught the last half hour of this darkly comical movie and was greatly entertained. Unconventional script, sharp dialogue, unpredictable twists, clever use of film references (Sound of Music!), unrestrained waving of guns and splattering of stage blood.Most of all, I was pleased to discover that Ellen Degeneres is genuinely witty and clever when she wants to be, and has excellent deadpan comic timing. Having only seen her in dreadful anodyne TV sitcoms before, her cynical, edgy, laconic character in this film was quite a revelation. Go, Ellen! Don't waste yourself on primetime television. "},{"Title":"Well, *I* thought it was funny","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Caught it on cable one night, and I quite liked it. I liked Don Johnson as much as anything I've seen him in. I even thought Patricia Arquette was funny and I really liked her, for a change. The story tries to be cleverer than it can carry off. "},{"Title":"Cynical, unpredictable, improbable film noir.","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Goodbye Lover is certainly unpredictable, but there is a catch once you've figured out the movie's cynical attitude (every single character is a slimy cheat looking for the big bucks), the twists all fall into the same pattern and lose their impact. Ellen DeGeneres is particularly grating; Don Johnson, Mary Louise Parker and even Ray McKinnon come off better, because they are pleasingly understated.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"A very dull film.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  So here's the story outline. Ben is having an affair with his alcoholic brother Jake's wife Sandra.Ben gets involved with a co-worker called Peggy and Sandra gets jealous letting Jake know about the affair. Both Jake and Sandra then kill Ben.The story should have just ended there, but then there is an insurance claim, Jake and Sandra think they will get it, but then they find out that Ben got married to Peggy. In comes in Rita Pompano, a sergeant, who then tries to solve not just Ben's murder but Peggy's too... Patricia Arquette plays Sandra, who really lives to up the blonde bimbo routine, Dermot Mulroney looks and acts strange in the whole movie and Don Johnson dies. Ellen DeGeneres had some good lines, the sarcasm didn't quite fall into place in every scene that she had, but she was okay. The movie was just so dull it did no justice towards the talent that was used for it!  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm not a fan of Ellen DeGeneris, but she was pretty darn good in this, really the highlight of the film. While there were too many twists and turns and the ending was a pretty ho-hum, it was interesting enough to keep your interest. Vincent Gallo has a pretty cool cameo and there were just as many plot twists that were unpredictable as there were ones that were obvious. I really don't have much more to say, but there is a ten line minimum so i will just keep typing until i have ten lines, you can stop reading, i'm just typing to get to ten lines, really not saying anything to this point, just trying to get to ten lines. "},{"Title":"Too Much Ellen...","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, but did feel like the movie could be separated into two parts Ellen-free and full-of-Ellen.  I remember liking Ellen in her sitcom, but she was simply AWFUL in this movie.  Her quirky comedy was entirely out of place here.  It clashed with the rest of the kooky, hip feel of Goodbye Lover.The rest of the cast did an excellent job.  There were a few too many twists where I would find myself looking at the clock wondering if it would ever finish.  I would rate this a 7/10.  If Ellen could have been recast or cut, I would have given it an 8.5. "}{"Title":"surprisingly passable entertainment","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  okay, firstly i have to admit i goofed up big time. the screenplay to this movie is co-written by a certain joel cohen. i in my half bored-to-death stupor thought it was joel coen of fargo, hudsucker proxy and o! brother fame. so i decided to watch this movie on t.v the other day.the movie though is surprisingly not so bad, it is a silly little crime thriller (?) or a smart little dark comedy ... or somewhere in between, doesnt matter. the fact of the matter is that the plot is quite unbelievable and silly, but thee are enough interesting twists coming at you all the time, that it doesnt seem so bad at all.have a little patience and you might well be rewarded in watching this quirky little movie. give it a shot, it aint all that bad. patricia arquette is a total miscast as the femme fatale, very unconvincing. ellen degeneres is quite funny (rude, yes. but funny still) the rest of the cast just fills up the numbers in this not so bad dark comedy / light thrillera mildly entertaining 7! "},{"Title":"Gradually Becoming a Cult Movie","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" GOODBYE LOVER slipped by a lot of viewers when it was released in 1998 and it is only now while on DVD that the quality of this little tongue-in-cheek film noir is gaining steady popularity. And that is basically due to a superb cast of fine actors who obviously are enjoying every minute of the project.Sandra (Patricia Arquette) is a girl of somewhat lethal ambition, married to Jake (Dermot Mulroney) but having an affair with Jake's brother Ben (Don Johnson) who is also having an affair with his secretary Peggy (Mary-Louise Parker). The action quickens when the dark murder-for-insurance angle appears, but this also opens the door for the entrance of detective Pompano (Ellen DeGeneres) and her oingo-boingo partner Rollins (Ray McKinnon) who set about solving the tangled mysteries. The results create a very funny, dark humored movie that sparkles in the hands of all of the actors, especially with DeGeneres and Arquette.A great movie? No, but one that is a lot of fun as directed with an astute grasp of the medium by Roland Joffé "},{"Title":"Nasty, Unpleasant little film","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Goodbye Lover is not a feel good film, that's for sure!!. In fact it's quite a horrible little film in which every character is a self-absorbed greedy nasty cheat.There isn't anyone in this movie that you will warm to in any way, and that's the whole plots downfall. You have to route for someone, yet here, you wont be able to.The plot centres around a nymphomaniac who is cheating on her alcoholic husbands brother, that is until he finds out and a whole array of incidents and twists unfold. Its watchable and certainly not a dreadful film, but its not one you will ever want to watch again, which is a shame because there are some respectable actors here - but what on earth they ever saw in such a horrible film, God only knows!! "},{"Title":"Rent it for the one good scene...","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A forgettable flick, except for one sequence Ellen DeGeneres & Patricia Arquette play an extended scene which is a deadpan allusion to lesbian B&D. If this sort of thing sounds amusing to you, rent it; otherwise keep looking. "}]