[{"Title":"Ordinary Characters, Extraordinary Film","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The thing that made this movie most compelling for me was the fact that it showed what work the characters do.  With most Hollywood movies it appears that everyone is either independently wealthy or a FBI/NSA/CIA agent.  With Polish Wedding, you went to work with the characters, and it wasn't glamourous at all, but it was real.I'm surprised from all the comments on the lack of plot.  It was a slice of life.  Does your life have a plot?  Mine either.  That was another reason I really enjoyed the film.  It was like living with another family for a short time and seeing how they live.  It was quirky and serious, tender and harsh and quite credible acting all around--save for Clare Danes.  Her range seems quite limited.I'm not Polish, nor Catholic (I'm an atheist), but I did think the things that happened in the movie made sense.  I've read other comments that it's not how their Polish family was.  Oh well, I don't think my family was exactly like any other family in the world either.  Don't watch this if you're expecting edge-of-your seat drama, steamy sex and car chases.  But if you're in the mood for an intimate and fun look at a working class family, then this is one for you.  I rank it nearly as good as The Sweet Hereafter for its realism.My rating 7 "},{"Title":"POLISH wedding?","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What was that? Veni, vidi and lol! If that was authentic vision of polish family (with some kind of poorly-made Balkan music in background) I have one, fundamental question - where the hell I live?Auhors had no idea about polish culture and society, when they created that horrible movie. If there is even minimal piece of true in this, i'm packing my little, yellow rucksack and beginning journey to find mythical, fromPolishWeddingish Poland. Don't watch it, please, waste of time and braincells! You going to die in never-ending, intellectual pain, if your imagination is fastidious. Use it on your enemies!!! "},{"Title":"Boring movie missing true cultural background","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just seen this movie. Polish Wedding was widely discussed in the Polish media and was regarded very controversial because of the way it described Polish society in America. I have some thoughts about it 1. Movie misses a plot. It consists of several scenes that loosely linked. 2. Writer seems to have very faint knowledge about Polish culture and Poles. Poles don't eat pierogis every day on every meal -) They don't smoke more than other nationalities. Music seemed to be rather Balkan. There are many Polish names but I don't recognize many Polish features and it completely misses Polish family atmosphere. 3. People kneeling before Hala crowned with garland. What was that? Does Teresa Conelly think that Poles recognized in her Virgin Mary? It's totally stupid scene.  "},{"Title":"Why didn't anyone actually research Polish people for this movie?","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally think this movie was awful. The only research done on Polish people was the names. This movie made Polish people out to be cigarette-smoking, sleeping around, baby-obsessed liars, which is completely untrue. Who had the dumb idea to do this movie anyways? "},{"Title":"Sadly I was quite disappointed in most aspects of this film.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Polish Wedding was a film that was not quite popular, but I wanted to see it to make my own assumptions. Sadly I was quite disappointed in most aspects of this film. The story is supposed to be about a blue -collar Polish family in Detroit whose members are all struggling with their love and hatred for each other. The mother played by Lena Olin, is self obsessed - caring only for her control of her children and love affair. The father is a tired baker, who sees the holes in his family but is reluctant to face them. Claire Danes plays their 'free spirit' of a daughter, who wanders alleyways at night with strange boys and ends up pregnant. The film technique and art direction is a contrasting mix of urban ugliness and natural beauty. There are some notably beautiful scenes for which I must give some credit. Aside from this one point of merit, the rest of the film falls short of what I expected. First of all, the characters are really unrealistic. Being part Polish, I found the accents to be contrived and the whole feel of the family to be unfamiliar. The characters were interesting at first, but due to lack of development, become increasingly boring as time goes on. I tried, with great effort, to see where the title becomes relevant in this film, but there is no hint of a wedding in this film - Dane's character just waltzes to the boys house in a wedding gown - actually convinced she will get married ???? I think this film might have been a real jewel if the story had moved a little more quickly and if the characters had not been so flat and un-dynamic. Anyone with a hint of Polish in their blood might even find this film more offensive that self-relevant. It casts a bad picture onto a people with a far more interesting family tradition than is seen in this artificial construction. "},{"Title":" ... or maybe it's some other nationality","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What the????Why are these characters supposed to be Polish, and why does the story take place in the present? It seems to be located somewhere in the 50's or 60's in terms of its attitudes and characters. It seems to be located far from urban America in terms of the wacky behavior of its characters. I can't relate to it in any way.Lena Olin gets my award for the worst accent in the history of film. What was she thinking of? You know, Lena, the reason Meryl Streep gets all those accents right is not just because she's talented (though she is), but because she studies every word, every nuance of the rhythm. What were you thinking of with those rolling Hungarian r's and those throat-clearing Yiddish ch sounds.Why didn't they just make this a family of Potsylvanians living in Crovenia in some dimly-remembered post-war era, and none of this would have bothered me.As for Gabriel Byrne, this usually talented actor obviously decided not to bother with the accent or the whole damned movie for that matter, and he called in his part. He obviously realized this was no Sophie's Choice, and he just collected his paycheck. In some scenes he used a heavy accent, sometimes a lighter one, sometimes none at all ... one of those Kevin Costner things. On the other hand, Byrne's relationship with his daughter (a capable Claire Danes) was the best part of the movie, although that isn't saying much.I could only find one hint that the characters were actually Polish ... I think they mentioned Pierogi once.Forget this turkey. It has a few good moments, but they aren't worth the effort. "},{"Title":"a pile of confusion","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When is this movie supposed to have taken place? I live in Detroit (or, ok, a suburb thereof) and this movie is definitely confused. First of all, Lena Olin wears a uniform for some meeting that looks like its from the 40's. The police car looks like its from the 70's. Gabriel Byrne's character acts like he's from the 50's and Clair Danes' promiscuous character is definitely suited to the 90's, with 80's hair.The film was actually shot in a suburb quite a ways from Detroit that is known for having a large Polish community. That's about the only polish influence in the movie. Everything else is just horniness run amuck.A horrible,pointless film in which the actors are way too good for the script, I was not surprised to see that the writer/director has done nothing else since. Let's hope her urge to create remains dormant and spares us another two-hours-of-my-life-that-i'll-never-get-back feeling. "},{"Title":"aimless wandering","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i don't have any clue how i sat through this. aimless, pointless, and so not polish. i'm half polish, from pennsylvania coal miners and i never met any poles like these people. shame on everyone involved. next time they should do a little homework, not just a run with a high concept idea. even if it had just been a parody of the culture it would have been ok, but it wasn't even that. the virgin procession? the mom's accent? god! what was that? sorry, but this was awful, just awful.  "},{"Title":"Did you hear the one about the Polish filmmaker who...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Polish Wedding is an amatuerish effort. Whereas a film like 'In the Company of Men succeeds through an innovative idea, strong acting performances and passionate filmmaking, Polish Wedding has none of this.Claire Danes is wonderful on-screen, yet miscast in most every film she's played. Gabriel Byrne continues a succession of non-descript performances in non-descript films. Good idea dressing up Lena Olin as a janitor, cleaning toilets in full makeup.There's a nice screaming baby sequence in the 1st ten minutes that will drive you away quicker than the poorly used musical score.Pass. Big time.  "},{"Title":"in the mood for love....","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I almost always look at reviews here on IMDb before I see a movie, this time I'm really glad that I didn't. Can't really see why there are so many poor reviews... If you're in the right mood this movie can be really rewarding. It's not perfect by any means but some of the scenes are mesmerizing! The acting is great all around and the atmosphere is really cool. Most of the dialogue is pretty weird and funny but also sad and emotional at times. Anyway, just give it a few minutes and I'm sure many of you will get into it!see it.... "}{"Title":"It's hard enough to do as I say, not as I do, but when you do nothing and say less where are the children then.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe old world and new world values speak in unison sounding odd in my   ear. This year-in-the-life of a working class family challenges my   sense of propriety and my beliefs. It feels like Father Knows best, but   father, Bolek Pzoniak played by a brooding Gabriel Byrne, spends most   of his time by the window smoking when he is not at work in the bakery   She makes babies; I make bread. he says to his only daughter in what   is supposed to be a close and warm moment of vulnerability. The film   preaches to us, through the mother, Jadzia Pzoniak played by Lena Olin,   of babies, property, and family as life's true riches, and she is the   undisputed queen of her castle. She passes such pearls of wisdom to   her daughter, Hala Pzoniak played by Claire Danes, as A family with   out a man is chaos, yet she cheats on her husband.    I think the problem with the film is that there is no plot per say,   there is just a series of events to which we are witness, and a series   of resolutions to these problems that lack authenticity. The daughter   is as promiscuous as the mother, but the father tolerates this in the   mother because, as he tells his daughter, who else will make my   breakfast. But we get every indication through the behavior of the   daughter that he would not tolerate it in her. Every scene of noble   behavior by the members of the family follows in response to a crisis   born of their own hypocritical behavior.    This is a poor and dismal film, and I will only add this, unprotected   sexual intercourse with strangers, has always had much more terrible   consequences for women than they have for men. To paint a picture that   such behavior is at most a minor thing resolved by patience and short   intimate conversations in closets is not only ridiculous, but   irresponsible. "},{"Title":"Good performances, but otherwise I didn't like it that much","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' was 'Everybody Loves Raymond', then this was 'Married ... with Children'. In the Greek family, the bride was plain and overweight but made herself over, hoping to get a man before her biological clock ran out. In this movie, the bride looked hot even with a minimum of makeup ... though her mom looked like Kathie Lee Gifford and wore enough makeup for a much older profession than cleaning offices. The Greek family ran a restaurant. In this movie, the father worked nights in a bakery but it is never made clear whether he owned it. The Greek wedding was a major production involving hundreds of guests. The Polish wedding ... wasn't. I don't want to give away too much, but weapons were involved. I think they were baseball bats, but I'm not sure. The scene where those were used--that was memorable. I liked the performances of the actors playing the groom's parents, brief though they were.Claire Danes did a wonderful job as the only daughter out of five children. She showed a real talent for sultry behavior, and her evil laugh early in the movie was something worth seeing. Lena Olin delivered an outstanding performance, effectively showing a wide variety of emotions, and her accent was beautiful. Gabriel Byrne had his moments as the father.I had a hard time enjoying the movie, though, except when it was funny. Some of the humor was naughty, but that was okay. It seemed well done. The main problem with the movie was that there were good parts but nothing overall that made them fit together as a whole.It was fun at times, anyway. "},{"Title":"Why is this supposed to be set in early 80's?","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really couldn't find anything that made this movie seem like it was supposed to be set in late 70's or early 80's as the goofs part suggested. The cars in the neighborhood are all probably older vehics from the 80's because it's a working class Detroit neighborhood...not the upper middle class suburbs we're used to viewing in movies. There were no songs, or major fashion diplays that would lead one to think it's from the late 70's. I have never though of the movie as being from anything other than the mid 90's, the same timne it was released. Where I live the police cars are all new (the last few years). Does anyone know why someone thought it was from an earlier decade? "},{"Title":"It's the character, stupid (not the plot)","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe I just have a crush on Lena Olin, but this film shines (rather glows) with slightly larger than life characterizations of a sentiment that is distinctly European.  There is, for instance, none of the hideous preciousness of the depiction of children in American films.  Adults interact with children with authority and a tragic sensitivity.  The children have their wisdom and their fate, which will be no more nor less than that of their parents.  Anger is sparked, but humane compassion prevails.  Above all, there is a zest for life which coexists with a recognition of life's tragedies -- in contrast with Disney, the Hollywood family drama or comedy film, and especially the offensively polyanna-ish 'Life is Beautiful (Italian, but Hollywood loved it and Oscared it). The critics panned this film.  Each of them praises the Lena Olin character, but reject it as not fitting a priori standards of credibility (it is after all an immigrant and first generation family in a Polish neighborhood, the confluence of two cultures. Why did we not hear criticism of the glaring anachronisms in the young man's 1950's dialog in 'Gods and Monsters?').  But maybe I just have a crush on Lena Olin, and yield to it, while the critics are reserved. "},{"Title":"Feel the atmosphere, not the plot","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe the script writer and director is not very familiar with East-European culture and music, but she has created a movie which I surely can call vivid. Actors playing really good (Gabriel Byrne especially), characters are shown very well. Plot is simple (plot is not the main thing in movies, I should say), there's no kind of declaration, just life and nice people with all their good and bad sides, painted very good - that's what I appreciate in movies. "},{"Title":"A film that calls for a trip to the video store.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For some uncanny reason Polish Wedding showed at the foreign theater in Denver, and received minimal attention from critics. I find this to be a bit upsetting because Polish Wedding is a wonderful story of Poles living in Detroit. Claire Danes is stunningly beautiful and looks absolutely angelical, although her character has the naughty side to her that is evident in many teenage girls. Lena Olin is great as the matriarch of this expanding Polish family who has a penchant for Pickles. "},{"Title":"My wife and I enjoyed it","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For us, it was a nice movie about relationships  between a mother and her family, between a father and daughter, between a sister and her little brother, between the women in an extended family.  It's about family roles, and the role of child rearing in solidifying relationships over time, and thus creating families.  It's about sexuality, and how it both drives and conflicts with family structures.  It's about seeing the different stages of life within a family all at once.We liked all of the actors, and enjoyed the use of smoking, religious rituals, and food in unfolding the story.  In short, if you're affected by the portrayal of relationships and aren't bothered by the aspects mentioned, you might enjoy it with your significant other, too. "},{"Title":"Warm subtleties & identifiable characteristics","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The PositiveThis movie contained many sweet moments, between family members. The script had been taken a step further away from words, and straight into the heart and idealistics of acting. Since there may have been, a lack of script, it seems to me there was an absolute pinpoint of a writers affirmation of certainty, e.g This is how I want my words to appear exactly as life.A wonderful feat has been achieved to prove that families indeed do stay together, and can make it through anything. Identifying with the midlife crisis, and being a woman myself, I commend this script for showing how to not necessarily condone outside relationships, but for showing how to forgive and accept.Unconditional love is the key to this movie. One that I believe we all can identify with in one way or another. Many, Many things to see in this film, as you go along. Symbolism is very high on the ladder of ideals, which may have you watching this movie twice, but well worth it!The Negative The setting, Detroit, was not believable. This was a styled like foreign film localed in a large city, with a smaller city appearance. "},{"Title":"Characters Make the Story","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is highly entertaining with unpredictable, character-driven, plot twists that pull you in like the smell of comfort food cooking in the kitchen. The story itself is a grand view into the mundane working world of fighting, resentments, loyalty and ultimate forgiveness, of a large Polish family all living together in the same house.Mother and daughter are powerful and attractive and the men alternately ignore them, wait for them, and chase after them. The matriarch of the family is romantically unfulfilled but finds meaning and purpose in the context of her family and children. The daughter is growing into adulthood and recognizing her feminine power in the context of a budding relationship but, like her mother before her, ultimately trapped. The members of this emotional but practical Polish immigrant family don't live life, life lives them. The characters and performances make this movie well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Flat-Chested Darling Oozes Sensuality","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant film! Catch it if you can.The countless subtle details are what makes this movie so outstanding. Sexuality is integral to every scene; every moment of each character's life, as each one lives life to the maximum.  Religiosity is a central secondary theme as sacred icons hang on humble walls calling our attention as they did in The Godfather when the solemn liturgical mass was shockingly intertwined with blood-thirsty killing sprees.Don't look for any Pamela Anderson diva here.  Our darling pubescent victim is a flat-chested angel with long blonde hair, tresses freshly sprung from hot rollers.  Her underdeveloped chest is an aspect I find most wonderful about this film.  It is a feature that makes the plot real and believable, and I enthusiastically applaud the director's rejection of the Playboy Bunny stereotype.Lifelong sexuality between husband and wife is a powerful echo througout the movie.  At one point, the daughter scolds her father with  You wait for her like a dog.  He responds, in a voice full of wisdom beyone his character's range, Don't we all wait like dogs?We know why this dutiful, hard-working, baker puts up with the heartache heaped upon him by his wife.  He tells us why.  His answer  when his wife asks why he was afraid to marry her when they were wild young kids is  I was scared of Life. . . especially the Life that was spilling out of you! This is a thread that uplifted me as I left the movie theatre. Love, no matter how flawed, will survive.The husband watches as his wife leaves in the evening to meet her lover; she is always dressed in a uniform reminiscent of the Daughters of the American Revolution.  This visual symbol of her infidelity becomes comical.  We watch as the secret lovers embrace, but we know that she is viscerally committed to her husband and will end up with him. We know this because the wife tells us in a number of scenes that Family, or rather Procreation, is her fundamental priority.  When describing her family to her lover, she announces triumphantly  I MADE them.  Her adult offspring are fully aware of their mother's throbbing sexuality, and yet they all seem to forgive it.The genetic continuity of life looms large as another theme; for example, the very last words spoken are by the daughter holding her new infant up and saying, That's your Grandma; isn't she beautiful?Florid sex.. . passionate interludes, however reckless. . . loss of virginity.. patience when an adored one goes astray.. . balancing the dichotomy of religion and passion.. . Polish Wedding floods light on all these impossible metaphors in a most luminous way.  "}{"Title":"An ordinary life, the polish way..","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so it's not an awesome movie, nor one I'd bother with in the movies, but as a rental, it's worth fast forwarding through the occasional slow and uninteresting parts to the funny lives of the people of this family.Sure, nothing is like it seems ala the title, and it's quite funny to see how everyone's problem is aptly hidden from the other family members, only to be discovered by awkward accident later on.Yet, despite the decent acting, one wonders after the movie was it worth it? Did it give you, the viewer, anything special to take with you? To inspire you? To give you comfort in the real world?  Well, no.  And that's fine, but one wishes it was a  notch better and more refined so you could believe that only an ordinary life was not all that they were left with in the end. "},{"Title":"Are you really sure what your daughter's doing?","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film. It has a certain charm to it, one that seems almost subliminal,because its always there. Instead of painting a flat, uninteresting portrait of a polish family who is somewhat stranded in Motor City, the plot of Polish Wedding, unravels slowly, and leaves you wanting more. It takes you through their everyday life; their joy, their pain, and yes, even their betrayal towards one and other.  This film has something that is rarely seen in cinema today, good, well acted characters.  Each of them demonstrate a realism within their roles, as if that is who they really are.  During parts of this movie, you feel as though you're looking through a window, instead of lounging on the couch in front of the t.v.  In the 1h 50min's, or so of Wedding,  one comes to know a baker, a house-wife, a dropout, and a bad-boy cop.  The sloue of emotion in this film is what truly sets it apart from some of the more heavily advertised of the year. It is a great film, a truly great film, and one that surely deserves a renting or two.  "},{"Title":"At least they could have done some research","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have recently spent ninety of the most painful minutes of my movie-viewing life watching a film called Polish Wedding. Apparently, this film was supposed to be one of those warm-heated slice of life tales about a colorful ethnic family living and kvetching in big city USA. Detroit, from the looks of the place, but I can't be sure. Plotless, pointless, and ultimately offensive, this film is a disaster. The first ominous sign is the opening credits. No one in the cast and crew seemed to be remotely Polish. This movie features a Swede (Lena Olin, doing a bad Natasha Fatale accent) an Irishman (Gabriel Byrne,even worse) and a sickly-sweet all-American girl (Claire Danes, who should be barred from doing movies forever). Having lived in Chicago for several years, and having married a second generation Polish girl, I can honestly say that the characters in this film resemble no Poles that I have ever met. The Poles in this movie are the same lazy, drunken, selfish louts that idiot writers have variously identified as Irish, Greek,Italian, Jewish, Spanish, and other ethnic groups in the past five or six decades. I guess it was the Poles turn now. I don't think it's malicious, I think it's just laziness.But it's a real pity. The Poles have a rich culture that is worth making a good movie out of. I have to go now. My normally lovely, sweet-tempered wife is screaming obscenities and threatening to throw the TV out the window. "},{"Title":"This movie could have been made by the Nazis in the '30's","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of the other respondents to this movie were Polish (or descended). I am neither. In fact, I'll admit to being of pure German stock. They (Polish people) were understandably offended by this movie. But this movie (a hate movie) goes beyond being offensive to a nationality of people. It attempts to tag morality, Polish people, and Christianity (of the Catholic kind) all as hypocrites. This movie is a propaganda film which people had to pay money to see!!!??? Leni Reifenstahl made better movies fur Der Furher than this one is!!!If you remember hearing Polish jokes as a kid, they weren't funny, and were very insipid, just think of this movie as an attempt to take those jokes and turn them into a movie. Would you pay money for this? I sat through (as in endured) this movie to gather information about it when it was ended (thankfully). If you're just looking for entertainment, this movie fails miserably. The only other value this movie could have is its value as a hate film. "},{"Title":"this film is an insult to anyone of Polish Heritage It is awful!","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is not funny, it is not entertaining. It is not at all enjoyable. The movie is just dull and boring, The movie is senseless, and an insult to anyone of Polish Heritage as well as everyone who expected to see a decent movie. It makes no sense at all and rambles on and on insulting Poles and then it finally ends. When it ended I thought to myself, that was it? At last its over, but where was the story? None of the characters made any sense at all. There was no intelligence in this film what so ever. One really wonders why it was made. I was totally disappointed by this film, as there many really excellent Polish films that have been made. This is not one of them. "},{"Title":"rather bland personal film","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hala (Claire Danes) is a flirtatious Polish high school dropout in Detroit. Jadzia (Lena Olin) is the matriarch of the Pszoniak family. Jadzia has a chaotic life married to the nice baker Bolek (Gabriel Byrne). She's a cleaner with her gypsy daughter-in-law Sofie and has an affair with the boss Roman (Rade &#x8A;erbed&#x9E;ija). Neighborhood cop Russell Schuster gets Hala pregnant. Hala is picked to lead the Virgin's procession which she's not.Written and directed by Theresa Connelly, this seems to be a personal film but not a very compelling one. It doesn't have any pace or tension. It's not funny, it's not sexy and it's not dramatic. It's just a bunch of slightly off-kilter characters living their lives. Kristen Bell does have a microscopic role. It's always fun to see a star when they were still a nobody. There are some great actors in this but Adam Trese is not one of them. I think this should be a coming-of-age movie but Lena Olin keeps getting the starring role and blocks Claire Danes. "},{"Title":"A study of the ordinary","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't claim to know anything specific about Polish culture or Polish-American culture and I'd assume the slating Polish Wedding has got, particularly from Poles, is something akin to how some Irish people view Hollywood films about Irish-American families. Some of it is understandable (ever watch Far and Away without cringing?) but most times I think critics read too much into the context and not enough into the film itself.As an outsider, Polish Wedding comes across as a film about white working-class Americans. I can see parallels with some of my own relations - an American community that uses the glue of their shared ethnic origin to bind themselves together. In the film's case, that happens to be Polish and there is an authentic ring to the hothouse bonds of a large family with Catholicism always present in the background.However, despite its very American setting, Polish Wedding is far more European in structure and storyline, a record of ordinary events about ordinary people who don't have heroic aspirations and who adapt the best they can to whatever life throws up. In a way, it's almost like reality TV, a chance to peek into the lives of others without having any influence on the outcome.While not as intense as classics in that tradition like the Three Colours trilogy, it is an interesting take on a theme that has rarely been examined by Hollywood and has enough inter-personal emotion to compensate for the lack of complexity in the story. "},{"Title":"Adam and Eve before Jesus maybe?","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's too bad they had to hang this story on the Polish, and as a student of Slavic languages and literatures, I can see how people would be upset. Somebody must have had the idea that to marry traditional Christianity to pagan celebration of fertility, or show the conflict between those two, you should use the Poles as a vehicle (because they're devout Catholics??). Also, having been a Slavist, I can say that Slavs of all kinds that I've known have often been pretty hard drinkers and smokers... I don't mean that as a slur. Obviously I find Slavs wonderful or I wouldn't be a Slavist.And, this is also not the greatest movie in the world in spite of a good cast, particularly Gabriel Byrne. All the same, I think of it sometimes because of some interesting scenes. To me it's kind of about the constant renewal of sexuality, and its dangers. Or that it will be renewed over and over again despite any dangers, no matter what young people want or where they think they're going. Usually if I notice symbolism, I suspect it's heavy handed, but since no one has mentioned it, I'd just remark that the scene when the young buck rides away with Hala on his bike, and they go to an abandoned metro station, just drips with the contrast between primal sexuality (literally regrowing up out of the concrete in dense greens), and the broken establishment framework (the literally broken concrete). Hala is pregnant and wearing a wedding dress and he still can't resist her. These guys are Adam and Eve before there were any rules.So, there are a few scenes like that. One of my other favorites is the sweet scene of reconciliation, Mom and Dad smoking in the pantry closet. Forget the bogus virginity ritual. I was raised Catholic and I don't remember anything like that. This film has some unique features I haven't seen elsewhere, and thus, I still like to see parts of it from time to time. "},{"Title":"incredibly weak","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Glamorous performance of the actors is killed by very weak plot. There is not much Polish in the characters other than the names. We fail to see any real traditions from Eastern Europe. Community is not vivid either with the exception of Roman, Russian emigre who loves Gypsy music and actually has food from Eastern Europe. "},{"Title":"Avoid this very bad film","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a Polish family in America who have to deal with many problems, including the wife's affair and the daughter's disgrace.Polish Wedding is said to be a comedy, but in fact it is really boring. Throughout the film, women are portrayed to be in power. Lines like How can women come from men? In fact it's the other way around, or scenes like Hala saying to Schuster Kiss my feet or You can't kiss me unless I say so are just plain turn off. I am not against feminism, but this film looks more like a feminist propaganda. The scene where Hala and Schuster talk about boldness is meant to be romantic, but turns out to be ridiculous and unwatchable.It lacks suspense to be a thriller. It lacks pace to be a drama. It lacks jokes to be a comedy. It lacks romance to be a date film. Avoid this very bad film! "}{"Title":"you misunderstood the movie's meaning","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have watched this flick many times, received it for a Christmas gift and love and recommend it to the right crowd. this film deals with infidelity and how it affects all the family members, including Hala, who follows in her mothers's footsteps and her sister-inlaw, Sofie, who does the same. All became pregnant as a way of ensuring marriage. The family meals reflecting polish recipes were interesting. It has a happy ending as Lena Olin's character as well as Gabriel Byrne's character make up and seem to solve their marital problems, and Hala seems to catch the heart and marriage of Russell.I thought there was great meaning in this film of you look past the props to see the true meaning... love conquers all "},{"Title":"Gypsy Wedding","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not remember the characters calling themselves Polish but I certainly remember them calling themselves Gypsies. Others do call them Polish and once use the disparaging term Polack. However since most Polish people are not Gypsies I think this movie is more about Gypsy people than Polish people but I do not know enough about either to know for sure.Except a few comments below comment on the amount of smoking that occurs in the movie. A former girlfriend of mine that is definitely Polish says that smoking is more popular in Poland than any other country so that seems to be one Polish tradition that the movie is loyal to the Polish about. Isn't that nice?There is at least one other comment about this movie being a collection of incidents that seem disconnected. That is the impression I had too. They are loosely connected but disconnected enough to be noticeable.I do know that this movie is about the romantic adventures and mis-adventures of people that occurs in most cultures. The wedding is inconsignificant, but you will have to watch the movie to see what I mean.I resent one comment below about a Flat-Chested Darling and the comparison to Pamela Anderson. People put too much emphasis on breast size and Pamela Anderson's large breasts are artificial. We don't see the breasts but we do see enough to know they are not flat. If we did see the breasts I am sure they would be as lovely as Nicole Kidman's are.  "},{"Title":"Subtle...delicate.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Polish Wedding is a delicate & subtle film. with a kind of 'magicality' to it and a flavour of European cinema. it also contains strong expressions of femininity, sexuality and love... accomplished successfully with a subtle, sharp sense of humor, sensitivity and humanism.(tucnak, you should watch it) "},{"Title":"A Rich Film, Not Impeccable.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Claire Danes does well as a young woman, moving from a slightly over-sensualized relationship with her father (Byrne) to an overzealous first physical relationship with an older boy. While the script is not perfect, the visual rhythm of the film supports Chala's struggle admirably. The film uses color particularly well, and builds meaning by posing relationships against one another-- father, husband, wife, lover, daughter, mother. These roles unite or cause misery in many permutations, and Polish Wedding does a better job than many films of showing us a glimpse of the complexity of these relationships in life.  The story is played out against the backdrop of a Polish Community in, I believe, Detroit, where the reality of family makes tough decisions like Chala's even more difficult. Whether or not you feel you would have made Chala's choices differently, there are many redeeming qualities to the poetic truth of her portrayal; the film mixes beauty with misery well throughout, particularly in the culmination of the Parade of the Virgin.  Worth seeing, to say the least. "},{"Title":"Poorly made, is it a student 1st movie attempt?","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My girlfriend (she is Polish) and I were very curious about this title. Soon we realised that it was very strange the way the director approached the all Polish culture, I mean he based the movie on stereotypes. We think this director should apologies to all the Polish nation.. He should have at least worked a bit better on the accents...it sounded like an Italian-Russian-Hungarian mix rather than Polish. It give really the idea that Polish people are silly and leaving in low expectations, whereas is not like that at all..I have watched thousand and thousands of movies due to the nature of my job, and cant remember a worst film than this one!Maybe one day it will become a classic as the best badly made comedy "},{"Title":"Well-acted, well-filmed, nicely written and intelligent.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you have a sense of humor and are over the age of 30 you'll probably understand and love this film as much as I did. It'd be hard to beat the quality of the cast unless one was filming a movie about American football or Kabuki theatre, and the script lives up to their quality.Gabriel Byrne is excellent as a hard-working Polish father who finds refuge from his family in his bakery. Lena Olin is perfect as the beautiful mother with five children who makes one last desperate and menopausal escape attempt from what she sees as her Catholic prison sentence. Claire Danes is their funny, chaotic, excessively hormonal and headstrong daughter who sets out to lose her virginity just as she is selected to lead the community's Catholic procession as the Virgin Mary. The rest of the cast has earned accolades in other works and they're equally credible here. All of the characters somehow succeed in winning the viewer's affection, and all of them are human. There's a pleasant craft about this film along with a pleasing and sardonic sense of humor. I've seen it three times now over several years, and it always draws me in. "},{"Title":"Seems so strangely familar to the midwest reality.","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A slower moving movie portrait of midwest feel of a type of life that sounds very familiar from the people I know. It may not have been entirely accurate, but it seems to make its points well. If feels like the prequel to My Big Fat Greek Wedding, in that life in strong families is a challenge but has immeasurable value in support at all costs.  The church seems to affect in many midwesterner's life in deeply profound ways that builds interesting communities. "},{"Title":"About the setting","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of varying comments on the believability and location of the setting.The movie takes place in Hamtramck, MI. Hamtramck is actually it's own city, but is completely surrounded by the City of Detroit. It's a few miles away from the heart of downtown Detroit.There is a very large Polish population, and many polish owned business (Restaurants, bakeries, bars, groceries, etc).I don't live very far from there, and have been there many times. It's a pretty interesting place, and I would suggest going. There was a bit of a rat problem a few years ago when the sanitation department ran out of money, so that kinda sucked.  I think it's under control now, though.The setting should be believable though, because it's true. That IS what Hamtramck looks like, because that's where a lot of it was filmed. (The New Palace Bakery, the church, etc.) "},{"Title":"Nothing to it","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Story of a over-sexed teenager and her highly dysfunctional family including her sex pot mother who professes loyalty to her family yet is having an affair with a local businessman.  The father suspects what his wife is doing and follows her one night to see with his own eyes and cries like a baby on the sidewalk outside when he sees the truth.Besides the ridiculous story line I was highly offended by the amount of smoking going on in the movie.  The movie must have been solely funded by the tobacco industry. If you like to LOOK at Clare Danes you may like it. If you are looking for a good movie, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Welcome to another screwed-up family!","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We enter the lives of another dysfunctional family. This time in Detroit, USA. This is like no other suburban family or a Simpson one at that. This is a Polish family doing it the hard way. Mother thinks she's Queen and fit for an affair. Daddy works the nightshift, missing out on the sordid family activities. Daughter sends out a sexual scent that has the local cop sniffing at the front door; and the five brothers are servant to their Queen mother. Interesting characters done justice by the performers but the structure of the script and how it was told is the major draw back. A big shame because this could have been entertaining if it wasn't so clumsy. "}{"Title":"An odd movie","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the fact that there was technically no basic plot to A Polish Wedding and it was an odd movie, I found myself liking it. Being half Polish I noticed that although the family was Polish, there were only a couple things that were Polish in the movie The Pierogi (although someone said it wrong), the blood soup, the names and the Catholic religion.  "},{"Title":"Polish stereotypes","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie, the characters are great and actually what I think are Polish stereotypes (have no idea of how true that image is, though). The traditional Polish music that was played in the background helped creating the right mood. Claire Danes glides around looking gorgeous (especially her hair!) and Lena Olin looks very Polish. The script could perhaps have been a little better and sort of gone deeper into the story, but still, it's a very enjoyable movie that I would recommend. "},{"Title":"PURE TRASH, AND NOTHING BUT TRASH....","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I anxiously awaited this film due to the draw of Gabriel Byrne, Lena Olin, and Claire Danes- all big stars.  I was totally disgusted by film's end.  It depicts Polish people as dirty, chain-smoking losers with no morals, yet the gall to attend church and make the sign of the cross in some weird ceremony where a pregnant teenager is crowned as the Virgin Mother.  I am not Polish, but I can imagine how offended Polish people must be at this depiction.  I am not Catholic, but the scene where Claire Danes' character is crowned the Virgin Mother, and the crowd kneels and crosses themselves as she passes, well, just what the hell is that about???  I'm Jewish, for godsake, but even I was offended at that sacrilege! And, the part where her character-wearing a formal white wedding gown- crawled on the back of a motorcycle, that was so horrid it was funny!  I am certain that Byrne, Danes, and Olin all deeply regret having to add this film to their resumes.   "},{"Title":"Disrespect for Polish people.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not know where the person that wrote this movie is from; but, for sure not in Poland.  Using Polish names and Polish food is not about a family from Poland - it takes more than this to be Polish oriented.  It was very little humor/comedy in this movie - where was it at.  Where was the Polish Wedding?  They didn't even show the wedding.  Why was Russian music used in this movie about Poles?  I would like to see the producer & director in court for disrespect to the entire Polish Nation.  Thank-you.  "},{"Title":"very funny and true look into polish America","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Polish wedding is a character driven movie with great actors. Dialogue is not always used to express or explain the scene; silence, pregnant pauses, facial expression and spacial arrangement are there own character in this film. Even a cigarette has a cameo. Highly recommend this film to anyone who grew-up in or around a polish neighborhood like I did. Those that did not will be lost. It is great to see a movie not go Hollywood. It is easy to pander to the movie-goers (see Mr & Mrs Smith (good movie, famous actors and explosions)) Polish Wedding is a rare find that is refreshing. If you liked this movie you may also like Uncorked, The Big Kahuna. "},{"Title":"Not  worth watching","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie last night, after finding it in the bargain bin of a video store. I am so glad I only paid $2 for it! I thought a movie with Gabriel Byrne and Claire Danes would be of a higher quality. This movie made no sense, and after watching it, I decided it was a total waste of time. The film takes place in Michigan, and involves a Polish American family. I didn't feel that the movie had much of a plot, and the dialog didn't seem realistic. On the box it said it was hysterically funny, but I barely laughed at all! If you want to see Gabriel Byrne in a high quality film, I would recommend Miller's Crossing. He is a fine actor, and Miller's Crossing is worthy of his abilities. I would definitely skip Polish Wedding! "},{"Title":"Fertility feminist","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For a first film, this is not bad. Meanders a bit, and the matriarch is not believably presented compared to the depressed father who works night-shift as the neighborhood baker. Contains several charmed moments along the way. The core interest of this story is in its insistence on a kind of tough motherhood, an affirmation of life in the physical sense of pregnancy and everything that necessitates. A re-visioning of the religious Virgin is one of the more memorable scenes.As the title promises, this is a marriage plot, one of the most common of traditional plots. Here too the film presents a revision in terms of the woman's point of view. The old mystery for males What do women want? was the infamous question asked by Freud and many others. One honest answer is given in Polish Wedding. "},{"Title":"Breakfast Danish","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I believe this is a direct-to-video project. Sometimes that is because it is a gem but the audience is too costly to incubate. But sometimes it is because a project too obviously never comes together. In my experience, Danes shows more charm but less craft than Dunst. Dunst has slogged through the teen genre more or less competently, where she served as sweatermonkey, but she is learning. Danes on the other hand handled three intelligent roles by the time of this film `Women,' `Juliet,' and (though the film was horrid) `U-Turn.' She has appeal and energy. Lots of innocent charm, the kind many filmmakers like to exploit.But that is not enough even for this drudge through minor drama. Watch for Danes to be more and more the broken or threatened innocent, like in Terminator 3. "},{"Title":"Not only pierogi","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There were big rumours in Polish newspapers about defamative undertones in this movie. I've just seen it on polish TV. It is not offensive at all, but rather stupid. I was full of envy. Family Pszoniak ate pierogi daily - on breakfast, lunch and supper. The pierogi is my favourite polish dish, but they're very hard to prepare, so I can eat them approx. three times a year, especially on Christmas Eve.Soundtrack - the music was not Polish at all, rather Balkan or klezmer. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My sister and I looked at each other and thought ,What the hell was that? after sitting through what I felt was the greatest ordeal I've ever had to go through in watching movies!  The title sounded like a funny romantic comedy like Moonstruck.  What it actually was was, well, I can't put my finger on.  It WAS pointless and plotless, I'll tell you that.  It looked like a look at a dysfunctional polish family at first, but then it evolved into a more and more bizarre story.  I love weird movies, and I was blown away by the astonishingly bizarre film Pi.  But Polish Wedding was too weird for me.  It doesn't make any sense.  The climax is one of the most bizarre ones I've seen in a film.  The daughter, the pregnant virgin, who is supposed to crown the Virgin Mary, takes the crown and wears it own her own head, shouting out It's my crown!.  Is this weird enough?  No.  The mother stands up for her daughter, and as the daughter walks out, still wearing the crown, all the people she passes by, make the sign of the cross.  I didn't get that, or what it meant about the Virgin Mary(if anything at all)?  It was also VERY tedious and VERY boring.  I sat through Terrence Malick's 3 hour film The Thin Red Line, but this hour and a half film seemed longer and more tedious.  I would've spent my time doing something else, but my sister wanted me to watch it with her, so I stayed.  Still, I'd run like hell if I heard I had to watch it again.  I do get bored with films sometimes, but I've never had the urge to walk out on one.  I did here.  Here's a good bit of advice; save your money and spend it watching something else.  "}{"Title":"Polish Wedding movie was very bad","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Polish Wedding movie was not funny at all and was made by someone who knows nothing about Poles, their traditions, passion, kind of music they like, clothes and customs.I suggest before make the movie about some nation make some study, read history and work with people that come from this country. Even the fact that no polish actors were part of this movie means something. And how come the music sound kind of Greek or gypsy? It had nothing to do with Chopin or other polish composers or polish folk music.This movie could be about Americans, Mexicans, Bulgarians, Canadians or Russians. Nobody would notice a difference. The only polish things there was Polish Eagle (symbol of Poland) and pickles. The director and others should sometimes read a little bit about the nation before they make a movie. Greek Fat wedding was made by someone who was much closer to Greek culture and it was much better movie and it was funny.Where did they get the idea of this polish patriotic uniform clothes? This clothes look more like German NAZI prison camp police clothes than Polish.Very bad movie, very bad director....BAD JOB and waste of money and time......The only good thing in this movie was that actors and actresses were good looking which is close to the truth about Poles.Good Luck in the future and if you need help when making the movie about Poles please contact me and I will be happy to guide you.Cheers! Marek Proud to be POLISH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Polish Wedding is an achingly sweet and poignant movie. Thumbs up!","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Polish Wedding was a well made, enjoyable film. Lena Olin was excellent as the matriarch of a Polish-American family who was not ashamed to flaunt her beauty even though she had several grown children and worked as a cleaning lady. She had a deep pride in her children, her family, her home, and (gasp) her lover. I was drawn to her confidence in spite of her personal shortcomings. The way she stood up to the parish priest was worth the price of admission. Lena Olin is an overlooked talent. Claire Danes did a respectable job as her willful, earthy, urban daughter.I would recommend this movie to anyone looking for a poignant, thoughtful film. It speaks to the strength of women during economic and familial woes. It also sends the message that middle aged woman can be assertive and strong, take lovers, raise children, have opinions, and be beautiful all at the same time. But it is not a hard edged movie. It has its share of achingly sweet moments. When Lena's character learns of her daughter's unplanned pregnancy, she puts her in a wedding gown, shoves her out the front door and says, Don't come home until you are married! Since this movie showcases the strength and assertiveness of women, weaker men will be threatened by it. The only faults I could find were in its overly saccharine ending and the lack of musical variety. "},{"Title":"A con attempt at being artistic.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A remarkable film.  Not many movies can be two hours long and leave you feeling empty and take nothing away from it.  Actually, I stand corrected.  I took away from this movie that cigarettes are the panacea to life, and that one should only get married because they have to and that you'll be miserable for the rest of life because you deserve it.The movie pretends to be artistic, but the acting is poor (except for Gabriel Byrne), the script... well, let's just say that the person who wrote it is protected from being put to death, and the plot isn't consistent.In case a girlfriend, mother, wife, boyfriend, or some other ignorant being rents this, here's a game that might get you through it.  Count how many sighs occur.  If you're not sure whether or not it counts as a sigh, only give it ½.Another game for you.  The setting takes place in Detroit.  The year is uncertain because it tends to vary.  Now, if you've ever gone to Detroit, you'll notice that it has a good population of African Americans.  Here's a test, see how many you see during this movie.  (Once you see one, STOP!  I'd hate for you to waste the rest of your time searching for something that isn't there.  That's right, they have Friends syndrome.) "},{"Title":"A vibrant, funny film--upbeat and offbeat.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a vibrant, life-loving, funny film--and if it offended some people, so the better. The family in the film are strange birds and provide entertainment for nosy, judgmental neighbors, so I'm sure they'd understand. And at last, an attractive older woman (Olin) who has an affair! Great cinematography, great cast. This is one of those films you either get or you don't. "},{"Title":"An abomination against man and god","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly one of the worst movies I've ever seen, but not even in a 'so bad it's good' way. Boring, pointless and stupid, with a 5-minute wacky episode thrown in towards the end, complete with upbeat piccolo and tuba music to let the audience know they had reached the funny part. I cannot imagine that anyone felt strongly enough about this material to spend the time or money to make this film, let alone release it on an unsuspecting public.  I was forced to rent it after losing a bet with my wife, as this film had become a running joke after I veto'd it repeatedly. My despair watching hours from my life drift away was matched only by the righteous indignation I felt from knowing that I had been right all along. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reviews on the movie sleeve lead one to believe this is going to be a good movie.  But, it was awful; what a waste of time!  OK, you say, why did I watch it all??  I thought it might actually get better and live up to the review.....  bad choice on my part! "},{"Title":"wrong wrong wrong","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was born and raised in Detroit, in a Polish neighborhood, the daughter of Polish immigrants.  My mother was a cleaning woman and an excellent cook. The house, the scenery, and the people looked familiar, but it was so very wrong.First Big Thing  None of us would ever think of dropping out of school, like Chala was apparently allowed to.  Our parents sacrificed everything to come to this country - we know because they yelled it at us every day - and we were expected to go to college and become successes.  Or else.  And we did.  (I'm 33, and an engineer for an automotive company, by the way.)  If I even thought of dropping out of school, my mama would have hit me so hard, we'd still be paying for the dental work.  Kids of Polish immigrants in my neighborhood all grew up to be doctors, lawyers, engineers, etc.Second Big Thing, when faced with an unplanned pregnancy, I can't imagine a Polish woman forcing a wedding, or the 16 year old being allowed to keep the baby.  I'd sooner expect mama to say So, you're gonna have an abortion, aren't you?  Why ruin your life that I worked so hard to make good? Tough, sure, but  remember these people survived the worst of WWII and the communist regime.Lesser complaints Lena Olin's accent.  She snorted through the entire movie.  I cringed every time she spoke.Leaving laundry on the clothesline overnight.  Unthinkable for a Polish woman.Being so reckless with your affair that your husband finds out.  How stupid was she?Neighbors watching, but not reporting.  If I made one wrong move, everyone knew about it instantly.  I'd be punished before I got a chance to confess. (Not that I ever did anything wrong...)The Festival of the Virgin(s).  I've never heard of this in all my life. Also, anyone who expects a 16 year old, from ANY culture, to lead a procession of Virgins is just asking for trouble.The music was banal.The pace was slow.  I forced myself to finish the movie.Skip this movie, please! "},{"Title":"really bad movie","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i cant believe that they ever approved production of this movie. it was one of the worst and unrealistic movies i have ever seen. its portrayal of the polish community was a load of BS. The only thing that was polish in this movie was the ogorki, which didn't look half bad , sadly i cant say the same goes for the rest of this film, which obviously was made by someone who didn't really like polish people.Save yourself two hours of your life and do not, i repeat DO NOT waste your time watching this movie, instead spend your time and money elsewhere i recommend you head to blockbuster and rent my big fat Greek wedding, now that was at least funny. "},{"Title":"Ick","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies where actors I enjoy watching get together, try their hardest, and produce absolute dreck.  Only Gabriel Byrne ever seems to have a moment of reality here.The main problem is the screenplay, which commits the increasingly frequent sin of mistaking giving characters quirks for creating actual characters. Lena Olin's character in particular sticks out as a poor creation of a screenwriters absence of imagination. "},{"Title":"Venal old-world comedy about getting knocked up before getting married.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In spite of a cast headed by the voluptuous Lena Olin, this rather bleak comedy, concentrating on a lower-class Detroit family's sexual dilemmas, is pretty hard to take as anything more than a pathetic portrait of the maternal instinct as a sexual weapon.  The woman's touch is overtly present throughout, but the sexual politics of this flick are decidedly shady.  I wouldn't put much faith in the final outcome, either.  "}{"Title":"Sadly lacking script","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Polish Wedding is an interesting examination of a Polish family transplanted into middle-America, Detroit and left there to survive. But, despite the allure of Claire Danes (as Chala) and the potential of Gabriel Byrne and Lena Olin, the project is irrevocably undermined by a weak script. "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Blech.  Don't waste your time.  Otherwise wonderful performers in a dog of a movie.  I sat waiting for it to redeem itself but alas - it ended as horribly as it began.  I have nothing else to say about this movie except I sure did waste 2 hours. "},{"Title":"This movie is a joke!,  Then so is this review ! )","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a joke!,  Then so is this review!! haw haw.Don't waste your time, you have better things to do, gut fish, take out the trash, have a good one in the can, watch maggots grow.This  film for all its feeble attempt at humor falls in the genre of films produced between 1935-1940. It depicts elements of humanity in the worst possible light and alights to the need for the unnecessary theory of more Lebenstrum. (Highly technical term). It was producd by and for individuals who have a deep seated need for this light form of abnoxious degradation by invoking negative sterotyping.  Indeed the actors in this movie may never survive their typecasting and they can only hope that they will never be noticed, even in the credits or real life. Imagine having no acting or production ability other than being yourself in a movie? and using it as a tax dodge. The only thing missing is an obvious flagration of the holocaust community by addition of a holocaust happy times in the camp  musical number .Indeed in summation.......... this movie..........don't bother ...  unless you enjoy  watching a leaking, reeking pig farm sewage trough, then you'll enjoy this likewise odiferious touchee feelee farse. "},{"Title":"Bad to the bone","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend rent this movie at the video shop. Why? Because she says she loves Claire Danes.  Claire who?  She answersthat I don't know anything about movies.  So we strated to watch this.  After 15 minutes, I had enough! Bad acting, no sparkles and a lot of stereotypes about Polish people (like the music.)  So I decided to go out, drink some coffee. At the restaurant, I met and old friend. So we talk and have fun for 30 minutes.  I decided to go to the video shop near by and rent an another movie.  Something from Europe.  Anything foreverywhere, except Hollywood.  I rent a French comedy by the name of Le Jaguar, with Patrick Bruel and Jean Reno. After that, I came back to the house, where my girlfriend still watching Polish Wedding.  She looks like a zombie.  I ask her if she had a good time.  She says she don't know.  I watch another 10 minutes with her stereotypes and bad acting.  So she decide to stop the machine and watch Le Jaguar.  We laugh and have a good time.  Two days later, she tells me that Polish Wedding was a real bad movie, and she strats singin' Bad to the bone, the song of bluesman George Thorogood.  By the way, who is Claire Danes? "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is quite obvious that whoever is responsible for this film knows absolutely nothing about the culture of Poland or the Catholic Church. Some of the scenes bordered on sacrilege. A priest man-handing a young woman during a May procession honoring the Virgin Mary....I mean get real !!! This movie is a complete fantasy and NOT a good one. Don't waste your time or money on this turkey.I have to say also that the process to even comment on this disaster of a film is so ridiculous that it is set up to actually NOT provide comment. Since the film in my opinion is anti-Catholic bigotry at it's worst I can understand why they would want to do that. "},{"Title":"A hodge-podge of nothing","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film? A movie? Polish? A Wedding? The correct answer is None of the Above. This .... is a total waste of viewing time. No characterization, no development, confusing, senseless, hopeless, unfunny, poorly scripted, poorly acted; these are the notable features of this piece of fluff. If you decide to rent this whatever it is, be prepared to look confused and shut it off after 20 minutes tops. Being a film buff I lasted almost 50 minutes before giving up. Just accept that this is one of the worst movies made and move on. Better yet, just skip it entirely. I will admit I was taken by Lena Olin, and I like Gabriel Byrne (who just sleepwalks through this part), but all the other actors are just there. Of course, none of them have a script to work from. It's just a bunch of nonsense phrases strung together to give them something to say. "},{"Title":"great stuff, if you don't like Christianity","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie presents itself as a harmless story about out-of-wedlock pregnancy, marital infidelity and family conflict, and does a reasonable job in this regard. But it wouldn't be worth seeing a second time if that was all there was to this film.On another level, this movie takes a swipe at fundamental tenants of the Catholic Church. This movie uses a totally different approach than Dogma, which is over two hours of in-your-face mockery of Catholicism. Instead, Polish Wedding asks interesting questions about the Church's attitude towards women.It's quite different from the usual Hollywood fare, and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Truly entertaining","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious in sincere, two things that most movies these days lack. Jadzia (Lena Olin, absolutely gorgeous as usual) is the mother of five children Four of them boys (as she constantly reminds everybody). They all live together, even though four of the five children are over twenty. While she has marital husbands with her spouse Bolak (Gabriel Byrne in one of his best performances besides A Dangerous Woman) she must tend to the well-being of her wild and outrageous daughter, Hala. When Hala accidentally becomes pregnant the family must help and support her. What makes this movie so sweet is some of the scenes with Byrne, one in which he smokes cigarettes with his children, or spends good quality time with Hala. Claire Danes as Hala is pretty good. She's sweet and innocent, yet vivacious. Olin of course makes the movie. For once I'm glad to see that they added some sass to her character. Overall, I gave this movie a 10. I loved it. Rent it, maybe you will too. "}]