[{"Title":"Best Making of- documentary since Hearts of Darkness","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This film comes included with the From Dusk Till Dawn Collectors Series DVD and it is quite a find. This isn't just about how someone did this or blah blah blah did that, this film is a real tribute to the entire crew of the film and the comradry that forms between them all on the set as well as off it. The film is basically a journey through the production of From Dusk Till Dawn from problems with the unions to sandstorms and burning sets to dealing with George and Quintin on set, which I might add, make one crazy pair (God I love that opening scene). Will you learn anything important about film-making? I'd say it's hard not to walk away from this a little more knowledgeable about the sheer heart and determination put in by people who's names you'd probably never give a second glance to but they deserve more than just a crawl by mention in the end credits and that's what this film gives them. So if you liked From Dusk Till Dawn... that doesn't necessarily mean you'll like this, BUT if you like going behind the scenes and hanging out with a film crew as they get drunk by a pool, I say you can't do any better than to go for the Full Tilt Boogie. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I came across this documentary when I rented the DVD at Blockbuster. At first, I thought this would be another one of those HBO Special BS that companies usually slap on their DVDs, but from the beginning when Clooney and Tarantino were walking about the set along to the BeeGees, I was hooked. This wasn't the polished crap that I was used to, this was a full-out documentary that explored every aspect of film making. Instead of just interviewing the actors and the director, FTB interviewed the ADs, the grips, the runners, catering, the assistants, and many, many electricians. Instead of exploring about what went right in the movies, this explored what went wrong, and how the filmmakers fixed these problems. The budget problems, issues with the set design, union troubles, all of it was there. This was the real stuff. Sure it might be a lil' long, but it was refreshing to see what REALLY goes on behind the scenes. "},{"Title":"A great film for anyone interested in filmmaking","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  On the surface a documentary about the making of From Dusk Till Dawn, 'Full Tilt Boogie' is a frank, revealing, and ultimately informative look at independent filmmaking in today's Hollywood. Be warned, however, that if you're expecting yet another neat, polished making of documentary, you'll likely be disappointed. `Full Tilt Boogie' has none of the glitz or big budget finish, none of the behind the scenes looks at special visual and makeup effects. While it still delivers the obligatory interviews with cast and crew members, this is largely a film about the unsung heroes behind the actors, directors, and SFX maestros, about the legions of everyday men and women who help bring the movies to life. While this unorthodox approach to the `making of' documentary may not be to everyone's liking, (it's 90-plus minute running time especially may try the patience of the average viewer) `Full Tilt Boogie' is a must for any student of filmmaking, or anyone who has ever considered a career in the industry "},{"Title":"A different view on film making","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The DVD-cover on From Dusk Till Dawn didn't say anything about this little extra. I don't see why not, but it was a nice surprise. Maybe that was the effect they were looking for.Full Tilt Boogie is definitely not the standard document on making a specific film. It's no where near the quarter to half hour documentaries found as extras on many DVDs. Unlike most, this one doesn't really put emphasis on the stars, director, writers and so on. They are all there, although mostly as part of the crew rather than as individuals making well prepared statements on the movie, which can then be used for promotional purposes.The whole documentary has pretty much nothing to do with promoting the movie, which is a good thing. It seems like a movie from a young filmmaker who is out to prove herself. And in my mind, she did. She's really interested in everything going on behind the scenes. She's not afraid to take on subjects which some might find inappropriate, but which are a part of film-making. Of course the director is always central, but there is so much more going on and the other parts are hardly ever touched in a movie like this.I'm personally interested in film-making beyond the glamor, so this is a movie for me. It's also pretty entertaining and shows many of the more famous people in a different light, at least somewhat. Obviously the people on the set are just people, which means many of the things they do are quite mundane, but still a bit weird.For someone like me, I'd highly recommend this, to others... well, I'd still recommend it, but not very strongly. If the subject matter isn't for you, don't go out of your way to watch this, but if it is - or strange humor from Tarantino interests you - take a looksie. "},{"Title":"Good documentary on a good DVD","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I just purchased the Collector's Edition of From Dusk Till Dawn about a week ago, and last night finally got around to viewing the Full Tilt Boogie documentary, which details the making of the project from conception to post-production. Star/writer Quentin Tarantino, director Robert Rodriguez, stars George Clooney and Harvey Keitel and producer Lawrence Bender all give their insight into the making of one of the '90s' most cult-heavy flicks.Personally I'm not a huge fan of the movie, I think it's good because it's unique - something that doesn't really come out of Hollywood very often a movie where you don't know what is going to happen next, and when you think you do...you're wrong.It's a thriller in the vein of Pulp Fiction that suddenly shifts into comedy, then into slapstick, then back into crime thriller, then into horror, then into comedy... it never stops and really is an original film.The documentary details the making of the film and opens at a comic book convention (Fangoria) where Rodriguez and Tarantino are being interviewed about their upcoming project.From then it starts back at the beginning and goes through the entire process.It's not a great documentary but it is a good one with insightful interviews and a comprehensive scope. I don't really think the film as a whole warrants any kind of classic treatment - the DVD is worthy of a finer picture some might say - but considering some of the awful five-minute HBO making-ofs that are on TV all the time nowadays, Full Tilt Boogie is a return to form. "},{"Title":"Behind the scenes with Quentin, George and Robert.","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When Sarah Kelly asked Quentin Tarantino for a project, he gave her an opportunity to document the making of From Dusk Till Dawn  the South of the Border-Vampire flick in which he starred with George Clooney, directed by his pal Robert Rodriguez.What we get is a frank, behind the scenes, none of that prepackaged, smooth-edged stuff you see in the press packs, or on ET.Pace yourself.  For in today's world of sound and media bytes, 97 minutes may seem an eternity, but this is a well- paced, fun from start to finish feature. And don't look for Harvey Keitel, he's camera-shy when it comes to these things.  "},{"Title":"A nice behind the scenes look...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a really good and informative feature length documentary on the making of From Dusk Till Dawn. It covers most aspects of the film making process...Interviews with all of the cast and crew, following them around during filming and off hours from start to finish. Having to deal with issues like unions, paparazzi, weather, long hours, and unexpected fires...yet they all seem to love what they're doing.*** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"lots of fun with QT & RR","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" What better way to see two of the filmmakers out of the 90s American quasi-new-wave to collaborate together then on a movie like this? More than ten years before Grindhouse Tarantino and Rodriguez teamed up- following subsequent re-writes by Tarantino of the script for Rodriguez to direct- for From Dusk Till Dawn, a drive-in movie for the 90s with lots of violence, lots of nudity and gore, some very disturbing scenes (not just with the vampires), and innuendo for two movies. Plus, did I mention vampires? This takes one into the film-making process in not just the big scheme of things but the smaller bits, like what Tarantino and Clooney's personal assistants have to do for them, or the little stories told in the breaks between shootings (the one that struck as the funniest, if bragging, was one involving a missing extra beer keg).It's not all completely fun and games, despite the opening scene showing the follies of Tarantino and Clooney trying to go through the 'back-way' to get to the set. There's drama involving the guilds, specifically the director and actor guilds, and it becomes a bump to get over in order to just continue making the movie. Later on there's detailing of just how much work has to go into making one of the vampires, and how much set-up there is in just doing one shot in the big action sequences at the T**y twister. There's even some insight from Harvey Keitel (prefaced by a very funny assortment of title cards). It's put together mostly for the fans of the filmmakers, and it wont get someone to see how extraordinary directing can be like in the making of Fanny & Alexander or something. It's a fun little doc for a very fun midnight movie; where else will you see Fred Williamson interviewed, seriously, in full vampire makeup? "},{"Title":"Worth one viewing and not much more","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Full Tilt Boogie does not provide any great insight into the making of From Dusk 'Til Dawn, nor does it really glimpse in depth into the world of Quentin Tarantino or Robert Rodriguez.  It does, however, showcase how calm & humble George Clooney remains in a karaoke bar despite being hounded by women and hangers-on.  The film serves more as an episodic confessional for a non-union film crew; explaining how they feel about their work (few consider themselves in a creative light, they are all unabashedly in it for the money), why they're in the film business (money or avoidance of the 9-to-5 routine), the best perks available (free beer, getting to watch movie stars eat), and how the crew spends their time off (getting sloppy drunk & playing a lot of guitar).  There's a minor story involving union protests over the use of non-union crew members, but it unfolds without any real interest.  Rodriguez & Tarantino give a brief interview where they share some funny thoughts on the work of Stephen King, there are also short moments with Clooney, as well as a playful Juliette Lewis; and Harvey Keitel gives a brief, bizarre and distant interview to Tarantino towards the end of the documentary (sorry fellas, no Salma to be found here).I enjoyed Full Tilt Boogie because I got to know what it's like to work on a film set, albeit not on the set of From Dusk 'Til Dawn.  But ultimately, the film didn't really end up telling me much about the people featured in it.  And it didn't follow up on some items.  For example, they didn't reveal who won the Best Butt contest?  Oh well, I guess this film is for the hardcore fans. "},{"Title":"Sneak-peak into the everyday-life of film-making","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This hour and a half documentary snuck its way into my Touch of Tarantino DVD box-set, and, being a fan of behind-the-scenes and general DVD-obesity, I just finished watching it - being at home and a little ill on a Friday evening anyway.There's plenty of minutes between the golden lines, but that said, this feature is a nice experience and a good substitute for your Hard Copy pulp, or how you guys keep yourself up to date with the off-stage life of actors and film-makers and -crew.We get all the way around the film crew, from the best boys and the catering guy to lots of comradely fooling around between especially Mr. Tarantino and Mr. Clooney.The documentary has a few highlights, e.g. when Juliette Lewis talks about acting, describing it as (quoted freely from memory) well, to me acting is just lying. All that getting-to-know the character I don't understand, I just lie. Or one of the crew guys, asked about why he does, what he does - So I don't have to get a real job. And I get to work with other people, who don't have real jobs either.To sum it up, I can't think of why I would recommend watching this documentary from a movie-critic POW - but if you want to recognize that movies are bottom line made by geeks (in the most positive sense, by the way) and, yes, 'normal people' - of if you have reached the end of your DVD-shelf and Blockbuster is closed, hey, flip it in. "}{"Title":"Behind the Scenes look at early Tarentino flick recommended for aspiring filmmakers and wannabe insiders","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Everyone wants to be an insider. A veritable cottage industry has sprung up in recent years devoted to taking us behind the scenes on movie sets. One of the best films of this type is FULL TILT BOOGIE. In 1997, 26 year old aspiring film-maker Sarah Kelly talked Quentin Tarentino into letting her take a camera crew onto the set to chronicle the making of his gangsters vs. vampires horror epic From Dusk Until Dawn. Viewers expecting a DVD-style how'd they do that featurette obsessed with special effects will be disappointed. But if an insightful and entertaining look at the creative process of film-making, and the people who make it happen, sounds good to you and/or you're considering a career in the industry, this movie is highly recommended. There is plenty of footage of the stars at work and at play but we also get to meet the unsung heroes behind the camera the production designer, the art director, the craft services guy, the personal assistants, the grips, the drivers. This is Kelly's first directing attempt. Previously she had worked as a production assistant on Pulp Fiction. Because she is not a slick, seasoned filmmaker, the cast and crew relax and let down their guard. At its best, Full Tilt Boogie plays like a candid and engaging home movie of day to day life on the chaotic set of a no frills independent film. There are the long hours (we started the day at five in the morning, now it's ten-thirty at night and I'm still working on my computer on time codes), the bad food (for lunch all I got was a piece of chicken and two pieces of bread and a melted brownie), the on set accidents (the saloon set almost burns to the ground after a pyrotechnics shot flares out of control) and the threat of a strike (producer Lawrence Bender has hired non-union crew members, thus incurring the wrath of the powerful IATSE union). Mother Nature also gets in the act. A sandstorm shuts down production; there is a rain delay and the daily challenges of location shooting in 122 degree California desert heat. No wonder people have to blow off steam in the nearby town of Barstow. Kelly's camera catches Juliette Lewis singing karaoke, a local girl flirts with George Clooney and Quentin and his posse warble Merle Haggard tunes by the motel pool (until other guests complain about the noise). In one scene Kelly encourages the crew to dish about on set romances. I could sleep with any woman on this set, Quentin boasts. He's kidding. (I think.) When various crew members are asked why they chose the film biz, the responses range from prosaic (for the money) to poetic. That moment, that 1/1000th of a second as the shutter clicks, it's immortalized on film,  says one youthful crew worker dreamily. I get a real rush out of that. It's documenting history, history that doesn't exist, we're making it up and it comes to life and I love it. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Not That Good","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The problem with this type of documentary is that if you have little interest in the source movie you will have little interest in its conception and behind the scenes footage . I found FROM DUSK TILL DAWN a ridiculous and bizarre mixed genre film that starts off with a couple of desperate men who have murdered sixteen people take a family hostage , they flee to Mexico and then the movie turns into a horror film This documentary might have had some interest for me if it had been done properly but it hasn't been done properly . Even if you didn't like FROM DUSK TILL DAWN imagine how interesting FULL TILT BOOGIE might have been if someone asked Danny Trejo if his time in the maximum security penal system brought anything to his performance  So Danny , you stab Tarantino's character through the hand . Did you see anything like that inside ?  whereby Trejo recounts all the violent incidents he's witnessed behind bars . For me the most memorable moment of FDTD is the Salma Hayek dance sequence , it's also one of the most memorable sequences in modern cinema and guess what ? Salma Hayek is not interviewed ! Instead we have to put up with endless scenes of assistants running back and forward with lunch for the cast and mundane interviews with the actors and director I guess people who subscribe to Fangoria magazine and horror fans who attend the conventions will like FULL TILT BOOGIE since there's some interesting behind the scenes make up effects on show but this never comes close to rivalling HEARTS OF DARKNESS ( The documentary about the making of APOCALYPSE NOW ) as the definitive making of documentary "},{"Title":"A nice treat for the fans...not much more","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Full Tilt Boogie is a longer version of what you normally find as an extra on DVD's. It's a making of documentary focusing on the entire production process of From Dusk Till Dawn, Robert Rodriguez' fun vampire film and scripted by Quentin Tarantino. Director Sarah Kelley (previously a production assistant for QT) follows around about everyone who even has the slightest connection to the film. From essential crewmembers to extra actors who just walk through the screen for half a second. She even dedicates a chapter on the difficulties that occurred with the Union of independent filmmakers. Some parts are really interesting, like the interviews with the always-amazing Tarantino, but most of what you see is tedious and redundant. Like it usually is the case with documentaries, it's a lot more fun shooting them than actually watching it. "},{"Title":"Fun Look at the Making of Dawn","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Full Tilt Boogie (1997) *** (out of 4)This fascinating documentary was shot on the set of FROM DUSK TILL DAWN and takes us behind-the-scenes of the making of that film. Through interviews with the cast and just about every member of the crew, you really get a good idea of what it was like being on the set and making a film like this one. We go from week to week as we get into various parts of the production including an early appearance by Robert Rodriquez and Quentin Taratino at the 1995 Fangoria convention, getting into a battle with union workers and then just about every party that was thrown after hours. FULL TILT BOOGIE is mainly going to appeal to fans of the film because of all the behind-the-scenes footage but even if you're not familiar with the movie you might find some mild entertainment because it focuses on certain aspects that aren't often covered in documentaries. We get interviews with Tarantino, George Clooney, Richard Roundtree, Juliette Lewis and countless others from the cast but we also get dozens of interviews with the crew. This includes assistant directors, engineers, lighting experts, assistants to the stars and countless others. Getting to see the production from the crews eyes is a major plus here because often they're either not filmed or just edited out of the feature. It was great getting to see them do their jobs as well as interact with the cast members after hours when all the work was done and they're kicking back with some beers. The documentary really gives one a great idea of what filmmakers do once the cameras are off and it's time to settle back "},{"Title":"Full Tilt Boogie - not the average documentary","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" There isn't really much to say about this From Dusk Till Dawn accompaniment. It can almost be considered a DVD extra, which it kind of is if you bought the From Dusk Till Dawn 2 disc edition, which I didn't. I picked this up for about $6, knowing that it came with FDTD, and being a fan of the film. It is a 'documentary' in a different kind of sense that most would be used to, though it does 'document', so that's all good. The thing about F-TB is that most of it is just footage of the cast and crew doing other stuff like eating, or dancing, but there are a few interviews, though what you could call the bare minimum of an interview. It's not always entertaining, but what I find interesting about it is how it presents the actors and how they really are off camera. Particularly Juliette Lewis; she seems a lot less innocent than she looks in the film. So if you like to see what really goes on away from the actual film making, then you will appreciate this. And if you are a FDTD or Tarantino or Rodriguez fan, then you'll like it. If you can find it in a store for under $10, then I say buy it, but anything more probably isn't worth it.DVD FEATURES Full-Tilt Boogie (Main Feature) Subtitles "},{"Title":"Luckily this isn't your typical 'Making of...'","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I really wasn't too interested in watching this one, thinking it would be another typical 'Making of&#133;', with the only exception that it had feature-length. There were just two reasons I decided to give it a try. The first one is me being a bit of a Tarantino/Rodriguez fan who felt that From Dusk till Dawn was a brilliant picture. The second one was, that it was on TV and it didn't cost money and I could just turn it off when it became annoying without feeling scr..ed because I payed money to watch it.In the end I was pleasantly surprised, because this was nothing like a 'Making of&#133;' in which everybody is like 'I loved working with&#133;' and 'The story was just so great!' & '&#133;is the best director I've ever worked with.'! I actually despise any 'Making of...' for being like that, because it is just propaganda to get people to see the film. Full tilt boogie on the other hand gives people a behind the scenes look at what various employees do on a film set and what can (and will) go wrong whilst making a picture, which is what made the film watchable. But it isn't without flaws. Despite being pretty interesting, I felt that I could have used a bit more background info about the whole 'union-thing', so I could understand it all. I guess if you're into Tarantino/Rodriguez, or if you want to know what it's like to work on a movie set and are interested in the basic 'who-does-what', this film is for you. Otherwise you haven't missed a thing.6,5 out of 10 (with a 6 given upon voting, since this is basically for 'freaks' and fans only) "},{"Title":"I'M IN THIS MOVIE!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Well, not physically in it, but I'm there in spirit.  The brief clip they show of Tarantino and Robert R. at the 1995 Fangoria Convention was the part where I should have been seen in.  I was in the front row to the right of the stage, just outta camera range dangit!But I digress, this is an amusing trifle of a movie.  It's a documentary about the making of the flick From Dust Till Dawn.  It has some amusing bits like the opening scene with Tarantino and Clooney doing a badass walk to the movie set and being besieged by fans.  I also liked the brief interview with my fave blaxploitation movie star, Fred Williamson.  But to be honest this film has a pretty thin premise.  To be brutally honest this film is based on a thinner premise than a movie based on a Saturday Night Live sketch.  Ouch!The filmmakers needed to take a few tips from the makers of Truth Or Dare on how to liven up a documentary.  Later once again alligator...     "},{"Title":"An interesting documentary on a brilliant film","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Full Tilt Boogie has its good points. It shows some incredibly brilliant behind the scenes looks at the making of the From Dusk Till Dawn. However, this is a documentary which only fans of Dusk Till Dawn will enjoy. There are some fantastic things caught on camera and there are some good edited scenes, with fairly detailed looks at how they did a lot of the special effects. It also has a very slick opening. The really die hard fans of Dusk Till Dawn, may be a little bit disappointed with the documentary, because there are long gaps where there is very little said about the actual making of the movie, but interviews with the actors agents and footage of some union dispute. There are fairly short pieces of footage of on set dramas and special effects, which leave you wanting more. At the end, you feel a little unsatisfied. They could have added a lot more good stuff then they did. If you loved Dusk Till Dawn, watch this documentary, because you should enjoy it. If you didn't enjoy the film or haven't seen it, don't watch this. You won't like it. Strictly fans only!!!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining but pretty pointless","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" It was the cool title that attracted me to this film and I was surprised to find that it was about the making of From Dusk Till Dawn. Had I missed something? Was this one of those troubled shoots that made it worthy of documenting like Hearts of Darkness? Perhaps the film was better than I remember and whole nations of fans were crying out for a really detailed look behind the scenes? Well, I don't know for sure but having now watched Full Tilt I suspect that none of these is true. As I watched it I kept waiting for the reason for this film being made to become clear &#150; were there massive bust-ups on set? A natural disaster? No, not really. So for most of the film it is just people milling around and this wasn't helped by interviewing extras, assistants and the like. If they had insights to give then it wouldn't have mattered but they don't.So without a great reason for being, the documentary just drifts around backstage and almost seems grateful when a fire brings out or a dust storm blows through the set. Other than that the film just enjoys the humour and the messing around associated with making the film. Luckily this just about works and it makes the film quite enjoyable even if it instantly forgettable. Its not like there isn't interesting stuff going on, but the documentary doesn't really explore them or use them to do anything &#150; in particular the union issue had potential but isn't done well.All those involved seem to be having fun and the film is full of amusing characters. Tarantino is a bit annoying, Clooney is fun and so on. However the focus is on the smaller roles &#150; joking around, goofing off etc. Some of them are interesting and it does help keep the film busy and energetic but it does all come over as a film that was made for the crew to enjoy rather than made with the viewer in mind. Overall though it is quite entertaining but very light on substance, meaning that documentary is a bit of a kind term to describe it as it does come over as more of a home movie. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Look at the Magic of Movie-making.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" DVD extras can often be mind numbingly low on interest. Where the making of docs consist of boring technical computer crap and actors telling us what they do in the movie. However Full Tilt Boogie is the most in depth and funny making of I have ever seen. Not only does it show the commitment and passion (that wear's thin at times when the dreaded Union come in) of the filmmakers it also shows a intimate group of friends working together on a movie. It has a movie like narrative including a stylized openening, a conflict and a happy ending. It also features several great artists playing around and partying (including Quentin Tarantino, Robert Rodriquez etc). There are numerous stand out moments including the AD'S discussing who they find attractive, what George Clooney got for Juliette Lewis on her birthday, Quentin Tarantino singing Momma Tried and Michael Parks being predictably hilarious. Put all this together and what do you have? One of the rare treats where a making of documentary is better tho the actual film. A true Gem. "}{"Title":"Good for a single watch, maybe two","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is one of the best behind-the-scenes documentaries I've ever seen, but it's long and pretty slow, unfortunately. This has just about every single part of the behind-the-scenes process, and just about every single crew-member that there was on From Dusk Till Dawn. It has a little of the actors involved as well, but it concentrates more on showing the people behind the film, rather than the ones that you actually see in the film itself. It has plenty of clips of crew-members explaining what they do and why they like their job, and many shots of them working or enjoying their spare time. It's more behind the scenes than any other behind-the-scenes documentary that I've ever seen, that's for sure. I thought it was pretty interesting to see so much of what went on between takes and behind the camera, for once. I just thought too much of this was dull and less interesting than it could have been. I would have liked more talking about the actual movie, and more of Rodriguez and Tarantino explaining their vision of the film, instead of various crew-members joking around. All in all, a decent behind-the-scenes documentary, but too long and uninteresting. Not worth getting the collectors edition of From Dusk Till Dawn for, but if you can watch it for free, do so... once. I recommend any big fan of From Dusk Till Dawn to get the collectors edition, though. It features plenty of stuff that fans of the film and/or fans of Tarantino and/or Rodriguez will enjoy. Overall, Full Tilt Boogie rating 5/10. From Dusk Till Dawn collectors edition DVD rating 7/10. 5/10 "},{"Title":"pretty interesting.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Yeah, this film was pretty interesting as far as letting me see what really goes on behind the scenes while making a film. I guess the biggest reason why I liked it was because it wasn't so stuffy and polished--it gave the human side to film making. Tarantino and Clooney aren't represented as gods, but merely guys making a movie. I think that is very important and a big problem with films today--the human aspect of it is gone. But this documentary of the making of Dust till Dawn shows just the human side.And it isn't centered on the main characters, but everyone, right down to the caterers. Also shows the complex side of film making, including the unions. All together a pretty good film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awesome","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I did not even know that this movie existed until I recently rented From Dusk Till Dawn.  I began watching it and was totally won over by it.  If you've ever wondered what is all involved in the movie making process, this movie is a must see!  =) "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  As a fan of the series (well, apart from the disappointing 2nd entry), I was totally looking forward to this documentary. However, this was nothing like what I had expected it to be. It starts well with Clooney & Tarantino acting out a funny part on the way to the set & some stuff on the special effects used, then suddenly ends up as a whinge-fest for the producers to complain about unions and stuff. All in all, a missed opportunity. Oh, and by the way, wait until you see what a stuck up, um, person Harvey Keitel is. Talk about being full of yourself... "}]