[{"Title":"Although It's Nothing Special, Metro is a Solid Action Movie Regardless","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Metro appears to be a low-budget action affair, which whilst it has nothing new to offer, shows us a different side to Eddie Murphy as an actor that we hadn't seen before in his previous films. People have in the past often compared this to Beverly Hills Cop 1, in terms of the fact that they are both your typical, run- of- the- mill cop movies, but the comparisons seem to come to an end when you compare that film to Metro, in terms of plot, character types and the fact that Eddie Murphy doesn't joke about as negotiator/cop Scott Roaper that often. Not like his predecessor, Axel Foley. Here, as Roaper he is much more serious and not as laid back in contrast to his most famous movie character. Metro plays out as a straight out action movie that isn't reliant on laughs, which in itself is no bad thing. One of the main problems that some of the audiences had, in regards to their expectations of Metro, was by assuming that it would be something similar on the lines of Beverly Hills Cop. It has its funny moments, but these are few and far between throughout the film, as the narrative in Metro is very much serious and the standard cop thriller we'd come to expect.Overall, Metro is not a bad effort and the action sequences are well executed. Murphy gives a surprising turn and performance as Roaper and thus it makes a change to see him in an almost completely non-comedic role, which he does well in.Not bad indeed. "},{"Title":"Murphy's most overlooked performance & movie!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Metro, starring Eddie Murphy, may well be worth your viewing time. Yes it got a fair amount of negative reviews from people who wanted to see another Nutty Professor or thought of Metro as Murphy trying to play Axel Foley again. Others had problems with the script, the plot, the pace of the film, but nobody cared to mention how good Murphy actually is in this. His character is a San Francisco hostage negotiator, named Scott Roper, who one day meets his worst enemy in a jewel thief (played wonderfully by Michael Wincott) who makes his job a nightmare. From that point on a cat & mouse chase between Murphy & Wincott develops, & plays it's part in a rather amusing way. I don't want to give a lecture here on this subject, because movies like Metro are just made to entertain the viewer. Metro is a solid action film, with some suspense, some great stunts, and very good performances from the whole cast. Murphy, in what I think is one of his better roles, gives us his comedic touch, but this is more of a dramatic, serious role for him. I saw not Murphy, but Scott Roper, throughout the whole movie. A sure sign that an actor is doing his job quite well! - Murphy is superb. "},{"Title":"Solid action movie","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps the biggest problem in Eddie Murphy's career always was, that people expected him to be a fast talking guy whose mouth gets him in and out of trouble. As soon as he tried to escape that formula, viewers were in for a disappointment and found his movies below than average.If you leave that behind, Metro is a solid action movie with a couple of remarkable stunt scenes. It's also very delightful to see that it tries to leave some of the usual veteran cop gets rookie partner routine behind and playfully mocks some standard suspense elements you see a young girl in front of her opened bathroom mirror searching for something. The music swells. She starts to close it and what does the viewer expect? To see the face of the killer when the mirror closes. But nada. Those are really refreshing bits.Murphy's performance is quite solid, the story is what to expect from an action movie and refreshed, as I said, by the bits above.  "},{"Title":"Actually not as bad as it seems","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy plays a hostage negotiator in San Francisco, he lives a dangerous life, but he still thinks it´s pretty okay. One thing he doesn´t think is okay is when his friends gets killed. But that is just what happens, his best friend is murdered by an evil jewel-thief, and now Murphy wants revenge. The plot in Metro did not really impress me when I heard about it. Eddie Murphy as a comical hostage negotiator... It sounds pretty corny to me, but it was actually not as bad as it first seemed. The action scenes are well made, especially the breath taking car chases down the steep streets of San Francisco. But I can´t really say the movie was good. The plot is not very original, this could actually have been titled Beverly Hills Cop 4 and no one would have noticed. Between the action scenes there aren´t very much to write home about. Murphy is occasionally funny, but he can be really annoying too.The best thing in Metro is definitely the villain, played by the underrated Michael Wincott. He is truly the perfect bad guy. That rasping voice, that glance in his eyes, wow! He can make even the simplest villain into a terrifying monster, which he should be highly praised for. And I wonder if not this guy holds the record in movie-deaths? I´ve seen Wincott in about ten movies, and he gets to meet his maker in all of them! I almost feel sorry for him, but I don´t think he´s complaining too much. If he dies in Metro or not, I´ll let you figure out for yourself.Back to Metro now. If you don´t expect any clever ideas, just some good action sequences with a silly plot, it´s not that bad. But on the other hand, not that good either.* * ½ out of * * * * *  "},{"Title":"Action Satisfaction","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you rent this movie thinking it is another Eddie Murphy action-comedy, you better think again!!!! This movie is STRICTLY an action flick. Of course, that's not a complaint, it's just a statement. Murphy still is enjoyable as the hero. He's not playing Axel Foley from the BEVERLY HILLS COP movies, but he sure seems a lot like him. It also steals elements from some of his earlier films. In my opinion, this is a guy movie. The women will probally be bored by the non-stop action and the fact that the only woman in the movie is Eddie Murphy's girlfriend, but action fans will LOVE this movie!!!       "},{"Title":"In its entirety, just a fun movie","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" * Brief Spoiler *It's a breath of fresh air when an action movie these days simply resorts to the typical clichés and doesn't try to impress the viewer too much. Twenty years ago this would have been bad. Now, with each and every movie trying to surpass the last entry into the genre and, for the most part, ending up as an overblown bore, the standard action flicks are wanted more than anything.Metro (1997) is just that. It's got some of the oldest tricks in the books while adding lots of neat stunts and action pieces. Towards the end, the female love interest of the hero is tied to a metal mechanism that will slice the girl's head off if the red safety button is not pressed. The villain lets go, the hero presses the button as quickly as he can, and moments later the villain returns with a sports car, driving right towards the hero. If he lets go of the button, the girl's head comes off. If he doesn't move, though, the villain will run him over with the car and the girl will die anyway. What's he do?It's the classic action ideas such as this that help the movie. It reminded me of those old silent movies where the dastardly villain would tie a helpless girl to a railroad track, then climb into his stolen steam train and surge down the track towards her. But Metro also leaves room for car chases and shoot-outs - in one scene, a San Francisco trolley is hijacked by the bad guy, and the hero pulls up alongside the trolley in a Cadillac, jumps aboard, fights the villain, ends up pushing the full speed lever, and ramming the trolley into cars and right off of its line. It proceeds to scrape along the sloping road, off its tracks, scraping metal, ramming into everything in its path.It reminded me of the car chase in The Rock, another good action movie with a visibly larger budget but the same fun quotient as Metro, which is Beverly Hills Cop meets The Negotiator, for the most part.Action movies always have setups that pay nothing to the movie other than a character introduction. Metro has a great one. We are introduced to the hero, Roper (Eddie Murphy), who is *not* the film critic on Ebert & Roeper, the latter of whom I could not get out of my head every time the name Roper was said on-screen.Roper is a hostage negotiator. He talks down the bad guys from what they're doing, and when things get really bad he has to take drastic action - such as shooting the bad guy in cold blood. Roper does this in the beginning after a funny and original setup scene, in which he walks into a building with a bag of donuts. The hostage taker doesn't believe they're just donuts. Open the bag! he says. His hostage takes the bag, opens it, and shows him donuts. They're just donuts! he says.In another type of action movie, perhaps Roper would have concealed a gun in the donut bag. Not in Metro, which pays its respects to the other action movies such as Beverly Hills Cop that helped make Eddie Murphy what he is today. I read a short review on Metro that said Roper, Eddie Murphy's character, is another loud-mouthed, unlikable character of the sort that Eddie spoofed with Buddy Love in The Nutty Professor. I beg to differ. Sure, he's loud-mouthed, but what Eddie Murphy character isn't? He's much more likable than some Murphy characters I can think of off-hand.I could go into the plot of Metro, but I'm not sure it really matters. For the most part, I've got to say it's routine but it has its little twists and surprising moments along the way. Roper is training a new kid to take his place some day. The kid is played by Michael Rapaport, who succeeds in making his character smart and equally likable. I knew what was going to happen to him. As soon as I saw him I said, At the end he'll get shot but he'll survive. Well, it happens. But for what it's worth, Metro is a lot better than I thought it would be, with some great action sequences, sly humor, likable characters, and plentiful nods towards the standard action films out there, some (such as the decapitating machine) dating back to the adventure films of the silent era.Metro is, in its entirety, a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Neked in Tahiti.","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Scott Roper is a wise cracking hostage negotiator, he is however exceptionally good at his job. After bringing down a particularly nasty bank robber called Michael Korda, he sets about winning his old girlfriend back whilst breaking in a new partner, Kevin McCall. When Korda escapes from prison there is only one thing on his mind, revenge, can Roper outwit Korda once again? And if so, at what cost?There has always seemed to me to be something of a negative bias towards post 1980s Eddie Murphy (Roper) films, it appears that no matter what, nothing that comes close to his best 80s efforts will ever be deemed worthy. Now I'm not saying that Metro is a world beater, or even close to Beverly Hills Cop and Trading Places, but it's an accomplished thriller with classy bits of Murphy humour thrown in. It also boasts splendid support from Michael Rapaport as Roper's intelligent partner McCall, both men playing off each other to good effect, while Michael Wincott with his gravel voice used to full effect, is impressively devilish as the bad guy of the piece. Let down by a weak female lead in Carmen Ejogo, and certainly the familiarity of the genre loses the film any real sense of impending dread, but for a quick fix of nonsense entertainment on a blustery cold night, it's a more than OK viewing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"In some ways average, other ways quite good.","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For the first hour of this film all I could think of was how average it was, I even had an average review written in my head for it. However, there are certain scenes, thrills and aspects - e.g. the ending predicament that are actually pretty good and will throw you.Eddie Murphy plays a 'wisecracking' hostage negotiator, although tbh he's very much the 'serious' Eddie Murphy for most of the film. I prefer the fun Beverly Hills Cop guy, but there we go. There is a scene where he's talking about being in a thong and being seen by his mother's friends that is hilarious though. Plot-wise he basically gets on the wrong side of some nutter and his cousin and they conspire to make life hell for him and his English girlfriend. The female lead is a tad weak in this, and I must admit I've never ever heard of her (although I was 7 when this film came out - maybe she was big then) but she looked good - Carmen Ejogo she is.Michael Rapaport is in this as well, as an intelligent sniper who is paired up with Murphy. Now I thought, judging by the cover etc, this was gonna be a buddy cop movie but Rapaport (an actor I like) is underused really. Don't get me wrong he's in the film a fair bit but his character has next to no personality. All I learnt was he's polite, sharp, from the Swat team and is a sniper. That's it. The film could have been done without his character if they wanted to save whatever fee he commanded.Whoever plays Eddie Murphy and Carme Ejogo's dog is good in this though. Stellar, powerhouse performance reminded me of Hanks in The Green Mile or Orson Welles in Citizen Kane.So yeah, mixed bag really - there's hate for post-80s Murphy films sure, but this is one of the better ones. It's a solid watch (on netflix atm) and there's some good action and the bad guy is easy to hate, so there's a lot worse out there. I won't strongly recommend but I'll say it's worth a shot - you know what you're going to get. "},{"Title":"Dopey But Fun Little Movie.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was very surprised once I saw this movie. The action was very cool, Eddie was very funny and good. This is the type of movie that a father and his son should see and both enjoy. This is a true guilty pleasure. Even though the movie makes Eddie seem like the only capable character at talking someone out of commiting a crime. But thats what made it fun and goofy! The movie didn't take itself seriously, I like that. See it but don't expect THE GODFATHER just expect a goofy action flick. 8 "},{"Title":"Standard cliché-ridden cop thriller","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fast talking police negotiator Scott Roper foils a bank robbery and catches the head thief.  When the thief, Korda, escapes from jail, he comes after Roper.  Roper meanwhile is trying to juggle his job, his girlfriend and train a sniper to become a negotiator like him.This film was made before Nutty Porfessor but was held back because the makers realesed it was a bit of a dog by itself and decided to wait till Nutty Professor had made Murphy hot again before riding on that wave.  Sadly I was one of those fooled into thinking that the hot new Murphy had made a cool cop thriller.  Rather this is a by the numbers affair that has plenty of cliches and very little spark to it.What spark there is, is added by Murphy's motor mouth performance &#150; he is funny and lively even when the film isn't.  Rapaport is also good despite everything else and British born Ejogo is good as Murphy's girlfriend.  Wincott's villain is right out of a catalogue and is typical of the film's lack of initiative or spark.Overall, like most average cop thrillers it's worth a watch once because it is just about entertaining.  The problem is it is plain &#150; average.  It never rises above the norm and there are much better cop thrillers out there than this.  The producers and studio knew it &#150; who am I to argue. "}{"Title":"a great eddie murphy movie, a throwback to 48 hrs and Beverly hills cop","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i am a fan of eddie murphy when he is in the right vehicle's like 'coming to America' 'the nutty professor' and 'Beverly hills cop' but sometimes he makes some very bad movies like 'pluto nash' 'boomerang' and 'meet dave'. now metro is more like his older movies, raw, r rated action comedies, and its great, eddie murphy is very funny in this, and at times hes even quite serious, but the movie never loses its comedy, and at its core thats what this is, if i had to compare it to one eddie murphy film, it would have to be Beverly hills cop, the same sort of action and humour. the cast are grear and the action big and loud, its a great movie and i recommend to fans of eddie murphy and action films. "},{"Title":"I just LOVED this movie","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm nor going to give any spoilers out, but this really was one of Eddie Murphy BEST roles! I only bought this one because of the two actors that I love are in it. Eddie & Michael Wincott. It really, for me was a Wincott buy. Being a woman I agree with the other member who said most women will find it boring. I'm not like most women who like film. I saw both Raider's and The Golden Child in the theaters 9-11 times. So that should tell you. I wish Murphy would do this type of quality again. Anyway, enough of my opinion. GOOD MOVIE!!! Fast paised, a few funny lines and. Murphy as well as Wincott was VERY strong. I love it when Wincott is a villain. He gives such a nasty SOB 'like' portrayal of the quintessential bad guy. "},{"Title":"Die Hard as a Black Man","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a Die Hard movie with Eddie Murphy in the role of Bruce Willis. That sounds like a joke and that's the problem. Is it an action movie? Comedy? Comedy about an action movie? It keeps veering from one to another like one of the cars in the car chases. Eddie Murphy is a lot of things but no Bruce Willis. And the movie is always on the brink of being a parody rather than a straight action movie. There are screaming, helpless females (this is a 90's movie...those types of women aren't seen in movies these days), car chases & crashes, only very few intentional laughs. It's an anachronism but not a bad way to pass the time. It's Die Hard with a Black man. And it's A' ight... "},{"Title":"Good  Eddie  Murphy  movie","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" (Spoiler)This movie is really good but before i watched it i thought that this movie would be crap and the funny Eddie Murphy from the great movie Beverly Hills Cop stars in this movie along side other good actors and actors like Michael Rapaport,Kim Miyori,Art Evans and Michael Wincott.There are heaps of great action scenes in this movie and the best one has to be the great car chase half way into the movie and the scenes in the end of the movie are great as well.Over all this movie is really good and it is worth watching and my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The right stuff!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the sort of film that Mr. Murphy should be doing more of. Where humour is not a carrying element but a complimenting element in an action movie!! Too bad he hasn't realized that and still does Shrek and Dr. Dolittle movies.. "},{"Title":"Excellent action / suspense thriller - with added comedy.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A great all-round thriller!  I could not believe that this film only got a 5.4 rating when I looked.  This is an excellent film.  I could watch it all over again - which to me is the hallmark of a good movie.  It has thrills, suspense, a clever plot with some neat twists, very good cinematography and direction, romance, comedy and some great one-liners.  Need I say more? 9/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Over the top but fun comedy thriller","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy tries to act serious as well as funny as Detective Scott Roper, and he actually carries it off rather well. Wanting revenge for his partner's death, he's led on a dangerous cat-and-mouse game with Michael Wincott, who will not let him win easily...The main highlights of Metro are a thrilling car chase sequence and the explosive ending! This is not the best film I have ever seen, but Wincott is immensely good as criminal Korda, displaying an almost never-ending desire to bring Roper down, even if it means double murder....Metro is a fast-paced thrilling (and funny) movie from start to finish containing many startling and cunning plots that may seem a little odd at first but smoothing out to a satisfactory conclusion. I can definitely understand why it was a huge success at the box-office it is very enjoyable! "},{"Title":"It's been seen before... but it's still fun to watch","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy as a foul-mouthed, loud-mouthed action lead? I'm in. True, the man has done little worth one's time past the 80's, but he's fun to watch with only a few exceptions. The plot and writing in general is cliché-ridden... the best way to enjoy the film is really to avoid thinking about it, and just going with it. The action scenes are fairly well-done, and the cinematography is decent enough. Whether or not you enjoy the frequent jokes appearing early on regarding one particular characters identity is difficult to say... personally, I found them to be somewhat cute. The humor in general is fair. The dialog is okay, but not terribly memorable. The plot progression is good enough. The action isn't breaking any new ground, but it manages to be exciting and intense, and fairly well-edited, as well. The finale is quite good, very good tension. The acting is good... Rapaport and Murphy work well together, and Wincott makes a good villain(as Alien Resurrection will tell you, he makes an awesome bad guy, criminal type). The romantic interest of Murphy works well... they've got good on-screen chemistry, and their scenes together are credible. In conclusion; sure, we've seen all this before... but it's still good for a fun two hours. I recommend this to big fans of action films and/or Eddie Murphy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Nice to see Eddie Murphy attempt something that isn't an outright comedy.,","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It doesn't always work, and Eddie Murphy is no substitute for a proper action star like Stallone or Mel Gibson, but at least he tries in this film. Metro has a clichéd plot about a diamond smuggler who murders Eddie's partner and it is Eddie's job to stop him, but Eddie does a great job and actually looks like he enjoys the role. He juggles the action and comedy scenes perfectly, and fortunately the two never overlap. The highlight of the film is the runaway tram scene, that is perfectly choreographed, and Michael Rapaport does a great job as Murphy's rookie partner. The film is not the best action movie around, but it is by no means the worst, and if you feel like being entertained for an evening, you could do a lot worse than this movie. "},{"Title":"top notch actioner","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Many reviews I have read about this film say it is a pretty bad movie, but I do not know what they are talking about.  METRO is a very exciting and enjoyable police action-thriller.  Eddie Murphy is very good in one of his more serious roles, and Michael Wincott is very good as the psycho jewel thief.  Also, the action scene's were top notch, from the opening bank robbery scene, to the famous cable car chase.  Fans of Eddie Murphy's comedy may be disappointed in the film, since it has a more serious tone to it and focuses more on action than comedy, but action fans will definitely enjoy this one.  4/5 "}{"Title":"Eddie Murphy in a darker police movie","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Scott Roper (Eddie Murphy) is the best hostage negotiator in the San Francisco Police Department. After rescuing hostages in a bank, he's given new partner Kevin McCall (Michael Rapaport) to train to take over. His recently broken up girlfriend Veronica Tate (Carmen Ejogo) is a newspaper reporter. His best friend Lieutenant Sam Baffert is investigating jewel thief Michael Korda (Michael Wincott) and is killed by him. Scott wants revenge but Captain Frank Solis is keeping him out of the investigation.Eddie Murphy is playing a loud-mouth police detective except he's not wisecracking funny like Axel Foley. He seems to have lost some of his comedic luster of his earlier work. Also Eddie is trying to go darker in this one. Michael Rapaport is basically playing the same kind of character but they don't have the best chemistry. The problem is that the script lacks intensity or sharpness. Eddie doesn't have quite the personality for this type of police drama either. The movie does have an extended car chase through the hills of SF which has some fun carnage. "},{"Title":"who am i","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed Metro,, along with Michael Rapport as his sidekick,, they pack a good one , two punch,, have to love that line in the movie where Eddie thinks he get's the vehicle of his choice at the impound garage,, he's like this is my vehicle.. the capt says,, no this is you're vehicle.. and the look on Eddie's face is priceless,, this old beat up truck from the early 70's or late 60's.. he chimes out,,,, Who am I,,,, Red Foxx.. I couldn't stop laughing,,, Eddie Murphy plays a hostage negotiator in this one,, and his partner knows sign language which will come in handy later on in the movie,, fast paced lot's of action ,, and an evil villain for the cops to go up against,, what's not to like,, lot's of comedy and action.. "},{"Title":"Holds You Hostage","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" San Francisco police inspector Eddie Murphy (as Scott Roper) is a brilliant hostage negotiator, which he proves in the opening minutes. His police captain won't assign Mr. Murphy a decent automobile for chase scenes, but he does get closely cropped blond sharpshooter Michael Rapaport (as Kevin McCall) to train. Murphy gives Mr. McCall a test in lateral thinking. Being the star, Murphy gets to win kissing time with sexy reporter Carmen Ejogo (as Veronica Ronnie Tate)...With his foul mouth and incidental gambling, Murphy is oddly unappealing as his character; however, he is likable in our minds due to his classic Beverly Hills Cop portrayal. Almost stealing the film is sophisticated villain Michael Wincott (as Michael Korda). A suave and deadly opponent, he is fun to watch. Scenes with Mr. Wincott seem to lift his co-stars and director above the ordinary. And, Thomas Carter and his crew give us some suspenseful action sequences.Metro (1/17/97) Thomas Carter ~ Eddie Murphy, Michael Wincott, Michael Rapaport, Carmen Ejogo "},{"Title":"Very good Cop Flick","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Metro isn't really a movie that would make you feel you got your money's worth if you saw it at the cinema, because it doesn't have enough explosions but I just saw it on TV and the well-developed plot made it very satisfying.The street car scene is quite riveting although a bit unconvincing, with Murphy jumping back and forth from a moving car to the street car -- the criminal points a gun at him once he's made it to the street car but doesn't shoot him (even though he's just killed some other people in the car). The street car minus the driver has built up so much speed that the brakes won't work so Murphy jumps acroos to land in his cop car to steer it in front of the moving street car to stop it that way -- showing how both cops are willing to risk their own lives using the car as a brake. Of course the street car comes to a halt JUST before the street car comes to the end of its line, where it would have taken out a crowd of people who just scream, refusing to move -- so yeah unconvincing but fun.I believe this is one of Eddie Murphy's strongest performances ever but unfortunately he's in a movie that albeit very good, screams made-for-TV. "},{"Title":"METRO (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, you feel sorry for Eddie Murphy when you are watching this movie as it is one from the times he still mattered as an actor and where movies by him were a synonym for great entertainment. I always thought that he was better in actionmovies then in the tons of comedies he starred in, so here he is a cop who has no fear and call it Beverly Hills Cop IV and you won't note anything different as his character is almost completely the same but still Metro works. The scenario is kind of simple, Eddie's best friend got shot by some diamondthief and that of course asks for revenge...pretty stupid you say, perhaps but then you haven't counted the superb stunts (the scene with the tramway is great) and the brilliant villain that is played by Michael Wincott. Quite good movie but why the hell is it called Metro? Not a subway in sight!!! "},{"Title":"Great Action Sequences","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Metro' has some of the best action sequences I have ever seen and that is why I enjoyed this movie so much. Eddie Murphy isn't very funny in the film, but he is still good for the role and he does have his moments, but the real star is the action. Great bad guy too, very dark and mean. I highly recommend Metro, especially if one is in the mood for an action flick. The finale isn't as satisfying as one would hope, but it's still good.  "},{"Title":"From Bizzaro World.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Remember the scenes in Jurassic Park The Lost World, and Last Action Hero that show movies in their world... like the Stallone Terminator 2 poster? Metro is from one of those universe's... not ours. A universe where Thomas Carter is Michael Bay, and Eddie Murphy was the star of movies just like Die Hard and The Fifth Element. This movie is probably so sorely underrated, primarily for the reason that... It's not funny. Not one damn bit. It's a pretty damn good action movie that dies if you have Eddie typecast as Axel Foley pooped out of Gumby. OK, sure, there are some story clichés in the first act that may induce vomiting... but you'll survive. There's a San Fransisco car chase involving a trolley that does pale to the chase in The Rock, which came out 8 months before this movie... But it didn't in Bizzaro world! In Bizzaro world though it was fully realized that this was part of a series of San Fransisco cop movies including Basic Instinct featuring Denis Arndt as the same boss in each movie. This is what movies from alternate dimensions are like. This, and Ben Affleck movies, he doesn't seem real either (It's not that I'm crazy, it's that he was Shannon Hamilton in Mallrats.) "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Crock?","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Metro (1997) Dir Thomas Carter / Cast Eddie Murphy, Michael Rapaport, Michael Wincott, Carmen Ejogo, Art Evans Absolute junk advertised as a comedy when it is really another dreary action film. It stars Eddie Murphy as a negotiator undergoing a familiar drill involving a bank full of hostages that he will rescue. This bares little to the rest of the movie. His partner is murdered and he seeks revenge. It isn't much different than his Beverly Hills Cop comedies although this film is lacking in laughs. Director Thomas Carter allows the action to get way out of hand particularly during a reckless street chase where cars are bashed aside with no attention given as to the people in those vehicles. It is as if the filmmakers didn't care just as long as the audience cheered. Carter made one film prior called Swing Kids. Here he gets to work with Murphy but brings nothing new to the table. Familiar work by Murphy who is merely reciting superior work. Michael Rapaport is reciting the Judge Reinhold role from Beverly Hills Cop as the partner. Michael Wincott is wasted as a villain whose identity is given away way too early. That pretty much leaves any form of surprise out of the question as we just wait for Murphy to enact his revenge and beat the crap out of this guy and kill him. Basically a pointless variation of Beverly Hills Cop that should be throttled with a baseball bat. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"It could be better...","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This a well-produced movie, with nice action scenes of car chase. Most of the time a cop movie is taken place in San Francisco, they do this common scenes... Eddie Murphy really try to do his best, but fail trying to create a very complex caracter for a movie that didnt deserve it. Scott Ruper should be only a negociatior with relationship problems, not a gambling-addicted. There is no time or opportunity to go deep on it, and seems that somebody deleted a few pages of the screenplay. His relationship with the photographer was not well-explained. Ok, nice idea the Troy trick. Everybody thought that he was their son, and it is a dog. But does anybody care about George's destiny? The baseball player just disappear from the movie, and the lady just decide to come back to Ruper..too easy.Another chapter of comments should be given to some of the action scenes, about their lack of reality. In several occasions the thief  has a perfect chance to shot him, and for unexplained reasons, he didn't. At the end, I wish they could finally be nude in Tahiti...I would prefer it in place of that boring sunset.. "},{"Title":"Good film but it's hard to explain why","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After a slow years of early 1990's Metro was like Eddie Murphy's splendid comeback film for me. I even bothered to watch it in the theater, of course not knowing what to expect in advance. The fact that I for some odd reason loved Metro came to me as a huge surprise. You see, back in 1997 Eddie Murphy already represented a yesterday's star to me.He meant just someone who was extremely popular and hilarious actor/comedian in the 1980's but who simply didn't belong in the 1990's cinema. Boomerang (1992) was a tiny little hit, Beverly Hills cop III (1994) tried to bring Axel Foley's brilliant character to the next decade with a rather poor success if you ask me, Vampire in Brooklyn (1995) was actually quite funny and his official comeback movie The Nutty professor (1996) was a pretty good and clever remake of Jerry Lewis' classic.Still, Another 48 hrs. of 1990 was probably his last truly great, hugely entertaining flick before Metro. This is only my opinion. Why did I liked Metro? I don't have clue. The story was massively basic (still, not bad) and unsurprising and Eddie wasn't even very funny. I guess there was something about the cool action scenes, gripping storyline and the fast pace that I loved.And maybe it was the movie theater experience too, I'm pretty certain that if I would have originally saw Metro in the television screen I believe it wouldn't have been even half as good. But this is just one of those films you think it's very good but you can't explain why. "}{"Title":"Eddie Murphy and San Francisco, a winning combination","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Metro gives us a formula cop actioner which is considerably boosted by Eddie Murphy's solid screen presence coupled with the San Francisco locations. Michael Wincott, a dead-ringer for Reinhard Heydrich, fits the bill in his bad-guy performance.  It's a serious actioner, but, in the midst of all the thrills, violence, car chases, etc., Eddie Murphy has sufficient opportunities to make us chuckle and even laugh out loud.  And thank heavens for the lovely Carmen Ejogo! "},{"Title":"Routine cop action thriller.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Metro is set in San Francisco where Inspector Scott Roper (Eddie Murphy) works as a hostage negotiator, one night while questioning a suspect named Michael Korda (Michael Wincott) one of Roper's closest friends Lieutenant Sam Baffett (Art Evans) is brutally murdered. With a new partner named Kevin McCall (Michael Rapaport) to show the ropes too Roper becomes obsessed with tracking his friends killer down & eventually does so when he arrests Korda after he had robbed a jewellery store. However Korda wants revenge & targets Roper's girlfriend Veronica (Carmen Ejogo) when he breaks out of prison...Directed by Thomas Carter this run of the mill Hollywood action cop comedy thriller is an alright way to spend a couple of hours but isn't anything original or spectacular. The script by co-producer Randy Feldman includes every Hollywood comedy cop thriller clichés you care to think of, there's the whole mismatched partner angle, there's a wise-cracking hot-shot lead cop character who plays by his own rules & seemingly does very little police work, there's the one-liners & comeback's, there's the disgruntled police Captain who gets annoyed a lot, there's a really nasty bad guy who kills someone close to said cop & thereby makes it personal, there's the whole vendetta thing that flows through the film & there's a typical climactic showdown in which the cop kills the bad guy & gets the girl. Yawn. There really isn't anything in Metro that any action fan wouldn't have seen before & I seriously doubt there's anything in Metro that the average person wouldn't have seen before either. At almost two hours in length the film goes on for too long & it's just all so predictable & routine but it is saved by some impressive big budget action set-pieces & a fairly fun performance by Murphy who has turned swearing into an art form.For the majority of the duration of Metro the film is unremarkable although it passes the time harmlessly enough but I will admit there are a few great action sequences in it. In particular there's a terrific part which starts with a jewellery story robbery, a spectacular car chase through San Francisco featuring a runaway tram & ending in some more car stunts & a stand off in a parking garage which lasts for a good fifteen or twenty minutes in total although I did wonder where all the other cops in San Francisco were. There's some more good car stunts & explosions at the end but how is Roper going to explain all the jewels he 'borrowed' to get his girlfriend back being blown to pieces in the truck along with Korda? Also doesn't Korda escape from prison a bit too easily? OK so he makes it into the laundry room but there are still plenty of locked doors & police guards to get past even at that point. There's some violence & plenty of bad language to help pass the time but it all felt like I had seen it many times before.With a supposed budget of about $55,000,000 Metro is well made with solid big budget Hollywood production values. The acting is alright, Murphy does his Beverly Hills Cop (1984) cop with attitude type thing & he comes out with a few amusing one-liners but his character is very thinly written & fleshed out. The only other cast members to stand out are Michael Wincott as Korda the bad guy & he puts in an intense performance & British actress Carmen Ejogo who I thought was terrible.Metro is a throughly routine & predictable comedy cop action thriller the likes of which we have all seen before & usually better, it's not the worst of it's kind & several impressive set-piece action scenes help a lot but it's not up there with the best of it's kind. Average at best but action film fans should still like it. "},{"Title":"Mediocre crime thriller that has it's moments.","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Randy Feldman, who worked as the writer and producer on this movie, has four theatrical releases on his belt, the other three being the painfully bad horror flick 'Hell Night', the Jean-Claude Van Damme vehicle 'Nowhere to Run' (which I have not seen but can only assume it's as bad as any other of Van Damme film) and the eighties cop flick 'Tango & Cash', which received some audience acclaim. To state 'Metro' is by far his most memorable attempt at a screenplay isn't really a compliment, it seems he always kept the 'screenplay writing for dummies' book by hand during his writing sessions. We have the typical hero-cop; underpaid, under-appreciated by his boss, personal problems galore,financial troubles to boost, a smirking sense of humor, and of course a personal investment in the investigation ('now it's personal -)). So we have the good cop with a revenge motive, but the chase isn't enough to fill the runtime. No, we also are forced to suffer - surprise, surprise - the obligatory (but in this case unfortunately also clumsily set up) love interest played by a young Carmen Ejogo. Sure; she's very easy on the eyes but as an actress she's sub-par. Then we have a fellow cop, lifelessly portrayed by Art Evans, and it must be said the poor fellow's been typecast, his role in the script is mainly to be victimized(also see Die Hard 2 for an almost identical role). His monotone delivery and robot-like autopilot acting certainly didn't lift this film to a higher level, neither did Denis Arndt's one-dimensional police chief, the villain whose dialog consisted primarily of grunting or the gross of the side-characters for that matter. They are mainly present for giving us some insight in our lead's personal life (and some perspective) and of course to pitch for Eddie Murphy's jokes. The only roles that still spring to mind as I recollect on the movie today are Michael Rapaport and Donal Logue, both competently playing their respective roles.Other clichés for the fanatic cliché-spotters among you, the rain suddenly appearing when a tragic event happened both when Murphy's friend is murdered, as when there's an attempted murder on his girlfriend. Speaking of which, there's one cliché scene to build up the tension before the attempt, where we see Ejogo in a shoulder-shot frame as she puts on perfume in front of a bathroom mirror. She opens and closes the mirror/cabinet two times, with tense music playing, as if any moment some creep will appear behind her (the best use of that sort of scene can be found at the end of 'Candyman').The action scenes felt very standard. The soundtrack bugged me to a lesser degree, it really couldn't make up its mind. The other big flaws are an OD of love story, a waste of plot opportunities (a lot more tactical SWAT stuff would've been welcome) and a lack of funny scenes (especially with the cop partners). But it is precisely that humor that keeps 'Metro' from totally falling apart, I'll never be Murphy's biggest fan but as a comedian he's far from mediocre (although we don't see his best work in this movie). I did appreciate the way they threw us off track time after time as to who (or what) Troy is, the restaurant scenes (with the implied marriage proposal) and the hostage negotiation training scene. Those scenes, and the opening hostage situation, made up 90% of the enjoyment level of 'metro' for me. In the end 'Metro' can be summed up as painfully (almost insultingly) mediocre but still enjoyable because of the humor involved. "},{"Title":"okay action, but not Murphy's best","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy is not particularly funny in this film. To be honest I rarely do find him funny, though he does have his moments. But as a action film Metro is pretty decent it has some good action, nasty villains and couple of hot chicks in it.So Murphy plays police negotiator Scott Roper, who gets into a tough situation when a jewel thief decides, that Roper is the sole cause of his ill fortuned heist. I guess you can make the rest from that. Michael Rapaport plays the mandatory new guy in training and Carmen Ejogo is the first off, then on girlfriend. And if you were in doubt Roper isn't the by the book police.The film is pretty clichéd, no denying that, but it does flow with certain easiness and is fun watch from now and then. it's not Murphy's best film, but it ain't his worst either. "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was a lot better than I had expected.  I had no idea that the movie was going to be as good as it was.  Eddie Murphy does a terrific act as Roper, a negotiator trying to deal with a sharp and malicious bad guy played by Micheal Wincott.  There were twists and turns in the plot I never expected.  Murphy is a great good guy, and Wincott is a creepy and wonderful actor. Metro is also like the Glimmer Man with it's hostage and twists in the story.  Great movie.  "},{"Title":"Signal failure - 55%","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Coming home from work tonight, I felt like I needed three things a beer, a film and a woman. Sadly, only the middle of the three was a viable option (I'm at work early tomorrow) and so I settled for the only film that finished at a sensible time Metro. And even though it was an Eddie Murphy vehicle from the Nineties, I enjoyed it far more than I should have.Metro has an extremely basic story at it's centre hostage negotiator Scott Roper (Murphy) incurs the wrath of jewel thief Michael Korda (Michael Wincott) who then proceeds to pursue Roper and his girlfriend (Carmen Ejogo) with murderous intent. Throw in a clichéd car chase (well, it is set in San Fransisco) and a typically climatic face-off at the end and it's plain to see that Metro does nothing new for the action cop movie - something you'd expect Murphy to do, given that he plays action-cop-extraordinaire Axel Foley in the Beverly Hills Cop series. In truth, it's difficult to decide whether this is a good movie badly done or a terrible movie well made.I've made my mind up it's an average movie. Despite flashes of goodness, Metro wallows in stereotype and imitates every action movie gone before. The baddie who just keeps coming back, the attack on Murphy's girlfriend, the loser cop who comes good in the end. We've all seen these done to death and I, for one, have no desire to see them again. I admit, it was a brave decision casting Murphy as the lead. Many, including myself, thought he was finished when the Eighties did (at least, until Shrek came along) and he does look like a fat Snoop Dogg in this, which doesn't help. The other brave decision was making the romantic lead English, which doesn't happen every day.Other than that, this is strictly by-the-numbers. Why does every action film in San Fransisco feature a runaway tram? Why does it always rain when things don't go right for loser-cop hero, especially when their partner and best buddy gets taken down? Why does every car in San Fransisco fly instead of drive? I could go on but it's late and I'm tired. Plus, my typing is keeping my flatmate up. Basically, Metro is a good enough film but never threatens to get above OK. No ambition and little enthusiasm and it shows. "},{"Title":"Not totally awful - Murphy takes a shot at semi-serious and just misses.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In Metro Murphy plays a streetwise police negotiator in San Fransisco named Scott Roper, in fact the best negotiator on the force. Roper's track record in getting hostages out alive is the envy of his colleagues and allows him leeway with his superiors. Unfortunately the stress of the job meant that Roper became introverted and shut out everything around him, including his girlfriend Ronnie who ultimately left him when he started gambling heavily as an outlet.Enter new partner Kevin McCall (Michael Rappaport), a young rookie straight from training who despite being highly skilled is raw and un-streetwise &#x96; if that were a word.Metro has two good scenes and one decent character. The two good scenes are a long chase that takes place on the San Fransisco streets and uses their tram system to full advantage, the second such scene is a training montage that lasts maybe two minutes and allows Murphy the freedom to go a little wild by creating a made up criminal for McCall to negotiate with.The decent character I haven't touched on yet, but given that the film is about a hostage negotiator it seems fairly obvious that there need be someone for Roper to test his skills on.That someone is Michael Korda (Michael Wincott), a man with dark sunken eyes, the emaciated appearance of the undernourished and the gravelly voice of a chain smoker. His hard as nails, emotionless performance as a potentially insane, definitely dangerous Korda is thankfully lacking in hamminess or over-acting, but overflowing with menace and intensity. It is not the end of the world that the bad guy in a film is by far the best thing in it, but in an action comedy with not enough of either, where the bad guy in reality is the third or fourth banana it simply isn't good enough.The strength of Korda's characterisation and a fairly brutal development results in some genuine animosity between the pair, which makes the inevitable stand off near the end somewhat more bearable, even if it is laced with logic flaws and some mediocre action sequences.Ultimately Metro ended up only marginally better than A Vampire in Brooklyn, by trying to play against the 'typical' Eddie Murphy movie they managed to create a film only marginally different, but one lacking enough of anything to make it worthwhile.Final Rating &#x96; 5 / 10. The perception of intensity, the illusion of humour and the delusion of adequacy. Eddie Murphy takes a stab at semi-serious and fails. I don't hate Metro, but aside from a cool villain there is nothing to love. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable. But why kill those CARS?","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I like Eddie and have yet to see a movie of his that was really bad.But at what point do we get better scripts and get away from standard plot arcs? Especially the escape sequence. Men accused of capital crimes DO NOT BECOME ORDERLYS WITH ACCESS RIGHTS. That to me was the single weakest point. You have to believe an escape could happen, and this one was a NO WAY JOSE would this sort of escape happen. He would have been in a single cell with no way out and probably not even allowed the one hour exercise done in prisons for high risk prisoners.That is the sort of thing that needs to be worked on. EVERYTHING has to be believable to some small degree and that wain't.At that point the movie fell down and became predictable completely.I liked this movie, BUT what really bothers me is why do they keep destroying TOTALLY COOL MUSCLE CARS? AND Classic cars? Watching those cars get wiped out is enough to make a grown man cry.That Mustang? Oh God did that hurt.But it's a good popcorn movie. Cool action sequences and a couple of scenes that almost happened that made you start to cringe.I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"What Was the Point?","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I hardly can remember what was this movie about - despite having seen it last night. Oh, yeah - it was about a San Francisco hostage cop, his ex girlfriend coming back to him, and their dog named Troy - which we are left to believe for some part of the movie that it is their child that they speak about. Yes, there is a bad guy that tries to create some action by using a retarded cousin, and then some huge machine tool. And we also have the 52,347-th car race in the history of the American movies filmed in the SF streets. The rest is already in the fog, or never got out of there. Some good acting and decent film making skills cannot balance the complete failure of this script to create anything to remember out of this film.  "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Solid and straightforward, this action thriller has some good things going for it, but also some flaws.  The plot is rather predictable and never strays very far from formula.  Also, it never capitalizes on Murphy's abundant comic talents.  He's pretty much playing it straight here, which is sort of a disappointment for those of us used to seeing him in full-bore comic mode.  If you're looking for laughs equal to 48 Hrs. or Beverly Hills Cop, you won't find them here.All of that aside, Murphy DOES prove a more than adequate action hero here and the film has some great action sequences and some reasonably tense moments throughout.Not a classic, but worth a look on a slow night. "}{"Title":"Not bad, worth watching once","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is definitely not Eddie Murphy's best work, but it does keep you interested throughout the whole movie.  There's a lot of action, pretty good acting, but the story is a little weak.I wouldn't buy it, but if it's on TV or if you're looking for something to rent, you won't be wasting your time. "},{"Title":"Would Have Been Good Had They Toned It Down A Bit","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This police action film might have been rated higher by me but for overdone violence and use of the f-word. Neither one normally offends unless they are ridiculously excessive, and that's the case here. The action gets to be too much by the second half of this film and by the end, it's gotten ludicrous, and all the f-words aren't necessary. Eddie Murphy plays his normal wise-cracking, ladies man, macho man, etc. He's a funny, talented guy but he - or his writers - don't know when to tone his act down.Michael Wincott is the attraction of this film as the vicious killer with that distinctive voice of his. However, credibility wanes a bit as Wincott seems to have three live. He's almost impossible to kill! Michael Rapaport, meanwhile, plays an unusually subdued and appealing role for him.As for that action, the best scene involved the runaway cable car. That was awesome, and a scene I'd like to see again. I wish I could say the same for the whole film. "},{"Title":"Good guy versus bad guy again.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Same old story of good against bad, this movie lacks originalty but because of cast is worth watching, if you don't have to stand in line. Eddie Murphy does a good job and has a decent supporting cast but 5 minutes into the movie I could see what the whole story was going to be and who was going to do it. 6/10. "},{"Title":"A New Low for Eddie Murphy.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sorry Beverly Hills Cop rip-off stars Murphy as a hostage negotiator in this amazingly poor action-comedy. His partner gets killed early on by a dangerous jewel thief and Murphy takes it upon himself to catch the criminal, creating chaos all over the city. Lowest-common-denominator-film-making at its very worst. The screenplay is terrible, the direction is non-existent and Murphy gives his weakest cinematic performance ever. A major mistake. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"A film that counts as a Beverly Hills Cop sequel.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is compared to the action scenes of Eddie Murphy's Beverly Hills Cop films. Since a long time, I have never seen Eddie Murphy act so tough, especially while he's in action. I was so excited to see it. I always love strong action movies (as I said before). So I still do. "}]