[{"Title":"Why Lyne's Lolita is Controversial","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"136 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When the 1997 version of Lolita was widely censored in the US, many asked  why the reaction was so strong to this film.  After all, the novel was  published in the US in 1958, Kubrick's film version appeared in 1962, and  we hear more shocking tales of sexual depravity every day on the daytime  talk shows.  But after seeing Lyne's brilliant version of Lolita, I can  see how he manages to breathe fresh controversy into this familiar story.   Lyne's lascivious lens eroticizes Lolita's every movement and pose.  The  viewer is forced to see her through the eyes of Humbert and to feel his  obsession and desire.  We are co-conspirators in his crime, and at the end  we share his shame.  Rather than shocking us (and having us pull away in  revulsion), Lyne draws us in and makes us face the Humbert in ourselves.   This is an incredibly powerful film. "},{"Title":"Humbert the noble, or how to make a pedophile lovable.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"149 out of 180 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's brilliant book about the sordid relationship between a grown man and a teenage girl.  Although still disconcerting, the subject of pedophilia is far less shocking today than when the book was published almost 50 years ago.  Yet, despite the subject matter, the book was wildly popular because it was a literary work of art, beautifully written with some of the most splendid metaphors and descriptive narrative in American literature.  This was all the more amazing when one considers that English was Nabokov's second language.Director Adrian Lynn (Fatal Attraction, 9 ½ weeks, Indecent Proposal) is no stranger to stories with perverse sexual content.  His presentation of the story does the book justice although certain interpretations may not have been what Nabokov had in mind.  Lynn gives us a presentation that is very sympathetic to Humbert.  Nabokov's Humbert was very complex, partly a victim of his fixation on young girls, partly a sexual predator and partly a hopeless romantic.  Nabokov's Lolita was extremely innocent, just approaching the threshold of sexual curiosity and urges, more playful than consciously provocative.  While Nabokov hints at a mutual seduction, he leans far more heavily towards Humbert as the cause of the events even though Humbert is clearly helpless in the face of his obsession.  Lolita entered into the sexual relationship more as a result of longings burgeoning from her blossoming sexuality than a desire to seduce Humbert in particular, who was not even her first lover. Lynn's presentation transforms Humbert from the seducer into the seduced, whose weakness for young girls is manipulated by a sexually precocious siren tempting him to dash himself on the shoals of pedophilia.  Lynn portrays Lolita as the aggressor, an adolescent temptress who knows she is desired and simultaneously teases and entices him to do her lustful bidding, knowing he is powerless to resist.  Lynn's Humbert is more of a hapless romantic than a fiend, ennobling him as a victim of love rather than the confounded sociopath he really is.  In Lynn's version, Humbert becomes the fly to Lolita's spider.However, after the initial seduction when they take to the road, the film is very true to the book in chronicling the decay of the relationship, Humbert's further plunge into feelings of romantic desperation and Lolita's shrewish exploitation of him as she increasingly uses sex as a weapon.  The book was very effective at portraying the relationship as a symbiosis of two deficient beings, each selfishly taking from the other what was needed.  Lynn does an excellent job of portraying that here.  As the relationship degenerates, Lynn is effectual at portraying the ugly side of both characters.  The bitterness and rancor that results is compelling.  To his credit, he understands that Nabokov's story was more of a character study than a sex story and Lynn avoids the temptation of becoming too lurid, focusing instead on solid character development of two very flawed beings.I must take a moment to give Lynn the highest praise for his period renderings.  This is one of the finest portrayals of 1940's Americana I can remember.  The costumes, hairstyles, cars, furniture, locations and sets create a 40's reality that is like being hurtled back in a time machine.  The music is not just precise for the period, but it is perfectly integrated with the story.  As the two travel, the music changes to reflect the region.  Having Lolita dance and sing to period music on the radio is a nice touch because that is exactly what teenage girls of any era are apt to do.The acting is first rate all around.  When the film was made, Dominique Swain was 17, and although she looked young for her age, she could never pass for 12.  So for the first part of the film before Charlotte's demise, she is simply too mature.  However, for the road trip she is ideal.  Though I don't agree with Lynn's early interpretation of Lolita as the teenage temptress, I can't imagine it being done any better than the performance Swain delivers.  She is playful and provocative in a childlike manner, part pixie and part vamp.  Once they get on the road, Swain hits stride with a performance that is almost a force of nature.  She is powerful and intense, effortlessly moving back and forth between sweet innocence and the emotional torrent typified by the `murder me' scene.  It is an outstanding performance with depth and breadth that is very unusual for an actor so young.Jeremy Irons is wonderful as Humbert, giving him as amiable a personality as one could possibly imagine for a character with such vile intentions.  Irons injects a good deal of wry humor into the part in addition to giving Humbert an almost quixotic romantic quality.  Melanie Griffith is just the wrong actress to play Charlotte.  She looks nothing like the portly and plain character described in Nabokov's book.  Though her acting is fine and she is appropriately obsequious, she is far too attractive to be the repulsive troll Humbert despised.  It takes away from Humbert's desperation because it hardly seems like a great sacrifice to have married Charlotte to be near Lolita.Frank Langella (Dracula) is more obnoxious than mysterious as Quilty, making the audience want to exhort Humbert to pull the trigger as he confronts Quilty with the revolver.  Again, I think this is probably Lynn's doing since his vision is clearly that of a Humbert sympathizer.This is a fine film with great production values, terrific performances and a classic story.  I feel that it surpasses Kubrik's adaptation in its ability to capture many of the finer points of Nabokov's book, even though Nabokov collaborated on the Kubrik film.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is definitely worth digging out of the rental stacks.  "},{"Title":"Why did we have to wait over 40 years to see the real Lolita?","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"122 out of 169 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian Lyne's Lolita has everything it takes to be a good movie adaptation. Lyne follows the original plot very closely, with few slight changes. Even the dialogues in many scenes remained exactly the same. Most of the movie is a flashback, but Lyne doesn't make the same mistake as Kubrick and he follows the correct order of events (Quilty's murder, i.e.).The casting is excellent. Jeremy Irons proved to be a much better choice than James Mason was in Kubrick's version. Irons delivers probably one of his best performances as he portrays the tragic character of Humbert Humbert. Iron's voice overs help us get into the mind of Humbert and understand his thoughts and actions. Dominique Swain is excellent as Lolita. She is the perfect nymphet. Young and innocent, but vulgar and crude at the same time. Frank Langella as Clare Quilty is a little bit too mysterious and he probably should've been a bit funnier, as his character was in Nabokov's book.The final reason why this movie is better than its predecessor is its photography. The colors are just amazing. They actually seem to follow the mood of the story - from excitingly colorful to tragically dark.I'm going to keep this user comment rather short. I could compare it to Kubrick's version some more, but it's easier if you just read my comment for Kubrick's Lolita.The highlight of the movie is definitely the last scene in which Humbert surrenders to the police - he stands on the top of a hill, listens to the voice of children playing and expresses his remorse for ruining Lolita's life. In this one scene, Lyne managed to capture the whole point of the book that Kubrick totally missed in his movie.The movie is a perfect 10. Just please go see it without any prejudice. "},{"Title":"Lost Narrative Folds","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"94 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Author would be dismayed, and precisely because the story is so faithful to the book. But the story in the book was incidental, just something on which Nabokov could hang his layered challenges to concepts of narrative. The narrator is crazy, overly colors and outright lies. The story never fully exists in the book at all, and such as it does one can never be sure what is true and what imagined. Humbert is a made up name (as are all names) and clearly the narrator makes up most of the elements of his own character as well (European, Professor, Author... obviously a joke by the narrator on Nabokov).In this film, everything makes sense, exactly the opposite of the reason the book exists. This is a beautiful film, with lovely detailed cinematography, good acting and great score, and all to solidify something that Nabokov created such that it could not be so. I believe that Peter Greenaway could make a good film of Lolita, and that he would have the courage to make it confusing and unerotic and unresolved. Why does Dolores' fate have to change in the film's epilogue? Because it ties up every last loose end. On Christmas Day no less!(The real scandal is not that audiences/censors are shocked by prurient subjects, but that they take one of the greatest literary achievements ever and make it explainable. Is this the only thing we can accept?)But take the film on its own presumption that the book's story is what matters. This Lolita is too old, too pretty and sexy, too controlling. Irons is clearly narrowly channeled here and he is smart enough to know it his frustration with the unimaginative stance of the film translates to a frustrated Humbert. I think Melanie is just right (just because HH calls her a cow means nothing). HH's violence with his previous wife should have been mentioned; her running away with the Russian cabbie is as much a setup for the Lolita fixation as the childhood dalliance, and better justifies the angst of loss. There should have been a few butterflies, and some explanation about the play that it was written to allude to that first night at the hotel.I highly recommend the audio tape version of Lolita. It is read by (guess...) Jeremy Irons! What he brings to the audio tape is the voice and phrasing of a man in a cell continually going over things in his own mind, embellishing and exaggerating and confusing and speculating and sometimes not at all sure about any of it. He brings this same voice to the voiceovers in the film, but it conflicts with the images which purport to represent a narrative stance of real truth. "},{"Title":"A powerfully moving adaptation","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"62 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Briefly put, this film is a quite brilliant adaptation of the novel. While  staying pretty faithful to the original source, Stephen Schiff's screenplay  fleshes out the primary characters and their relationship, which plays out  as a taboo but reserved love story. Maintaining the central themes, the  plot is reduced to the essence of the major players and the linear events  of the book. It's almost impossible to adapt a long book into the confines  of a single average-length movie, but Schiff captures most of the important  moments quite well and humanizes the characters who could have come off as  bizarre depictions from Humbert's narrative.Lyne's movie is at once haunting, compelling, and beautifully photographed.  For all the controversy, it is a mature, reflective, and subtle film.  Lolita is a challenging piece of work that sublimely reflects the pathos  of the story and manages to retain bits of the complex humor of Nabokov.  This Lolita abandons the notion of being a complete social satire and  works as an essentially dramatic portrayal of a doomed, inappropriate  romance that is ultimately a sad, tragic tale.The performances are remarkable, especially those of Jeremy Irons and  Dominique Swain. Irons is utterly perfect as the ill-fated wretch, Humbert  Humbert. So understated but evocative with every move and gesture, he is  the definitive Old-World European whose obsession bristles beneath his  timorous demeanor. He evokes an incredible amount of sympathy for the  character. Swain delivers an on-target portrayal of the flowering nymphet  who toys with her burgeoning sexuality but hasn't overcome her fundamental  brattiness. Swain elicits both allure and pity as the wayward character  whose immaturity in mindset and behavior does not excuse her complicity in  her affairs. Despite what some critics may have written, Melanie Griffith  is fine in the small role as Lolita's overbearing mother. She is comically  obtuse, and her veneer hits all the right, grating notes. Frank Langella  rounds out the cast as the mysterious Quilty. He is appropriately shady,  vague, and sinister when he appears from time to time, slowly revealing  himself.This is a real winner on many levels and should be up for several awards  including best picture, director, actor, actress, and adapted screenplay.  Showtime should be congratulated for its smart acquisition. I hope the  movie finds its way to the largest possible audience.  "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"59 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the Kubrick version, and thinking no one could ever make a better Humbert than James Mason or a better Lolita than Sue Lyon, I saw this updated version, and I was very impressed.   It's actually an improvement.1. Quilty  Of all the things I did not like about the Kubrick version, it was Peter Sellers' quirkily irritating and totally unclear portrayal of this jerk.   The latest version completely downplays the character, other than to show that he is a dark, mysterious, monstrous person who keeps showing up in the shadows.   Also, it finally clarifies that Quilty is the very worst of Humbert... It is Humbert without a soul, conscience or any redeeming quality.  It becomes clear that he is truly a monster, and makes Humbert look almost saintly by comparison.2. Humbert and Lolita  While I enjoyed the chemistry between James Mason and Sue Lyon immensely, the chemistry between Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain is ten times better.  This is due mostly to Swain, who basically portrays a part of herself.   Her teasing and her battles with Irons are priceless and extremely believable.   Also, the Sue Lyon version showed Humbert going after an older teen, not as repugnant as the Dominique Swain version showing Humbert going after an actual underaged teen.  Also, in this version, most of the movie is about Humbert and Lolita, and their adventures, misfortunes and run from the law.3. Humbert himself  For the first time, we see the reason for his obsession, and it isn't entirely pedophilia, as in the case of Quilty. Irons is given many additional scenes to show the conflict between his better nature and his pedophile nature, to show that he understands that what he is doing is not only wrong but will be his downfall.4. The ending  I prefer the way it ended so much more in this later version.  First, Quilty finally, for the first time, comes out of the shadows, and we see him for his repulsive self.  Sellers' portrayal was too offbeat to allow us to despise this guy as he should be despised.  Also, the final fini is so downbeat so as to let you know in no uncertain terms that you have just witnessed a multiple tragedy.Adrian Lyne did an excellent job of directing, and the music of Ennio Morricone was a great help to the also excellent cinematography. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if you love the novel","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nabokov's best novel save for Pale Fire will probably never get an ideal filming, unless someone decides to actually commit Nabokov's own script to celluloid (he wrote it for the 1962 version, and his name appears in the credits, but the finished product was almost wholly the product of Kubrick's pen and Peter Sellers' ad-libbing).  But I like both the Kubrick and the Lyne versions, with reservations.With Kubrick's, the only real problem is that it's not Nabokov. James Mason's performance contains the core of an accurate portrayal of Humbert, and he's often moving. But Sue Lyon was too old for her part and Sellers' Quilty is an altogether different conception from the author's (not that he isn't lots of fun). The film also suffers from having been filmed in the UK. Nabokov had a complex vision of America - vast, tacky, seductive, and grindingly mundane all at the same time - and this just can't be conveyed in a studio and with a few well-chosen locations.That's where Lyne's version excels. His compositions (or his cinematographer's) are indeed beautiful to look at, and (I think) capture suburban and roadside America very much the way Humbert would have experienced them. Irons is fine as Humbert, although the typecasting was initially painful to contemplate, and Swain is a vast improvement over Lyon as young Dolores still a bit too old for the part (an inevitable problem, perhaps, for anyone who wants to film this book), but her intelligent performance makes up for this. Despite his cheesy reputation, Lyne wisely refrains from making his Lolita a teenage bombshell, something the more artistic Kubrick couldn't resist.Again, however, the problem is Quilty. Both directors obviously felt compelled to render in three dimensions a character who is one of Nabokov's phantoms Does he really exist? Who is he and what do we know about him, outside of Humbert's increasingly paranoid imaginings? Can we trust anything at all that's said about him in this book? I expect that Nabokov himself regretted having to bring Quilty out of the shadows at all for the denouement.Sellers carried off the role with style, making you forget for a moment that his routines seem to have wandered in from another film. Lyne turns the final confrontation between Humbert and Quilty (there is no flashback framing device, as in Kubrick) into pure Grand Guignol, and so we have to endure watching poor, paunchy Frank Langella running down a hallway of his ridiculously overstuffed house, his bathrobe falling open to reveal his endowments to our embarrassed gaze before being blown away Dirty Harry-style by the avenging Humbert. A major wrong note to say the least.So Quilty, in the end, defeats both of Nabokov's filmic approximators. But if you love the book, see both movies Kubrick and Lyne each capture different aspects of the master's great story in valuable ways, and the new Lolita is clearly Lyne's best work yet, proving that a great novel can inspire excellent filmmaking, if not guarantee an ideal adaptation.What we really need now, however, is not a third version of Lolita, but finally, a filming of Lolita A Screenplay. Nabokov had fun writing this, and any fan of his should read his script as well. Wouldn't you like to see a move of Lolita in which Humbert, searching through the woods for his Lo, encounters a butterfly collector named Vladimir Nabokov? Of course you would! "},{"Title":"wonderfully done","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a stunning adaptation of the novel of the same name. The cinematography is absolutely beautiful and the film is brilliantly acted. The content of the story may put off many prospective viewers, but the story does not condone Humberts actions, it simply narrates them. For those of you unfamiliar with the story, Humberts (Irons) loss of his young love scars him in a way which compels him to rediscover it, through relationships with young girls. He moves to a town to accept a teaching position and while looking for suitable housing he meets Lolita Haze (Swain), a young girl who immediately catches his eye and his heart. The rest of the film chronicles their tempestuous relationship, one in which Humbert takes advantage of Lolita's natural curiosity and developing mind and body. I highly recommend this version of the film and the book to any person interested in a beautifully written, compelling story about one haunted man's selfish folly and the effect it has the young girl it revolves around. "},{"Title":"Lyne's Lolita emphasizes tragedy of Nabokov's novel","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lyne's point of departure from the Kubrick version of Nabokov's great novel lies primarily in tone the later version focuses more on the tragic, dramatic elements of the book and less on the comedic ones.  I will not go so far as to suggest that Lyne made a better film; he did not.  I do think, however, that he did pinpoint one of the key components of the novel's genius a capturing of life on the newly paved highways of mid-century America.  As Humbert, Jeremy Irons is as good as his predecessor James Mason.  Frank Langella's interpretation of Quilty entirely diverges from the one given by Peter Sellers (and rightfully so; who wants to compete with Sellers?).  But it is Dominique Swain, outdoing Sue Lyon, who comes closer than what ever seemed possible to embodying the essence of the doomed Dolly Haze.   "},{"Title":"Art is a divine game","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had read Nabokov's book and watched the older movie too. What i liked about this more recent version is Jeremy Irons playing the part of Humbert Humbert and so precisely. This film in my eyes had a certain Kubrick quality to it. This is high souled genius if you ask me with a fervent faith that art is a divine game. and that pleasure in art consists in following the moves of the game with the artist himself when he communicates his own playful and Godlike bliss. Poet and pervert, Humbert becomes obsessed with twelve year old Lolita and seeks to possess her, first physically and then artistically, out of love. The magic of nymphets. This is a dizzying seduction, a masterpiece in a strange dimension, very rich. Lolita is a major work in fiction, equally intense as wildly funny. A Medusa's head with trick paper snakes chewing gum. Beautiful and original, pervasively and continuously funny, with a humour that is both savage and farcical which comes to a most interesting and I repeat most interesting and unexpected ending. "}{"Title":"Magnetic Irons","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With nostalgia, we look back on the films of yesterday and proclaim them far superior than what is advertised on the marquis today.  Bombarded by gratuitous sex, reckless violence and distracting special effects, critics often dismiss today's features by simply saying, `They're too Hollywood.' To some extent this is true, but we must not reject all current day films.  In fact, 1997's Lolita is an example of a current day film that is superior to the original motion picture release of Vladmir Nabokov's controversial novel.  One could even argue that the modern version is less Hollywood, since every American distributor refused to show the film. Regardless, 1997 version's supremacy is due in part to the depth at which Jeremy Irons is able to take our darling pedophiliac, Humbert Humbert. Irons' portrayal is magnetic due to his depth of character, which is seen both in his sincerity to real life and his truth to Nabokov's writing.A flashback in the beginning of the 1997 movie portrays a fourteen-year-old Humbert's doomed summer romance to Annabel, which sets up Irons' Humbert as a brokenhearted romantic.  Thus, when he sees Lolita for the first time, lying out in the grass of the &#145;piazza,' innocently letting the water from the sprinkler drench her, the reincarnation of that love is clear. That clarity, however, transcends the simple addition of the flashback.  Unlike James Mason, the 1962 Humbert Humbert, Irons' startling licentious stare at Lolita is that much comprehensive.  In those eyes the viewer sees tenderness with wickedness, occupation without realization, a moment of pure lust.  The amorous connection is developed in that one look-whereas Mason's look at his Lolita is obvious and plain-Lolita is a beautiful girl, the look shows a man seeing something beautiful.  Irons not only sees beauty but he perversely sees a sexual creature, correctly identifying the perplexing issue for the reader and viewer of Lolita&#133; While his love is based on pedophilia, is there something in his love for Lolita that is common to all love?  His intoxication is precisely what makes the story of Lolita so fascinating-Humbert's love for Lolita is as real as anyone's love for another, and the perverse thing is that he truly madly deeply loves a child.  Mason fails to show the depth of love that Irons easily does in the first meeting.From the first meeting on, Irons is true to the version of Humbert Lynne and Schiff prescribe.  Unlike the 1962 version, we see those rare moments of ease with Lolita delighting her with stories as they swing on the porch, the rapt, nearly bashful smile he gives her while she sits in his lap showing him how she can make her chin wiggle. Irons's Humbert is heartbreaking.  He is tortured.  He is helpless.  Despite those scenes when Humbert is buying affections from Lolita with a jar full of coins, despite his heavy authority over her activities, Irons never let's the viewer lose sight of his complete and utter dependence on Lolita.  Although Lynne and Schiff's version seems void of the cunning that is so very much a part of the literary Humbert, the essential question is the same Who was in control of the situation?  Lolita or Humbert?  Who is more to blame for the affair? Through possibility of empathizing with Humbert's love for Lolita, the viewer is left with an unnerving understanding of his pedophilia.  Unlike Mason, Irons makes it almost impossible to completely detach our knowledge of what love is from the perverse love between Humbert and Lolita.Being true to a character, as in being true to a book, means that an actor catches the essence from the book, not necessarily the exact phrasing or the exact chronology of events.  Irons catches Humbert Humbert's tenderness and the true infatuation that is so evident in his confessions, Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita.  "},{"Title":"Having not seen Kubrick's version, I can only say...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with Nabokov's masterpiece.  Upon hearing that there was a movie adapted from the novel (I am of a younger generation) I found it hard to believe that anyone could put into visual images and dialogue what had appeared in my mind as flawless.   After seeing this remade version, I came away satisfied.  Hearing what countless critics had to say has never changed my view.  Of course, it can never come even close to the novel, but watching Lyne's version unfold in quiet and somber light brought to mind the exact same feelings I was experiencing reading the book.   Certain things did bother me.  Lolita's mother in particular.  Hearing Melanie Griffith deliver lines as if she were reading to a group of school children set my teeth on edge, although she went down in fine style.  And having the sole reason for Humbert's obsession with nymphets wrapped up in one neat reason(Annabel) was also hard to swallow. But Dominique Swain was nearly the perfect picture of the Lolita in my mind. Wistful, vulnerable, and a fierce manipulator all at once, it's hard to believe she'd never had acting experience beforehand.  Perhaps a bit too old in certain lights, she still managed to carry off a difficult role and steal every scene she was in, much like Natalie Portman in Beautiful Girls.  Certain expressions were incredibly poignant. (Think of Lo's face when Humbert denied permission to be in the play.  Think of her lipstick smeared smile after being caught going out when Humbert went to the market). The essence of this movie is what formed my opinion that this was a good film.  The pacing, the comparison to Kubrick didn't matter when the mood of the entire film was left.   Maybe the critics are right, and I'm missing something.  But when the final scene appeared, that dreamy image of Lolita's face, I was completely satisfied that Lyne did the best job anyone could have.   "},{"Title":"Unfilmable?","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is not at all a bad movie and is surprisingly faithful to the book. At times I suspected some scenes had been inserted to appease a contemporary sensibility but, on checking, I found they were all in the book.I generally prefer this Lolita to Kubrick'e version, but both versions raise an interesting question.It is a presumption of cinema that any novel can be satisfactorily filmed. Lolita casts doubt on this.The problems can be illustrated by a small, but crucial, change that both films make to the book. When Humbert first meets Lolita she is 12. In the movies she is 14 and is played by actresses who were 15 and 16 respectively.Objectively, this change shouldn't matter under age is under age. In practice it does. When you see a 14 or 15 year-old, you can see the woman she is about to become. When you see a 12 year-old you can only see the child. Raising Lolita's age makes Humbert seem less perverse than Nabokov intended and James Mason and Jeremy Irons both make him too sympathetic.All Nabokov needed to write Lolita was a typewriter and some paper. To film it, Kubrick and Lyne needed a young actress. Jodie Foster, Nathalie Portman and Lindsay Lohan all show that it would have been possible to find a 12 year-old actress good enough to carry the movie - but should she be asked to? If it was absolutely necessary to have a 12 year-old in order to make this movie, then most people would say Don't make it then.But this is only part of a wider issue.Nabokov wanted to put readers inside the head of a paedophile without them endorsing his actions empathy doesn't necessarily imply sympathy. His first attempt was The Enchanter (which gave us the word nymphet). It was written in the third person. Nabokov was unhappy with it and it was only published after his death.Lolita was written in the first person and that changed everything.The book is Humbert's own testimony. He wants to present himself as a sensitive aesthete a romantic lost soul surrounded by dull, uncomprehending Philistines. He charts his seedy obsession in elaborate, over-ripe 'poetic' prose, trying to draw the reader into his self-delusion, but we soon come to doubt the truth of what he is telling us. He can't help letting us see through his self-serving narrative to glimpse the murky reality that lurks beneath. Lolita is in real distress and is being profoundly corrupted by this unhealthy relationship.Humbert's nymphet fantasy soon starts to crumble before the reality of a troubled, wilful, increasingly manipulative child. Then he finds himself haunted by the ominous shadow of Clare Quilty, who we come to realise is his dark alter ego (Humbert's doubled name is a fairly obvious clue to Nabokov's intentions). Humbert is the doomed romantic he wants to be seen as Quilty is the evil sexual predator he really is. Inevitably, it is Quilty that wins the battle for Lolita.Eventually, Humbert emerges from his pubescent fixation and has a relationship with an adult woman, so when he finally meets Lolita again he is able to see (and love) her as a real person. But it is too late. At this point, there is nothing left for him to do but finally kill off his evil doppelganger and then die himself.The point of Lolita, therefore, is not just in the the events it depicts, but in the particular way it depicts them. It is not only a story it is a specific literary device. I think this presents an insoluble problem for a film-maker.I doubt if there is a cinematic equivalent to Nabokov's mendacious first person narrative. Cinema only really works in the third person and is a very literal medium 'the camera doesn't lie'. When Hitchcock used a misleading flashback in Stage Fright people were outraged and even film critics, who should have known better, complained about the deception.Kubbrick and Lyne can both show us that the real Lolita is a far cry from Humbert's idealised nymphet but we are always seeing the disturbing reality itself, rather than that reality filtered through the haze of Humbert's prevarications.Kubrick tried to defuse the problem by playing up the humour. The first hour, in which Shelley Winters's Charlotte vamps the stiff, repressed Humbert to his considerable discomfort, mines the humour of embarrassment. Then Kubrick lets Peter Sellers loose to do a series of virtuoso comic turns. They are great, but overload the picture. Kubrick's Humbert is constantly being harried and badgered and in the end is less a sexual predator than a hapless victim. I don't think the movie works and Kubrick seemed to agree. He often talked about remaking it.Adrian Lyne uses the voice-over to give us more of Humbert's oily verbosity and he can be much more frank about the true nature of this deplorable relationship. But, again, we are spectators of events as they actually occur, rather than as Humbert wants us to see them, and the greater frankness only compounds the problems. Although his version is better in many respects than Kubrick's, it is even more uncomfortable to watch.Because of the nature of the medium in which they were working, Kubrick and Lyne both ended up making The Enchanter, not Lolita.I am not suggesting that it was wrong to make these movies. Film-makers should be free to tackle any subject that intrigues them - and it is not a crime to fail. It is just that the problems inherent in some books are so great it is unlikely there will be any solutions to them. Perhaps there are some challenges that film-makers should just decline.I suspect Lolita is one of them. "},{"Title":"Adrian Lyne captures Nabokov's descriptive prose in Lolita.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Adrian Lyne captures Nabokov's descriptive prose with the film camera. It certainly was not an easy task but Lyne uses some amazing camera angles and well planned shots to reveal subtle motives in the storyline. This movie is worth seeing on the large screen because of its amazing cinematography. The New England landscape is grandiose and very colourful, the images look like they're out of a story book. Jeremy Irons plays Humbert, the hero of this fairytale. Along with Lyne, he creates  an introspective and moody character who fills the atmosphere of the movie. I liked this adaptation much more Kubrick's earlier comedy which took a light hearted approach to the novel. I found Lyne paid justice to Nabokov's story and storytelling in this movie.  "},{"Title":"A failure...","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film before i read the movie or had seen Kubrick's film.When i read the book and compared it to this film, i realized that this film is a failure in representing the book of Nabokov.Sure, more of the story events take place in this film then Kubrick's, but it translated the scenes completely inaccurate as to how they were described in the book.All of the characters in the book were completely different as to how they are portrayed in this film.Humbert in the book was a mean manipulative snake type of character. A self-obsessed flamboyant character, with a taste for doing dirty deeds to reach his goals. Humbert in the book doesn't love Lolita. Not her character anyway. He is a man sexually obsessed with her looks and her age, not her personality, which he complaints time after time in the book. The Humbert character in the book was a lot closer to Clare Quilty then the 1997 movie makes it seem.This film makes Jeremy Irons's Humbert a tragic traumatized drama character full of guilt and despair. A tragic romantic lonesome man with a broken heart and basically a good person besides one little flaw.Then Lolita in the book. Lolita in the books 12, and basically not much different from your average girl in the early days of puberty. Experimenting with the power of sexuality? Yes. Slutty? No. Lolita in the book is just a girl who got into this situation by accident, and tries all that she can for her young age to stay alive.The Lolita in the book is not the sexualized naughty teenager we see in the media. That was the result of various forms of media exploitation.The Lolita in the book didn't have any blond or red braids or pigtails, and didn't wear sailor or any other stereotype outfits.The Lolita in the book was girl with dark brown bobbed hair, and a honey tanned skin, with a polka-dot bikini. However, the 1997 film portrayed Lolita the way she's been portrayed as a stereotype teenage hussy in the sex industry as well as the regular media. With her reddish blond braids and pigtails, stereotypical child-girl outfits and average ordinary sleazy teenage character, the Lolita played by Dominique Swain is NOTHING like the character in the book. Neither by look or by character. Then Clare Quilty in the book was described as a charismatic artist. Ultimately a dangerous wealthy pervert, but he was never described as a dirty old man. Clare Quilty in the book was a Humbert with a bigger house and more money.Clare Quilty in this movie is portrayed as the audience of today expects it. The Marc Dutroux type of sick dirty pig-like maniac.I thought this movie was good at the point when i hadn't read the book, but after i read the book, i thought is was a failure.I dislike it because when it came out, the production team and every newspaper and article claimed that this movie was made absolutely faithful to the book. When i read the book, i found out that is was all but faithful to Vladimir Nabokov's book.Kubrick's film may have been a bit shy and tame, but it was closer to the heart and soul of Nabokov's novel. It didn't hide important key elements of Humbert's twisted personality.Before you watch this movie, read the book. After you've seen this movie, read the book again. "},{"Title":"unexpectedly moving and haunting","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***SPOILER***i had no preconceptions when i began watching this movie - i have not read the book, and alas Lolita is one of the few kubrick movies i have not seen...lolita hooked me from the beginning - humbert explaining his first tragic love, setting the foundation of an explanation for his paeodophilia - i do not particularly think of his character as being a real paedophile. he is seen around many young girls, and shows no signs of sexual feeling for them - it is just one person who so enraptures him - the ghost of a memory - dolores haze.the early scenes where lolita is playful with humbert bring a genuine warmth; as he delights in her attention and develops a true depth of feeling for her. this lulled me into a false sense of security, and when her cunning and callousness showed themselves i empathised with humbert's sense of desperation, paranoia, and eventual loss.as lolita's behavior became steadily more uncontrolled and as she became steadily more aloof and estranged from humbert, i shared in his frustration and confusion at such an apparent volte-face. i felt the pain as he sensed that his happiness would be fleeting and filled with anguish. i winced and felt guilt when he resorted to slapping the young girl lolita - the same way i lived dostoyevsky's crime and punishment the first time i read it.in the film, humbert did not appear particularly angst-ridden of tortured that he was making love to a 14 yr-old girl; most of his pain derives from his slowly deteriorating relationship with her, his pain when she disappears, and his anger when he finds out about the playwright paedophile (he is indeed disgusted at paedophilia, not seeing his own genuine love as such).at the end of the film i was left alone, saddened and in a muted mood. the next day i thought about it almost continuously - the fact that i wanted their love to succeed - the sense of betrayal that in the end lolita didn't love humbert, blackmailed him for sex, and finally left him.an excellent film, beautifully photographed and sensitively portrayed. "},{"Title":"Great movie, I highly recommend to anyone.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really makes you sit back and think about why two people fall in love and how someone can become blinded by that love.  Irons' character is very believable in what he is going through and why he falls in love with Swain.  Swain plays the role perfectly by being sexy and innocent at the same time.  The movie lags for a bit right before the end but was very believable in the story that it tells.  And why an older man may become attracted to a much younger girl. "},{"Title":"new adaption of Lolita (following may contain spoilers)","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons plays Humbert Humbert, 40ish professor who falls in love disastrously with a 12-year old nymphet. This movie is a closer adaptation of Nabokov's book than the Kubrick version. One flaw of the Kubrick film was that it begins with the end and gives away crucial plot points and takes away suspense. In the Lyne version, the scene at the beginning takes place again near the end but this time, it reveals nothing. Dominique Swain is excellent as the title character. She looks and acts the part of the nymphet that Sue Lyons could have never have pulled off. Some have suggested that Miss Swain was too old to play a 12 year old child, but Dolores Haze is not 12 for the whole book. A good portion of the novel takes place after she is 12. When they are on the road, she is 13. When she is in the all girl's school, she is 14. She is 17 at the end. The movie is not without flaws however. Some scenes of humor with Irons falls flat. I found Melanie Griffith to be very annoying but then again Lolita's mother was suppose to be. Thankfully she's only on screen for a short time.Lolita is shown eating bananas in the movie. Besides the phallic references, the bananas were used because the inspiration for Lolita came when Nabokov read a newspaper article about the first monkey to paint a picture (or so he claims.) The scientist gave him the tools to draw and the first thing he drew was the bars of his cage.I can't say that this version of Lolita is better than the Kubrick version, they each contain what the other misses. Kubrick's version contains the humor that Lyne's version is lacking while Lyne's version contains the sadness that Kubrick missed. Including reading Lolita, I would recommend that the viewer get both films. For Lolita, is both a satire and a sad story rolled into one. The two films in a way compliment each other. "},{"Title":"an extraordinary movie of my favorite book","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I watched this, my mouth was hanging open. I've read _Lolita_ dozens of times, and over and over again the movie captured it exactly the way it is in my mind. Lyne's extraordinary sense of time and place, the uncanny casting of Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain (although I agree with some posters that Melanie Griffith wasn't up to the job; makes me miss the late great Shelley Winters), Morricone's haunting music -- they're all remarkable. And best of all, the film perfectly captures the ambiguity of the book we can sympathize with Humbert at the same time as we recognize him as the monster he is. I don't think _Lolita_ could be done much better than this. An amazing film. "},{"Title":"Not a good one to film but there are factors..","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Do not read the below unless you have seen this film AND the 1962 version, too.I've seen both versions of Lolita; 1962 and 1997 are of course two different eras, yet there are too many similarities in each film which prove why Nabokov's book was never meant for celluloid.Quickly, I must state that I'm a Nabokovian and I've read his entire oeuvre. My grandmother gave me a copy of the book when I was eighteen. I had never heard of the masterpiece, but it is Lolita, the novel, which ignited my passion for brilliant prose and Lolita remains my favorite book.Why can't the book be filmed? Let's see. In the Kubrick version from 1962, Lolita is sixteen; in Lyne's (this) version, she is fourteen. In the novel, she is twelve. 1997 and Lolita is still two years older than she was in the novel. The real-life difference between twelve and fourteen is enormous. About the last thing I want to see is a twelve year-old girl and a middle aged man making out on screen. I don't suggest that a fourteen year-old girl and a middle aged man is acceptable. Nor sixteen and middle aged. The point is that this literary masterpiece simply needs to be read to be appreciated; if a faithful rendition of the novel is to be made, it would be kiddie porn. It would also have to be ten or twelve hours long. And really, the sickness of Humbert, his blighted lust and love for small girls, isn't even what the book is about. The book was written with venom, yet venom so rich and esoteric that it only makes us hate Humbert more than we already do, yet a measure of sympathy does emerge, and more so in the two films than the novel. Nabokov wrote the book, knew it was a gamble, knew it would be censored and above all, knew it would be talked about by EVERYBODY. He wrote the book in order to achieve financial independence and to say that he succeeded is a masterpiece of understatement. The anger I refer to is Nabokov's contempt for cruelty (yes, contempt) in any form. Dolores Haze is ruined by a depraved animal; America is roasted slowly over fire on a spit. And never has America been ravaged so exquisitely! Okay, I needed to mention all that. The actual film is wonderfully photographed and Frank Languella, as Quilty, deserved a Best Supporting Oscar. Jeremy Iron's narration is hypnotic and outstanding; Domonique Swain is quite good given the circumstances. Sue Lyon had far more censorship problems in 1962 than did Swain in 1997, and Swain is thoroughly believable. However, the pedophile aspect can never be overcome, neither can the richness of Nabokov's prose be transmitted visually to the screen with consistency--and THIS, even more than the kiddie angle, is the primary reason why a GREAT Lolita will never appear on a silver screen. I can think of two brief exceptions to this, no more. In my favorite scene, where Quilty uses word-play to terrorize Humbert, the zapping of the insect killer, the purple sparks, the tone of Quilty's voice, his expressions (sleep is a rose, the Persians say) are pure Nabokov, and this scene is superb. The other Lolita book-like part of the film, and a close second to the above scene, is Humbert's murder of Quilty. Quilty eats cigarettes, he spouts richly literate nonsense, a piano covered with blood keeps playing--it is also superb, this scene.But the rest of it, and honestly the film is about as good as one could make of the novel, is hit or miss. In the Kubrick version, Shelly Winters, of whom I tend to be no fan, is impeccable. Melanie Griffith, in this one, is flat-out AWFUL! I wanted her dispatched long before she had been. Of course she is supposed to be vapid, but shrieking literally half of her dialogue isn't necessary to achieve this end.Lyne did a good job and I would recommend this film. But with serious reservations. A six.  "}{"Title":"The Melody of Children at Play? Not Quite","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian Lyne's 'Lolita' is somewhat different from Kubrick's film and Nabokov's book. The latter two pieces were very suggestive and much of it was open to interpretation. Stephen Schiff's screenplay pretty much has an explanation for everything. While the visuals and acting is subtle, the story here lacked that and in turn, lacks the layers of Kubrick's adaptation and Nabokov's novel.Yet, even though not as strong as its predecessors, Lyne's film is an interesting adaptation. It is quite a well-made film. The photogenic visuals are wonderfully detailed. The art direction is stunning and the soundtrack and cinematography are brilliant. Jeremy Irons, Melanie Griffith, Dominique Swain and Frank Langella deliver excellent performances.Evidently, Adrian Lyne has an eye for detail (as has been proved in his other works) and thus 'Lolita' is visually captivating. Even though it doesn't live up to the book and the first cinematic adaptation, it's still an interesting viewing. I'll recommend it to those who have already read the book and seen Kubrick's version. "},{"Title":"Much better than the Kubrick version","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lyne's version of Lolita is a million times better than Stanley Kubrick's version, which wouldn't be difficult. I admit James Mason was good in the original and so was Shelley Winters but you just can't do an American road movie in Britain. Kubrick's badly-judged, conservative and unfunny adaptation was frankly rather poor. Adrian Lyne, formerly known for less than scintillating films such as Flashdance and Fatal Attraction, has done an excellent job of bringing Nabakov's difficult and challenging novel to the screen. He has chosen to stick fairly closely to the original plot and he has managed to walk the difficult tightrope of balancing the story of Humbert Humbert's obsession with the satire of American life observed. The production values are astonishingly high and would shame the sterile efforts of the average frock movie hack. I was utterly convinced that this was 1940's America and the sets, the locations, the clothes, the props were all so believable I wanted to walk right into the film and live there. In fact this was probably also the film's most vulnerable point &#x96; at times it looked so good that it could have been an advert.Jeremy Irons recorded an unabridged audiobook version of the original novel and it's well worth seeking out. I'd heard this first and found it almost impossible to imagine anyone else in the part than Irons. He is the right age. He has the right air of naivete and doom and the gravity to deliver the lines required without sounding silly. In many ways it is the same character he played in Damage and indeed this has many resonances with Damage. Dominque Swain is perfectly cast, having the look of a child and the look of a woman at the same time. Her acting is astonishingly good and she ought to go on to greater things if this film doesn't ruin her like the first version ruined Sue Lyon's career. And yes, she is incredibly sexy and yes, Adrian Lyne has gone out of his way to make her appear sexy often using low camera angles and lingering shots of her legs and shoulders and face and whatever else he could get away with to make the point. Why should this be a surprise? This is Humbert's story and if the director can't make us feel the passion that Humbert feels for Lolita then he wouldn't be doing his job. Frank Langella must also get an honourable mention for his role as Quilty, a part badly misjudged by Kubrick when he cast Peter Sellers in the role.A certain amount of hysteria surrounds this film, often stirred up by the popular press. However, rest assured that if you weren't a child molester before you saw Lolita you won't be one after you see it, any more than you will become a Jedi knight after watching Star Wars. Humbert Humbert is a sad lonely man who destroys what he most loves and this is clearly portrayed in the film "},{"Title":"Lyne outdoing Kubrick","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" LOLITA by Adrian Lyne, was immediately and understandably compared to Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of the novel by Vladimir Nabokov, and although I think Kubrick made a wonderful film, what I do think director Lyne's version does better, is the way it captures the tragedy of it all, instead of the comedy. Tragedy in the sense that it dares more than Kubrick's film did (which I believe has nothing to do with the censorship in the 60ties), because director Lyne isn't interested in sexually or provocatively exploiting the relationship between Humbert (a marvelous Jeremy Irons) and Lolita/Dolores (Dominique Swain), he makes it sort of enigmatic, carefully lingering and beautiful. More faithful to the novel, the film successfully achieves the great character nuance of the civilized and sophisticated Humbert Humbert, and the way he falls completely in love with such a obnoxious and difficult child, who's at the same time such an alluring, facetious and sexual creature. Another stronghold for the film in its dignity as an adaption of the novel, is Ennio Morricone's sweepingly romantic and classic score. It may just be a notch better than Kubrick's film, and for me personally, as an adaptation of the novel, it also rings more true. "},{"Title":"Lolita the teenage temptress from hell......","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the novel by Vladimir Nabokov Andrew Lyne's remake of Stanley Kubricks 1962 adaptation features one of Jeremy Irons best performances.Set in the 1940's Lolita tells the story of Professor Humbert(Jeremy Irons)who has been brokenhearted since the tragic death of his first true love in the 1920's.Accepting a post at a prestigious college he takes up residence in the charming little home of well meaning single mum Charlotte Haze(Melanie Griffith)he was about to decline staying there until he met Charlotte's teasing,sexually aggressive 14 year old daughter Dolores(Dominique Swain).He is attracted to her and she to him and she is well aware of her sexuality and the effect her teasing has on men.Although a shocking subject for obvious reasons this story is surprisingly moving and is tastefully done.Lolita uses Humbert as a plaything and as portrayed by Dominique is a teasing devil who seduces and emotionally drains men until she doesn't need them any more.Yet at times she is childlike and very vulnerable.Humbert is a presence in her life who she actually needs,because she has nowhere else to go.Frank Langella is sinister as Claire Quilty who desires Lolita and disturbs Humbert to the point of near insanity.The reason to see this film is the performances especially Jeremy's as the tortured and pitiful man destroyed by the teenage temptress. "},{"Title":"Doesn't matter how many times I see it...","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...this movie still leaves me groping for words to describe how amazing it is.  If I allow myself, I'll just ramble mindlessly about its merits, so let's try to do this logically.First of all, its faithfulness to Nabokov's novel is a big part of its appeal.  There is a reason why the novel is as acclaimed as it is, and almost everything that was good in the novel transfers well to screen.Jeremy Irons as Humbert Humbert gives us a character that is hopelessly, but sympathetically, obsessed.  Many people have a problem with the age difference between Humbert and Lolita, but as is explained in the beginning, Humbert has reasons in his past to be fixated on nymphets.  It's a given that Humbert is not mentally stable, and his behavior is never shown as right, but as the product of his instability.  Dominique Swain is the perfect Lolita...capable of the sensuality of a full-grown woman, but just as capable of a temper tantrum.The filming of this movie is exquisite...I love the quick shots that are designed to make you feel what Humbert is feeling (e.g. their first kiss). Not only that, but there are some scenes that seem capable of defining the word sensual.The thing that I love most about this movie is, of course, the love story. I'm a hopeless romantic, and the love that Humbert has for his Lolita never fails to bring tears to my eyes.  You can feel Humbert's inner anguish at the situation, and at his helplessness to change it.  Even though the love in this movie is between a young girl and a grown man, it is a powerful, moving love nonetheless.An excellent rendition of the novel!  If you haven't seen it, go rent it right now! "},{"Title":"More Feeling, Less Funny","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film inevitably invites comparison to Kubrick's critically acclaimed 1962 interpretation. The two interpretations, while both more or less faithful to the material, differ widely in tone. Where Kubrick's film is witty, cerebral and detached, Lyne's is passionate and emotionally driven.Lyne's version is undoubtedly more erotic in tone than Kubrick's. Obviously, the time in which the two films were made is a factor here. More modern sensibilities allowed a younger Lolita and far more sensuality than would likely have been permitted 35 years earlier. This version has drawn some criticism for making Humbert a bit too sympathetic, for making Lo seem too much a seductress. These criticisms are perhaps valid, but there is an artistic advantage We are seeing this story now through the simultaneously Quixotic and monstrous eyes of Humbert. We aren't given the luxury of watching this one from Kubrick's usual emotional distance nor of seeing Lo portrayed by a woman who is clearly of legal age. As a result, the scenes are both more disturbing and more powerful.In truth, Kubrick's film is probably more in keeping with Nabokov's witty and almost facetious tone. The characterization of Clare Quilty is a perfect example. In Kubrick's film, Quilty is portrayed by the legendary comic actor Peter Sellers, who captures perfectly the witty wordplay of Quilty. Frank Langella's Quilty had a silky-smooth and sinister-sounding deep voice, but somehow his relatively straight-laced performance seemed out of step with the almost vaudevillian lines he uttered.For me, though, this actually is a point in Lyne's favor. For Nabokov's Lolita seemed at times to devolve into literary word-play until the story itself seemed merely a hat rack for Nabokov to hang his verbal wit upon. This film instead focuses on the aspects of the novel that have led it be called the only convincing love story of our century by Vanity Fair.Jeremy Irons gives a magnificent performance as Humbert. Much as he did in Dead Ringers, he gives the impression of someone who combines deviance and vulnerability seamlessly. Dominique Swain was marvelous as Lo/Delores, combining carefree pixie, traumatized victim, and wily seductress into a complex and convincing character. Langella and Melanie Griffith were, I fear, miscast as Quilty and Charlotte Haze respectively. "},{"Title":"Time to give up.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best and most important novels written in English in the 20th century and they cannot get it right on the screen.Maybe it's the fact that the novel itself is so packed with word play and games that it simply doesn't transfer that well to a different medium. A voice-over can maybe give us some of it -- that famous first paragraph -- but the problem is that there is such mellifluous gamy prose on every single page. (I think there are only about three sections in which Humbert doesn't undercut his expressions of love and guilt with irony.) How can we transpose HH's offhand rhetorical remarks like, Where is the rapist in therapist? Where is the jest in majesty? And that's not to mention all of the literary allusions or comic references to pop culture.The story itself is so simple that, if Lolita weren't twelve years old, it would be just another love story. And, I was, by the way, surprised when this film was released at the horror some people felt -- oh, my gosh, a movie about pedophilia. I mean -- in this day and age? Movies about thinly disguised pedophilia of course have been around for years -- Sundays and Cybele, Pretty Baby, among others. And the Shirley Temple movies may not have been all that innocent either, she prancing about in those tiny skirts reeking of popcorn and lollipops, wagging her tail, a forty-year-old midget for all we know. And if we think of Lolita as innocent and corrupted, we don't know as much about what's happening with kids that age as we might like to think. This is a story about pedophilia in the way that Faust is a story about Satanism. Jeremy Irons is superb here, as he is in almost everything he's done. One can't help comparing this version to Kubrick's earlier one, and this one isn't as good. Dominique Swain is no Lolita. She's an improvement over Sue Lyons, to be sure, but not actress enough to break a grown man's heart, or to project that peculiar combination of meanness, crudity, and ultimate loneliness that Lolita embodied. Melanie Griffith does what she can with the role of Charlotte Haze but I thought Shelley Winters brought a bit of additional, maybe unintended vulgarity to the part. Griffith is serene and self-confident, which is closer to the Charlotte of the novel, but for unashamed raw hunger nobody can beat Winters.The direction is competent, not much more than that. But this is a hollow movie. It fails to capture the outrageous humor of the novel (I was a pentapod monster....). The score is lugubrious. The photography gloomy where the novel is filled with summer warmth, aspens, butterflies and sunshine. In other words, the movie treats the novel as a masterpiece, deserving serious treatment, which is the kiss of death for Lolita. Like Strick's attempt to film Ulysses, all the humor is lost and what's left is a kind of humdrum story about people talking to one another without having that much to say. But if you are interested in unusual love stories I can recommend seeing this. See Kubrick's piece as well. They're rather different, because Kubrick, maybe realizing he could never capture the wisecracks in the novel, at least brought in Peter Sellers to provide laughs. But here, Quilty, Frank Langella, is little more than an ominous shadowy presence, whereas both in the novel and in Kubrick's film he was a terrible and hilarious tease. "},{"Title":"A Fine Movie","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a fine movie, worthy of high praise.  It is as faithful a rendition of Nabokov's great novel as one can expect a screen adaptation to be.  Jeremy Irons is perfect in the role of Humbert Humbert, as is Swain's nymphet Lolita. Perhaps the ending is needlessly brutal, but then, so would be a vengeful and bloody murder.  The soft photography is beautiful, even stunning at times.Although Kubrick's version has its merits, I think that overall, this version is far superior. "},{"Title":"It Should have gone Straight to Video!!","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Words cannot describe how bad this movie is. They try to make Humbert too sympathetic instead of a monster, when really he is a sympathetic monster, and that is the beauty of the novel Lolita, one moment you hate him the next you feel bad for him. I believe Irons could have been a good Humbert if the screenplay had been batter. Yes, Swain was too old to play Lolita but why, why on earth do they have her acting like a 5-year-old. Running and skipping and jumping and playing with dolls, by age 12 most girls are throwing out their dolls because they want to be more mature and are becoming interested in sex, which is exactly what Lolita was doing in the novel, she was smack-dab in-between the child world and adult world. I wish Swain would have remembered what it was like at that age instead of trying to over compensate for being too old by acting childish but maybe that is what the script required her to do. Griffith did an okay job but when I read the book I picture more of the Haze in the 1962 movie, meaning I see her as a bigger woman and more over the top. With all that said neither film lives up to the book but the Kubrick version gets away with more because he doesn't try to stay true to the novel, which is a masterpiece. No one will ever be able to capture the beauty of Lolita on film and I hope this is the last time they try. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Critics have been raving about the faithfulness of this version, and while it is certainly faithful in the strictest sense of the word, gone is the wit, the humor, and bitterness of Nabokov's novel.  They have been replaced by exactly the kind of garish puffery that Nabokov was making fun of.  "}{"Title":"The little things","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very well directed and casted and acted out, overall its an incredible movie.  Usually I judge a good movie by comparing it to a book as in the descriptions the words used and such.  Lolita does all of the little things that makes for one great film. There is the scene where lolita takes Humberts breakfast to him, and when she does she steps her one bare foot onto Humbert's left foot, and i can imagine a small warm foot against his.  And she warns him Don't tell mother I ate your bacon.  Shes able to experiment with her power and exploit Humbert for his unfortunate situation. As well in the opening music of the film is very beautiful and sweet, and out of place touches of dissonent tones, reflecting Lolita and her effect on Humbert.  On the one hand she is the Light of his life and the fire of his loins.  On the other hand she hold him at the end of her little finger, flicking him to test his loyalty.Alex "},{"Title":"A all new Lolita, that will whet many appetites","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here was another remake, I enjoyed more than the original, this one would of really come well across the big screen. Perfectly filling the boots of the Lol real here, Swain is one hell of an acting revelation. She can act, but also as proved in this, can act younger than she looks. She's the whole package of Lolita cheeky, innocent, flirtatious, and soon to be manipulated and corrupted, by a playwright/pedoarse, (Langella, hauntingly evil) who's a bad turn of fate upon Irons in the finale. Swain is up against some stiff acting competition, like her older lover, Irons, her strict and selfish mother, Griffith, really impressive, and of course Langella as I mentioned before, who cringes like a toad, for his sins, in the finale which I really liked. This time around, Lolita has been done more visually, with more plotting and life poured into it's characters, sorry Stanley, although that vivid sunbaking scene, to whet your whistle, I never got out of my head. It was easy to see, the controversy that burst out from the public, accusing it of promoting pedophilia, where there was one or two scenes with our leads stark, making love, that actually bordered on crossing that line. Adrian Lynne, of course renowned for that 86 hit, Nine And A Half Weeks (god that was a long time ago) has done us proud here, or remade us proud here. A must definitely watch of course it's main reason, fresh new acting find, Swain. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed...","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film tells the narrative in a visual way with haunting music, flashbacks in sepia from Humbert's past, first sexual experience at age 14, and his subsequent landing in New England as a professor who stays at a boarding house against his better judgment. He is attracted to the landlady's nymphet daughter, Lolita.One has to be an artist, mad enough to choose the devil, the nymphet in the group of schoolgirls, he reflects. For some reason, Dominique Swain, while at times sensual, comes off as lanky and silly in some scenes. Perhaps this was the directors intent to further demarcate the age difference, although Jeremy Irons slips into the role in a believable, somewhat humorous sense, scarcely believing his luck that the young seemingly innocent child is more promiscuous than he has ever been.The early scenes with Melanie Griffith as Lolita's frazzled mother are amusing, she gives a good performance as lonely widow wanting Professor Humbert to herself. She sends Lolita to camp, Humbert is beside himself. There is an amusing scene where he visits his physician asking for a prescription to knock out a cow so he will not be disturbed while sleeping in the marital bed. Mrs. Hayes finds the disparaging comments Humbert has made about her in a diary, lashes out at Humbert and dies in a tragic accident.Be careful what you wish for, Nabokov (book author) seems to be telling us. Now, Professor Humbert has Lolita all to himself. He takes her cross country after he breaks the news that her mother has died in hospital. Lolita accedes to his wishes, in bed, and becomes his obnoxious travel companion.Her childish pranks begin to grate on Humbert and things begin to unravel. Admittedly the side story with Quilty (Frank Langella) doesn't work as well as it could have, although Langella always does have an interesting and sinister presence.Overall recommended, as Irons gives another good performance here, the girl could have been cast a bit differently, however. That said, also watch the early Stanley Kubrick film with James Mason, Shelley Winters and Sue Lyon, as Lolita. Also read the book for a better framework from which to view the varied film versions. 8/10. "},{"Title":"a divine adaptation","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The lush and beautifully photographed film, Lolita, will tear your heart out of your chest ever-so-slowly so that you feel the excruciating pain of dying -- dying ... s-l-o-w-l-y ... ever so slowly. You feel every minute of it and that is an amazing thing.While the subject matter is taboo -- the story of Humbert Humbert's (Jeremy Irons -- The Lion King, Reversal of Fortune, Being Julia) love for a 14-year-old nymphet, Lolita (Dominique Swain in her feature film debut) -- the story is one of true beauty and depth. While the story is both disturbing and distressing, the moral dilemma each of these characters find themselves in becomes one of true fascination. Perhaps reading Nobokov's novel is essential to better understanding where Humbert is coming from with this undeniable love and so I would highly recommend the read (the prose flows) as this is a beautifully tragic human story that should be felt.Truly faithful to its source, I was impressed with the high production value, the cinematography and haunting score composed by Ennio Morricone. It is a remarkable film ... and I don't want to say anything else because it'll make me weep.Yes ... weep. "},{"Title":"Better than currently given credit for.","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, with already Lolita from 1962, by Stanley Kubrick, circulating, expectations for this 1997 version weren't very high. How can you ever beat a Kubrick? Well, this version doesn't exactly beat the better Kubrick version but it simple is a real great movie on its own nevertheless, that really deserves to be seen.This version is of course somewhat different from the 1962 Stanley Kubrik movie and as far as I understood, this version stays actually closer to the actual Vladimir Nabokov novel. What this movie does is trying to explain why Humbert Humbert likes them younger, while I believe in the Kubrick movie he isn't interested in Lolita at all in the beginning and actually tries to fight it but finally falls for her fatal seductions. In this movie they both want each other from basically the moment they see each other.It perhaps also makes this version more sensual, although it's not very hard to be more sensual than a movie that got made back in the early '60's. This version is also more sensual due to both Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain. There is nothing wrong with James Mason and Sue Lyon but Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain have a better natural chemistry together. And while Frank Langella ain't no Peter Sellers, he does a good job in his role, even though his role is rather restrained in the movie, which is a sort of a waste of such a fine character and actor such as Frank Langella.It simply is its fine and also controversial story that makes this movie such a great one. I like movie don't portray things as being black and white. A pedophile is not just a pedophile and this movie shows how a seemingly normal man with a respectable profession falls for a 14-year old girl. When you read about a story like this in the paper you tend to see; 'What a creep!' or 'how sick!'. Real life however of course isn't as simple and black and white as you would read about in the papers. It's a multi-layered story with complicated characters, feelings and emotions.Adrian Lyne once more shows that he is a real capable director. He doesn't make an awful lot of movies but when he does it's often something really good. The movie has a good style although the movie made me wonder why they didn't attempted to give the story a more modern update. I mean, there basically is no reason for this movie to be set in the '40's. He lays the emphasis mostly on the two main characters, which does go at the expense of the other characters obviously but it's a choice he made and did not worked out all too bad I must say. Really a movie worth seeing. Give it a change, even if you known that it just simply can't beat the 1962 Kubrick version.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Great Film That Will Find Its Audience","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the best film of its year, this Lolita is everything Kubrick's wasn't. This isn't a funny/weird story, it is a tragedy. Sad and haunting with a real monster not a Sellers clown (although some will say that Kubricks's Quilty is more faithful to the book, there is no menace in him and yes, Langella's Quilty does have a measure of whimsy (many monsters do).For those of you who are going to use big words like pedophilia, take the time to understand the pathology. Humbert is NOT a pedophile, his love of Lolita never changed (did you see the ending?) heavy with another man's child, I loved this Lolita. When his child-love died, he too died. Emotionally the man remained a boy (did you see the beginning?)but I continued to search for her, I should have joined the priesthood. A pedophile would have had no use for an adult Lolita. His killing of Quilty was a violent rejection of such monsters. The killing didn't need to be included, Humberts final admission in spite of his love for Lolita was justice enough. Victims aren't we all, Eric Draven's words were written for these tragic characters.Had Lolita demanded that Humbert wait until she was of age, he gladly would have. She was the lost child, his love, his life. In a country that cherishes the on screen butchering of children and finds entertainment in watching predators ply their trade (we justify it by their being caught on Dateline), we have consigned this beautiful, sad film to the graveyard of the censures.But...This film will find its way like so many before it. The American film-goer is the one cheated. And yes, the film contains one of Grand Maestro Morricone's greatest scores. Shame on you America, and we send our kids to Iraq to die and be maimed for freedoms we don't even believe in.....How sad. "},{"Title":"An eccentric, sensual, sinful love...","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think Lolita is an exceptional screening. You don't know who seduces who Lolita seduces Humbert or vice versa. The attraction exists in both sides but for Lolita is just a game, she acts like if she met the love of her life, but she is only infatuated...Everything falls apart when Lolita is seduced by another man, and eventually she marries with a young man, lives in a poor house, and all her beauty disappears with the passing of the years... Lolita is an illusion, just a fallacious appearance of love. She is a devil, she tortures, she plays, she kills, she is a nymphet. Lolita dramatizes the tragic consequences of Humbert's obsession with the young heroine. It is a controversial story, I admire Nabokov for his originality and courage to write about a impossible, prejudiced relationship. "},{"Title":"Introspective, delicate - but far too long","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a long, introspective adaptation of Nabokov's acclaimed novel 'Lolita', starring a superb Jeremy Irons and a then 15-year-old leggy Dominique Swain in the lead roles. It is an effective film in the sense that Adrian Lyne makes us see the appeal of Lolita, but at the same time makes us understand that we could never be attracted to her. It all bottles down to Humbert's (Irons) past experiences and his subconscious search for a 'child' he loved and lost when he was young, finding this child in Lolita and obsessing about her.Lyne introduces a narrative by Humbert in Lolita, which is a vital device to the story, because seeing things from his perspective, he becomes something of a lovable pedophile. We feel for him. Everyday of his life after meeting this young girl, he is consumed with love for her and this is captured beautifully in the film through long visual shots. Their relationship is certainly an illicit affair - and it definitely feels like it from a viewer's perspective. All the kissing, fondling, cuddling, the looks - it gets rather intense and very uncomfortable at times. Lolita is arguably one of the least likable characters in film history; she is an ill-mannered, manipulative attention-whore who knows the power she has over Humbert and uses it to her advantage for money, attention and just generally to hurt people. I have not read the book, but I understand she was a bit more subtle in it - intelligent, witty. In this film she reeks of Britney-like schoolgirl sucking on lollipops and chewing on jawbreakers. Perhaps the filmmakers thought that this would make her more accessible to late 20th century audiences. It's wildly stupid.While the film has plenty of powerful passages, it is far too long. It really drags on toward the end so as to do the book more justice by adding pseudo-depth to it. Film is a different medium, so I think Lyne should have had a bit more fun with the script - not as much fun as Kubrick did with his version (which was unbearably silly), but lighten up just a bit. I cannot pinpoint any more negative aspects to 'Lolita' (1997), but I know there clearly are some because I was not too crazy about the film when I saw it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great acting and a great film","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen neither this nor the Kubrick version of Lolita, a few weeks ago, I started to wonder, if the films are really as great as they are made out to be; so, after reading as much as I could about both films, I finally bought this film on DVD. After having watched it, I was very impressed, both by the acting and the overall film quality. The theme is based on the well-known novel of the same name, by Russian author, Vladimir Nabokov. I found it very well-presented; unlike what you might expect, you don't loathe or despise Irons' character. You may find some of his actions disturbing, perhaps even disgusting. But you understand him, and you sympathize with him. The plot is great, it evolves at a very good pace, rarely standing still at any point. I don't think there was any point during the film where I was bored. The acting is great; Jeremy Irons gives a stellar performance, as do Melanie Griffith, Frank Langella and Dominique Swain. Of all those, I think it was actually Swain who impressed me the most; maybe it's because this was her first film, and she didn't have any acting experience. Or maybe it's because, well, despite knowing that she was very young when she made this film, I was, just like Irons' character, Humbert, attracted to her. Her performance as Lolita is amazing. The cinematography is very good, at times great. The dialog is well-written and well-delivered. The characters are well-written and credible. The amount of humor in the film, however little it may be, was good. It helped the viewer ease into the somewhat uncomfortable subject of the film. The climax of the film is great; despite being hinted at, throughout the film, it came as a surprise, and truly sent a chill down my spine. Now, as I mentioned early on in this review, I have not seen Stanley Kubrick's version of Lolita; I have not read the book, either. Therefore, I can't really say if this is an accurate depiction of the story or not. But I found it to be a very good piece of cinema, and I suspect most people interested in the subject would too. I recommend this to fans of any of the actors, possibly Nabokov's novel, and/or people who are interested in the subject matter. I will advise anyone who sees it, though, to be prepared; the film is quite explicit, and some will definitely take very much offense from it. If you can sit through the film, though, you probably should. It really is great. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A curious rarity","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In many ways, this film is a true rarity. Take a producer like Mario Kassar (Rambo III, Cliffhanger...) and a director like Adrian Lyne (Indecent Proposal) and what do you get? An unbelievably lyrical and beautiful film full of sadness, melancholy and unfulfilled longing.How did this happen? Where did this film come from? There is something magical about the production. Indeed, this film could never have been made as a studio picture. Maybe it's precisely an under-appreciated director like Lyne who could go his way and make the film as it should have been made in the first place. Going through making-ofs and audio commentaries, one realizes that Lyne was actually doing something he can never do again. He was temporarily insane and had an I MUST make this film passion that transformed the film into something more than just an adaptation.Of course, he couldn't go wrong. At least not with a team like Jeremy Irons, Dominique Swain and Ennio Morricone.By no means does the film reach the heights of the book - and that would pretty much be an impossible task anyway - but what the film does so well is capture the essence of Humbert's doomed love. Kubrick's Lolita is wonderfully witty and funny and, fair enough, that was also an important part of Nabokov's book - but that version lacked all the beauty that the most beautiful subject in the world (doomed love) deserves.Sadly, Lyne's masterpiece has now been forgotten - as if it never existed and Kubrick's Lolita is still considered as the definitive version of the book.I will definitely always defend Lyne's version. "}{"Title":"A faithful adaptation of a great novel.","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After I finished the book, I watched the 1997 film version of Lolita, directed by Adrian Lynne and starring Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain. It is a well-made film and faithfully follows the book in pretty much all respects, but omits some of the events described in the book due to time restraints.Irons is a believable seducer, 'Humbert Humbert', and he captures the essence of a man lusting after 'forbidden fruit'. Swain is excellent as the promiscuous and provocative 'Lolita' &#x96; depicted as a 14-year-old in the movie, rather than a 12-year-old, as in the book.Neither the book, nor the film in any way glorifies nor condones the act of sex with underage girls. Nor does it make any excuses for the protagonist's illicit desires and actions. It does however, seek to understand what motivated him, how he came to be the way he was and why did he go to such lengths and take such risks to satisfy his urges.If you are interested in fine literature, read the book and then maybe watch the movie. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A conservative, yet interesting adaptation of a classic","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having read the book and seen the movie several times now, I can assure you that if you've only watched the movie you'll have seen about 40% of what happens in the book. I'm not saying the movie is bad, it's actually quite good considering. But if you really like the movie and knows it's about a classic, if you know that much, you REALLY should read the book. As for the movie, apart from all the stuff you don't see in the book, like the comments and views of America by the main character(Humbert Humbert), also the general lust is a lot deeper in the book than it is depicted in the movie. I would say that this movie tries hard to put on the screen, fit into a little over 2 hours, the most they could have considering the amount of stuff in the book.As for the acting, it is spot on! All of the main actors and even the secondary ones are simply great! What can I say that hasn't been said about Jeremy Irons?? He's simply perfect as Humbert. Dominique Swain was chosen out of 2500 girls!! She's amazing, although if I might be so bold as to point out a miss in the movie about Lolita(Swain), it's that when she shot it, she was 15, not 12 like the real Lolita for obvious reasons, and she wasn't 1,47m(5 feet) tall like in the book, but rather about 1,69m(5'7'') tall.All of the above is for you who wants to know everything about this classic but hasn't for some reason, to read the book. I beg you to read the book. If you love reading like I do, and if you like this story like I do, please, do yourself a favor and read the book. "},{"Title":"Powerful, beautiful and thought provoking","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To begin with, I will say that Adrian Lyne's one of my favorite directors. Whatever he does, he adds his unmistakable personal stamp on filming. The depth and detail are overwhelming. Each frame is a picture by itself. He is a master at creating atmospheres along with music and photography.He is also a provocateur, and he likes to be considered as such. One of the recurring subjects is the attraction between men and women, which can also be seen in Unfaithful (2002), Indecent Proposal (1997), Fatal Attraction (1987), Nine 1/2 Weeks (1986)  Flashdance (1983) and Foxes (1980) .On Lolita The film seemed intense and intimate in equal measure. And even could say that is extremely private, as depicts personal feelings and sensations that could cause rejection or criticism.For me, there is nothing to criticize.The question of our capacity to empathize with Jeremy Irons role, arises.The psychological game between the two protagonists is as intense as unstable, and the roles of dominator and dominated are exchanged. We finally have a dramatic situation in which nobody wins, so it is as real as life itself.We stand before a, deeply and brutally honest movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Pedophile version of Fatal Attraction","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The director has done several well-known obsessively sexual films. I think his genius may lay within his sharp sense of subtle differences between normal and twisted affections.Pedophiles don't see adolescents are immature or silly whom normal adults would not care socializing with. They see them as their peers. A lot of adolescent teenagers already have grown adult looking figures which might be even more appealing to their sexual fantasies. It's complicated to explain why they are not attracted to mature human beings instead. Partially, they want to control their objects of affections. This movie indeed shew those vital characters.Some scenarios were far-fetched in the story like the playwright's role and mother's death. However, they were faithful to the novel. Jeremy Irons played a very convincing Humbert who covered all the flaws in the story. I could see why this movie was censored at that time. I saw 1962 version also. It was less visual flirtations which did not stir too much alerts in the society back then. Somehow, theaters worried about paralyzed by controversies now than then. Nonetheless, I am glad I found this movie now. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Kubrick's version, but good enough","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Good adaptation of Nabokov's novel, though not as good as the 1962 Stanley Kubrick version. Captures the controversy and sinfulness of the Humbert-Lolita relationship well. Far less subtle than the Kubrick version, though not at all graphic. Does drag from about 2/3rds in though, and feels excessively long in the end. The latter scenes in the movie could easily have been condensed into something more interesting. This said, the Kubrick movie also suffered from this affliction.Mostly very similar to the Kubrick movie, plot and sub-plot wise, though this version does shed some new light on Humbert's motives, which does tie up the story quite nicely.Solid performance by Jeremy Irons as Humbert Humbert. Melanie Griffith is quite irritating as Mrs Haze. Frank Langella is also a tad irritating as Quilty. To me, Peter Sellers' portrayal of Quilty in Kubrick's version was the stand-out performance of that movie. Sellers also had more screen time.While Dominique Swain was OK in the role of Lolita, I preferred Sue Lyon's portrayal - more innocent, less bratty. If you haven't seen the Kubrick version, this is worth the watch. Less watchable if you've seen the Kubrick version, as the two movies are very similar. However, there are some differences, especially at the end, which makes this worth seeing too. "},{"Title":"I have my own thoughts about this book","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Was the name Humbert Humbert picked by Nabokov according to Linnaean taxonomy, as for instance a Northern Lapwing = Vanellus Vanellus, a binomial nomenclature? Lepidoptera love was the foremost pastime Nabokov knew (thaz right, Fkng butterflies). I just made this up but I never did quite find any explanation as to this double naming of pedophile Humbert Humbert (Hummingbird, Hummingbird).According to myth, Poseidon fell in love with the beautiful nymph Korkyra, daughter of Asopus and river nymph Metope, and abducted her. Poseidon brought Korkyra to the hitherto unnamed island and, in marital bliss, offered her name to the place Korkyra (Corfu).I was on my knees, and on the point of possessing my darling, when two bearded bathers, the old man of the sea and his brother, came out of the sea with exclamations of ribald encouragement, and four months later she died of typhoid in Corfu ( Lolita, chapter 3)Could it be that those bearded men were Poseidon and his brother Hades? Because this one abduction seems the way Humbert Humbert feels about his childhood love taken from him. And also, something which I have never read elsewhere before is that Typhoid in etymology means a.o. things Hazy, a term that frequently in this book alludes to Lolita's last name Haze (or something that rhymes on it). Also again Nymph is mentioned in relation to Poseidon. There are more similar discrepancies/mysteries in this book that need solving. "},{"Title":"the anti-Kubrick Lolita","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a 14 year old in 1921 Cannes France, Humbert fell in love with older Annabelle but she dies from Typhus. In 1947, Humbert Humbert (Jeremy Irons) starts a professor job in New England. He rents a room from Charlotte Haze (Melanie Griffith) who has a flirtatious 14 year old daughter Lolita (Dominique Swain). Humbert ends up marrying dislikeful Charlotte to stay close to Lolita. Charlotte discovers Humbert's secret lust for Lolita and gets killed by a car. Humbert drives Lolita on a road trip but lies to her about her mother. There is always Clare Quilty (Frank Langella) around.The opening shot of Lolita is way too thirsty. The sprinklers getting her wet is completely over the top. It reeks of desperation from trying to top Kubrick. It's like a bad teenie porno. Melanie Griffith is an inferior Charlotte. Her character is smaller and less interesting as a minor role in this film. In another anti-Kubrick move, Quilty is reduced back to his original size. Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain take up most of the space in this over 2 hours movie for better or worst. Dominique does a nice job. Jeremy Iron is a great actor as always.My biggest problem is that his character is constantly the victim in this version. He is superb in convincing the validity of his love for Lolita. Jeremy Iron does this sympathetic weakness. He does the same thing in 'Damage' but in this case, it's very off-putting. It goes beyond the fear of discovery. While it may be more true to the intention, it makes it a harder thing to watch. I always wonder what the movie would be like from Lolita's point of view. By the last act, I got very tired of Humbert and his patheticness. At that point, I found his narration like fingernails on the chalkboard. The movie is already too long and I couldn't wait for it to be over. "},{"Title":"Be Sure to See This Movie - But Puhlease!  READ THE BOOK FIRST!","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just recently read the book. I'm kind of prudish about giving my attention to themes that are offensive - I knew Lolita was about a sexual predator, and so I avoided it for decades. (I also avoided Breaking Bad on behalf of my prudishness, but yielded when someone with a brain told me to give it a chance.) In any case, the book is enthralling, absolutely magnificent. I'll be on half.com to order all of Nabokov's English-written and English-translation stories - what a writer! (I hope I don't find out that he's a pervert.) But seriously, the story he tells is breathtakingly human, gorgeously written, even humorous.Now, this movie. Or rather, let me start with the 1959 movie, with James Mason, who did a fine job, within the constraints of 1959 movie-making. Pretty much what I expected, and so I was disappointed, altho a well-crafted movie.NOW, this movie. Jeremy Irons blew it out of the water! The only thing he didn't convey - that Mason did - was his utter disgust at touching a woman in her 30s (old, decayed flesh)... but everything else (by Irons) was blindingly perfect. And in fact, I was actually able to believe that perhaps HH did love little Lolita... (Perhaps I had read through my prudish eyes?) I tend to look with jaded eye at obsession and supreme selfishness, which were abundant in HH, of course...Yes, and yet, I do believe that the movie romanticized HH QUITE a bit. For some reason, the director wanted us to like this man. I would have preferred the total HH. Book is quite more to the point about the ugly reality of the whole situation (that's why I read).Melanie Griffith - did fine; too bad there wasn't more of her.But Dominique Swain (do I have that right?) - she was perfect in her childishness, in the girl-child-sexually-bloomin'-woman plane. Far better portrayal of Lolita than Sue Lyon (she played it like a 17 year old, and Little Lo was a mere 12 when HH discovered her). I was very pleased with the casting, and the portrayals that no doubt were part of the director's vision. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Irons proved to be a better choice than James Mason was in Kubrick's version. It's the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. The colors are amazing and seem to follow the mood of the story. The highlight is the last scene in which Humbert surrenders. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. Nothing to laugh at. "},{"Title":"go for the audio book","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having seen both worthwhile movies if I had to recommend an experience of this book to someone I'd suggest the Audio book with Jeremy Irons reading. It's my understanding that he often does this in preparation for a film role. If you haven't read Nabokov it's a unique experience -- imagine passing your hand over a beautifully textured tapestry and being surprised and delighted by the shimmering colors that appear at your touch. I found myself laughing out loud at times with delight at the turn of a phrase. Between the writing and Iron's wonderful voice and acting it's a treat. More powerful in a way because of the grotesque subject matter. For a short story preview of Nabokov's style find Spring in Fialta which can be found as a PDF on the web. "}{"Title":"A couple of cokes","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm as tremendously fond of the book as I'm exasperated with its two film adaptations. The problem seems to be the text itself is a huge burden, so ornately conceived and masterful in many ways it's hard to see right into it. Kubrick did not outright miss any of the elements, but reduced in a simple way to divine farce. This filmmaker, likely aware of Kubrick's failings, goes the opposite way&#x97;this Lolita is far too sombre and serious, too earnest about sentimental loss.To be fair, it's not all wrong. It's sensuous enough to be Lolita. The actress is spot on, a whirlwind of bratty ego. Its visual fixation with everything around Lolita, touched by her breath and body, the sock in one leg, the skimpy shorts, her movie mags and bubblegum stuck under the dashboard, all that is worthy of a book that is deeply about uncommon fixations and spends pages upon pages enumerating the trinkets of drama. And there is some wonderful Americana in the travelogue portion.But the book's deep peculiar beauty is in the way it's remembered. Not a simple flashback, the more the poor narrator tries to grasp having known Lolita the more she escapes into the desert with another man.The heartbreak, the elegy, the biting humor; these are all entries into it.So why bother at all with this one, which means an uphill struggle with moralists, if you're going to squeeze out another tragic love story?I do believe we've had cinematically more interesting Lolitas outside the text, even in Bertolucci's Last Tango. I do think a visual solution to Lolita is hidden right in this film&#x97;the scene of Dolly reading a comic-book on HH's lap, she begins rocking and for no 'real' reason throws her head back in seemingly rapturous passion. What has happened is that we have seamlessly shifted from reality to what may be happening, may be imagined or embellished in the narrator's eye, all being equally true as you watch which is how Nabokov expands the reader's mind. However as to the overall effect, that is ruined in this film in favor of something reasonable and straightforward. I miss all the humorous reinvention, irony of illusion and layered madness that bring Lolita to life as both tragicomic and the result of mysterious machinery of mind.You can tell that the filmmaker has no notion of the deeper implications by looking at the character of Quilty, always a big key to what this is. He is mostly right here (by contrast to Sellers who was way off), but seems wrong because Humbert is wrong. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to read the book Lolita for a summer school college class. We then watched the older version of the movie in class, as well as this version. I definitely enjoyed watching both of the movies more than reading the book. If you read the book and thought it was difficult to read because of the material, then definitely give the film a shot. The story is a lot easier to view than read. My only complaint is it was a little long. But it was very interesting and kept the viewers attention. Although a little controversial, the film makes you think and analyze the morals of society. I definitely recommend watching this movie if you are looking for a film that will make you question and think. "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to read the book and watch both movies of Lolita for a class but glad we did because the book is a great work of art. It opens the eyes of its readers especially in a time where relations like this were not as common as they are now. For those who read the book I believe this is a great adaptation of the book, at least compared to the 1962 Kubrick version. Jeremy Irons plays a great role as Humbert, and I am glad that they included the scene in the beginning with Annabel. I am glad they did this because in the 1962 version of the movie they never show scenes with her, and I believe it is a huge reason why Humbert is in love with Lolita. It helps the audience make the connection with his obsession for her, like he is almost subconsciously seeing and reliving moments with Annabel. Overall I enjoyed this movie and would recommend even to someone who never read the book. "},{"Title":"An Impossible Dream, A Moment of Bliss, and the Tragic Cost","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's one thing to wish for something, it's quite another affair to be happy with what you get, especially since it's not really what you had hoped for in the first place. A desperate pedophile, Humbert, somehow makes his wildest sexual fantasy actually come true, or at least that is what he longs to believe, but at the tragic cost of the lives he destroys, including his own.Humbert explains why he is attracted to 14 year old Lolita. By his own account, he became fixated on girls the same age as his childhood sweetheart, Annabel, who he lost forever during his own youth. It is still a mystery, however, why a man of Humbert's maturity indulged an adolescent sexual fantasy for as long as he did. A man his age could no more have a love affair with a 14 year old girl than could he resurrect his long lost lover from the dead. Nor could he go back to being a 14 year old boy himself.In a transparent attempt to approach the object of his desire, Humbert marries Lolita's mother, Charlotte, even though he does not truly love her. Charlotte's accidental death gives Humbert what he had been secretly hoping for, complete custody of Lolita. But, how could he be happy knowing that it was his rejection of Charlotte that practically drove her to suicide, especially since his flagrant negligence also hurt Lolita? This shocking realization should have interrupted Humbert's erotic dream and marked the point in the story where a responsible man assumes his natural role as a father. However, when Lolita approached him, inexplicably, he could not control his pedophile nature.Humbert refused to abandon his love fantasy, until the day when Lolita was practically torn away from him, and he finally realized that he couldn't have her. But by that time the damage he had caused her was already irreparable. He destroyed Lolita's happy childhood in much the same way his own had been destroyed by the death of Annabel, and he could never forgive himself for his 'sin'. Murdering Quilty, an even more perverse pedophile than himself, was as close as he could come to suicide. In the end, he died in prison of a broken heart, leaving us to ponder whether there was ever any need for such a tragedy, or is it simply true that none of us can ever find bliss except for a fleeting moment. "},{"Title":"A wonderful adaptation of the novel","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read the book, twice, and seen the Kubrick movie twice but Adrian Lyne's new version is the hands-down winner. The casting, the photography, and the production values are amazing. Having directed Fatal Attraction and 9 ½ Weeks, Lyne understands the dark side of love and sex. It's interesting that in his Lolita, he keeps that understanding of the obsessive as the keynote, but adds sunlight, beauty, and humor (a more sophisticated humor than Kubrick's). This dynamic works beautifully. Jeremy Irons adds a guilty edginess to the role and is excellent throughout, portraying complicated emotions naturally and credibly. In my opinion this movie is among Irons' top work.There are many scenes that play out as they did in the book, and the small additions where Lyne has diverged from the book enhance the scenes with rich detail and beauty. The scene on the porch of the Haze house, with Humbert, Dolores, and Mrs. Haze, is wonderfully choreographed, and Swain, as Lolita, is believably kid-like yet sensual. Her sensuality is a new toy, something to experiment with. Dolores, becoming a young woman, plays with her emerging sensuality, but has a child's understanding of adult relations. When she's done playing with sensuality, she'll read a comic book, or listen to the radio, and she doesn't want Humbert bothering her again. Lyne brings out that contrast of normal teen to obsessive object Lolita&#x97;the contrast of Dolores Haze herself, and how her obsessive lover sees her.The performance of Melanie Griffiths needs to be noted. She's beautiful, yearning, and a bit socially inept as the small-town landlady attracted to the sophisticated European professor. When she and her daughter get into arguments several times, Griffiths' voice cracks and takes on a shrill tone. These scenes are well-done, and Griffiths handles the switch from charming to infuriated extremely well.The last of the main characters, Clare Quilty, is perfectly acted by Frank Langella. Where Sellers' Quilty was manic and funny, Langella's Quilty is shadowy and sinister, which is as it should be. Near the end, as Langella's Quilty talks to Humbert, we see precisely how Quilty is Humbert's dark (or is that darker?) side and we see that Humbert sees it too. Langella's Quilty is almost always seen smoking a cigarette in the shadows, and his devilish presence adds weight and gravitas to a small but crucial role.As I noted, the production and photography are excellent. The set designs, cars, clothing, and music are all late 1940s, which is the time of the story in the novel. The Kubrick version was set in the time it was made, 1962. I appreciate Lyne getting this right. One of the themes of Nabokov's novel was post-WWII America, with its brand-new recovering economy, and its many highways that spanned the country. A good portion of the book details Humbert's and Lolita's wanderings across America,and Lyne portrays this in his version. He also portrays how immersed in her era Lolita is, using the slang, singing along with the popular music, and gorging on movie magazines and comic books. Lyne and Swain get this aspect of Lolita's character right. The attention paid to detail in Lyne's Lolita is gorgeous and eye-filling. Yet everything feels natural, with never a whiff of self-conscious retro. There are beautifully-lighted scenes, and a sunny surface that contrasts with Humbert's dark obsession. That contrast is the crux of the movie. Kubrick's Lolita brought out the dark comedy of the novel, but Lyne's version of Lolita brings out its lyrical beauty. Both deal with the unhealthy obsessive love Humbert has for Lolita, but in very different ways. I think those who have read the book will appreciate this second version of Lolita for its beauty and for Swain's portrayal of Lolita as an ordinary bratty young teen, and Irons' portrayal of a man with a fierce, yet helpless, obsession. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but not as good as Kubrick's","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian Lynne's Lolita is a very good film, underrated by some and overrated by others, specially the fans of Nabokov's novel. It's impossible to review this film not comparing it to Kubrick's 1962 film, but that one is simply better, and although not as close to the novel as this one, it captures the spirit of the novel much better. Also, this one, though more recent, didn't age so well as the latter, and sometimes gets corny and unintentionally funny. However, it still has some powerful moments, and it's a very beautiful, moving experience. The cinematography is gorgeous, the actors are all very good and Frank Langella's interpretation of the character is one thing I consider superior to the 1962 version, even if Peter Seller is a great actor, he is far too funny for the role, and while that one works much better as a dark comedy than as a drama, he is sort of miscast. The highlight of this film is actually the music score. Ennio Morriconne's beautiful soundtrack never fails to bring me to tears, it perfectly captures the mood of the film. Overall, this is a very good film, and though not as good as Kubrick's, it's a great film on it's own. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the bad critics, just watch the movie","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lyne has given us an incredible description of life, a real tragedy, a hell, for a simple and good person.The movie has lots of good things, and it's really well filmed, acted, and written, the novel was by Vladimir Nabokov, a great writer. The novel was forbidden for a time and terribly criticized. So you could imagine critic's reaction with this adaptation.And that's a big thing to talk about. You know, Jeremy Irons had a lot of problems, because of his hot scenes with Dominique Swain. Of course, as she was under-aged, the adult scenes were filmed with an adult woman, and all the proper means for avoiding all contact with Dominique in some scenes in which she sits over his legs. All this, and some erotic scenes, such as watching her eating a banana, or she on the grass, with her T-Shirt all wet, makes the movie pornographic.As you could imagine, I don't believe that. Those are just details, that doesn't make a common and touching drama an erotic movie.The acting, is great. Jeremy Irons, as Humbert Humbert, is perfect. It's like he could catch the character very precisely, a serious, introverted and formal man, who just wanted love, sadly, a forbidden love.Well people, I hope this can help you, at deciding whether seeing the movie or not, as I know the critics you will find, and they may be not good. But of course, even known it all depends on you likes, I think it can be enjoyed by almost anyone. It's a drama, a different kind of romantic movie, and really accurate with some people's behavior. "},{"Title":"Lolita, interesting enough to watch","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita is a head jerker of a movie, even though most viewers already have some idea what the story is based on. The characters are very intriguing people, all of them, Lolita, Humbert and Charlotte. They seem to be weird people in awkward situations, although for all their problems you can still feel for each of them. Humbert the child molester strikes a chord of his sense because of his undying affection of this little girl who plays off his illness. Lolita is the easiest to fall for, but only because she is a young impressionable girl who always has innocence in the viewers' heart, even though at times she seems to rip that notion right out of you. This film tests the boundaries of what is right to most people and what is right in the heads of all the characters.A Constant battle goes on in feeling of pity or total disrespect for Humbert and his twisted mind. Also, what side causes this disastrous relationship to start and why it ended so abruptly? This movie leaves few answers to the questions you ask your self. Who is the real evil of this story, the situation that the two were put into after there is no more mother or is it the man that flirts with a 14 year old and eventually sleeps with or is it the girl who seduces a man, who she sees she can profit from or is this just a sick movie of people you never want to meet and think all should go to hell.Lolita is entertaining to those who like to see those whose characters are a little off and a storyline that shakes you and leaves you asking why. The movie is put together well enough were the story moves fluently and keeps the viewers attention and is well worth the two or more hours, especially if you have never read or seen the other versions. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of the novel","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The photography is sublime, the music by Ennio Morricone is full of emotion, the actors are great  Jeremy Irons is perfect as the narrator of the story (you have to listen the movie in English ...), D.Swain is the perfect nymphet Nabokov would have dreamed on (even if she is older than in the novel)Forget all the controversy which was made about this movie ... The movie is much better than the Stanley Kubrick ...  "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie, true to the book.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me start by saying that this is one of my favorite movies of all time. Brilliant reproduction on the book, which is also one of my favorite. As the book, it paid very close attention to detail. The time period, 40s, was very accurate which added to the charm of the movie. Perhaps the best thing about it was it's great choice of characters. It is true, as some critics have mentioned, that Melanie Griffith is too thin and pretty to physically match Mrs. Haze, but her acting is so wonderful for this part that she perfectly carries across the roll, especially with all her screeching and hollering at Lolita. So, even though she does not look like a fat cow, her manner surely suggests it. As far as criticisms go, it is also true that seventeen-year-old Dominique Swain is too old to play Lolita. Alas this is also made up due to her excellent acting and coquettish manner of a true nymphet. One of the things I found interesting is that in the movie Lolita is a reddish blond even though in actual life the actress has dark brown hair. This is curious because in the book when Lolita is described she has dark brown hair also. Perhaps as a blond Lolita gave more of a sunny light image then she would have otherwise. As far as Humbert himself; Jeremy Irons received no criticism at all. He matched the image of Humbert Humbert even if one were not to consider his great acting. The way his face becomes strained and he mumbles every time Lolita got anywhere close to him is absolutely touching. As a matter of fact, touching is the key word in this movie. Perhaps the major difference between the book and the movie is, in fact, how touching Humbert seems, how innocent, and how vindictive Lolita in the movie, whereas in the book Lolita is the obvious innocent and Humbert is the fiend. In the movie one constantly gets the feeling that Humbert is trying his best to be good but it is Lolita who always thrusts herself on Hum and makes it ever more difficult for him. I watched this movie as DVD so I had a chance to see the parts of the movie that were later cut. These parts make up most of the little scenes that are missing in the movie; for example the seen where Humbert pictures drowning Mrs. Haze, but then can not do it. Once I examined all the scenes almost all of them were of Humbert being more forward. So at first Lolita was created closer to the book, but then most scenes where Humbert is showing his wicked side are cut. One might wander why, but one has to consider the problems this movie had which have not been spoken of. It started out as rated R and, though it is really not bad at all, it was proclaimed as child porn, simply because of the ideas in it, and not allowed to be shown in American theaters for a long while. This is probably why it has not been heard off and then out of nowhere appeared on shelves in the video rentals after it was revised and no longer proclaimed to be child porn. One might also add that in Europe no one had any problems showing it what so ever. Another very nicely made part of the movie was the secretiveness surrounding Quilty. Overall artistically done movie, though not to the point of movies like Titus or The Cell. Defiantly worth watching although the lack of conventional morality may be disturbing for some.  "}{"Title":"If only the two could be combined!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I adore 1962's Lolita, and having just viewed the beautifully photographed and somewhat more serious-from-the-get-go 1997 version, my thought is, if only the two films were combined I would be thoroughly delighted.Impossible as this is, I so enjoyed Shelley Winters as Charlotte Haze (1962), trying to win over the droll professor Humbert, who, of course, is drawn to board with her so as to be close to her lovely young daughter Lolita.  Charming as James Mason played it in '62, Jeremy Irons won me over thoroughly as he seemed so genuine and so dastardly attractive, that I might be moved by him as well if I were 12 years old!  In retrospect, Mason seemed almost too old.  Irons also brings about a deeper sympathy for his Humbert in the same way Tony Perkins did for Norman in Psycho.  He is so adorable and sort of lost, that you've gotta like him!  Sue Lyons also seemed too old, in the '62 version, yet her aloofness and dated teen-aged ways charmed me, as did her recurring theme, which the '97 Lo (Dominique Swain) lacks.The matter of the sinister Clare Quilty (Frank Langella) **POSSIBLE SPOILER!*** is dealt with in a much more harrowing manner in the later film, and adds genuine drama to the story (WHO is this person, WHY don't we see his face clearly, WHY is he always in the background, etc.), and he is a thousand times more ominous than Peter Sellers' goofy characterization of same in '62.  As vulgar and frightening as Quilty is, I understand him and his motivations much better, and merely the fact that he is kept a dramatic secret until the latter part of the film is much more gratifying plot-wise. The back and forth flashback nature of Irons, his confrontation with Quilty, somehow add much more suspense than the almost amusing confrontation in the '62 version and the dreadfully serious latter third.  Somehow the continuity in the '97 version is maintained, perhaps *because* the humor is kept to a minimum in the first half?  An interesting debate.  **End Spoiler!**Also, the many delightful humorous moments in Kubrick's '62 version are done away with almost entirely in this picture.  The very sexually suggestive, Broad-Minded friends of Mrs. Haze, the Farlowes, are reduced to a mere mention; and there are none of the awkward social scenes, such as Mrs. Haze's constant flirting, the difficulty Humbert and Lolita encounter in checking into a Motel the first time, and the tedious scenes with the porter and that ridiculous cot.  If these elements (a scary Quilty, the humor, the cot, Winters as Charlotte and Irons as Humbert) were magically woven into one film, I would dance and dance, as it would then seem to me, perfect.I highly recommend BOTH pictures, however, for all the above mentioned favorable reasons.  The cinematography and period locales in the later film are stunningly photographed and historically accurate down to the period candy packages and road maps in the glove box, and the costumes, cars, the COLOR, and even the incidental radio-music works splendidly.  The shots of the nasty old coin-operated Magic Fingers unit in one of the many Motels along the way brought back fond, if not dreary, childhood vacation memories...A lovely film, but see both!  It is like a nice variation on a theme, sad as it may be. "},{"Title":"Haunting...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  North American distributors have been leery of circulating Lolita due to its sexual content; namely a sexual affair between a 40-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl. Critics who are offended by the subject matter say Lolita glorifies paedophilia. Using the same line of argument, one could say that murder is offensive and illegal, so why doesn't the public have a problem with movies featuring serial killers? Did The Silence of the Lambs glorify murder? Ironically, the violent scenes in Lolita are more disturbing than the sexual ones. It's a shame all the hype surrounding the movie isn't concerned with the film itself.Lolita is stunning, emotionally and visually. Adapted from the novel of the same title by Vladimir Nabokov, Lolita focuses on Humbert's (Jeremy Irons) relationship with Lolita (Dominique Swain) and the tragedies it creates.Humbert is a scholar who is infatuated with young girls. A reason for his 'condition' is given in the film, but it really doesn't explain the extent of his desire. It seems reasonable that Humbert would be an evil predator in the eyes of the viewer, but what makes the movie so interesting is how he is portrayed as a tragic figure trapped by his desires. Humbert understands his affair with Lolita is wrong, but he is unable to change it-stating the relationship was a paradise, whose sky was the color of Hell-flames. To Humbert, Lolita is not just an outlet for his sexual desires. He falls in love with Lolita herself, not just the idea of her as a sexual object.The viewer's sympathy for Humbert has a lot to do with Lolita herself. In many ways she is more of a predator than he. Lolita initiates the first few sexual encounters and is fully aware of what she is getting in to. Yet, as with Humbert, her innocence in the affair shines through. Director Adrian Lyne contrasts Lolita's sexuality with child-like images. In one scene Lolita is reading a comic book and laughing, when the camera pans down to reveal a naked Humbert underneath her. In another scene she is lying soaking wet beside a sprinkler, and for a moment the viewer forgets her true age, until her smile reveals a retainer.Newcomer Dominique Swain shines in a very difficult role. She can go from woman to child in a instant, which is crucial to the part. Without Swain's ability, Irons' character would be much less sympathetic to the audience.Lolita's beauty can be found in its character's complexities. In many films the characters are one-dimensional and predictable, making even a good script seem dull. The viewer wants to feel sorry for Lolita and to despise Humbert, but the characters and script don't let conventional norms take over.Lolita runs at two hours and 15 minutes, and for the last half-hour, it loses some of its focus. The ending is disappointingly over-dramatic, but it doesn't take away from the first hour-and-a-half. Lolita isn't exactly a fun ride, but it's one you should take.  "},{"Title":"Unique, brilliant, a true masterpiece","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I knew about `Lolita' before I stumbled on to this movie on cable yesterday, was that it is about a forbidden love story.  I had no clue about the nature of `forbidden'ness before watching the movie. I have never read the original work, nor seen the Kubrick's version of the movie. Worse yet, I missed the initial credits and about the first five minutes of the movie as well, which apparently would have given me a good indication of how the movie ends (After being told what I missed, I thought it was a good thing that I missed it). All these resulted in one of my memorable-movie-watching experiences ever.The film is visually appealing, with a very graceful background score, which continues to ring in my ears as I write this sentence. Ever since `The Mission', Ennio Morricone is one of my all-time favorite music directors. The performances by the cast are commendable. (I beg to differ from some earlier opinions that Irons look lost in many places; I think he is exceptional and has almost brought Humbert's mental nature alive in to celluloid). A very decent technical work overall.But the very nature of the subject matter, and a script that supports it well, lies in the core of `Lolita'. Mild Spoilers What makes Lolita controversial? Is it the incest or the pedophilic nature of the love or both. If it is both, which one outweighs the other? I mean, is it possible to have the same strength of reluctance with one of these elements missing?And finally how much is Lolita or Humbert responsible for what had happened? I think the movie answers these questions as it flows along, if you could watch it with an open mind to the different characters in front of you. I personally would have thought the story is incomprehensible, if I were to have watched the same movie a few years ago (attributing to my `immaturity').  End of SpoilersEven though I understand it (at least I think, I do) I find it hard to describe the nature of love that is told in `Lolita'. But the final dialog between Humbert and Lolita and the following visuals is a pretty darn good description. I do think there were a few parts in the movie that appear rather melodramatic (I don't know if they hail from the book). But they are negligible enough to make the movie a masterpiece. I am planning to read the book and see the movie again (Hmmm, I will miss the sudden-unexpected-pore-first-time experience). `Lolita' in one line, is a beautiful puzzle that unfolds in front of your eyes, and stays in your head for a while. Highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"no summary can describe this film","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita really touched me in a way that I have trouble explaining why. Jeremy Irons shines in this role, as a vulnerable, weak-minded father getting abused by his 12-year-old stepdaughter.  Contrary to what the law dictates, Humbert was not so much a pedophile as a victim of Lolita's cunning wit.  From the way she toys with eating her banana to the way she always seems to have her legs propped up somewhere to expose her thighs, she was asking for it the whole time.Not to say that this kind of behaviour is acceptable; indeed, it was Humbert's responsibility to resist to Lolita's advances and to teach her better.  Needless to say, pedophilia is shocking to say the least.  But even more striking in this movie is the fact that even overly mature 12-year-old girls can use sex to their advantage, and in this case, get absolutely everything they want.  Humbert wasn't a sick pervert  he was a man who didn't have the mental strength to resist to Lolita's (excellently played by Swain, who is nonetheless too old for the part) excellent tactics.  "},{"Title":"Superb....","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was great. I really think that it is better than Stanley Kubrick's version, and that's saying a lot, considering I am a big fan of his. Anyway, I think that this was more fast paced and detailed than the original. Dominique Swain was perfect as the nymphet, and Jeremy Irons was wonderful as Humbert Humbert. I do however feel that there were certain scenes from the first film that they should have put into this one. For instance, there should have been more scenes between Jeremy's character and Melanie's character, and they should have shown the conversation that Humbert has with Quilty at the hotel. On a personal level, I was awakened to something. Seeing this made me realize how similar I was to Dolores in my youth. Not that I ever had an affair with a man old enough to be my father (I would never have done that!), but closely watching it I began to realize that my mentality and personality were actually quite similar to hers. There were many scenes where I thought, Sounds like me when I was that age. It was a truly eye opening experience. Also, I too noticed that the director, Adrian Lyne, focused on Dominique's feet frequently. I think this was supposed to be something sensual. And I was a bit perplexed by the ending. Why did they have Dolores, aka Lolita, die in the epilogue? In the original Humbert was said to have died awaiting trial, but I don't believe they ever mentioned Lo dying too. Was this the way it was written in the book? I would really like to know. I also think that they drew a lot of attention to Lolita's mouth. Some examples being the banana scene, her constantly taking out her retainer, her rolling the jawbreaker around in her pallet, etc. All in all it was a good film. "},{"Title":"Good film; not better than Kubrick's, but different","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really expect to like this film, being a fan of Stanley Kubrick's 1962 masterpiece. But I did. Really excellent work by all major cast members. Adrian Lyne was able to bring out the road movie from Nabokov's novel much better than Kubrick. Kubrick really couldn't film the vastness of America since he'd rather die (obviously) than film in the U. S.The casting of Jeremy Irons was interesting. James Mason as Humbert Humbert was sort of a regular looking guy caught up in this terrible obsession. Irons was much more believable as a pedophile, which is sort of creepy, and I'm not sure what that says for Irons. I'm a little surprised that Melanie Griffith took this role, wherein she looks quite unattractive. This was good however, she nailed the part. Frank Langella was sufficiently creepy as Quilty. Dominique Swain was extremely impressive in her acting debut. She was, however, still too old for the role, as was Sue Lyon in '62. From the book it seemed that Lolita was more twelvish than fourteen. Yes, that means Nabokov's Humbert was a seriously sick puppy. Throughout the film Lyne seemed to constantly point the camera at Miss Swain's bare feet. Fifteen or twenty times. I'm not sure what's up with that. Maybe it's a visual metaphor for unhealthy obsession. Anyway, in spite of my initial reservations, I thoroughly enjoyed this show. "},{"Title":"Nymphette charms older man","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Swain is the Natalie Portman of a new generation! She reels you in and makes you as helpless as her admirer -- at least she did me, much like Portman did in The Professional. The movie is very well adapted from Nabakov's brilliant vision.  "},{"Title":"Exceptional movie, a must see.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved every thing about this movie. I thought it was a tragic love story. I never thought of Humbert as a true pedophile. I thought he was a victim of his own heart. Perhaps he loved being  in love. Who among us can truly understand matters of the heart. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie of forbidden love","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film from start to finish is a tantalising story of an older mans forbidden lust for a very young girl. It seems that it is 'Lolita' Dominique Swain who has ideas of what she wants from the relationship that is yet to blossom.There are some parts of the film that are quite funny such as the time where 'Humbert Humbert' Jeremy Irons faces school trustees and is informed by the principal that it would be fitting for Lolita to be told of the ways of the world and that it should preferably be an adult, maybe him.It is a shame that Melanie Griffith' character is not in the movie for longer from the point where she finds the blossoming affair in print in Humberts diary. However, this is a main part of the plot that leads to the psychology of the relationship becoming ever closer.This is especially the case in respect to Lolitas feelings for Humbert when she is told that her Mother is dead and looks to Humbert as an obvious but more so father figure.Overall a very good movie. "},{"Title":"A Beautifull Film","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita is by far the best film i have seen in a long , long time. Most people know the story so i wont go into the plot but what i will say is that there cannot be a better adaptation of a book than this. Some people will shy away from the subject matter and that is understandable but it far from tastless in fact i would go as far as to say that it is beautifull. Dominique Swain is perfect in her role as Lolita as is Jeremy Irons as her Father/Lover. If you only see one film this year make it this one , wonderfull. 10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Both Nabokov, and yet not, Lyne's work is (to me) a masterpiece.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In writing this, I suddenly realize it is impossible not to mention the novel, so let us get that out of the way quickly, yes?Schiff's screenplay is very, very close to the source novel. But somehow the film ends up very different. One could not expect any adaptation (though I admit to not having seen Kubrick's '60s version) to contain all the layers of the novel. So Adrian Lyne goes for just one - the tragedy.True, the Humbert here loses all of the craftiness of his literary counterpart. He is still deceitful, but seems caught up in events, almost betraying himself with every lie. Although the events of the movie are almost identical in every way to Nabokov's novel, the movie's tone becomes completely different.Now that I have (very *very* briefly) said that, I must point out that I do not consider this a flaw in any way. True, the movie is based on the novel. But if it were exactly the same, what would be the point in any adaptation at all? You'd be as well reading the book.So, quickly now (I hate long comments on IMDB), I will attempt to encapsulate my favorite things about this movieLyne's attention to detail. Not just small things from the novel (Quilty's aliases in hotel books, for example, or Mrs Opposite) but just little things. Lo spinning in her chair at the soda place. Numerous authentic 40s items, lovingly recreated (despite  the novel's Humbert's derisive attitude to much of American consumerism). Just a myriad of small details that could alone sustain this movie for dozens of viewings.The acting. Irons (as has been much discussed) is so perfectly tragic (again, unlike Nabokov's Humbert - but so what?) and sympathetic, even in his depravity. Swain is superb (though a little poor as 17 year old, pregnant Dolly), a real find.The directing. Especially the way Lyne transforms Nabokov's shadowy Quilty to the screen. Brilliant!The music. So beautiful (especially the opening tune, with its occasional discordant note).The comedy. Small things. Sedatives for a cow. Charlotte's adoration of the French tongue. Is she keeping you up? Some wonderful lines!As a side note, I had not read Nabokov's novel when I saw this first. I loved it to death. Now, having read Nabokov's novel (perhaps the best thing I have ever read incidentally) I am even more impressed with Lyne's (and, of course, screenwriter Schiff's) movie. Not just it's faithful recreations, but its departures. Surely the ability to recreate the letter of the source novel so accurately, and yet defy the tone so dramatically, must be a talent worthy of some praise? "},{"Title":"A sensitive, poignant film","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented Lolita on the weekend after having never seen Kubrick's version nor having read Nabokovv's novel; therefore I saw the movie totally fresh except for having read the odd newspaper article about its controversial nature.I thought the movie was brilliant; I thought Lyne's direction was remarkable and the acting was virtually faultless.  Iron's Humbert was an immensely tragic figure-a man damned by the fates of his past, toyed with by the chances of his present and led inexorably to his future demise by forces his scholarship had ill-prepared him for.Adrian Lyne's photographic direction was superb; his camera angles and choice of shot distances was perfectly matched to the unfolding tragedy. So many directors seem to be overawed by the story they're telling, particularly with famous-books-to-film, that they lose sight of the nature of cinema-that is, cinema as a separate art form, meaning the images must be crafted as a movie rather than a filmed stage play.  Lyne succeeded  where so many others have failed before him; he has used another art form, crafted it and created something new-something brilliant in its own right.Above all else, see this film and marvel at its beauty, be moved by the tragedy of its characters and ruminate about the vagaries of our humanity. What more can a film offer? "},{"Title":"A brilliant film exploring the complexities of love...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only truly fair way of evaluating this movie is on a stand-alone basis. Lyne's Lolita works wonders with Nabokov's novel, but it does not pretend to be an exact representation of its literary counterpart (and arguably this should be preferred, as so many book to movie translations are doomed to failure and inferiority). Rather, the film dwells in emotion that might be considerably less prominent in the novel. We see the tale of one Dolores Haze and her tortured pursuer in a decidedly softer light. Yet the result is still Lolita. The emotional whirlwind that we are treated to is Humbert-as-hero- we come to view Humbert as he might think of himself by the novel's end. Humbert is the tortured lover, Lolita's desperate protector, and a father(?) who has been cheated of his redemption. Whether or not audiences see Humbert as such is up to them. Most of our hatred for H.H. is derived from our societal views of pedophilia. Those of us who are somehow able to overcome these obstacles may come to feel for this monster. At the heart of Humbert's relationship with Lolita is a desperate struggle to preserve a crumbling love (or maybe even to build one that was never there...). This struggle is beautifully/painfully rendered by its actors. One never knows whether things are going well for H.H. and Lolita, and we watch Lolita slowly slip from Humbert's grasp with as much pain as he does. Even H.H.'s last noble effort against Quilty is disastrous, and his last chance at redemption is unsuccessful. We need to see Quilty die almost as much as Humbert needs to kill him. There is no finality to the tale short of death. Humbert is ultimately unfullfilled (as he is with the death of his Annabel), his life becomes tragedy.And this is what we ultimately bring from this film- a lasting feeling of frustration and emptinness (not entirely unlike what Humbert feels). This is, in a sense, Humbert's paradise- a paradise with skies the color of hell-flames, but a paradise nontheless. In short, Lyne's Lolita is a not to-the-word exact translation of the book, but a faithfully created and beautifully crafted film.  "},{"Title":"interesting contrast in relationship","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One thing I found particularly interesting was Humberts attempt to try both roles in the relationship  Father and lover. Sometimes he treats Lolita like a wayward child, slapping her when she does wrong, and other times he tries to have an equal sexual relationship.  Is he father or lover?  Anyway I havent read the book so I dont know if the twisted polarity is emphasized there but I found it interesting in the movie. "},{"Title":"I'm going to give this a wishy-washy review. . .","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry, but this film just can't hold a candle to the novel.  (Of course, with the exception of 'Lawrence of Arabia' and its source, 'The Seven Pillars of Wisdom', I can't think of one movie based on a novel that can.) I won't dwell on its more obvious flaws, but will mention them in passing Jeremy Irons is too old for his role; Dominique Swain is a convincing 14-year-old but not a pregnant 17-year-old; the character of Clare Quilty, a figure of black humor both in the book and in Kubrick's version, is rendered by this script as a sinister, charmless pimp.  The role which has taken the most heat on this site, and which I believe is the most impressive, is the role of Lolita's mother, acted by Melanie Griffith.  I've read several comments that state that this character was intended to be fat and unattractive.  What these viewers may have forgotten (or perhaps they have never read the book) is that every character in the story is seen through the eyes of one person  Humbert Humbert.  Therefore Lolita is described as being an enticing, irresistible nymphet, although most people who actually came into contact with her would find her to be a rather unattractive, slatternly little brat; and her mother Charlotte is described as being a 'fat cow', when the fact probably was, was that she was a normal, healthy woman who had those secondary sexual characteristics (hips, thighs, breasts) that Humbert wasn't too crazy about and which he recoiled away from as 'fat'.  Nabokov deliberately romanticized Humbert's predilection for girl-children by portraying him as a man haunted by a lost childhood love (rather like Charlie Chaplin); if he hadn't done this, the reader (and viewer) could have interpreted this aversion to grown women as more of a latent homosexuality than to pedophilia.  That digression aside  the movie is gorgeously photographed and beautifully scored, and the ending is as likely to bring tears as the ending of the novel.  Superior in many ways to the Kubrick version--I preferred Peter Sellers' Quilty in that film, but hated the way he kept intruding so obviously throughout the movie--and inferior in others.   "},{"Title":"I loved it even though it made me sad.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, Lolita was definitely not a movie that cheered me up, but I loved it nonetheless.  I couldn't help but feel so very sorry for Humbert.  Anyone who has ever had thier heart broken can understand his pain.  The fact that Lolita was so young made no difference in my opinion.   "},{"Title":"Nabokov lifts Lyne above himself","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The closer a director sticks to the letter of the book, the odder each divergence looks.  If we were to look at the date given in the book's mock preface and count back the years, we would (I suppose) find that the story begins in 1947 - so Lyne dutifully begins the story in 1947.  (Kubrick's setting, more indeterminate and more modern, was also more successful.)  But why, if he was so obsessed with dates, did he compress events into just three years?  If it was to allow the older Lolita to be played by Dominique Swain, then it was surely a mistake she looks impossibly youthful even for a seventeen-year-old, and there's no particular reason to use the same actress in any case.  Lyne was careful to include as many scenes from the book as possible.  But why bother doing so, when he often removes the sting from them?  The scene where Humbert gets the `knockout' sleeping pills from his doctor is retained, but we never see its culmination.  The crucial big fight between Humbert and Lolita in Beardsley remains; but Lyne muffs (as Kubrick doesn't) the disturbing way in which it suddenly ends.  I'm not convinced that Lyne always knew WHY he was including a particular scene or detail.  `It's in the book' isn't a reason in itself.Kubrick deserves credit, too, for telling the story without resorting to (a) memory-style flashbacks, and (b) verbal narration.  Indeed if there's one single damaging flaw it's Humbert's frequent voice-overs.  Very often he says no more than what is obvious to anyone attending to the story or images or dialogue - and what's the point of distracting us from the movie in order to tell us what we'd have been able to work out if we hadn't been distracted?  On the rare occasions when the narration actually gives us information it's either information we don't need, or information we could have been given some other way.  It's simply a weak device.  Yes, Nabokov's first person narrative is superb; but that was a book and this is a film.All the same it's a good film.  We ought not sneer at the fact that it looks good - very good, in fact, and I urge you not to judge its appearance from what you may have seen on television - since it looks good in the right way we see the tourist attractions of America as a motorist would see them, but beautifully shot, as if imbued with poetry by Humbert's overactive, lovelorn mind.  It's important that the affair between Lolita and Humbert not physically repel us, and it doesn't.  (No mean achievement considering that Dominique Swain is only fourteen.)  This is really no more `the movie of the book' than Kubrick's version was, but enough of the book survives to make it well worth watching.  -I'm putting it uncharitably.  Let me say rather that Nabokov's posthumous gaze keeps Adrian Lyne honest.  The director of `Fatal Attraction' somehow manages to avoid cheap sensationalism.  Not nearly as sharp as the Kubrick version, it's by no means foolish, and has its own languid charm. "},{"Title":"A masterful poetic journey into filmmaking. A masterpiece.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons is perfect as Humbert Humbert. This adaptation remains true to the original story.  One has to mention Melanie Griffith who agreed to a minor role, and, contrary to many reviews, I believe she's very good at the mother. One has to applaud her willingness to play such a role.This is art, simple and pure. In fact, I believe Lolita is the best film made in the last few years and is now on my five star list, right up there with my favorite film of all time, On Golden Pond.Forget about the subject matter. We follow Humbert and sympathize with him from the start. The story is told as a poem and narrated, of course, by Irons. It drifts and flows like a  poem, lovingly, slowly, wonderfully. It's a pleasure to watch.  5 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"another paradox of pedophilia?","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I viewed both versions of Lolita at one sitting, to get the points of difference. Kubrick's version was good but wasn't faithful (sign of those times?) to the book. The Jeremy Irons version was character rich and gave the tragic nuances in many ways of repressive love. And it didn't essentialize on pedophilic love but only in one case-strictly. It gave the concept of pre-adolescent manipulations, the immature blindness of love. Would I let my kids see it?, but the understanding of what goes on in this real world and to prepare themselves accordingly,--yes! Thoroughly to understand emotions of ourselves cannot be understressed in today's world. This movie will be on the shelves of controversy. Movie theaters who did not show this, they are at a loss, in considering what is shown now. A definite 8 out of 10. The only remorse is that certain parts were left on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving, imperfect. Nabokov would be proud","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't really know what I can say about this film. Being Dutch-speaking It had taken me some time to get to grips with Nabokov's book (still one of my favourite books of all time). The movie is in my opinion the best possible adaptation of the book. This doesn't mean the movie is perfect, far from. But it's as good as book adaptations come. The cast is nearly perfect. Especially Jeremy Irons, who is appropriately tragic and funny, and newcomer Dominique Swain (most people will remember her as the teenage daughter in Face off) as Lolita. The movie is very much like Nabokovs novel a combination of a love story, a tragedy and a lot of Irony and sarcasm. There  is one fatal flaw in this film though, which stops it from getting a 10 mark from me. The ending. The overly theatrical death scene of Quilty. While (like the rest of the movie) following closely to Nabokovs very words (the playing piano...) it should have either been a lot more (sarcasm) or a lot less theatrical. Still that's not enough to spoil a truly great film.Now as you may have seen I'm Belgian. Remember, Belgium is the country that started all this paedophilia witch hunts. So when (surprisingly) the movie opened here, I saw a review in one of Belgium's most important weekly mags (Humo) who were furious about this film. (and gave it zero out of four possible stars). There main reasons were these one you don't make this sort of movie post-dutroux(The belgian child molester), second you don't remake a kubrick movie. There was no word on Nabokov's book or even the movie itself. I was furious. First of all their two reasons for destroying this film are invalid the movie was greenlighted quite some time before the dutroux-scandal and it's not I repeat NOT a remake of a Kubrick film. It's an adaptation of one of the greatest works of fiction of the 20th century! I hope people will dare to see this for what it is and not for what they think it is. And I also hope the Oscar voters dare to nominate it . There are at least two spots more than deserving of an Oscar best actor (Irons) and best adapted screenplay. "}{"Title":"A Moving Film Deserving of a Bigger Audience","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thanks to Showtime or I might not have seen this powerful film, featuring an Oscar-worthy performance by Jeremy Irons.  It is poignant, sad, funny, ironic, all-in-all, one of the best films of the year.  Kudos to Adrian Lyne, Stephen Schiff, Dominique Swain and the others who helped create this fine film.  Rather sad in many respects that it was kept from a larger viewing audience who would have appreciated a truly adult work of rare power.  If people think this film glorifies the subject matter, they more assuredly missed the point.  How sad! "},{"Title":"An excellent film with goddess Dominique Swain as Lolita","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent film. Sad,subtle,beautiful... Heart-aching love story, which can't ever have had a happy end. Dominique Swain is goddess as Lolita. It's impossible not to fall in love with her, hopelessly. And already have lost. She's no longer a child, she's grown up now, she's 18, she looks different... I wish Dominique every happiness, every success. I wish her a great future as an actress. I definitely will see all films with Dominique Swain. But I always be missed you, Lolita...She was musical and apple-sweet ... Lola the bobby-soxer, devouring her immemorial fruit, singing through its juice ... and every movement she made, every shuffle and ripple, helped me to conceal and to improve the secret system of tactile correspondence between beast and beauty--between my gagged, bursting beast and the beauty of her dimpled body in its innocent cotton frock.  (Vladimir Nabokov. Lolita)  "},{"Title":"Lyne's passionate adaption of Nabakov's tragedy is brilliant and focused","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I admit to being skeptical when I heard Adrian Lyne was going to remake Lolita, a novel excellently written by Vladimir Nabakov, and filmed in 1962 by Stanley Kubrick, I was impressed by the results.  I have been unable to get this film out of my head since I saw it.  I was fortunate enough to see it in the theatres; I know it was on Showtime, but this is a film to be seen on the big screen.  Because there are less limits on sexuality in films now than in 1962, Lyne is able to show more than Kubrick was ever allowed to imply.  I was shocked to see that scenes of sexual intercourse (although they were merely simulations) between Humbert Humbert and the 14 year old Lolita were allowed to be seen, although it helps the viewer picture what is at hand, and Jeremy Irons uses the scenes to show us Humbert and Lolita's inner turmoil.  Mr. Irons is simply brilliant, as is Dominique Swain as Lolita.  This was her first film, and if she continues to give performances this strong, she will be very successful.  This film is special because Mr. Lyne had such a passion for it, and because of this, he understands the characters and has prepared well.  There is a human element present in this film that even the book lacked at times.  The film focuses more on the road trip across America than Kubrick's version did, but this is for the better.  I found myself moved by the script, performances, and direction, and by the final frame of the film, I was in tears.  IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM, AND DON'T WANT THE END SPOILED, PLEASE STOP READING AT THIS POINT.  At the end, when Humbert has been pulled over, covered with Quilty's blood, before he surrenders himself, he looks over a cliff, and hears the voices of children playing.  He says that he regrets everything except the murder of Quilty, and was saddened, Not by the absense of Lo by my side, but her absence from the sounds of children playing in the fields. It is at this point we see that Humbert's obsession was really over the girl he loved from his youth, and from that, he has destroyed another girl's life, and deeply regrets it.  For the first time since the existence of this character, whether in print or on celluloid, Humbert is human, and he is redeemed, in only a way that Jeremy Irons is capable of portraying. "},{"Title":"A distilled, yet still poignant adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Too used to being let down by cinematic portrayals of classic literary works, I settled into my theater chair fully prepared to be disappointed by yet another aborted attempt at filmic reproduction of textual nuance. I was doubly trepidatious- Nabokov's Lolita is a bounty of verbal wit and compositional complexity, making its translation to technicolor all the more unwieldy.The condensed beginning, which does not do justice to the weight and substance of Mr. Humbert's nymphettophilia, did little to diminish my doubt.It was not until the introduction of Lolita (Swain) herself that the movie began to develop in earnest. The slow pan of the camera up the thighs, the teasing folds of her wet blouse, finally coming to rest at the metered seduction of her retained smile.This was Lolita incarnate, and suddenly we were Humbert Humbert, afflicted by the same satyric compulsion, the same shamefully wandering eye and intellect.Lolita succeeds along many dimensions - superb acting, good direction, excellent screenplay - but its greatest triumph resides in the union of these elements the accurate depiction of love and perversity, with all of their attendant paradoxes and riddles, co-existing in a pain-filled harmony of sorts.This yin/yang synergy cuts down the middle of the film like a knife blade. There is the staunch and morose Humbert superimposed over the effervescent Lolita. Similarly, there is a duality in the development of the plot- what began as Man destroys Girl ends as Girl destroys Man. Moreover, and more impressively, the movie manages to capture the dyadic opposition of the characters' personality traits as presented in the book. Humbert is at odds with himself- caught in the chasm between perversity and tender love, while Lolita is split between wanting a father and exercising her burgeoning sexuality. In the end, each resolves their respective dilemmas, though the closure comes too late and too painfully.All in all, Lolita is a poignant distillation of Nabokov's magnum opus. While it necessarily lacks the layered nuance of the novel, it manages to pose many of the same issues contained therein and to challenge its audience in similar ways. An excellent film and an excellent adaptation! "},{"Title":"A distilled, yet still poignant adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Too used to being let down by cinematic portrayals of classic literary works, I settled into my theater chair fully prepared to be disappointed by yet another aborted attempt at filmic reproduction of textual nuance. I was doubly trepidatious- Nabokov's Lolita is a bounty of verbal wit and compositional complexity, making its translation to technicolor all the more unwieldy.The condensed beginning, which does not do justice to the weight and substance of Mr. Humbert's nymphettophilia, did little to diminish my doubt.It was not until the introduction of Lolita (Swain) herself that the movie began to develop in earnest. The slow pan of the camera up the thighs, the teasing folds of her wet blouse, finally coming to rest at the metered seduction of her retained smile.This was Lolita incarnate, and suddenly we were Humbert Humbert, afflicted by the same satyric compulsion, the same shamefully wandering eye and intellect.Lolita succeeds along many dimensions - superb acting, good direction, excellent screenplay - but its greatest triumph resides in the union of these elements the accurate depiction of love and perversity, with all of their attendant paradoxes and riddles, co-existing in a pain-filled harmony of sorts.This yin/yang synergy cuts down the middle of the film like a knife blade. There is the staunch and morose Humbert superimposed over the effervescent Lolita. Similarly, there is a duality in the development of the plot- what began as Man destroys Girl ends as Girl destroys Man. Moreover, and more impressively, the movie manages to capture the dyadic opposition of the characters' personality traits as presented in the book. Humbert is at odds with himself- caught in the chasm between perversity and tender love, while Lolita is split between wanting a father and exercising her burgeoning sexuality. In the end, each resolves their respective dilemmas, though the closure comes too late and too painfully.All in all, Lolita is a poignant distillation of Nabokov's magnum opus. While it necessarily lacks the layered nuance of the novel, it manages to pose many of the same issues contained therein and to challenge its audience in similar ways. An excellent film and an excellent adaptation! "},{"Title":"Impressive rendering but flawed","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first half of Lolita is an amazing achievement in depicting a paedophile's fantasies coming true.  Jeremy Irons turns in one of his best performances, which is saying a lot, and Dominique Swain perfectly embodies Lolita physically.  Unfortunately, the tone of the second half changes so drastically, it almost seems like a different movie.  It becomes overly dramatic and the style turns almost haphazard.  The film's biggest flaw however is that, unlike the book, Lolita does not seem to have any real love for Humbert Humbert at all, and it is this element (perhaps too dangerous to American puritan sensibilities) that would have made her character so much more complex and interesting.  Whoever greenlit Lolita to the tune of $60 million was insane, and such a budget is really unnecessary for a story like this.  It does look like its cost though.  Cinematographer Howard Atherton lights every shot stunningly, too stunningly.  Humbert and Lolita's trip across America should look seedy and squalid.  Instead it is postcard gothic.  I've focused on Lolita's negatives, but it really is a good movie. Nine 1/2 Weeks Lyne reins in his Zalman King predilections for the most part and makes his best film.  Irons' sympathetic performance alone makes it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Lyne clips Lolita's spectrum","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Adrian Lyne's adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita is a lush, moving picture; the care and attention to detail is almost palpable, and the acting and direction are impeccable. Yet for all its splendor and true-to-lifeness, Lolita the movie lacks the breadth of its source.Nabokov's prose is rich; he transfixes you, plays associate word games with you, passing the hours and pages while, in fact, very little has actually happened in the book--he has no patience, ironically, for speed readers.  It is as hard to translate to film as it is perhaps to step onto a moving train.So perhaps I shouldn't be so hard on Lyne for not living up to Nabokov; the limitations of the medium are beyond his control, after all.  But through all of his tricks and his feints, Nabokov wants above all to impress upon us the depth of despair and madness in the soul of the duplicitous and reduplicated Humbert Humbert, and the marvelously limber humor with which he beats those demons back.Lolita, for all of its supposedly rampant sexuality, is to me primarily notable for its humor its rollicking puns and the gentle pleasure Humbert takes in playing detective with his audience.  Somehow, that has gotten lost in Lyne's movie; Jeremy Irons in the lead role is oppressively somber and fidgety.Gone, too, is Humbert's sense of having been molded by circumstance his childhood dalliance with his cousin is reduced to a mere reminiscence, something inserted carelessly because it happened to appear in the book.  One gets the feeling that the broad spectrum of experiences and emotions and resonances represented in the book has gotten squashed or clipped on its way to the silver screen.  That simply didn't have to happen.These issues aside, the movie stands very well on its own. Dominique Swain plays Lolita with an insouciant flair, and Melanie Griffith possibly gives her best performance (which I admit isn't that difficult).  At the very least, it may induce those who haven't read Nabokov's book to do just that, and it does provide an interesting study for those who have. "},{"Title":"A Lovely Lolita","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This new version of the Nabokov tale is much more faithful to the period and narrative structure of the novel than Kubrick's 1962 version. Dominque Swain, as Lolita, closer in age and temperament than Sue Lyon in the original, gives one of the outstanding performances so far this year. The score by Ennio Morricone captures the sense of loss better than the Nelson Riddle score in the Kubrick version, although the famous Ya Ya theme (one of the sexiest pieces of music ever written for a movie) is sorely missed. I thought Melanie Griffith was somewhat mis-cast as Charlotte, Frank Langella a peculiar choice as Quilty (who could  surpass Peter Sellers?) but Jeremy Irons is a perfectly wistful and moving Humbert. I'm sure all fans of the novel and original film were braced for a disaster, but this  is a lovely Lolita. "},{"Title":"Fascinating  A tragedy, a love story, and a mystery...all in one.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found it to be a totally fascinating tale about people who would have individually been nothing, but together became an irresistible (although destructive) force. A good love story which became possibly the saddest I have ever experienced, owing to the nature of the princicpals. A faithful adaptation of Nabokov's book, and possibly even an improvement.  "},{"Title":"Even more spectacular than I had imagined.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita, a taboo subject (sex with a minor) handled with restraint and  perfection.Humbert let himself be programmed for disaster. Lolita begged for attention.  A nymphet beckoned to a lustful man.And in a way they both were destoyed.Where is the blame? Primarily with the man. And yet Lolita was to blame for  intensifying his passions.Never has a film attracted such excitement. Showtime shows remarkable  courage in letting its subscribers view this spectacular achievement.  All involved must be congratulated. This movie deserves awards, all of them.  I am going to view it again and again. I found Lolita to be totally absorbing. The Director, Adrian Lyne has  scored again. Kudos to all. "}{"Title":"A mesmerizing film which will leave you questioning your own morals","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mesmerizing, magical, addictive, obsessive, erotic, beautiful. This is the film Lolita in every possible way.Being a 40-something single mother, I should relate to the mother Charlotte Haze as she struggles with her teenage child and emerges from her loneliness as she falls for Humbert. And yet, it's Humbert I sympathize with.Being a woman who has been burned by selfish men in the past, men who have led me on for whatever purpose suited them, I should feel rage on Charlotte's behalf and feel furious that Humbert so blatantly uses her, writing such nasty things about her. And yet, it's Humbert I sympathize with and share his irritation with Charlottes behavior.Being a protective mother of my children, I too would be horrified and utterly disgusted if some old creep was lusting after my kids. And yet, the way in which the erotic tension is built up between Lolita and Humbert is very fulfilling and delicious to watch. One practically yearns to see them interact in a sexual way.So basically Adrian Lyne managed to take me to a place far, far away from my normal values and attitudes - leaving me confused and disturbed by how I could feel such things watching this film. But in this case, it says less about me and more about what an utterly brilliant director and storyteller he is. "},{"Title":"relationship & drama","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was not expecting very much from the movie,but to my surprise it turns out to be a brilliant heart warming film,thanks to the sincere effort towards its direction & superb acting especially by DOMINIQUE as teenage girl.LOLITA focuses towards a man who finds her dead teenage lover. in a 14 year old girl,and tries to overwhelm her erotic desires on her.Actually I watched this movie just to enjoy the sexual angle of the movie,but surely it is worth more than that,I have not watched the 1962 version yet,but for me it is one of the movie which explore the emotional point of a relationship..from a point of view of the man who is ready to take the responsibility of girls father and at the same time acts her lover too..a movie that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian's Lyne's Lolita is an exceptional film which hasn't received the praise and attention it deserves since its release, probably due to the media-fuelled sideshow over whether the film is too explicit or whether its treatment of the Humbert character is too sympathetic. For what it's worth, I don't consider anything in the film to be particularly explicit or salacious and therefore couldn't understand what all the fuss was about in the first place. Does the film portray a sympathetic paedophile? Arguably, but it must be borne in mind that the film, like the novel, is narrated by and viewed entirely through the eyes of Humbert, thus leaving itself far more open to the charge than if, for example, events were seen from the viewpoint of Lolita. I also remember reading some rubbish in sections of the British press at the time of the film's release about its glamourisation of paedophilia through its choice of a handsome leading man like Jeremy Irons. The filmmakers were only following Nabokov's lead here as he has Humbert mention at various points in the novel (somewhat immodestly) that he is a very good-looking man. In any case, it's just nonsense to suppose that all paedophiles are hideously ugly people. The only lesson I think can be drawn from all this is that any film made nowadays which tries to deal with the issue of paedophilia is really playing with fire, whether it's explicit or not. The film sticks fairly closely to Nabokov's novel with much of Jeremy Irons' narration culled directly from its pages, a nice touch, as Nabokov's prose is so beautiful and poetic. The performances of Irons and Swain are superb and Melanie Griffith, a much-maligned actress over the years, is ideal as the bitchy, annoying Charlotte Haze. Frank Langella is also great as the creepy, depraved Quilty. The film is beautifully photographed and the recreation of late 40s/early 50s America is spot on. Ennio Morricone's score is simply breathtaking, one of the best I have heard. How he was denied an Oscar nomination is beyond me. I can only assume that the controversy-hating Academy could not bring itself even to give the film a nomination in one of the more minor categories. The film, like the book, contains some very funny moments but is ultimately a tragic and moving experience. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Directed Tale of Forbidden Lust","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So I was walking through my parents living room one night when a scene caught my eye. It was of a young girl in a sailor short set, jump on an older guy and kiss him, all in slow-mo. She ran out of the room gleefully and the older guy looked pained and pleased at the same time. I thought What is this? I checked the TV book and found it was the 1997 remake of Lolita.I made sure to watch it the next time it came on and was completely intrigued by the whole sad story. I'd heard about the original story but instead of it being this dirty old man lusting after Lo, Jeremy Iron's portrayal makes you feel for Humbert because he isn't just some old perv, but a very kind, loving man who has feelings for a girl who represents that love he lost as a teen. You actually hurt with him as Lolita toys with him, bribes him and leaves him. Dominique Swain was perfect in the role. Beautiful, seductive but also childish and playful.The cinematography is great along with the musical score. You get a real sense of the 40's era. This version is way better than the Kubirck original, which I saw afterwards. Mason seemed like a dirty old man and though Lyons was okay. I prefer Langella's Quilty as dark and mysterious (and surprisingly naked!) to the original screen Quilty.Highly underrated. This is great work for all involved. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Original","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this film, I found it to be better than the original. And usually, I'm not fond of remakes. Because of the time, the story couldn't be told properly then. I was completely drawn in to the movie. I thought it was well made, well directed, and the cinematography beautiful.I was told by a friend it's just a movie about a sick, perverted old man. Not so. Like another user commented, it's an emotional roller coaster. It's a deep, sad, and tragic film. Yet, a joy to watch. I think everyone should give this movie a chance. If you think it's just a film about a pervert, look a little deeper. It's much more. I consider it the best film I saw that year. 10!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Nice try, but no match for Mason/Lion original","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some 35 years AFTER a stunned world saw James Mason, Shelly Winters and Sue Lion in the original Lolita (filmed in black & white), a remake (in sumptuous color) hit the silver screen. Starring Jeremy Irons in the role of the lecherous Professor Humbert, Melanie Griffith as the sexually pulsating widow/land lady, and introducing Dominique Swain, as the teenage temptress.Along with perfect casting and breathtaking cinematography, the film virtually works scene by scene mimmicking the original. Still I compare the complete project to the work of Mason/Lion/Winters. The first cast exceeded the second in credibility and passion. In one aspect, this new version stands out The scenes where Lolita teases the visibly enchanted Humbert are considerably more racy than those shown between Mason and Lion. Though no less controversial, the b&w original clearly had matters toned down. Still, in 1997 many an eyebrow could be raised about the implication of a middle aged man entertaining sexual thoughts about a girl of 13 or 14.For those who haven't seen the 1962 original version, you will enjoy this remake. Only for those who HAVE seen the former, I caution you that your expectations for improvement on the original are not likely to be met. For certain you will be entertained searching for the differences.  "},{"Title":"Neither movie dealt with the central issue of the book.","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nabokov handled the subject of pedophilia with wit and subtlety, but the heart of the story has to do with Humbert's sickness. This fact cannot begin to be understood or appreciated when the movies use post-pubescent girls to represent Lolita. We the viewers are supposed to be repelled by Humbert's sexual choice.The Sue Lyon version utterly failed, because she was fully mature, thus missing the point. Mason's Humbert may have been foolish, but not repulsive. The Swain version missed for the same reason.In addition, the Nymphet concept was missing. Neither Lyon nor Swain was a Nymphet because neither was seductive enough.Swain's portrayal was good, but entirely missed the point, because Swain, alas, isn't even pretty, let alone seductive. I agree with many who see merit in both versions; both were exceptionally good movies, but neither dealt with the novel's central issue.  "},{"Title":"A no so fine romance","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm afraid, I'm another one of those bores who have read the book (a long time ago) and seen Kubrick's 1962 version (again, a few days ago, which prompted a viewing of this one). I have to agree with Alan Stone of the Boston Review (linked on this page under `external reviews') that here director Adrian Lyne has managed to convert Nabokov's comic literary novel on the dangerous subject of paedophilia and the even more dangerous subject of American cultural criticism into a tragic romance, giving us a more literal rendering of the story than Kubrick's and which does even less justice to the book.Once again, the sex scenes are toned down to placate the censors, both official and non-official, who are attracted like flies to material like this. Dominique Swain, Lolita, at 14 is more the nymphet than Sue Lyon was but Jeremy Irons looks younger than James Mason did as Humbert. He is more a case of arrested development than a world-weary middle-aged intellectual nursing a secret passion for under-aged girls, and we are asked to believe this has come about because of the loss (to typhus) of his first love when he was 14. No one can do an Englishman in emotional torment like Irons, and he is superb here (even though he is meant to be French), but the origins of his suffering remain implausible. The other two important roles in Kubrick's film' (rather blown up from the book), Lolita's mother Mrs Charlotte Haze and Quilty the pederast, are considerably reduced here, so that the film is about little else than the fragile and deteriorating relationship between Humbert and Lolita. This is just as well as regards Charlotte, who is execrably played by Melanie Griffith (it is a relief to see her run over), but Frank Langdella does give us an alternative Quilty worth attention.While agoraphobic Stanley did his filming in and around Elstree in England, Lyne went on a location orgy. There doesn't seem to be a US state with a film commission he didn't visit, with France thrown in for good measure, and it's easy to see where the $60 million US went. This is one aspect which is truer to the book, since Nabokov sends Humbert and Lolita on a not so grand tour of the US &#150; highways, gas stations, dreary motel rooms and rampant kitsch Americana. One scene we are in the forest somewhere (Appalachians?) the next it's Texas &#150; but then geography is not Professor Humbert's subject. Nor Adrian Lynes' &#150; one place we do not get to is New Hampshire, the Nabokovian location of the Haze household.Because Lyne has set the film according to the novel, he has to evoke a lost era, the US of the immediate post war years, and here he succeeds brilliantly &#150; the music, the décor, the drugstores, the dresses, the hairstyles and even the character's attitudes all fit beautifully. Here at least the huge budget was well spent.We get rather less of Nabokov's wry commentary on US education and culture, though there is one delightful scene at `Beardsley College', when Humbert, professor of French poetry, is told by the administrators about the importance of dating in the curriculum. Nabokov set `Beardsley' in Ohio (he once taught at Wellesley College, Boston) but Lyne, for inexplicable reasons, has located it right next to the St Charles Streetcar track in uptown Norlins (sorry, that's New Orleans for the uninitiated). Well never mind, we get the point. Poor old Humbert dies in prison again and this time we are advised of Lolita's fate (Stanley held out on that one). Quilty gets what he deserved, or at least Humbert gets to vanquish his dark side. Oh, why do such good books make such crook films? "},{"Title":"The razor-sharp eye of Adrian Lyne","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Last night I saw the newer version of 'Lolita' and decided that Adrian Lyne is one of our great modern directors. Yes, 'Flashdance,' 'Indecent Proposal,' and 'Fatal Attraction' left me writhing in my seat at times, but '9 1/2 Weeks' (Mickey Rourke is just awesome) redeemed them.  Of course, 'Jacob's Ladder' is one of the most visually horrific films to appear in the past fifty years, but it was truly this searing version of Nabakov's masterpiece that put Lyne over the top for me.Jeremy Irons is one of those rare actors who, like Brando or Dafoe, enter each moment with complete commitment and sincerity (Freddie Prinze, Jr. following close behind...).  I admire Irons' work so much, from the chilling 'Dead Ringers' to the unforgettably painful 'Damage.'  Much like Michael Douglas, Irons places himself in roles that demand humiliation, suffering, and total loss of dignity at times.  Unlike Douglas, however, Irons effortlessly works through these moments with a gaunt and quixotic expression that eternally haunts.No, we're not discussing Melanie Griffith.  Her voice is painful to listen to--and it reminds me of the one thing I dislike about 'Chasing Amy' Joey Lauren Adams' voice.  Urgh.  Griffith and Holly Hunter should do the world a collective favor and work strictly on silent films...Dominique Swain is as a rare a find as Sue Lyon was for Kubrick's version.  It's actually quite sad that Swain has yet to produce a respectable performance since because her naturalistic approach and obvious improvisational talent shines throughout the film.Overall, of course, it is Lyne's unrelenting attention to detail that wins over in 'Lolita.'  Every moment is filled with carefully observed details the enigmatic touch of a foot or hand, the quick cut away to a glance or grin, the curious distractions that intensify certain emotions (flickering lights, barking dogs, a strand of saliva dangling from Lolita's retainer).I can only begin to imagine how keenly his eye captures the world.  Lyne himself admitted to drawing from his own marital spats for 'Indecent Proposal;' specifically the moment with the yellow rubber gloves and the suds of the sink.  In 'Jacob's Ladder,' he created the violently contorting heads from a painting his once saw of a man in agony.  In fact, we could almost taste the foods Rourke was playfully feeding to Basinger in '9 1/2 Weeks.'But back to 'Lolita.'  I was innumerably glad that Lyne approached Humbert not as some intellectual pervert to be laughed at with each successive bumble.  In fact, the inclusion of the expository action (Humbert in his youth madly in love with a nymphet that dies three months into their affair) paints an entirely different portrait than the doomed cyclical beginnings of Kubrick's version (Humbert entering Quilty's barren mansion with a loaded gun).  Lyne places the focus directly on Humbert and his obsession with the nymphet rather than the RAMIFICATIONS of such an obsession.  This is a crucial--if not highly controversial--directorial choice (Lyne recalls the fear surrounding the production during the unfolding of the Jon Benet melodrama).I have seen the film twice now and explored the DVD's ample supply of extras.  This certainly isn't the easily disposable kind of entertainment that Hollywood prides itself on; 'Lolita' loomed over me both ways of a four-hour bus ride.  I wish to place it among my favorite films dealing with love 'Chasing Amy,' 'Leaving Las Vegas,' 'The Piano.'  In time I think I will be able to further sort my feelings about this film, but for now it is sufficient to say that I have been scarred.Tolka's advice Some films succeed in hurting; just be prepared. "},{"Title":"The tales of two Los","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vladimir Nabokov's novel was a travelogue describing the exploits of a British intellectual with the unfortunate name of Humbert Humbert and his 12-year-old, almost unreal, paramour. Two films have been based on this novel. Both Jeremy Irons and James Mason are acceptable Humberts, though while reading the book, I pictured either Rex Harrison or Noel Coward. Shelley Winters was perfectly obnoxious as Charlotte, while Melanie Griffith was terribly miscast. Stanley Kubrick's 1962 film is a dark farce while Lyne's adaptation is truer to the source. Kubrick's film deals with Mason's obsession for young Sue Lyon who, after the infatuation wears off, is a younger version of obnoxious Winters. Here lies the darkest humor of the piece. It is the same idea used by Blake Edwards in his 10, where Dudley Moore discovers that his beautiful dream girl, Bo Derek, is really a common dud. Kubrick also features a fair share of slapstick, which is surprisingly not handled by Peter Sellers. The famous cot scene is straight out of Laurel and Hardy. Winter's seduction of Mason is also hysterical. Lyne's film takes itself seriously and the only humor is really provided by Dominique Swain as Lolita. As for the characters of Clare Quilty, Frank Langella's character is pure evil, while Peter Sellers plays an insane impressionist. They are as different as night and day.Now for my comparison of the Lolitas. It is hard to believe that Sue Lyon was actually younger than Dominique Swain was when she appeared as Lolita. Lyon's Lolita is a beautiful, young adult. There is nothing childish about her. The taboo of a grown man falling in love with her is completely undermined. She is an adult who turns him into an irrational child. Her worst qualities are the personality traits she inherited from her mother. Seventeen year old Dominique is much more of a child. In Lyne's film, Lolita is supposed to be 14; it is never mentioned in the Kubrick film. Dominique does not act like a high school student. Her Lolita is a middle school child. Though physically, Dominique Swain is about as close to perfection as any girl could ever be, her Lolita is clunky, all arms and legs fidgeting all over the place. And it is she, beautiful Dominique, who provides the little humor this film has. Her playing with her retainer and her constant off pitch singing with the radio are quite funny. Her Lolita is ironic; she is physically immature for her age, but she is sexually very aware. Dominique is less convincing as Mrs. Richard Schiller. She looks like a pretty young girl dressing up as a frumpy old woman for Halloween. Her physical movement has matured, but her voice is still child-like.Kubrick's film is a masterpiece of International comic cinema. It is linked with Dr. Strangelove, Kubrick's other comic masterpiece, since both contain the best performances ever given by Peter Sellers. Lyne's film is beautiful to look at, but it will probably be forgotten because it does not go far enough. However, it is a fine adaptation of the novel. It is too bad the Dominique Swain has not had another role to propel her into stardom. She is magnificently beautiful and has a wonderful comedic sense. "}{"Title":"Far inferior to Kubrick's Lolita","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was absolutely no need for a Lolita remake.  Although the original (Kubrick's) Lolita was in black and white, and seems dated, it was much more effective in drawing me into the world of Lolita than the latter version. Kubrick's version seemed much more natural and convincing.  Most of the scenes did not seem forced.  Whereas in the modern version, you can actually tell that the actors are acting.  I found Melanie Griffith's portrayal of Lolita's mother very unconvincing.  In the original movie, I felt the lady who played Lolita's mother was a very good actor.  Her range in feeling were very broad.  All Melanie Griffith seemed to be able to express was stupidity and lovesickness.  I didn't even know stupidity was part of the original character's persona.  Everyone else turned in a decent performance. However, the movie seemed to take itself to seriously at times.  (As though trying to convince the viewer that great taboos were being broken) One most interesting difference between the two movies is how different the main characters are.  In the original, you had a professor who, falling under lolita's charms, acts quite silly and immature.  Despite his immature love for lolita, he still seemed like a good person, and therefore it was hard not understand his situation, even like him.  In the modern remake, the main character was much more serious, stoic.  He appeared to be, at times, like a sexual predator. One could not feel for him, nor even imagine being in his shoes.  He did not have enough humanity for us to sympathize with.I'll admit the modern remake is more extreme (in terms of sexual expression and intensity) but I found the original movie to have much more substance and originality.  In the modern remake, lolita and the professor both seemed as though they had absolutely no qualms about having a guiltless sexual relationship.  There is almost no story at all here.  We have two people who have great affinity for each other despite the difference in age.  So what? I found it much more interesting in the older version when the characters did not act as though they were in a soft porn movie.  Kubrick did a great job in creating tension by using this taboo.   "},{"Title":"Not faithful to Nabokov","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Adrian Lyne's portrayal of the famed Nabokov novel has all of the beautiful cinematography, enrapturing score and great acting that one would expect. However, this film still falls short of actually presenting what the novel is all about. It isn't a tearjerker about the innocent Humbert Humbert being unfairly taken advantage of by the bold, yet still childlike Lolita, it is in fact the exact opposite.After watching this film, I couldn't help but feel sorry for Humbert and his endless longing for Lolita. After all, Lyne makes it seem that Lolita used him, then took off with another man who could give her the satisfaction that she needed. Nabokov never intended for this to happen in the novel, so why is Lyne so unfaithful himself to the actual story?The strong point of this film is the large performance of Jeremy Irons as Humbert, a man who truly loves Lolita very much and never could fight off any feelings for her. One can see the pain build up within Irons as the film progresses until the final scenes in which he finishes off Quilty (a very unnecessary scene). My favourite scene of the film happens to be near the end when Humbert is being followed by the police, drives into a farmer's field and proceeds to get out of his car and just stand there. This scene alone speaks more than the majority of the film itself.Melanie Griffith seems miscast as Charlotte Haze (who in Nabokov's novel is fat and unattractive), I don't know of many men who would want to subdue her with sleeping pills every night in order to pass on their husbandly duties. Dominique Swain puzzles me in the role of Lolita. She captures the whole nymphette quality, but should have been a little more subdued at times. She seems slightly more childish in her performance than Nabokov intended.I would give a slight recommendation to the over 16 crowd who have an appreciation for the more artsy-type films like Lolita. However, it may seem quite subdued when compared to all of the hype.6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Lolita (1997) Fails to Capture Tone of Nabokov's Work","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The 1997 adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita may have emotional appeal and resonance, but it fails to capture the tone of the novel. While it is not necessary for a film to accurately reflect a novel's content (being a different medium), there is usually an effort made to represent the heart, mood, or overall theme of the adapted work. Nabokov's Humbert is an unreliable narrator, a self-aggrandizing, pathetically pompous man. The dark humour of the novel is evoked by the reader's awareness that Humbert is a joke. The reader has access to Humbert's private thoughts and must infer what's really happening. The reader's inferences and judgments make the novel a grim pleasure to read. The novel is tragically comic, not merely tragic. In contrast, Lyne's Humbert, as portrayed by Jeremy Irons is put forth as a melancholy romantic who may be lying to himself, but is ultimately a more sympathetic character. Lyne's adaptation has characterized itself as more faithful to Nabokov's work, but it is only so in word alone. This failure to fully realize the character of Humbert as the ponce that he is turns the 1997 adaptation into a tragic romance, eliminating the truth conveyed regarding human folly and deception put forth in the original work. "},{"Title":"Very well made","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now I haven't seen the Kubrick version. That was what I set out to watch but i ended up with this and i am not in any way disappointed. First is the casting of Jeremy Irons and the easy way he delivers the most difficult and beautiful lines. Precocious Lolita was exemplary! There were no doubts there but what i fell in love with about this movie was the Precision of the Direction.I have never heard of this Director before and it is always such a gift to discover another good Director. I don't know what more Kubrick would have done to make his a better movie and I hope I find out soon. One or two flaws will be found as with any other work of genius but genius is never perfect. I watched this film believing there was no more the Director could have done.I like the whole idea of Lolita, the telling of such a controversial tale through the eyes of the affecter and not the affected. Altogether a very well made film! "},{"Title":"unbelievable realistic","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am pretty much sure that Nabokov and Adrian Lyne too (respect!) had affair with 14-years old girl. Because I cannot think of other explanation of this unbelievable realistic portrait of sexual relationship between teenage girl and an man in mid-age in this movie. We can really feel director's personal experience of such relationship in real life. All acting and the personal relationship between the main characters are very very real. Novice cannot appreciate this. Only audience with real experience in this area can appreciate how realistic this movie is. All I can say is respect to Adrian Lyne. And I will sure buy Nabokov's book, hoping that it is at least so good as the movie. And I will repeat myself but again I must write it Respect to the director. It's very rare to see so such realism in the movies these days. "},{"Title":"Perfection...","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best movie i have ever seen. Everything seems to be so highly detailed that one is left speechless and with open jaws. Dominique, Irons and Griffith is acting so emotional that it send shivers down my spine and is living 100% into the movie's plot. Amazing something so superb can roll over the screen and touch you the way it does. "},{"Title":"I thought the older one better","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not viewed comments from other viewers, I am just going to say what I thought.    My boyfriend and I rented this version last weekend, with us both having seen the original and him having read the book. I'm sorry, but I liked the original cast better, with James Mason, Sue lyon, and Shelley Winters. I felt they were all better cast. I love Melanie Griffith and Jeremy Irons, but I find them much better in other roles. Dominique Swain does quite well as the teasing, not-so-innocent bratty lover of a much older man, but I just thought Sue was better, at acting bored and acting bratty. This film was prettier, slightly more explicit, and was more tiring to me. Plus the Peter Seller's role of Quilty is hardly there, and not as much a presence in this film as in the original. And I thought that character was a menacing character that was important.If you can only rent one of these, then rent the 60s version. If you can, see both and compare.  7 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Evolve Interrupted","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe this movie show what a man expects from a woman, that enigmatic feminity that turn him on making him a beast and a child in the same time. For me, this subject is a study of that transformation that makes from a boy a man. Humbert is still a boy but it tries desperately to became a man. That's why he puts all his hopes in Lolita; he hopes that he will grow up helped by her. Instead, Lolita is a normal teenager, without father, who instinctively puts Humbert in that empty place. Both, Humbert and Lolita have two incomplete evolutions -dead teenage girlfriend-dead father. At the first the bondage between them covered this emptiness from their lives, but Lolita continue to evolve becoming a woman and Humbert remains stocked in that boy. "},{"Title":"Maybe they ought to remake Gigi while they're at it","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first thing amiss with Adrian Lyne's Lolita is that Melanie Griffith is entirely wrong for the part of Charlotte Haze. The Haze woman must be UNattractive. Shelly Winters in Kubrick's Lolita (1962) was perfect for the part because she was a woman who had once been attractive, but had become fat and had lost her looks. Charlotte must be unattractive as a contrast to Lo (and not just in Humbert's mind); furthermore the references to her as a fat cow and Humbert's disinclination to make love to her, do not play well if she's attractive. Melanie Griffith is actually better looking than the young star, Dominique Swain, who plays Lolita. Swain is pretty enough, however, and although not the great beauty that Sue Lyon (who played Lolita in the original) was, she is actually sexier, and she is an excellent actress. She does the coquettish muggings better than Sue Lyon did and she is allowed more latitude. Humbert never even kissed Lolita in Kubrick's version! The direction is patently stupid in parts as though Lyne wasn't paying attention to his film. He has Humbert stare at Lolita in the famous scene when he first spots her on the lawn much, much too long so that Charlotte Haze could not help but notice his noticing. And in the scene on the front porch, with the three of them together on the couch, Charlotte would have to be blind not to see the sex play between the two right there in front of her eyes.This is a cynical, loveless Lolita. The scene at the Enchanted Huntress is not enchanted. Instead Lo teaches Hum some sex numbers. By the time they are in the car driving away from the Enchanted Huntress, the romance is over.Once on the road, Humbert finds out that he has to be a father as well as a lover. She thus begins to despise him. But she has nowhere else to turn. The rooms of the motels are not romanticized. Lyne makes them sorted and cheap. He shows a sign advertising Children under 14 free at one of Humbert's choice stopping places, slyly reminding the cognoscente that Nabokov's nymphet should be younger than Shakespeare's Juliet, who was thirteen. (Given the puritanical nature of the American political psyche, neither Lyne nor Kubrick was able to make a true to the book film.) Irons is now looking older with the stress of taking care of Lo and dealing with his forbidden love.Lyne wants to emphasize the idea that Lolita has been robbed of part of her childhood. She becomes a prostitute, effectively speaking, as she negotiates with Humbert about quarters and dollars for her favors. Kubrick glossed over this while Lyne highlights it. When Humbert tries to grab her saved-up money for fear she will use it to escape him, she shouts indignantly, I EARNED that money! We feel no affection or identification for Humbert as played by Irons because he seems so consumed by his sexual need that he is aware of nothing else. James Mason as Kubrick's Humbert at least aroused our pity. In the novel and in the Kubrick film it was clear that Humbert loved her. In this version it appears that he only wants to use her to get off. And in fact can only get off with her, and so in one sense he is her prisoner.One of the strong points of Lyne's film is the photography of Swain. The camera brings both her adolescent body and face alive. She is natural and confident. It's hard not to feel a strong affection for her. Again I would like to see more evidence that Humbert loves her. In some scenes we see that she, in her on-again off- again way, loves him, as though she cannot not help but love him because there is no one else. It is kind of like we love our parents because they are our parents--and hate them since they control us.The Kubrick film and the novel had Humbert as the focus. The Lyne film, despite the Humbert voice-over, is really seen from Lo's point of view. And Lyne did not, I suspect, like all the comedy in the Kubrick version.The really terrible thing about Nabokov's tale that both directors got right is the unrelenting possessiveness of Humbert, the unrelenting control he exercised over Lolita. That was his undoing of course, and really shows the perverted nature of his love for her. If he had really loved her, he would have stepped aside and let her live a normal life. That's what fathers do. That he loved her as a woman is not in itself a tragedy. It was the jealousy and control. Lolita makes this clear when as the pregnant, married and glasses-wearing Dolly, looking common and matronly in a cheap house with a dirt yard and a working-class husband, she sees Humbert for the last time.Lyne wanted us to focus on something sad and corrupted. This is a Lolita for the Nineties. She is exploitative; he is a sick man she is exploiting. This interpretation will be more agreeable to some since it reenforces the idea that teen sexuality is wrong. As usual, we see that nobody cares about the girl. The feminists know she has the sexual power, and they are jealous. They want to put her off limits so that they have a better currency themselves. This is the political position of the sexual wars, and Lyne has fallen into it. I think we need a French Lolita, as done by somebody like Louis Malle. I don't expect this for another hundred years, however. This film ought to kill the theme for quite a while.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Fails on nearly every level","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie should be required viewing for anyone who wants to know how not to create a film from a novel.  The basic premise underlying the adaptation of Nabokov's work (among the best modern literary works in English) is flawed; much of the novel's power stems from Humbert's thoughts and how things look from his twisted yet insightful perspective.  Nearly all of this is left out of this telling which, to be fair, is difficult to avoid with a work like Lolita.  But it's removal does much to rob the story of it's vividness (and it certainly destroys any sense of Humbert as a coherent, if flawed, character)The actors do absolutely nothing to help this situation.  The best is the usually-solid Jeremy Irons who simply looks lost throughout much of the movie.  Melanie Griffith's Charlotte is a grotesque cartoon with almost no form and less inspiration.  And then there's the much-heralded Dominique Swain, chosen to represent the nymphet Lo.  Watching this film, it was clear that she either had no notion of what nymphet means or was simply incapable of playing a moderately sophisticated role that requires some sense of sexuality.  There was a lack of any chemistry between she and Mr. Irons in all the places where such chemistry was warranted.There were some interesting visuals in the film, particularly the nightmarish sequence near the end.  That said, they don't do nearly enough to save a very weak movie.  This film fails on nearly every level. "}{"Title":"A Hook-nosed and gumble chinned insight into the world of phaetonia","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very good film, Fully of funny moments and perverted scenes. I think this film is every mans guilty pleasure.Good old Humbert tries to resist his urges but ultimately succumbs to the sweet advances of Lo.the antagonist is debauched playwright Quilty (Frank Langella) and his appearance amid the pale fire of exploding bug-zappers really is very amusing.There are about 8 deleted scenes on youtube which I cant understand why they didn't put them in, you get to see more of Humbert's funny quips and perversion.Highly recommended movie! "},{"Title":"A laudable attempt to film the unfilmable","Date":"12 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Going in you know this has to be a film which treads very lightly around the most sensitive of subject matters. In that regard it succeeds admirably, there's nothing remotely titillating here, indeed the only real nudity is Frank Langella's rather startling full frontal scene as he flees a gun-toting Humbert in the finale. From start to finish despite the beauty of the photography and Humbert's elegiac narration it's plain to all that this is a tragedy, Humbert's final words are those of regret that through his selfishness he has denied Lolita her childhood (and through the ultimate revelation it seems the joy of motherhood too).Plenty of good here, Irons is great as Humbert (to think this is the guy I watched as a child on kids variety show 'Playaway'!), handsome enough for the role but not some blatant Casanova, you can understand why he appeals to women without casting him as an incorrigible womanizer or pervert. He achieves the near impossible task of creating audience sympathy for a man who attempts to drug rape an adolescent virgin (or so he thinks). Melanie Griffith does well with the frankly thankless task of playing Lolita's mother and Swain is fine as the title character, a shame she never seemed to be able to capitalize upon the brief fame it brought her. Langella almost steals the entire show as the odious Quilty (the dark reflection of Humbert himself, murdering him as an act of self-loathing?).If there's one flaw it's that ultimately it falls short of confronting the monstrosity of Humbert's actions. Dominique Swain's Lolita is always clearly a teenage girl on the verge of womanhood, she's very obviously 14. In the book Lolita is only 12, the film chickens out from casting a girl who looks the correct age as it would just be too uncomfortable for the audience and legally difficult to cast an actress who'd look the right age but have to take part in (both literally and figuratively) 'adult' scenes. Casting her as older puts everything in an altogether different light (Humbert and Lolita's relationship would actually be legal in parts of Europe and the US at the time) and lessens the impact of the taboo being broken, with every year older she becomes the subject matter is conversely less shocking. In the end the film doesn't have the courage of its' convictions. Still I think that ultimately it is the best adaptation we shall ever have of this most controversial of literary classics. "},{"Title":"Don't miss","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really came into this movie with the expectation that it wasn't going to be much. Boy, was I wrong. This is an immensely powerful, emotional and visually captivating movie. Nothing at all like the insepid version Kubrick did with Peter Sellers turning the whole thing into trash. ( That's tuff to say. My favorite director of all time is Kubrick and I love Peter Sellers) But Kubrick missed the whole thing of the Lolita story... the man obsessed with youthful beauty, the maniacal impulse to try to control it for one's owns advantages and needs. Adrian Lyne does greater justice to this story and concept than one could ever anticipate and Jeremy Irons is flawless and brilliant in his portrayal of the obsessed adult. The score by Ennio Morricone is unbelievable... after the movie you will hear it in your head for days. Dominique Swain was a devastating choice for the role. Everything this little beguiling vixen should have been... is seen here. You might laugh at the idea of Melanie Griffith reprising the Shelley Winters role of the unattractive mother, Charlotte Haze... but her personality in the character makes her just astonishingly perfect. I could wear you out with words about how great this movie is...but it would only delay the time you require to rent or download it and watch it. "},{"Title":"Light of my life, Fire of my loins, my sin my soul. Poetic masterpiece.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" People tend to stray away and scorn films of this kind of content but this film is absolutely beautiful in every category. Cinematography is excellent perhaps the best I've seen immortalized in a film, Acting is sensational, Jeremy irons is about as good of a narrator as Morgan Freeman. So many movie get hyped up by people and after others see the movies they are very disappointed because its was all overrated. I've seen this film more than 100 times and it preserves it beauty and poetic uniqueness very well over time. Someday this film will get the recognition it deserves as one of the greatest film ever made. Definitely a underrated masterpiece but make sure to watch it without prejudice to engulf the full beauty of this film. "},{"Title":"Real Love","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita has been called the greatest love story of the 20th Century. How is that possible? A pathetic old man loves little girls, and when he finally has the opportunity he exploits an orphan thoroughly and completely. What makes the story great is that it expresses raw emotion, pure passion, real love.Background The author of the original story, Vladimir Nabokov, was a literary genius whose portrayal of the pedophile Humbert Humbert is so powerful and realistic that readers suspect the Russian-born author must have been a pedophile himself. However, as Boyd's definitive 2-volume biography shows, there is no evidence that Nabokov was anything but a mature, happily married heterosexual.Set in France and the U.S.A., the story begins by describing the early life of the main character, Humbert, who fell in love with a girl, Annabelle, when they were 13. She died suddenly, and he remained fixated on girls aged 9-14 for the rest of his life. Most of the novel (and both film versions) focuses on Humbert in the 1940s when he is in his 40s, and has a relationship with another girl, Lolita, beginning when she is 12.Although Humbert is portrayed as a human being rather than an inhuman monster, the author doesn't romanticize Humbert's imbalanced mind or his crimes against the young girl. This is an educational story of how a man should NOT treat young girls. Humbert's relationship with Lolita soon turns tragic, and he eventually looses her to another pedophile in the story, Quilty, portrayed as a creative artist who is Humbert's rival for Lolita'a affection. Unlike the opportunist Quilty, Humbert didn't consider the young girl a score, she was his redemption. All the main characters in the story die eventually.Despite being a respected professor and acclaimed writer, Nabokov was unable to find a conventional publisher for Lolita and had to settle for a pornography publisher in France. There were attempts to censor the book in France and Britain, until it was finally published in the U.S. Various versions of the book have since sold over 40 million copies, and there have been two film versions &#x96; one in 1962 and the other in 1997, as well as many books and dissertations about the author, and even a biography of his remarkable wife, Vera. Lolita isn't Nabokov's best novel (I prefer Ada), but it is by far his most popular. I highly recommend listening to actor Jeremy Irons' inspired reading of the book on audio CD.The First Film Stanley Kubrick did a great job of making this controversial story acceptable to the American public. Nabokov wrote the screenplay, but Kubrick didn't follow it very closely. The theme music and Peter Sellers (as Quilty) give the film a comic tone, as is common in treating sexual themes in Europe. It's in black and white, which contributes to the sense of history.The Second Film Adrian Lyne's version offers a more accurate presentation of the story (historically). The most beautiful part of the film is the meeting between Humbert as a boy and his child-love Annabelle. There is more physical contact in the second film, but still no nudity or actual sex. In some ways there is more hysteria over sex between different age groups today than in the past, so maybe Lyne felt inhibited? The theme music is certainly more somber than in the first film.Both films feature beautiful photography and are well worth seeing, now more than ever due to the current mass hysteria over sex between different age groups (14-year-olds on sex offender registries for engaging in sex play with 9-year-olds!) Some people today are horrified by the subject of this story, apparently without being aware that the tragic ending is entirely consistent with political correctness. A defect in both films is that Lolita is not played by a 12-year-old actress, the same problem that exists when you see a performance of Romeo and Juliet featuring middle-aged opera singers. There is a need for a third film version for that reason alone. A 12-year-old actress can easily be made up to look like a 16-year-old for the end of the story. If you're willing to finance a third film version, I'll write the screenplay myself!- Frank Adamo, author of the documentary Girl Becomes Woman. "},{"Title":"a perfect movie?","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. I love everything about this movie - The story, characters, music, scenery etc. I have read Vladimir Nabokov novel and this movie is an almost excellent adaptation of the book. The movie has been so beautifully shot that it stays in your head long after you watch it. The relationship between Lolita and Humbert has been shown exactly as in the book. Humbert is obsessed with Lolita because he lost his lover when he was a teenager and he is always looking for her in other teenage girls. And Lolita was discovering her sexuality and had a desire to seduce Humbert who had feelings for her.A beautifully written novel and a beautifully shot movie. Watch the movie and read the book. Go! "},{"Title":"Saw the original & read the book","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The original was good, very good but of course at the time the sexual content had to be subtle so before reading the book it was almost like did they or didn't they. Both movies pick up at the same point in the book when actually in the book a lot has gone on with Humbert involving younger women before Lolita. This movie stuck more to the book (because of the day and time I imagine). Interesting movie, sad in a way but not for either male characters. Mostly for Lolita. Losing her mother and her father and being taken advantage of by two very older men. At times she cries in the movie almost as if she knows what's happening to her but she knows no different or how to change her situation. In the end I feel sorry for her. She was a child taken advantage of. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and accomplished introduction to Nabokov's masterpiece.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As an adaptation, the Adrian Lyne version is far more faithful to Nabokov's classic novel than the earlier, albeit again great Kubrick film.The leads, Jeremy Irons, Dominique Swain and Melanie Griffith are all excellently cast; indeed, rather than the slightly older age of Swain being an impediment, it actually allows Lyne to explore the sexuality of the novel in a far more frank and striking way than would have been possible with the age and maturity of an actress any younger than Dominique Swain. The appearance and delivery of the two older central characters are also superb, with Irons and Griffith both presenting the darkly pitiable natures of Humbert and Charlotte Haze.Lyne's film also succeeds in highlighting the range of scenery as Humbert and Lolita travel across the American landscape; whilst Ennio Morricone's score appropriately depicts the tragic sentiment of the novel. Moreover, Lyne also succeeds in balancing the tragic elements with the black humour of Nabokov's prose and his fascination with US pop culture.Of course, no film can ever stand as a substitute for a novel as profoundly brilliant as Nabokov's Lolita. It might at least encourage people to turn to the stunningly beautiful prose of the original. One final point to an earlier comment made; the details of Lolita's fate are by no means a creation of Lyne's but are actually tacitly alluded in the fictional Foreward to the novel. "},{"Title":"Paints a different picture.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read the book and seen both version of the movie. While this movie was great I have to say that it is not like the book.  If you have ever read the book you realize just how sick Humbert was indeed.  In this version you don't see that at all.  The book gives you a sick feeling as you read his thoughts and ideas of what he wants to do.  If you finish reading Lolita you realize that it wasn't Lo' he was in love with but just little girls.  I am not saying Lolita was innocent, not at all but neither was Humbert. If you see this movie alone you get to feeling sorry for Humbert and play him out as the victim.  You think that if that temptress Lolita had never come a long he would have been a normal man and not the sicko he was.  Sorry but no, that is not Humberts character at all.  I will never feel sorry for a man that fantasizes about 8 year olds (something you didn't see in the movie).  I have no sympathy for him and I really dislike that this movie tried to get some out of me.  If you feel sorry for him please by all means read the book and think twice.  Like I said it's a good movie but with bad intentions, it was taken all too lightly I think. "},{"Title":"Trapped in its controversy","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I have not (yet) read the book, I cannot rate the adaptation, so for me it's a film on its own. In general, I liked it. It has quality, good dialogues, beautiful cinematography and a perfectly cast Jeremy Irons. At the beginning Dominique Swain, except for the teacher's eyes, managed to capture mine also, so I very much sympathize with the guy! And what a performance by this young girl. But after an hour or so, Irons' obsession with her becomes tiring and is not well explained. As the film progresses, we see the magic being lost gradually and we arrive at a totally Hollywood ending. My guess is that they tried to fit in very few minutes dozens of pages, that's why the result is so shallow. "}{"Title":"a two character play","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is essentially a two character play, and as Jeremy Irons is a known quality, it rises or falls on Dominique Swain.  It was never released threatically in the US and with good reason, although it was eventually shown on cable; read the book or enjoy Tuesday Weld and James Mason in Stanley Kubrick's version. "},{"Title":"the word is incest","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Lolita was filmed and showed during 1995-97, there was an enormous outrage, fainting-fit-where-is-my-smelling-salts etc etc in regards to the film, that I was half-dreading a 90 min marathon of salacious sex, dirty old man and soft porn actresses. Instead, I was served with a rose-tinted, romanticised version of Nabokovo's great work. That is not to say that it is bad - the cinematography, the music, and the actings were superb (Dominique Swain is one young actress to look out for), but after reading the novel prior the movie, I cannot help but wondering whether the movie is trying to elevate and plausibly explain Humbert's pedophilia. At times, it almost seemed (in the movie) as though Lolita had seduced Humbert, when really the stalking is done otherwise. The ending, however, is very poignant, and beautifully illustrates Humbert's epiphany. On the whole, definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"I am not completely convinced","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did read the book by Nabokov although I don't remember enough details to make a sound comparison. I did  feel more compassion with Humbert (or what was his name ;))after reading the novel though, than I did after seeing the movie. Let's start with Jeremy Irons, well of course he is looking ravishing as ever and I certainly can imagine having a crush on him even as a non-nymphette fourteen year old. Dominique though, she is certainly not looking like the fourteen year old I had imagined while reading the book, but still, some impressive acting! What I really don't understand is the controversy that was caused by this movie. Surely it's illegal to have sex with a minor, but so is killing someone and that seems to be considered as almost normal in the movies nowadays. But I really don't want to start a moral discussion.However my final conclusion is that if you have more time to spare than 2 hours I would recommend reading the book instead of seeing the movie.    	 "},{"Title":"Very Little in the way of comedy","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was a bit concerned that many posters have thought Humbert actually loved Lolita.  Let's not confuse love and lust.This is the story of a pathetic middle-aged man who cannot disentangle himself from his attraction to a nymphette.  It is told almost entirely from his perspective which is tragic and totally humourless, a role which Jeremey Irons does to perfection.  He does not find Melanie Griffiths attractive (who appears fat to him but not to anyone else -- remember how spunky she was in Cherry 2000?).  His only interest in her is to gain access to the object of his desire.  He is acutely aware how inappropriate it is, but he's powerless to resist.  Thus the momentum is set for most of the entire film.With few notable exceptions, movies do not do justice to books, just as videos don't do justice to movies.  I would venture to say it would be impossible to find a 12-year old who had the maturity to act Lolita.  Not particularly attractive (nor unattractive) Dominique Swain at 15, makes a very believable 14 year-old (but not a 17 year old) and puts in a splendid performance in the title role.  Perhaps it was possible because she hadn't had previous acting experience.  It made me think of the incredible non-professional child actors in many Iranian films -- though none of those would be given such an intense role as this one.The sign of good incidental music is that the audience doesn't notice it, only the mood it conveys.  It was conspicuous by its absence at times but I rarely noticed it.  I had been to a concert of superb Beethoven Chamber music a few hours earlier in the day I saw this film.  Since I am of the view that Ludwig wrote half of the world's exquisitely beautiful music, the fact that I didn't notice the incidental music is high praise of it indeed.I find appealing incidental images such as the flowers in the hospital rubbish bin and the old lady on the porch waving to all the traffic, but some were made a little too obvious.  A longer shot would have made these images less obvious and to my mind more satisfying.  The rest of the cinema audience had left and didn't see the final few frames after the credits.  That sequence might have Bible fanatics upset, but I liked it.  Come to think of it, so might they....The proliferation of 1940s consumerism paraphenalia and the vacuuous pop music did not convey any sense to me of satire, but did do a fairly accurate job of setting the social atmosphere.  With no sense of the satiric or comedic, the shooting scene just looked silly.  How come this guy's still walking even though he's been shot three times?  Since the story is told from HH's perspective, I took that to indicate he did not have a good grip on what was objectively observable.Excellent photography almost as good as Nicolas Roeg's (e.g. Walkabout or Don't Look Now) combined with great acting and music makes a film that anyone who has ever felt manipulated by another could relate to, even if they confuse love and lust. "},{"Title":"Forget the comparisons - its a good movie !","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget Nabokov and Kubrick for a moment - this Lyne film is genius in its own right.  Imaginative, and feeling-provoking.  It's images stick in your mind like snap-shots from a dream.  I loved this film as I do all Adrian Lyne's films.  Every time I think of this movie I think of Humbert and a little tear comes to my eye - not many films out there that can claim that. Kudos to Mr. Lyne for another masterpiece on par with Jacob's Ladder. "},{"Title":"Faithful visually, at least","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somebody read the novel on which this movie is based and then crafted an amazingly detailed visual representation of it.  Not much of Nabokov's language brilliance remains, but the scenes are so beautifully detailed that many of them came close to matching the mental images I've always had of the book's people and places.An awful lot of stuff has been left out that Kubrick managed to include in his version 35 years ago, such as John and Jean Farlow, Frederick Beale, etc.  These were wonderful Nabokovian comic characters, whose absence is made up for by the loving, almost obsessive, detail paid to other things, such as the various motels, Beardsley school, and the Kasbeam barber. Above all, the movie captures the rich, inescapable horror of Nabokov's novel.  Hubert's sexual paradise had skies the color of hell-flames, he said, and it's all there.  The screenwriter added a couple of years to Dolores's age (making her 14 instead of 12) and also to Humbert's age (40ish instead of mid-thirties), but the shame and horror are still there.  Now if we can talk Adrian Lyne into doing Pale Fire . . . "},{"Title":"Simply spectacular","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant, deeply moving, and  often breathtaking adaptation of  the classic novel. The only true love story on film today.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Accurate Adaptation","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it premiered on Showtime in August 1998.  I liked it so much I went out and got the book and became very obsessed with it.  That's where I got my s/n.  I got the 1962 Kubrick version too, which didn't follow the book very well (it being 1962 and too risque even in its diluted form for persons under 16).  This version even used direct passages from the book.  The music, actors, and overall cinematic technique are excellent.  They have an art-film, well-produced quality.  The dark colours follow Humbert's despair and inner torment.  The choice of Melanie Griffith as Charlotte Haze was perfect.  Dominique Swain was convincing and excellent.  Jeremy Irons was just young enough and just old enough to fit Humbert's persona perfectly.  Overall, I gave it a firm ten. "},{"Title":"The music of Ennio Morricone...","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From my early age, one of the strongest factors influencing me in watching a movie was Ennio Morricone's music. Even in bad films , Morricone's music was acting as a second effort within the film ,trying to cover any imperfections . In the case of Lolita we are talking about a very well made film by Lyne ,accompanied by a music of incredible beauty . For once more Ennio Morricone has composed music that has the power to convoke the most beautiful feelings. The music perfectly underlines the scenes and vice versa.The perfect combination!!! "},{"Title":"","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me, almost immediately I recognized that this film had a certain class, quality and tenderness that is missing from many films.  The photography was most affectionate, i.e. the lens seemed to embrace, caress and respect (with passion) whatever it beheld. The over-all aura of the movie captured me, and held me throughout.  This is an art film, and it is exquisite.  I, too, was very pleased to see Morricone directing the score.  This is an intelligent, impassioned, well-made film (nevertheless, one whose subject matter will certainly not appeal to all tastes).   "}{"Title":"Nicely photographed but . . .","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is commonplace to complain that films adapted from novels too often change the plot and eliminate and invent characters at will, leading readers/viewers to wonder what on earth the filmmakers saw in the book in the first place.  This essentially by-the-book adaptation is good if all you want is to see the prose translated into images, and some might consider that Lyne's ability to be sexually explicit is an improvement over the ambiguity of Stanley Kubrick's film, but I found this film a disappointment. I liked Jeremy Irons' performance, and thought Dominique Swain was also very good, but Melanie Griffiths was miscast and (of course) no portrayal of Claire Quilty can compare with Peter Sellers's.  Kubrick's film shows more artistry, creativity and genius  "},{"Title":"it's a bitter sweet symphony....","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very nice views, you get sympathy for the devil. While you know what he did was not very decent, and adultery, you still feel that it was just mend to be. It is filmed out of the eyes of the man,so you almost become him. Which gives you a feeling of understanding, and disgust at the same time. It is very sad aswell, the loneliness he felt at the end, makes it a bitter sweet symphony his life...  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It´s a very well filmed movie. It has an excellent narration and it shocked me. All the performance of the actors are so good.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully sad....","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the end of the movie, I was just plain stunned by Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain's performances. I never thought the end result could be more powerful and haunting at the same time. It is also not lost upon me over why such an unforgettable and meaningful film could stir so much controversy in the US. There are after all much more disturbing depictions of sexuality available and to generate so much fuss over this film just indicates plain hypocrisy. This film does deal with incest and pedophilia but the moment one finishes with the film the darker overtones of the film is superbly overwritten by the film's many strengths. From the exceptional cinematography to the perfect choice in casting (I thought Melanie Griffith was adequate), this film certainly did tug at my emotions. I can't recall any film that did have quite the same effect on me before. I also thought that Adrian Lyne did a great job in this film. the whole film was beautifully done with honest and tragic human drama carrying it on. Those looking for gratuitous and explicit sexuality will certainly be disappointed... in fact, the more erotic scenes just adequately delve into the forbidden bond that the film's two main protagonists share. I will not talk any further about this movie... one should really see it to at least have an inkling of what I feel about this fantastic piece of art. This one has got to be among my all-time top 10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Dull, with No Bite","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is certainly a beautiful-looking film, but the tone was completely wrong.  Lolita is not a bittersweet, sentimental look at a love affair between two people, but a pointed satire about desire, self-deception (and deception of others), sex, middle-brow American culture, etc.  It's an edgy story; Humbert is neurotic and nervous and hysterically funny -- not gentle and doe-eyed, as the movie portrays him.  The Kubrick version comes closer to the real thing, but is still lacking.  Read the book, if you haven't already.  And don't expect much from this movie except a beautifully photographed, sentimental story that bears only a pale resemble to the dark irony that is the novel. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I believe that just about everything that can possibly be said in praise of Adrian Lyne's adaptation has been eloquently done so by the previous posters, I will keep this short. Lyne's LOLITA is quite simply one of the most heartrending films I have ever seen. I was so affected by Jeremy Iron's incredible performance as Humbert Humbert that I am still now shaking from its aftermath. That final scene in which Humbert stands on the hilltop, his face speckled with the blood of the man he felt had destroyed his happiness and in which he fully regrets his past actions that have lead to the destruction of a young girl's innocence, will stay with me forever. Kudos to you, Mr. Lyne for your integrity in standing firmly beside a film that you obviously believed in very strongly. The end result is a staggering achievement.  "},{"Title":" Great love story. The sweetest pain.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself as a big Kubrick's films fan. But I have to acceptthat this newest version is a lot much better than his. The main reasonfor me, is that in the Lyne's version all the characters and all thesituations capture the real esence of the original story. Lolita is alovely ache. "},{"Title":"Great and much need remake of the wonderful timeless story of the older man in love with a 12 year old girl (14 in the new version)","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons IS Humbert Humbert!The only casting part that wasn't as well as it should have been was Quilty(played by Frank Langella).Dominique Swain is certainly sexy enough!The problem is that this film has failed to be released in the U.S.It's not a porno!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great.  I read the book before I saw this, and it was everything I expected from a great story.  The original movie was too much of Kubricks and not enough of Nabokovs book.  Adrian Lyne does a spectacular job bringing this to the screen, and can actors get any better than Jeremy Irons?  I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Excellent, well made.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is not justifying paedophilia as some people say, the story is far more complex than that. It should not be judged until it has been seen. The casting is brilliant and the film is true to the book. It's about time someone portrayed the book as it was meant to be seen. "}{"Title":"Good but the original is unbeaten","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While the new adaptation of Lolita is an excellent piece of work deserving attention and viewing, and both the actors, director and crew did a good job at keeping us interested from beginning to end, I think (and again, this is just a subjective appreciation like all the others) that the original is the one I would keep in my movie library.I can give numerous reasons while that is my choice. First, it is unrealistic to expect that a movie will stick to the original book in a one hundred percent faithful manner. There are obvious time constrictions that rule out a lot of the intangible thought processes involved in savoring a book that are seldom depicted in crude reality on a screen. This is not to say that there are not superb adaptations from masterpieces made by BBC television that are almost quite as good as reading the book. But that is a rare quality in one-time movies. In order to truly adapt a book it is much better to go through the mini-series formula.Second, I find the new version lingers too much on the nitty-gritty and less on the background and the development of the characters and the relationships. I find this is totally unnecessary to understand the plot and the consequences.Third, the final scene excessively long and detailed (when Humbert kills Quilty). The Kubrik adaptation still holds my highest regards for being subtle, yet revealing, and gives the scenes that The good if brief twice as good feeling.Fourth, I liked better the character portrayal of Shelley Winters, James Mason and Peter Sellers than (with all due respect) the one of Melanie Griffith, Jeremy Irons and Frank Langella. This is not to say that these fine actors and actresses have made an award-winning job at some other movie or movies or could do it in the future.Summarily, I keep my Excellent (9/10) vote on the 1962 version, and give this one an 8. I think this is a just vote, but keep in mind that always beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. Even when I am a relatively young viewer, I find the excessive realism of the post-1970 cinema sometimes a bit distressing, and increasingly encounter the 1930-1970 movies to have a much more adequate perspective and treatment of the subjects than the new movies have. "},{"Title":"The whetted appetite","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Due to the absence of Nabokov's classic in our local library, I have yet to sink my teeth into the basis of an exquisitely done film.  Jeremy Irons churns out a truly impressive performance, as does newcomer Dominique Swain.  If the book is anything like the film (which of course I know it will be), then Lolita is sure to also take its place as my favorite book as well. "},{"Title":"Sorry, Vladimir, times have changed.","Date":"19 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just as we know more about drugs than we did in the era of Timothy Leary, attitudes toward an attraction of a mature male for a pre-teen girl have changed so drastically in the sixty years since the novel was written that it is impossible to present Lolita as a comedy, even a dark one as Nabokov intended. There's nothing funny about pedophilia in In the era of Jon Benet Ramsey and Megan's Law.Yes, director Adrian Lyne's Humbert is a sensitive, cultured academic plunged in an America of rural idiocy and cultural philistinism. (Note how many times his simple, two-syllable name is mispronounced.) Now, this might actually have happened or might be part of a sick delusion. Everyone is so dense they can't see what child molester Humbert sees that fourteen or twelve year old Lolita Haze is actually a little slut, sexually aggressive, experienced, manipulative. And she's in it for the money, too. Dimes and quarters to start, a whole lot more at the end.But isn't this what every short eyes in prison or on death row tells himself and everyone else that his victim flirted with him, that she wanted sex then demanded money to keep quiet, that she wasn't the innocent child everyone took her for?As other reviewers have pointed out, Jeremy Irons' portrayal of Humbert Humbert is too sympathetic. He is too young, too handsome, too well spoken and tastefully attired. And he's a victim, too, after all. The childhood tragedy he suffered made him what he is. Dominique Swain in a series of revealing outfits plays the California nymphet to disturbing perfection. "},{"Title":"Evocative","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The genius of Nabokov's novel is that it makes us sympathize with the monster. The movie has managed to capture that aspect of the novel, making us feel that Delores was the aggressor and Humbert the victim. The duplication of his given and surnames is a hint that Humbert is probably a paranoid schizophrenic. Many of the things we see happened only in his mind, much like Russell Crowe's depiction of John Nash's imaginings of a nemesis in A Beautiful Mind. Quilty was the manifestation of the hated side of himself. When he killed Quilty, he finally in a lucid moment realized what a monster he was, and in the final imaginary scene overlooking the village, he felt remorse.The evocation of the seedy motels and desolate landscape of 1940s America reminded me of many such scenes from my childhood. I knew that Mr. Irons had the depicted the character to perfection because the performance evoked a long-forgotten memory of an over-rapt neighbor who frightened me when I was ten years old. "},{"Title":"An admirable adaptation of a classic novel","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lolita, by Vladimir Nabokov, has been hailed as one of the greatest controversial works of art of our time, and much the same can be said for this film, as well.Adrian Lyne, who has been known for directing such risqué movies as Unfaithful and Fatal Attraction, proves his worth as a filmmaker by making this into a surprisingly touching piece of cinema. One thing he has been known for is casting excellent actors in parts wonderfully suited for them, and Lolita is no exception. The infamous Humbert Humbert is played here by Jeremy Irons, in an emotionally gripping performance, a sensitive man who realizes his unhealthy obsession with Lolita but is unable to stop it. The nymphet temptress herself is portrayed by Dominique Swain, whose acting ability is far beyond her years; she knows who Lolita is and what she wants, and she carefully and elegantly allows herself to evolve from an obnoxious brat into a cynical woman.Vladimir Nabokov's novel was a tragedy, a romance, a drama, a social commentary, and, at times, even a satire and a detective story. Lyne's Lolita is primarily a romance, with scenes that even border on campy occasionally. He is truer to the letter and plot of Nabokov's immortal novel than the spirit. He is careful to mold and execute the scenes exactly as Nabokov has written them, staying true to detail rather than feeling. Nevertheless, he has managed to produce an admirable adaptation of a classic work of literature. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Tragedy","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think it was the the 1998 MTV movie awards when I first saw a clip of the movie, it was nominated for best kiss. It was the scene where Lolita jumps on Humbert and kissed him. I was fascinated and curious since the kiss was shared between a very young girl and an older man, yet neither felt the kiss was inappropriate. However, I did not know any of the actors or even the name of the movie, until recently. I was channel surfing when the a clip from the movie caught my attention, I was thrilled.Before I saw the movie i had no idea what it was it was about since I had not read the book or saw the original movie. By the end of the movie it was not what I had expected, after seeing the clip at the movie awards. It was a beautiful, tragic and haunting love story that left me wanting more.Jeremy Irons was remarkable as Humbert. He made a supposed wretched character seemed lovable and noble. He made Humbert's love for Lolita to be genuine and not dishonorable as many would like it to be. He bought the complexity of Humbert's character to life. Notably in the scene in the hospital where Lolita went missing. The pain he felt was deep and agonizing, remarkable acting. It really was a pity that his performance was not praised as deserved. Honestly I could not think of a more perfect person for the role of Humbert.Dominique Swain was amazing. She was provocative yet innocent. The chemistry between both actors was powerful.At the end of the movie where Humbert felt that he had ruin the life of Lolita, I beg to differ since he really did love Loita and was willing to devote himself to her, instead she cruelly toyed with his feelings. I think she would have eventually be in the same situation if she had never met Humbert. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, and Tragic","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie inspires such emotion. Even if we cant relate with the situation in the film, we can relate to the characters. This man found true love and that love betrayed him. This movie for me was an emotional roller coaster, at one point I'm feeling like this guy is a total scum bag and the next moment I am feeling so completely sorry and sympathetic for this man.I as well as many of you can relate to this film, I have poured my heart into several relationships that have lead me down dangerous paths. Paths that only at the end do you truly know what you've gotten yourself into.The acting, and dialogue were superb. Never has there been a movie that depicts such sinful acts, portrayed so elegant. Of course thats all a matter of opinion, truthfully what boundaries are there for true love?  "},{"Title":"disturbing,whitty,downright wrong","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought this film was excellent. i feel the character that played lo was very convincing. the details were well drawn out and the plot twists were good as well.  it was hard to watch without constantly reminding myself of how wrong the situation between the humbert and lo was but, you cannot help but feel a little saddened by humberts loss near the end. you have ruined my redemption he says to quilty. i thought that was the best line in the movie.  if this is a movie you have not yet seen please do so. the comic undertones of this movie are absolutely brilliant.  melanie griffith was excellent for the duration of her stay on this film.  but, nothing out does the performance of Delores lo haze. she absolutely makes this movie convincing. "},{"Title":"Interesting Movie","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I didnt intend on watching this movie, it just happened to be on one of the movie channels here.  Just a warning, do not watch this movie late at night, if you want to sleep.  After watching this movie, my mind really started to race, so in turn I didnt sleep much.  The movie was so disturbing, but so thought provoking.  I told one of my co-workers he should see the movie What are you, a pedaphiliac  he said.  And, I would have probably said the same thing, if someone told me to see a movie called 'Lolita'.  To someone who only looks at movies on the surface, this movie is about nothing but a pedaphiliac who wants to have sex with a minor.  But, to someone who looks for deep meanings, it's much more than that, and THAT is why I thought about it so much.  What was the meaning?  And to me, the meaning was the loss of innocence is American society.  Even though this movie was set in post-war America, these are the problems girls face today. To me, Lo was the stereotype of girls today.  Someone on here said they couldnt feel sorry for Humbert, and maybe If I read the book, I'd understand.  But, for some reason, I do feel sorry for him.  Psychology is one of the most interesting subjects, and coming from that approach, a reason can be drawn for why he falls in love with a young girl, he was yearning to find that first love, the one he lost.  Love will make you do crazy things.  Anyways, Im done.  But, this movie was great, and watch it in the morning, so you can think about it all day, and actually sleep.  Now I need to read the book, I guess.   "},{"Title":"Thought provoking and controversial","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really cant understand why is Humbert viewed as pedophile, when clearly Quilty is sick and immoral. Some people say that this movie promotes pedophilia, but in my opinion, it only represents pedophilia as something sick and wrong. You really want to hate Humbert, because of what he has done, but this movie has some tender moments (ending) when you finally realize that pedophilia was never part of his case, but that he actually fell in love with much younger girl. Jeremy Irons is probably one of the best actors, and his portrayal of Humbert was great. I do agree that movie has very disturbing sexual actions which should not be allowed, but im saying again, in my opinion its not about pedophilia at all. Who ever thinks so, please view movie again, and if its possible DVD, so that you can see comments by Addrian Lyne. I agree with director completely every movie should be thought provoking, and being able to be discussed when its over, and the day after that, and day after that. Great movie, I trully recommend it to anyone who is open to talk about it and debate on it. This movie can be really loved, or really hated. Ratings 10/10 "}{"Title":"A brilliantly riskier re-imagining of a classic story.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film will teach people to have more respect and understanding for those with socially unexceptable behaviors. In this case, the deeply rooted desire for someone of much younger age. Lolita doesn't account for all behavior of this type, but in Humbert's case, it sure does. In the original Kubrick version, you really had to have read the book to understand why Humbert behaved the way he did. The sexual tension was barely hinted in those days. For someone who didn't know about the movie before they saw it, they probably had no clue as to what was going on. In the 97 version we understand Humbert's need to replace a lost love that was frozen in time. The cinematography was beautifully choreographed with soft natural light and gritty textures that allowed for the smooth and tempting youth of Delores (Lolita)to be enhanced. Every twist is dramatic to the point of feeling Humbert's horrible frustration when he finds himself in the same place again, with a lost love a second time. Like he missed his second chance. The acting is realistically played out in newer, more natural styles that don't hold back (Which is not often accomplished intelligently in remakes). I give this picture my highest rating. "},{"Title":"I liked it, a lot","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know I never have seen the original, before I saw this one.  I think this may be the one main reason behind me liking this one more.I think the 1997 Lolita is a better depiction of the story for today's generation.  There was much more visual sexual tension and it made it easier for me to understand Humbert's character.  I also like how this one starts out as opposed to the original.  I received a lot of criticism for liking this remake better.  To go against Kubrick, who would dare?  Well I'm sticking with my opinion.  I like this one better than the original and I give it 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"What a great and resilient character Nabokov created.","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  About LolitaMuch has been said about Dominique/Lolita's age. Casting Dominique as the younger Lolita reminded me of the director Tamra Davis' talk after the St. Louis Film Festival's showing of Skipped Parts (about a fourteen year old boy and girl's deliberate first sexual experience). Ironically, for that film, one of the reasons thirteen year old Mischa Barton was chosen for the part was because Ms Davis was having a hard time finding a fourteen year old who had the innocent look she was looking for. Personally, I'd have preferred a younger film Lolita. In Leon (The Professional) Natalie Portman's Mathilda, in spite of her sexually forward behavior, projected a natural twelve year old innocence that would attract a Leon. Would he have committed as much for her had she been, say, fifteen? The story would have been different, to say the least. But in the long run it's of no matter, Dominique Swain portrayed Lolita beautifully.To me this was Lolita's story. Humbert, Quilty, and Charlotte were the supporting characters.<SPOILER AHEAD> As I saw it, the difference between Humbert and Quilty lay in Humbert's self-justification and Quilty's not. Quilty was evil; evil doesn't justify or explain itself - except, perhaps, through irony. Humbert actually made himself believe he was Lolita's benefactor, a typical trait among us human types - even to the end, where he adopts an almost fatherly aspect. We, with an uncomfortable sense of guilt, actually feel sympathy for him when Quilty steals Lolita. We are Humbert (We has met the enemy, and it is us). Humbert's sloppy assassination of Quilty actually made a victim out of evil (we do that too). The driving force behind Humbert's feeling for Lolita wasn't love - or lust; it was good old-fashioned human greed. He wanted her as his own.<SPOILER AHEAD> But Lolita is the real victim in this story; although we, like Humbert, view her as a pubescent siren (blame the victim). You can't always avoid being made a victim (See Eye of God 1997). It's how you cope with it that defines your character. Isaac accepted his father's orders dutifully. Jephthah's daughter accepted her fate, but bargained for a three month youthful fling first (it's doubtful that the judge would have been so permissive ordinarily). Lo never did fully accept Humbert's dominance except as a means of survival.<SPOILER AHEAD> The story is told from Humbert's perspective, and tells of his thoughts, plots, and trials, and is quite graphic in the assassination scene. But the story's title is not Humbert or Humbert Humbert or I Loved a Teenage Wench or I Killed Quilty. Nabokov chose Lolita as the character on whom he wished to bestow such importance. Because she was important. Innocence is one of the few worthwhile assets we humans have. We mistakenly equate innocence with sexual behavior - especially with young girls. I prefer looking at innocence, at least in part, as trusting, as the naivete we humans view with scorn, something we see children needing to grow out of. Also typifying innocence is the absence of greed. When given her freedom, Lolita chose the option of a becoming a normal wife and mother. Not only was she innocent in her naivete, she was innocent in her heart.What a great and resilient character Nabokov created.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Piece Of Art","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first became aware of this classic,(believe it or not),from an old song which mirrors Nabokov's clasic in which they mention his name. Upon inquring what exactly that book by Nabokov was, my mother then informed me of Lolita. To see for myself this mystery of a tale,I rented it on a casual night with some of my friends. I knew the basic gist of the plot but from the second I pushed play, I was in a whirlwind of amazement. Humbert Humbert was more interesting to me than any other character I had known before. I must admit I was somewhat puzzled at the opening in which Humbert is slowly careening back and forth on (the what is portrayed at that time)empty road holding the blood encrusted bobby pin.This scene is what kept me interested, knowing it would end in tragedy. Though I must admit I had no idea what i was in for. Being only 16 years old (this was 3 months ago mind you), I was almost disturbed by the way that little Dolly Haze swung her almost always bare legs back and forth or the way she shamelessly flirted with dear old H.H. when momma wasn't present. I did not forsee Charlotte's demise for I wondered how Humbert would be reunited with his nymphet. When they did, I almost felt sorry for Humbert and his jealous manner toward Lolita during their travels. Humbert Humbert in most respects would usually be viewed as a monster as Charlotte puts it, but when we are introduced to the venomous Quilty, we begin to almost side with Humbert. After seeing the movie, I was driven to read the book. I finished it this morning, taking two days to finish. As I read, I began to find small contrasts and similarities in the 1998 film. Lolita eating pie instead of drinking milk before she runs off screaming. Quilty showing up while Dolores swims, tapping her on the bottom as she plays tennis, the abscense of John and Jean...these are all things (with the acception of the pointless pie comment I just made), that would thicken yet ruin the solitude of Lyne's Humbert.Throughout the '98 version Quilty's prescence is felt sometimes literally, but most of all like a black omnipresent cloud that is supposed to represent Humbert's conscience.The instance that upset me the most after reading the book in comparison w/ the movie is Rita. In the movie, it does not tell you that during the three years Humbert searched for his kidnapped nymphet he moved in with a girl who claimed they went to college together and became involved with her. But left her once he got the letter from Dolly Schiller.Also, during the novel he speaks French almost as frequently as he speaks of his young love! Yet in the movie the only detection of this is Charlotte's pathetic attempt of speaking scattered French to attractive Monseiur Humbert or as she pronounces HumbearPlease do not mistake me for a young teenage who wishes to replicate to seductive ways of young Dolores. For I only take interest in this stunning story of love and it's tragic consequences. "},{"Title":"Dominique Swain...Wow.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look, I am by no means a professional movie critic (probably better that way), but I've seen more than my fair share of movies. All I can say is that I am a huge fan of the book and for a 15 year old girl to portray Lolita the way Dominique Swain did is absolutely breathtaking. One can only hope that she does not go the way of the typical teen star and go into making lame horror flicks and poorly executed teen sex romps. She is so much better than that. If you want to see some incredible talent, check out her performance here. Incredible. "},{"Title":"Still another adaptation falling short","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Humbert speaks of his relationship with Lolita as being, a paradise who's sky was the color of Hell flames, but, a paradise still. One can take the same joy and dread and apply it to this film. A heavy subject matter, adapting a master author, and a director who hasnt proven himself able to tackle such material, add to the list of cons. Whereas, Jeremy Irons and the breakthrough performance of Swain, add to the pros. The film ends up landing somewhere in the middle and becomes a watchable failure.Lolita and Humbert are tough to translate. How much control and nymphomania should Lolita flex? How sympathetic should Humbert's obsession be? How much of the story should be tragedy and how much black comedy? While Kubricks version leaned tword Humbert being laughably pathetic and meek (more a black comedy), Lyne plays up the more tragic side of Humberts obsession with liberal amounts of comedy sprinkled throughout. In the end, it just falls flat. It fails to find any emotional ground, most likely, because the subject matter and tone just doesnt translate from novel to film.Jeremy Irons is fine in yet another quirky sexual drama. He and James Spader have cornered the market on these roles, the same kinds that Donald Sutherland gobbled up back in the 70's. Swain is great, vibrant and alive, completely carefree, but a little lacking twords the end when Lolita has lost her youth. Though far from perfect, they both do well with the difficult, beguiling characters.Lyne, with his soft focus lens always at ready, makes it look like all his other films (except Jacob's Ladder) Misty, some would say, romantic. It doesnt help that the man who helped create the look of soft core porn films with 9 and 1/2 Weeks, Indecent Proposal, and Flashdance, photographs Lolita in the exact same way as his previous trite films. You cant photograph a movie about pedophilia like a Red Shoe Diary and not expect some small amount of outrage.Kubrick and Lyne both proved that sometimes a novel should just remain a novel. Both adaptations were doomed from the start, and the films end up being watchable but not laudable "},{"Title":"Humbert Humbert and Hermann Hermann","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nobel price laureate Vladimir Nabokov was a specialist for doubling of personality, elimination of individuality and confusing the reader by using multi-perspective levels of narration. Both in Despair (filmed in 1978 by R.W. Fassbinder) and in Lolita (filmed in 1962 by Stanley Kubrick and in 1997 by Adrian Lyne), the protagonist is suffering from an impossible love. In Despair, Hermann Hermann breaks apart living together with his stupid, scatter-brained wife Lydia, starts to see himself, looks for a real Doppelganger (who has no resemblance with him), kills this Doppelganger and starts his Trip into the Light (so Fassbinder's sub-title to his film).In Lolita, a college professor who bears strong resemblance with Edgar Allan Poe (cf. Annabel Lee vs. Annabel Leigh) looses as a boy his 14 years old girl friend (Poe married a 13 years of girl) by death. Since then, he is without inner rest and looks to find her in another body. Who is Humbert? And who is Humbert? A split personality as Hermann Hermann? Too late in the film version of Adrian Lyne we learn about his antagonist, Clare Quilty. Who is he? How was is possible that he could liberate Lolita during the night from the hospital, after the physician told Humbert that he will keep her until the morning and Humbert was waiting directly before the hospital during the whole night, sleepless, in his car, his eyes directed to the only entrance and exit? Is Quilty Humbert's Alter Ego? Totally dissimilar to him as is Felix Weber to Hermann Hermann? At the beginning and at the end of the movie, we see Humbert sparkled with blood from his execution of Quilty. Of course, this could be Quiltys blood. Or --- did he try to kill himself - but did not succeed - while Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray actually did succeed? But there is another motive, as I see it, which gives the whole novel a quite strange last perspective which has been constantly overseen. After Humbert's Doppelganger Quilty has liberated Lolita, she lives in a relation to a young man from whom she is pregnant. Humbert needs years to find her, crossing all around Amerika. She confesses him that her love to Quilt was the most intense in her life, and when he asks about her love to him, she looks like she has already answered his question. Neither one of them survive their love. She dies in child-bed the same year, he dies five week earlier in prison from a heart disease. Thus, the end of the story reminds strongly Abaelard and Heloise who could only be together after their death. "},{"Title":"A traumatic viewing experience...","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was in Palo Alto.  I was in a small, one-screen theater with the girl that I loved, and had loved for a long time.  She goes to school there, and I was visiting.  We both wanted to see 'Lolita', but only she had read the book.  I had to drive 500 miles back to San Diego immediately after seeing the film, but I wanted to see it with her, anyway.I didn't know what to expect.  You can always rely on Jeremy Irons to play that passionate character that ends out getting crushed.  I don't think he ever did it better than he did in 'Lolita'.Before this film, only one movie ever made me cry, and that was 'Grave of the Fireflies'.  By the time this film ended, the tears were streaming, and fought them hard.After seeing 'Lolita', I can't even hear the name 'Lolita' without feeling love, beauty, sadness, and pain in my heart.Seeing Humbert try to rekindle his lost love through the illusion of his relationship with a curious young girl was just crushing.  He was a lover... a lover that fell for the charms of a nymphet.This is movie perfection.  The performances are astounding.  The script is excellent, devastating, and beautiful.  The music is simply wonderful. The cinematography, set design, extras, and costumes make you feel like you're in a Norman Rockwell painting.'Lolita' is a stunning tragedy, that will find a place in your heart, as long you open up to it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie I've seen this year.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having seen this film just yesterday after being bombarded with tales of how wonderful and fantastic it was, I must say that I am extremely disappointed.It wasn't the taboo subject that I had a problem with, it was the way the film dragged on, at once trying to cram as much story into each scene as possible and remaining all the more boring because of it.Also a problem was Jeremy Irons' character.  While Jeremy Irons is a fine actor, even he was unable to make me care for the fate of Humbert Humbert.  An audience likes to be able to identify with the protagonist, but Humbert Humbert is a complete idiot.  It is hard to identify with one so stupid.In the end, I felt that the overall film had no point other than to create controversy, and it left me feeling that I had just wasted more than two hours of my life in watching it. "},{"Title":"Shallow, overly somber adaptation","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita slowly eats a banana in front of Humbert. Quilty fingers the loop of a dog leash. These are the things in Adrian Lyne's version of Lolita that pass for subtle sexual metaphors. They are metaphors, but of a different sort; they represent the shallow and humorless tone that pervades and undermines this film.Say what you will about Kubrick's 1962 version of Lolita, but the characters had depth, the performances were excellent, and the film's darker moments were counterpointed with humor, which is much truer to the tone of the novel.Not so in this version. Jeremy Irons' one-note performance has him gaping and moping from beginning to end. There is no sense of manipulation on his part, or of an intellect at work; just a awestruck shamble from scene to scene. Melanie Griffith gives a similarly untextured performance.What the film lacks in acting or subtlety, it attempts to make up in flash, as you'd expect from the director of yes, Flashdance. And while a strobing bug light might add to the disorientation and paranoia of a scene, I again direct you to the Kubrick version to see how the exact same dialogue can be more effective with good performances and directing.Again, I think it is the pervasively somber tone that ultimately undoes this film. The one bright spot is Dominique Swain as Lolita, who captures the effervescence and half-innocent sexuality of a nymphet quite effectively. "}{"Title":"Humorless junk","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How any conscious adult could watch this film and like it, let alone be moved to tears by it, is way way beyond me. I laughed at most of this movie. Adrian Lyne as director...(if you're in the mood for masochism, please rent Indecent Proposal -- the worst movie of the decade (and I see a LOT of movies)). Casting was all wrong, the direction was unnecessarily lurid, and the movie had Absolutely No Sense of Humor. If you have read the (brilliant) novel or seen the (brilliant) Sellers film, you know that part of the disturbingly beautiful nature of *Lolita* is that it is unexpectedly hilarious. I laughed at the Lyne film, as I say, but only because I was amused at how seriously it was taking itself. Yes, Lolita is a serious work about serious matters, but this movie is flat and austere compared to the novel or the other film. No wonder it couldn't find an American distributor. The idea that America is too disturbed by this subject matter is crap (see Happiness ... please). This movie just Sucked. 2/10. "},{"Title":"DECENT & THOUGHTFUL REMAKE!","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps closer to the novel's mood, this remake in '97 with Jeremy Irons is too realistic. Jeremy Irons is TOO believable (I know that sounds weird) for the character of Humbert and he is tragic. The girl, Dominique Swain has some of the flavor, but just seems off for this strange tale. Frank Langella is barely in it as Quilty and seems like he has some interesting issues clouding what's left of his brain.A 6 out of 10. Best performance = Mr. Irons. It's not up to the Kubrick version, although I think (haven't read novel in many years) may be closer to the tone and feel of this touchy issue. I enjoyed it, but I just don't think they can make a proper version of this 50's Nabokov classic. Melanie Griffith seemed alright as Charlotte, but Shelley Winters was appropriately over-the-top. I'm not crazy about this director either, but I loved the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I had heard so many bad things about it and I was worried that I had just wasted on another crappy movie. I watched it and I'm just sitting there one the edge of my couch really into this movie. The director is intelligent. I would like to see the older one and also read the book except I also heard that the book is really sexual. I would recommend this movie to anybody that likes Romance movies. I do warn you though, there is some nudity...mostly male! "},{"Title":"Liked it a lot except the ending and Melanie Griffith","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've read the annotated version of the novel several times, and it is by far the best book I've read. The language of the book, and the emotion highs and lows the author takes us through are unmatched. The fact it was his first book in English makes it even more amazing. Transferring any book to film generally loses something in the translation, and this one is no different. The 1962 Kubrick version both benefitted and suffered from Peter Sellers as Quilty. He was a great actor and his performance was the best thing about that movie, but his character was way off base compared to the novel. James Mason was good but seemed a bit old. Shelley Winters was good. Sue Lyon was OK, but a bit too mature, I think. This version also was heavily sanitized (though it had a few minor points of symbolizm - the peach and banana, etc), and in fact the characters never kiss. Also missing from the early movie is most of the 27,000 miles of traveling the couple went through - so much so that HH frequently confused the motel names. I did like the movie as its own thing, but it bears slight resemblance to the book. Now to the 1997 movie... Jeremy Irons seemed perfect as HH, and Dominique Swain was darn good as Lo.However, Melanie Griffith was just irritating and shrill as Charlotte, and bore no resemblance to what HH summarily described as ...that sorry and dull thing a handsome woman.SPOILERS AHEAD TO THE ENDAlthough I appreciated the scenes of HH and Anabelle (missing in the early movie) because it gives much insight to HH's obsession, I felt that there should have been some mention of Valeria, his wife before meeting Lolita, and Rita, his adult lover after Lolita abandons him. I thought it needed more voice-overs from the book. Particularly during the first night at the Enchanted Hunters - the culmination of fate and HH's plans - it could have been used to get a deeper feeling of his internal mental struggle - I had the odious feeling that little Dolores was wide awake and would explode in screams if I touched her with any part of my wretchedness, and then later ...and less than 6 inches from me and my burning life, was nebulous Lolita! Also, his depression after Lolita abandons him did not feel as strong as in the book, and some more voice-over could have helped there. I would have loved to see HH tape that good-bye note to Rita's navel when he leaves her to track down Lo after getting Lo's letter. Although Rita is somewhat of a rebound for him she does give him needed companionship, and the fact that he drops her immediately with not much regret only reinforces that fact he is hopelessly in love with Lolita. The biggest problem I have with either movie is the ending. The last page or two is possibly the most emotionally moving in the book. HH explains his reason for writing the book - ...I thought I would use these notes in toto at my trial, to save not my head, of course, but my soul. He expects Lolita to have a long and happy life and gives her some sound words of advice, then we are informed that if we are reading the book then Lolita is dead. It culminates with this...And do not pitu C.Q. One had to choose between him and H.H., and one wanted H.H. to exist at least a couple of months longer, so as to have him make you live in the minds of later generations. I am thinking of aurochs and angels, the secret of durable pigments, prophetic sonnets, the refuge of art. And this is the only immortality you and I may share, my Lolita. This could and should have been included in a simple prison cell scene at the end. His subsequent death could easily be shown, too. Why resort to the cheap and easy text on the screen? I give the 1997 movie 9 stars. If you want the real deal - read the book, which gets 100 stars. "},{"Title":"A disturbing experience","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *small spoilersFor now, put the pedophilia aside. This movie is tragic and beautiful. Not only that but Jeremy Irons has an acting ability that makes me wonder why we're not watching him all day instead of movie floppers like Hugh Jackman- oh, or Matthew McConaughey, who is in the worst flick chicks ever made that it is so disgusting it's not even funny.Its sadness and helplessness is disturbing. The whole movie is suicidal, but it draws you to it because it's so gripping and beautiful in all its darkest parts.To one viewer its incoherent outcry of the need to love and be loved in return is disturbing, when another viewer will find its pedophiliac plot and sexual themes to be the real disturbing piece. You cannot argue that Jeremy Irons plays a pedophiliac man, but that this movie might also stereotype a pedophile is apparent. But to have such a powerful stereotype it's only crucial that there be some truth to it, but let us not mistake or become unable to separate Humbert's depraved love for Lolita from his sick obsession to do anything to have her with only sexual intentions-- which make his character repelling and, of course, disturbing.Most people will either love or hate this movie, but some have found a place in between. I can appreciate its vision of love and desperation- but unfortunately it's for all the wrong reasons. The film tries to draw us from the point that Lolita is a twelve year old girl, which makes the painful scene at the end with Lolita and Humbert completely necessary. Once it seems to lose its track it reminds us again of what's real and what's unacceptable- this shows also with what happened with Lolita's mother. If we did not have that then I'm afraid there would be no closure to justify the lines this movie has crossed over.It's good, and it's bad, and gratefully it acknowledges this.7/10. "},{"Title":"A forbidden mutual attraction flies in the face of society","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a story of the forbidden affair Humbert(Middle age) and Dolores(Lolita(14)) have with each other. Based faithfully on the Novel by Nabakov. It really doesn't have much skin nor foul language in it but the subject is quite flammable, hence the 18 rating.It's got comedy, drama, romance, despair, detective-story, brilliant description of the 50's, lust, good plot... all the works of a great movie. It lasts for many views. Some details might not open unless you've read the book. It's a brilliant movie of a brilliant book.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling performance","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why is Dominique Swain not a Hollywood SUPERstar?This movie kept me up until half past one though I have to get up at six. I had not intended to see this film, I had talked myself into that it was just perverted junk. But as soon as I saw Dominique I couldn't stop watching. The tv just sucked me in to all the grief and pain and exploitation.First of all, I liked the way the movie-makers stayed true to the era, you could almost imagine that this was filmed in the 40's. Until you get shocked by the illegal relationship, that is.Jeremy Irons proved why he has such good reputation, brilliant as ever. Other people have already commented on this so I won't.Dominique - where did she learn how to act like that? How could she keep a straight face with some of the lines she had to say? I sure as heck wouldn't be able to, at 14. A very fine actress, I would like to see her in some larger movies.The thing that really got me was that we at times are able to look into Lolita's soul and heart. I think that many times, she acted as she thought Humbert wanted her to act. It is quite obvious really. She is totally alone in the world, and has only him to lean on in the world. Poor girl!Sure she plays the temptress well. Because she has learned how. Because the professor is her food stamp. What would one do in that situation?I think that Professor Humbert played his cards right to get what he wanted.Very interesting film, made me think quite a lot.  "},{"Title":"A remake of the movie, rather than another adaptation of the book","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this version before the Kubrick original, and have to say that cinematography - wize, it feels like they made the black and white version colored. The shots are similar, so are the sets and the overall acting. But not having to read the book, Irons just seems more ... perverted and believable. It seems as a remake of the movie, not another adaptation of the book. Still, some of the visuals are really good, and the film has a better atmosphere. Funny how some things never change, as for both versions had trouble with distributors and screening ...  "},{"Title":"Was I the only one who found this movie extremely disturbing?","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In none of the above reviews have I read a comment by a person who is outraged by the paedophilic relationship in this movie.  Even though I enjoyed the film, and found it interesting, I couldn't quite believe how sexually disturbed it was.  Thank God they didn't take the sex scenes between Humbert and Lolita any further, because I think it would have made me sick.Jeremy Irons is wonderful; I have always thought so.  He has this ability to convey his emotions through his voice (which incidently is a very sexy voice) without showing it on his face or by his actions.  And I think Dominique Swain does a great job as Lolita.The part that I have a problem with is the sexual awareness of such a young girl.  When she says jokingly to Humbert, You've just ruined a daisy fresh girl (or something along those lines) is she repeating something she has heard from an adult or is she, on some level, letting him know that she has the power in the relationship?  If the latter, where did she get the idea that sex is a tool that women use to disempower men?  She shows infinite maturity at times but most of the time is a childish brat.I didn't sympathise with Humbert at all.  I didn't care for his lost love and I couldn't see what he fell in love with in Lolita.  And when she called him, Dad, uugh!The film was entertaining, But would I let my daughter play Lolita if she was offered the part? - No way in hell. "},{"Title":"A great film by itself","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The new Lolita is something that goes beyond the original Kubrick version. In this film we see what we didn't in the first version. For example, the new Lolita looks farther more innocent, and she is farther more perverted. Her opening scene just tells us everything. She isn't aware of her beauty, but once we get inside her character we discover a horrible person, one that pleases herself in some indecent way, that practically sells herself to get thing, fun and money.As for Humbert, we get to another face of this person. In the original we appreciate a man in love with a beautiful creature that is not aware of it. This Humbert is very aware of that, and when he sees Lolita for the first time, he falls in love with her but also, as you may see in his perverted look, that he wants her sexually, and that he hides that with that academic mask of his, burring it so deep that at the end of the film, that just explodes.Of course, if you compare it to the original film you may not like, or like it too much. One must analyze a film for what it is, not for what it should have been. Dominic's performance is just fantastic, and it really gets into the idea of a Lolita -A beautiful creature, that attracts everyone with her sensuality and is not aware of it-, Humbert is a perverted man that unfortunately as also fallen in love, and Charlotte.Melanie Griffith as always been a good actress. Is her character that is not so well created to the idea from the book (which tell that only Navokov knew his characters enough to turn them into real persons) so I'll have to say that the original Charlotte is much better. She is a widow, she can't stand her daughter's rebellion by herself, and she is desperate for a man.1997's Lolita is great, is dark, is sad, is tragically, is perverted, is funny.is enjoyable.  "}{"Title":"Heart-rending tragedy with irresistible tender moments","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie. Gave it a 9.Swain was fabulously gripping as Delores,in frolicking, in flirtation, and in grief. I'd heard it was her first acting job. Amazing.I found Irons a lot less credible here than some of the other reviewers did. His infatuation in Delores seemed artificial and excessive in most scenes. Almost as if he immediately reverted completely to his 12-year-old self. For example, take the scene where he first saw her on the lawn. Sure, her sprinkler-soaked figure looked great, but if Irons has been stuck on 14-year-olds ever since Annabel, what's so special about his first glance at this one? And Charlotte didn't even notice the 10-second stare? C'mon!At times, Humbert's discomfort over his own feelings toward her and over being discovered in the situation seemed less than fully credible.Still, as an angry, jealous lover and a grieving confused lover, he was superb. His voice-overs as the narrator really made the film for me. They framed the entire tragedy perfectly. Of the result of his relationship with Annabel, he said Something in my heart remained frozen. And then at the end of the film, he said he regrets not hearing her voice among the chorus of children's voices on the playground. Just a couple of unanswered questions 1. What did Charlotte write in the letters that Humbert burned? 2. Was it Quilty following them all along, or just paranoia? Did Delores fabricate the story about going along with Quilty in a final, cruel attempt to pique Humbert's jealousy? Guess I'll have to read the book. "},{"Title":"As good as the book.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, not really, but almost. Much more closer to the book that Nabokov wrote thant Kubrick's version. Just erotic enough, just beautiful enough and just disgusting enough. Perfectly shocking. Good performances. And gosh, they kiss! In the whole other movie, they don't even kiss once. It's a book with a inch of erotism.. the movie has to have some too. Bravo Dominique Swain! "},{"Title":"Very little going for it","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've read Nabokov's brilliantly written novel and / or seen Kubrick's weird but brilliant film you'll probably be disappointed with this. Although its not a bad film its not especially good either in that is doesn't really offer anything special (except some nice photography and Jeremy Irons - excellent as always). I wasn't expecting much so I can't say I was disappointed. Read the book or see Kubrick's version but don't put yourself out to see this. "},{"Title":"I found this movie highly disturbing, especially for any parent who has a daughter and a conscience...","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a prude and I enjoy eroticism. But I must say that being a parent - especially the parent of three beautiful underage girls - made this movie extremely disturbing for me.Jeremy Irons is a fine actor and specializes in heavy drama. He brings a rich, deep element of artistry to his roles and makes no exception with Lolita. I never saw the earlier film or read the book, so I can't compare them with the movie. I guess I vaguely knew what the subject matter was going in so what should I expect,  but with the big names in this movie, thought it was worth a shot. You can't help but pity Melanie Griffiths' character as the young girls mother.  ***SPOILER***   She and her daughter have this strange competetive relationship and her  character's tragic ending is quite downplayed (as though the mother was just a one-sided, unnecessary obstacle in the story). And of course Jeremy Irons' character is simply using her to get into her daughter's pants. Sorry to be so blunt, but even with all the artsy additives, that's a child molester. Parents, stepfathers, uncles are expected to give respect to the rules and be the strong ones. Whether a 14 yr old girl is suffering from a hormone/romantic overload, it is the adult's place to draw the line.I can't help being bothered by the whole situation - especially with the girl falling for the other gentleman who has an even more severe pathological condition than Jeremy Irons.***SPOILER***   The only reason I didn't turn it off was because I knew he was going to die and I wanted to see him get his just desserts.Perhaps the movie could have been more tolerable with less time spent in bed - less visual sexual situations and images which do not leave your mind after the movie's over. Those long, drawn-out love scenes' you'd expect from a highly-charged romantic flick were unnecessary and purely included for the enjoyment of the voyeuristic audience. You end up feeling like you're just as guilty of the sick obsession he had with this way-too-young girl, and I'm sure anyone with a conscience (and a daughter) would have the same problems. I can certainly understand why there was controversy when this movie came out. "},{"Title":"so good, it raises questions about the novel","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  mr. lyne, mr. irons, and especially ms. swain are just super.  the result is a film that raises serious questions about the merit of the novel.  i have read nabokov critically very recently, with annotations and author's comments, and have concluded that neither the story nor the prose warrants the elevated position in american literature that the book seems to enjoy. mr. lyne's movie reveals the over-appraisal of the book precisely because it is so good.  it is marvelous cinematic work, and its glaring weakness is the relative pointlessness of its plot.  yes, it is a tragic study of humbert etc. etc.  but after all of this attention, doesn't it seem that mr. lyne's and mr. irons's time and skill could have been better spent on a less fatuous bit of schlock? "},{"Title":"This movie moved me more than 'Titanic' ever did or could.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughyly enjoyed this movie, it moved me more than 'Titanic' did, which says a lot about it.The film is not erotic or vulgar, nor in my opinion about incest, or paedophilia, but about one man (Humbert Humbert) and his struggle to come to terms with the death of his childhood sweetheart in 1921.  They were both Fourteen at the time.When he meets young Dolores, and ends up marrying her mother to become closer to her, he is not a sad lonley pervert, but just a sad and lonely man who longs for his childhood sweetheart to be in his arms once more.The film moved me because Humbert is never going to be able to live a normal life ever since the events of 1921 and it is a great shame.I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a tear-jerker, an intense drama, or someone plainly looking for their Lolita.  "},{"Title":"A movie that begins beautiful, ends horrible","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lolita had good promise. A great actor, super director, and a beautiful girl. I haven't red the book, I saw the movie, and uhm, what a strange movie it was. At the start, I thought the movie was a hopeless lovestory. (My favorite.)  But in the middle of the movie, the movie turns on me and suddenly is all about incest, and the main characters love which is so hopeless that the man was better off dead. Lolita is something that could have gone great. I thought of different good endings for Lolita, but Lolita had the most horrible ending anyone can think of for a movie. What happened? Am I supposed to feel guilty? Is this movie a lesson to all usmen who look at younger people? hmm.. uuuuuuuh.......  Well, I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone. Drama is drama, but, this, isn't drama, this is sad, just sad.  In short, a beautiful movie, destroyed by ones too realistic way of thinking. "},{"Title":"Irons' Best Performance of his life","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons gives the best performance of his illustrious career in this film.  All his emotions are clearly visible in his face - and the viewer feels all his pain. The film is wonderfully done - great cinematography - flows well. "},{"Title":"Fine movie","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well... everybody's talkin' about the book and the Kubrick version.  Didn't read the book, but I saw the 1962 film. I know that Kubrick had some problems with the old Hays Code. And then I saw this one.  I think the young girl Swain gives a fine performance, but Irons always seems to look at his watch, hoping that this day of shooting his scenes will end soon.  Others comments are right about the music of Morricone. This guy knows how to write music for films!  I like this one, despite the fact that it had weaks moments.  But I really hate the murderer scene at the end, with blood and shooting. But... what can I do? This is an American film... "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life, I shouldn't have seen it. Please read ( (","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi, um, I am a little bit ashamed of myself, but I am only 15 and I saw Lolita today. I thought it would be fun to see an adult movie with all my friends and that I would enjoy it. It wasn't like that at all.  I thought I knew everything, about love and sex and stuff, but I now realize that I was wrong. This movie had a great impact on me today, and I think it always will have.  All my innocence is gone, and all my dreams of true, pure and sweet love are gone too.  Now I see a different world not only in sex, but in all that has to do with a relationship between a man and a woman.  I am scared, you know, I don't want to fall in love, what if love is something cruel, and horrible, as in this movie, or maybe love is just sex or obsession.... My life has changed I am not a child anymore,  I must see the world as it is and not believe in love in men, in anything. "}{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw many films, but this is one of the best. I recommend it for all of the real movie funs, who looks for real emotions, feelings, break-through artists. Jeremy Irons is as good as he is...always. Dominique Swain is the most beautiful young Lady I've ever seen. This title is a must seen!Dave (from China)  "},{"Title":"One of the few movies I have rated above 7.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This adaptation of the book by Nabokov is a credit to the same, unlike the 1962 version. Nabokov's novel, for those of you who have not read it, reads more like poetry than prose. Jeremy Irons (Humbert) should have received an Oscar for his performance. Dominque Swain (Lolita) is young but shows promise. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a minor, so while everyone else was repulsed by the excessive shots of the beautiful Dominique Swain, with her being the same age I am now at the time of shooting, I was drooling; yet I found the film fantastic. "},{"Title":"Dominique Swain","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dominique was everything I expected out of the character of Lolita.  Great casting!  Jeremy Irons was equally amazing.  It was either his great talent or he was so incredibly nervous playing the part.  ;-)  I can't get enough of this movie.  Showtime; thank you!!! "},{"Title":"A generally accurate, provocative adaptation of the novel.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In contrast to Stanley Kubrick's farce, Adrian Lyne has put together a  sensitive, compelling adaptation of Nabokov's novel. While some elements of  Humbert's relationship with Lolita are different from the book, this film  gives a rich, complex perspective on Humbert, his love/hate relationship  with Lolita, and all the dynamics that develop as their relationship runs  its course. Given that the issue of the sexuality of children is one of the  social hot buttons of the moment, it's good to see a film that addresses  these issues without oversimplifying them or resorting to knee-jerk  moralistic interpretation. "},{"Title":"Jeremy Irons Weird Role # 27435","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again, we have Jeremy Irons playing a complete scumbag (please see Dead Ringers, Reversal Of Fortune Madame Butterfly etc etc). In Lolita, Irons plays Humbert Humbert, a man with no morals whatsoever who sees nothing wrong with falling in love with his landlady's 14 year old daughter, then marrying the Landlady, so therefore the girl is now her father. Even though the material here IS quite questionable, Adrian Lynne pulls it off quite remarkably well with the acting from Irons and Dominique Swain as Lolita. Melanie Griffith and Frank Langella I can take or leave. One thing that I liked about this film is the superb art direction, with the late 1940's feel being handled quite well. Somewhat of a surprise.  "},{"Title":"You would have to be a mad man , an artist......","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on the Nabokov novel and a remake of the Kubrick original, this film is why remakes should be done. Kubricks version was a good attempt, but at the time there was only so much contraversy allowed in a film. Lynn takes this rendition where Kubrick wasn't allowed. This film will make you understand women. Dominique Swains performance was Oscar worthy. Irons portrayal of Humby was very mesmorizing. This is one of the best films that I have ever seen. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting - but the difficult subject matter ultimately overwhelms the film","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The performances are brilliant. Dominique Swaine as Lolita gives an astonishingly mature and powerful performance. Jeremony Irons is also very good.But the subject matter ultimately overwhelms this film. It is a difficult subject - and both the original book and this film are so near to brilliance that it seems churlish to condemn. But the fine line between the, very real, subject matter of a man's psychological failure to get beyond a childhood love which was lost, and subsequent paedophilia is crossed. It makes for uncomfortable viewing, not because the film is powerful, but because it is seedy. "},{"Title":"SUPERB FILM NOW ON DVD","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now that this superb version of Nabakov's novel, considered one of the finest of this century, has been put on DVD we can examine and re-examine it at leisure. I think it gets better with repeated viewings. The disc contains a full length commentary by the director that is just superb.  Also, some scenes that were left out that are surprisingly sensual in nature. With the exception of the removal of some peripheral figues,  the film is quite a faithful translation of the novel to the screen.  Far better than Nabokov's own screenplay which he seems to hae knocked off for the money at the time.The at first controversial brutal killing of Quilty by HH simply follows the novel and in that sense is not excessive.There are casting takes of DS  with Jeremmy Ions that show what a remarkable young person she was at the time.  Her adeptness at the role is someting to behold.Melanie Griffith's portrayal does seem weak, but it is not all that bad.Everything about this film, the direction, the acting, the locales, the photography, place it, in my opinion, in the ranks of the great films of recent years "},{"Title":"USA = crazy people","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Is it true that the USA banned this beautiful movie from the big screen into pay-tv ? Oh...you missed something. I love STANLEY KUBRICK ... believe me. But this version is much more effective than this strange-60s-pseudo-erotic-thing.SCANDAL,SCANDAL,SCANDAL It IS erotic in some sense... and it is understandable for every male watching it... even for the dumb. Jeremy Irons is great in getting nervous while she is hopping around ... probably a movie for male audiences. But it is great... it is dreamy ... it is intense... big big cinema... I loved it. One of the best movies of this century and one of the very best remakes ever at least... Great work, Mr. Lyne.  "}{"Title":"Vastly superior to ill-cast Kubrick version","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This inspired version of Nabakov's book is miles ahead of the earlier version, which was miserably miscast with only one exception Peter Sellers. Jeremy Irons here is all Humbert Humbert was meant to be, and not the stiff, unbelievable James Mason that dragged down the original film. And thank goodness Lolita is played by someone closer to the age of a nymphet of course Hollywood has a problem with Lolita's age (here said to be 12), but after all, nymphets are prepubescent (Nabakov's definition, not mine). The book remains better than any film can be. "},{"Title":"Faithful adaptation with one terrific performance, but aloof film is never absorbing...","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While watching Adrian Lyne's version of Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita, the first thought that came to mind was, Someone--either Lyne or screenwriter Stephen Schiff, or both--really loved this book. It features minor details from the novel that stick in your mind (like Lolita's love of brushing her teeth, or the sound of the toilet-paper roll spinning in the Haze bathroom) which are astutely, amusingly captured on film. Unfortunately, Frank Langella's role as Humbert Humbert's walking paranoia is played too far over the top, and the whole last act crumbles and falls apart. I did not think Dominique Swain was much of a presence as the new Lo (she's too lanky to be squirrelly and teasing, she just looks like she's showing off), but Jeremy Irons is very fine as Humbert (though he is perhaps too conventionally good-looking for the role). Melanie Griffith, on the other hand, is totally out of her league as Lo's nagging mother. Lyne's film is full of hypnotic images, but as a film per se it doesn't hold up. Stanley Kubrick's 1962 version is more surreal, more suggestive; simply by not showing as much, Kubrick got deeper into the crazy muck and mire of the book, and his interpretation is far more hypnotic. ** from **** "},{"Title":"No butterflies this film lacks beauty and delicacy, and so cannot fly.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's try something original; talk about this film without mentioning Nabokov or Kubrick.  Impossible?  Probably.  But cinema owes no respect to literature, so let's meet Lyne on his own terms.Plot rather dull.  The Humbert/Quilty confrontation is necessarily muffled. Actually, I can't keep this up.  This LOLITA doesn't exist in its own right it suffocates in the shadows of its predecessors.  The whole point of the novel (NOT AGAIN.  GROAN...) was a mocking of ideas of 'plot' and character.  Humbert is a madman (he confesses to many stays at 'sanatoriums' (sic?)), supposedly dying in prison, who manages, in a first draft, to create a work of polished beauty and perfect artistry.  Yeah right.  He is constantly playing games with the reader, with Nabokov playing further games on him and us.  Whole passages, of seemingly vital plot importance, are undermined by parody, pastiche, allusion, word-games.  The vital final clash is played as hysterical farce, as is much of the book.How on earth do you capture this on film?  Kubrick ignored much of the (untranslatable) book to created a masterly black comedy, which forswore Humbert's mendacious viewpoint in favour of Nabokov's more detached eye (funny how the hyperintelligent Vlad failed to notice this).  It is, however, primarily a Kubrickian work, with the source material serving as a blueprint for many of the director's favourite themes, especially the idea of a moral monster as point of audience identification in his struggle with a repressive society.Lyne, rather facilely, thinks that because Kubrick did not stick to the letter of the book, that he somehow betrayed it.  His film is therefore superficially authentic - we are back in 'real' America, not Kubrick's English invention (which actually transliterated very well the book's themes of appearance, pastiche, deception and reproduction).  But throwing in a few 40s signifiers does not a sense of time and locale make, and Lyne completely fails to grasp Nabokov's use and subversion and understanding of popular culture, as one of the two forces shaping Lo.The major impression one gets from the book is the sweltering heat, the 'haze' (also Lo's surname), and this too is faithfully reproduced.  But this only serves to make realistic a novel which is always rupturing into the fantastic.  Lyne makes the fatal error of taking Humbert at his word.  The glorious mixture of wild, disturbing farce and poignant melancholy of the book, is seriously unbalanced by almost completely obliterating the former, and drowning the film in the latter.  Yes, we sympathise with Humbert, but he's a fiend - he has sex with pubescent girls; he enjoys his mastery and their pain; he tries to murder Charlotte, and only fails because he is too timid; he drugs Lo so that he can sleep with her unawares; the money he so generously offers her at the end was hers anyway, through her mother.  I mention these examples because they are suppressed in the film, as it tries to make of Humbert a tragic figure.  This is helped by the fact that Dominique Swain, wonderful nymphet that she is (although the ideal Lolita is surely Shirley Temple), is far too old, tall and beautiful for Lo in an age where Catherine Zeta Jones and Sean Connery are a viable box-office item, there doesn't seem to be anything all that distasteful about the relationship.And so the film is actually profoundly scared of the book, not daring to make us sympathise with an absolute monster.  The casting of Jeremy Irons conspires in this.  He is superb, his best since DEAD RINGERS, but he is not Humbert, he has no madness, no poetry; more like Charles Ryder twenty years on.  James Mason specialised in suave lunatics, and his perceived 'coldness' is a perfect interpretation of Nabokov's Humbert, as opposed to Humbert's self-image.  This LOLITA is as safe as can be - there is hardly any sex at all (I mean, we wouldn't want to offend anyone, would we?); the style is glossy and fatuous, TV-movie blandness, abandoning Nabokov's figurative language, and offering none of its own.  The detailed descriptions of landscape in the novel have an untranslatable moral import Lyne gives us a few blurry shots of trees.  The film is such a mockery of Nabokov that when we do get unimaginatively large chunks from the novel, they actually, unbelievably, sound daft.  The Quilty climax, one of the funniest scenes in literature, and perfect in the Kubrick (with Sellers how could it not be?) is reduced to FATAL ATTRACTION-style psychodrama (Nabokov, even beyond the grave, was spot on about modern cinema).  Once again, Lo's anguish, in the hands of a 'sensitive' male (Lyne), is reduced to hysteria. Very sporadically, there are moments of cheeky Nabokovian farce (especially when Humbert checks that Charlotte is asleep, and the interviews with Lo's principal), but the Nabokov tone is never caught, the sense of cartoon, non-sequitur, and sheer charming Humbert bull, is rejected as not being highbrow enough.  By trying to be so serious, the film ends up looking silly. "},{"Title":"Lolita","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have not had the opportunity to view this film until now. I can only say that this movie really has nothing to do with pedophilia. I was concerned with watching the film for personal reasons, not only does Mr. Irons resemble someone I have known in the past but some of the mannerisms he has shown in past films, are disturbing for me, Last Call for one, made me uncertain if I wanted to watch this movie, for it has something to do with someone I love dearly. I am glad that I chose to watch the movie, for the film is not what I feared it would be. It is a very well made film, a story that needed telling. Mr Iron's, as usuall is a consummate actor. "},{"Title":"a middle aged literature teacher attracted by a young girl","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Since I have not seen Kubrick`s version of Lolita,I`m not in position to compare it to the cover version,so I`ll just take a fellow cinefil`s word taht this is a rare case when the remake is superior to the original(as opposed to the covers of Psycho,The Getaway,12 angry men or,recently,Planet of the apes).J.Irons as Humbert is top,but,as one of my all time favourites,I always expect him so!He rents a room at an attractive widow who`s daughter Dolores(Lolita,Lo)will shortly become the object of his affliction.He marries the widow(M.Griffith is also strong)just to be close to little Lo...   The fact that this film was prohibited due to pedophilic acusations seems stupid to me if you take a look at its undoubtable literal value!Even knowing this dangerous liaison could(and actually will!)cause his end,Humbert lets himself carried by the flow,hoping to accomplish his utopia.Excelent Dominique Swain debut(?)and an A.Lyne at his best-all this makes a memorable cinematographic literature of Nabokov`s book!       "},{"Title":"Vladimir Nabokov would not enjoy this film.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is sure that the screenplay writer stayed faithful to this Nabokov's classical novel. Nobody could dispute it. But beyond this positive point there are some characteristics of the movie that make it just middling as an artistic creation.Lyne's direction uncovers his unsuccessful effort to let on the film his personal stamp. What he finally succeeds is the fact that we do not understand if we watch a film noir (surrealistic plans similar to those in The Third Man), a psychological drama directed by David Cronenberg (the chill we watch on the screen is supported by the without-feeling way of acting) or a boring James Ivory film! The performances - except of Dominique Swain's - are really tragical. Jeremy Irons is so bad as he could never be. Sometimes he makes you believe that he is not acting but just reading indifferently the script.At this point I should emphasize Steven Schiff's impotence in rendering some of the great moments of Nabokov's novel. For example find in the book the point at which Dr. Humbert Humbert sees Lolita for the first time and try to compare it to the correlative scene. In this way you will find out what I am talking about. Schiff is also unable to analyze Humbert's character. Someone who has just read a few pages of the book will easily understand that Humbert is a complexed personality, a man sinking in his unrealized lusts -which outrun every moral limit- and trying to save himself by creating an imaginary world for him and his Lolita. However Schiff does not seem to have understood it .Closing this comment I have to say that Dominique Swain's performance is remarkable as she manages to combine in a perfect way the innocence of a 13 years old girl with her developing eroticism, without having to be seductive.  "},{"Title":"Lolita, Lolita, Lolita","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dominique Swain did an excellent job playing the role of Lolita. Even though she was around 18 when the movie was filmed, she looked really young in the movie. What I didn't get was the fact that she played a 12 year old girl, but acted like she was 8. Jeremy Irons looked like a true pedophile in this movie. The way he looked at Lolita in the scenes freaked me out. I must warn you that this movie has a little male nudity, and it is not pleasant. This movie has many funny parts, but I don't think they were intentional. I would recommend this movie because although it has some weird parts, it is good overall. 9/10 stars "},{"Title":"Exquisite madness","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indulging in guilty pleasure of having read less than half of the dangerous novel lolita by Vladimir Nabokov, and even more dangerously being obsessed with Mr.Humbert Jeremy Irons, I was looking forward to appreciating this film for a long time. Reading the book, although I did not even finish the part one, I must admit I was intoxicated with Humbert Humbert, his words, his madness, his longing for a spoiled little girl, Lolita.While mesmerized by this uniquely beautiful temptation of a book, the people - mostly my friends - gave me a yes-you-are-a-wicked-girl-I-know look and knowing smile; my fetish with old men is quite well known I must say.The movie was nevertheless exquisite to me. Jeremy Irons' charm was more than enough to fill the story I did not reach in the book. And Lolita was a risqué temptation as she always is in my mind.Humbert Humbert.Love is mere madness.If only I could have gone mad with you in this crazy world. "},{"Title":"A true work of art.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Kubrick's 'Lolita' and then this version. To me, the original lacked in many ways, the most prevalent being that Humbert's obsession with young girls was never explained. I saw him as a dirty old man and did not sympathize with his character at all. James Mason was more like an angry father than a troubled lover. Sue Lyon was completely wrong for Lolita. She was a brat, and a loud one at that. There were absolutely no nymphet qualities to her. I was highly impressed by Adrian Lyne's adaptation of 'Lolita'. The way in which Humbert's obsession was explained was so understandable. I think it's virtually impossible to not fall in love with Jeremy Irons as Humbert. His eyes seemed to convey so much sadness and passion. Dominique Swain was a perfect choice for Lolita. She's childish, yet awfully flirtatious. I found myself feeling more for Humbert than Lolita. I saw her as a spider who had captured poor Humbert's heart in her tangled web of seduction. True, she was a child, but her actions and words told a different story. Most would have fallen hopelessly in love with her, had they been confronted with the beautiful nymphet. I was inspired so greatly by this version of Lolita that I read Vladimir Nabokov's book of the same name.  "},{"Title":"Smashing Piece of cinema","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can think of only one phrase to describe this film 'breathtakingly beautiful'.  Having read Nabokov's book long before the film was released, I had fallen in love with the tale and the author's wonderful method of weaving the story of lovers Humbert Humbert and Dolores Haze.  I watched Kubrick's version and found it disappointing. I always considered Jeremy Irons the perfect casting director's choice for the stumbling, enamoured yet strangely endearing paedophile Humbert.  He holds the audience captive with his gentle yet misunderstood love of the naive, selfish Lolita.As we follow the curious couple around America, we see loving Hummy's paranoia grow as he becomes more possessive of errant and careless Lo. his fears are proved to be true as the emotion of the masterpiece reaches it's peak when all the love and care he gave to Lolita not only as a lover but as a father is ignored by her and she rejects him for another Sugar Daddy.It's so very possible to see the difference between loyal affectionate and adoring Humbert and the Lecherous unappealing Clare.Written and filmed with irony and subtle humour to complement the hard-hitting and emotional subject matter,Lolita Should be seen by all who will have respect for it's content, for it truly is a beautiful piece of cinema. "}{"Title":"I like it better than Kubrick's","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you only have enough money in the budget to rent one of the Lolitas, and you'd rather see a more serious and beautiful version of Nabokov's story, I'd recommend the '97 update.  The acting is all excellent----right down to Melanie Griffith.  There are some beautiful and sad scenes in this movie.  And let me also say that even though this movie took a more heavy-hearted approach, I actually laughed more in this movie than in Kubrick's----courtesy of Swain's child-like restlessness.  My complaints rest in the Quilty subplot and in the Swain's unconvincing final scene.  But the rest is all great and Swain really epitomizes Nabokov's definition of a nymphet.  My absolute favorite scene is the one in the middle of the night when Swain is sprawled out in front of the fridge gorging on fattening foods and reading her movie magazine whilst Iron is secretly watching her from the other room. "},{"Title":"Missed The Point","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Adults, sex and children is a controversial mix. It's strange that Adrian Lyne, the director of Fatal Attraction and 9 and a half weeks, films that are hardly subtle, was given the job of directing Lolita.But Lolita the film and Lolita the book are apparently about two different topics, and here I'm going to draw  from The Australian's Evan Williams for enlightenment because I haven't read Vladimir Nabokov's novel.According to Williams Lolita the novel was an amused and pitiless exploration of the springs of American popular culture. The hopelessness of Humbert's sexual  passion stood, in a sense, for the hopelessness of any engagement between  Nabokov's ideal world - that of European culture and refinement - and the world of Dolores Haze (the young Lolita). Lolita was a complex satire on American consumerism.In other words the novel wasn't a salacious skin flick about incest. Neither is this film really. It's stuck somewhere in the middle, between an ironic black comedy and a failed love affair, and that's a difficult world for a film to inhabit.So Adrian Lyne's version of Lolita (Stanley Kubrick made another in 1962) seems confused, perhaps especially so if you haven't read the book.The plot tells of an academic called Humbert (Jeremy Irons) who in at least his forties falls hopelessly in love with a fourteen year old girl who he calls Lolita.He marries her mother (Melanie Griffith) who is soon dispatched from the film leaving Humbert and his daughter to each other as they travel around America in a cute wooden panelled car in 1947. There is a climax but it's puzzlingly surreal and out of step with most of the rest of the movie. Somehow Lolita doesn't quite make sense.Lolita however is beautifully filmed. It's full of outstandingly presented interiors and exteriors shot through the soft filters we'd expect for a wistful romantic drama.It is also superbly cast. Melanie Griffith as the mother was perfect as Lolita's sloppy and inattentive mother. Any child of hers would have tended to have been spoilt and disrespectful.Jeremy Irons was right in his element. His Humbert is frightfully worried. He should be. He's hopelessly in love with his daughter.Young Dominique Swain plays Lolita with avid gum popping enthusiasm. And I'd imagine that Nobokov might well have portrayed her that way in his novel. She would have fitted beautifully into a black comedy.But because Lolita isn't ironic and because it concentrates almost entirely on Humbert's predicament, even leaving the young girl's motivations out of the picture, it only becomes a strange tale of thwarted love.And then you would have to argue that we really needed to have more than the limited glimpses of what the girl might be thinking. After all there are very good reasons for the taboo on adults allowing themselves to become sexually involved with children!But if, as Evan Williams and many aspects of the film suggests, Lolita is meant to be wild satire on consumerism ( I was strongly reminded of The Coen Brother's Barton Fink at one stage) then it could have been a triumph.And if it was only about falling in love with the wrong person then at least we should have been introduced to the child's pain as well as Humbert's. And then it's middle reel mightn't have dragged as it did.But still Lolita does offer plenty for discussion. "},{"Title":"I Blame The Director","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I`ve never read Vladimir Nabokov novel LOLITA or seen the 1962 Kubrick version but someone say there was an air of tragical satire between American and European values in the novel with this being present in the Kubrick adapation ? If so this seems to be absent in the most recent versionAnd yet both Stephen Schiff`s screenplay and Jeremy Irons performance hints that the story is a tragic farce caused by the catalyst of Humbert`s forbidden ( Imagined ? ) desire for his under age stepdaughter . When we`re introduced to Humbert after the credit titles , he bangs his head against the wall and lacks any sort of grace . He`s a total klutz , a sort of sad pathetic shmuck and his character interaction with Melanie Griffith`s landlady seems to reinforce this . Unfortunately director Adrian Lyne seems to have missed the point as he gets Dominque Swain to play the title character with as much subtlety as a bull in a china shop which destroys the whole tone of the movie and turns it into a rather uneasy film to either watch or comment upon    "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing remake","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wretched movie of a fine book and a fine movie.Shockingly bad.Astonishingly bad redo by first-rate actors. Miscast, misdirected. A prime example of how not to redo a picture that should have been left alone.The IMDB requires ten lines of comment, but another word would only add to the pain of seeing and reading about this vile film.I'll have to add another three lines of nothing to see this review in print, but it's no worse prattling on than wasting a minute of a life actually watching the film.The staging, the acting, the script, the directing, the aerial photography (especially) jars one at every moment. Let this book alone! Shame on you for even thinking about seeing this dreck. "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The problem with Lolita-and I mean both the book and the film is that there is too much hype surrounding them!Basically the idea of the film is good and in talented hands it would have become a great drama.Because it analyzes the impossibility of satisfying one's desires in a hostile world and the incompatibility between man's desires(sexual or whatever)and society!The problem is that neither Nabokov,nor Lyne succeed in showing this realistically and deeply.Thus the plot inevitably degenerates into a purely sexual thing!The more ,the film proceeds,the more unrealistic it becomes.After all what are the MOTIVES of the characters in doing this or that?We simply cannot understand. Much pretence,alas unjustified!Even Irons,one of my favourite actors cannot save the film.I wouldn't call the film trash but I wouldn't recommend it either! "},{"Title":"the most ridiculous thing","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nabokov's novel Lolita is definitely a satire. Kubrick made some changes and created one of the most beautiful black comedies ever.How can you even imagine that you could make a film about Lolita AFTER the perfection in itself and for itself  Stanley Kubrick's Lolita ? How can you think that you could create a compelling drama (and, obviously, Lyne wanted to make a drama ?!!!) out of a story about a man who is sexually attracted to children ? The premise of this movie is absolutely ridiculous. You just can't present a story about a man who wants to have sex with a twelve years old girl as a love story and a drama. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems that the director forgot that LOLITA is a comedy.  If you would like to see a real interpretation of the novel see the Stanley Kubrick version.  It is much much better and is not a hyped up Showtime special. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this awful movie!!!","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the latest version of Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita to be filmed, Adrian Lyne assaults his viewers with scene after scene of sin. In case you are unfamiliar with the novel, here's a bit of background. Published in the 50s, Lolita is the pornographic tale of an 12 year old girl who engages in a lurid sexual relationship with her nympholeptic step-father. No, you didn't read that wrong I said TWELVE YEARS OLD!! Nabokov had a lot of trouble bringing the book to press - the only people who would touch it were some sex novel publishers - and Lyne had a lot of the same difficulty. Distributors were afraid that audiences would be offended, and so Lyne had to bring out the film on TV. With good reason! I can only say that it saddens me that Showtime ever gave this sorry excuse for a movie a chance...and also that they gave America's perverts a chance to watch it! You MUST keep your children away from this monstrosity at all costs cover their ears if you happen to chance across one of their classmates' progressive parents, shield their eyes whenever in the vicinity of a movie theatre, and if they should speak of this despicable film...well I at least wouldn't hesitate to give them the discipline that the movie's heroine so obviously needs. It is essential that you be alert for the possibility of corruption - a movie this scandalous will draw the seculars like butterflies to a flame. I hesitate to discuss the actual movie at all, out of a fear that even hearing about it might provoke your curiosity and lead you into temptation and also because reading about the movie is or should be a sin in itself. Even typing this out for you sends a shiver down my spine. In the end, though, I think that there is a greater good to be served by the certainty that I will deter readers who might otherwise have subjected themselves to the movie from that future error. Jeremy Irons plays the villainous Humbert Humbert, who comes to America in order to lecture at a reprehensibly elite college. He meets the disgusting Charlotte Haze, with whom he becomes a boarder and eventually a husband. This Haze woman, played by Melanie Griffith, is a portrait of vapid and loathsome sensuality. Her unveiled come-ons (before their marriage!) are absolutely sickening. In fact, this side of Griffith's portrayal is perhaps the movie's sole redeeming moral lesson the utter undesirability of this woman and the sexual so-called pleasures she has to offer should help us in our fervent quest to keep our children pure. This repugnant sensuality is clearly the element shared by the little and big Hazes. Dominique Swain, in the title role, magnifies her mother's charms to a monstrous degree. We see, for example, her reading the funny pages, hair lank with sweat and exertion, toes curling, tendons straining, rocking, breathing deeply, bare leg, breathing more deeply, moaning&#x85;before Lyne cruelly cuts away. Or later, we see the temptress prostitute herself for a raise in her allowance. Wherever did she learn to rub her hands so teasingly along her step-father's leg? The viewer, shuddering spasmodically, struggles to think. And Irons, with that bare, well-muscled chest, is hardly innocent in these exchanges either. Incidentally, I have not seen the film. I advise you follow my example. "},{"Title":"It's just disgusting","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a disgusting story of gerontophilia and pedophilia between a 14 years old slut and two dirty old men. The director tried to make it very funny by giving the girl's character a joyful and sympathetic look, but there is nothing funny about a paraphiliac. Lolita is in fact very cute and sexy, but too dirty to make it possible to like her.The most horrible scene wasn't that of the sticky good-morning kiss, but that one in which our horny Lolita is sitting on old buddy Humbert and makes beautiful sounds. Near the end we are exposed to some nice fat and dirty old man's genitalia because, hey, that's what we expected the whole time to see. Awful...Do you remember the unforgettable story of hit-man Leon and little Mathilda? What makes that one so beautiful? Exactly! The non-sexual relationship between the two.I give it an 1 out of 10 because it's just disgusting, and please don't let your kids watch this movie, it's definitely not for them. "}]