[{"Title":"Misunderstood movie--well worth seeing.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage was a joy.  Alicia Silverstone is gorgeous, bratty, and fun. Benicio del Toro is frumpy and totally unlike any other leading man ever. Unfortunately, this film seems to have been misunderstood in a big way, by the audience, by reviewers, and by the people I saw it with.  But, it's worth another look.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly sexy...great chemistry between Silverstone and Del Toro","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie on a whim last night, and I was very pleasantly surprised!  The plot is entertaining, but what I really loved about this flick is that Silverstone and Del Toro have an odd - yet amazing - chemistry on screen.  Most of their intimacies are left to the imagination, but I thought that made it even hotter! I noticed there was a comment on imdb about the writing being sophomoric (or something to that effect), specifically the line, Do you like my tummy? I thought it was very sweet and REAL.  It's one of those silly conversations that makes them believable. Definitely worth the rent...and the buy (I'm purchasing it ASAP!). "},{"Title":"A sweet and funny romantic comedy...and a sweet and funny Benicio","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was much better than what I expected.Since it had such poor reviews,I rented the video only to watch my new favorite actor, Benicio Del Toro .I was actually pleasantly surprised at how good he was in a romantic comedy.He should do these more often! He has proved himself in serious roles already, but I think he can be a very refreshing lead in romantic roles. Haven't we seen enough Hugh Grant movies yet? I wont' go into details about the plot,which had an interesting start but looked like it wasn't sure where it was headed at the end.Then again, a movie starring Alicia Silverstone can't be expected to be so plot-conscious...If you're a fan of Benicio, you'll enjoy his unique debonaire charm in this movie.For once, he doesn't look that intense or sad, and we can really feel the tenderness behind his half-smile...I might not be such an objective viewer, but this movie is such a nice distraction from the Julia Roberts, Sandra Bullock romantic comedies... "},{"Title":"Come on, come on; come on come on come on...","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What are the requisites for a person to like a movie? I can't tell, but I ask because a friend of mine told me she had watched a little bit of this film and then stopped because it was bad; and I found it truly entertaining, funny and charming. I've said a lot of times that I love romantic comedies&#133;I still do, you know? Excess Baggage is an unexpected little romantic comedy that finds amusement in the strangest places. First off, the way the two leads meet. She is faking a kidnapping an hides in the trunk of a car waiting to be found; he is a car thief and steals that car, takes it to his garage and discovers that someone is making noise&#133;This scene is fantastic because the thief acts like he doesn't understand, and when he discovers it is only a girl, he gets scared.The girl is Emily Hope All I wanted in a father is a person who cared and valued his daughter, she says at the beginning of the film. She is portrayed by Alicia Silverstone as a grown person who hasn't really grown up and does mischief to get her millionaire father angry; because she knows he can spend any amount of money to find her anywhere. Her perception is right, and Silverstone's ability of going crazy helps the development of her character. I'd like to add that Silverstone's had a short career and she was discovered because of Aerosmith (she looked nice in that video); but she's got it.But the best development is the relationship between Emily and the thief; they start with the wrong foot because neither of them understands how they ended up in the situation they're living, but soon they have to deal with the fact that they look good together and that probably each of them is the part that's missing in the other one. Old question Can two people fall in love after two days of being together? This movie makes it believable.Congratulations to Max D. Adams, the only story he ever created, he did it a perfect job. In stories like these is very flexible to keep a loyal viewer engaged with the plot line. Adams, alongside Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais (Goal!) present the girl-father relationship but are smart enough not to loose focus in what's going on with Emily and the thief. They also put the lead male in a financial trouble bringing funny performances from Nicholas Turturro and Harry Connick Jr; and chose the best person to look out for Emily Christopher Walken, who end up a step away of stealing the show the thief does that.Who is the thief? He is called Vincent and the actor who portrays him has done every type of film and played every type of character including one that lies among the best performances I've ever seen. As this movie went along, I was observing his performance carefully because it appeared similar to something I've seen before; but I couldn't discover it. Maybe it was a character he played, and that's why I'm convinced there's no one like Benicio Del Toro. His performance here finds him always beaten down, but still being able of finding the charm his character requires. What a view, he says, and only he says it.The director of the film, Marco Brambilla, showed Stallone the way in Demolition Man, was in charge of this and then of the marvelous miniseries Dinotopia. He gives Excess Baggage the kind of eye it requires; comprehensive and caring. He sees the chemistry between the leads and takes advantage of it in the best way possible.I'm a fan of both of the leads&#133;And by the way, I stick to my beliefs about romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Much better the second time.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of years ago when my sister and her friends rented it.  I remember thinking it was strange, but that's all.  I came across it in the video store last night and was curious as to why I couldn't remember much about it.  Well let me tell you, I'm glad I tried it again.  The movie isn't great, the story drags a bit in the middle, and the two mob guys weren't the least bit scary.  I also had a hard time with Silverstone's portrayal of Emily, who I understand was supposed to be a troubled teen, but whose behavior was so unbelievably bad that I felt only distaste for her instead of the expected sympathy.  But Walken and Del Toro are absolutely marvelous.  They made it completely worth watching.  Walken is his usual sinister self, but at the same time manages to make his Uncle Ray character seem very fatherly and concerned for Emily.  In fact, they could have done away with the rather weak father altogether and nobody would even have noticed.  Del Toro is fascinating as the shy, befuddled Vincent.  Everything that came out of his mouth made me laugh, and you've got to like anyone who can see the good in a whiny wretch like Emily.  He turns out to be exactly what she needs, and by the end of the movie she had mellowed so much that I didn't even hate her anymore.  Watch for the scenes in the hotel room and next morning by the lake where the tentative lovers make a surprisingly touching connection.  This was the best five minutes of the movie for me. All in all, a simple but fairly sweet movie, made better by the outstanding, endearing performances by the two male leads.  Don't go into it expecting too much, and you'll have fun with this little bit of fluff that far too many people have been scared away from because of the bad reviews.  Just give it a chance.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"Pleasant, fun comedy, nothing more or less","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lots of dissing for both Alicia and Benicio but it seems disingenuous. This is not a profound film but it IS a fun one. Nice photography, a plot that has a good rhythm and tempo, engaging characters that are well acted and clever film devices (for one, the conflict regarding her smoking that set up the plot complication in the first place). Walken is great as usual as a character both scary AND endearing. Spark a blunt, open a beer and enjoy this silly but fun little flick. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not as bad as some people make it out to be. Alicia Silverstone is as beautiful as ever. And Christopher Walken played his typecast dangerous dude role the way he always does. Yes, the plot had some good sized holes in it. The film is meant to be light entertainment and it made that mark. That doesn't mean it's great or anything. I couldn't recommend spending money on this unless you're a hard-core Silverstone fan. But if it comes on cable, it's an OK hour and forty. Grade C- "},{"Title":"Not that bad....","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I read quite a few  reviews around the time this film was released and they were all very negative towards it. Don't ask me why I rented it (probably in a moment of maddness) cos I had very low expectations of what it was going to be like but actually I didn't think it was that bad a film... I like Benicio Del Toro - if you don't like him or can't get to grips with the way he speaks etc then your probably instantly going to hate this film - I think he is an interesting character in real life and I think he made this film a little more interesting too... Silverstone was just basically Silverstone - I feel sorry for her its been pretty much down hill since Clueless, shes always playing these richgirl/brat characters there is no real variety..but shes ok - nothing special - Walken was as usual solid as a rock, Harry Connick Jnr cracked me up for some reason I thought he was funny! Plot - I could see where it wanted to go but it didn't quite get there - it wasnt quite clever enough - I don't think it was a fabulous film by any means but compare it to Batman and Robin? Speed 2? Its not as bad as that! Rent it if you are a Benicio/Alicia/Walken fan but otherwise you'll probably just feel robbed... "},{"Title":"the decline of a teenage role model","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking that everybody had been too hard on poor Alicia, who had been wonderful in Clueless and sexy in many an Aerosmith video. I was wrong. It might have been due in part to the non-existent script, but Alicia showed no screen presence at all. Instead, she smoked and drank during the entire flick (is this the moviemakers' attempt to appeal to the teenage crowd this movie is aimed at??). Benicio del Toro's performance was all right, even though (or because) he seemed to think he was in a remake to the 'Usual Suspects'. In all, if you see only a hundred movies this year, don't let this one be one of them.  "},{"Title":"A definite thumbs up!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It had a really 'feel good' theme and left me wanting more. It reminded me of an old romantic movie where the guy always gets the girl. Benicio Del Toro was excellent, he really made the role his own, like it was written with him in mind. Any other actor wouldn`t have worked. Let`s just hope we see a lot more of him in the future. Fair enough, the plot wasn`t exactly rocket science, but the story was told really well and watching it was a real escape from everyday life.I would recommend this film to everyone (although maybe the romantics out there would probably appreciate it the most!!). Although Alicia Silverstone played her part well, Del Toro, with his simple, bumbling ways, really made the movie for me. Definitely A* "}{"Title":"Oh come on, who doesn't love crazy romance...","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to admit, there was something really undefined I loved about this movie. Yeah the script needed a little work, and maybe the actors could have done a tit bit of a better job. But overall it really touched me in that sweet/sadistic way.I mean that's what we all want right? To be cared about, and it just shows how far sometimes people will go for it. And OH YEAH Benicio Del Toro is such a triple threat.. He's extremely hot, He's Italian and he's an amazing actor. So whatever movie you put him in, it has a really good chance of touching someone. Overall I give this movie a 7. I think it deserves at least that. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I only paid $1.00 to see this movie, and I still felt ripped off.  I stuck around, assuming it would get better, or at least hoping I could laugh at it's badness, but neither happened.  It was not cheesy enough to laugh at, and it was so terrible I actually experienced physical pain while watching it.  The talents of Del Toro and Walken were completely wasted in this lame excuse for entertainment. "},{"Title":"Don't be put off","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't be put off by the negative comments you may have read, this is a lighthearted enjoyable film.  It's more a romantic drama than a comedy however and those expecting a comedy will probably be disappointed.  While it is not the best film ever made it will certainly entertain you on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Walken","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There is a touching moment that Walken brings to this movie that transcends the material. It's a strange Walken-esque love that only he can muster. And it runs deep for the character of Emily.This was my college girlfriend and I's favorite movie, because it was so off-beat. Like our relationship. It is clearly an agenda movie for Silverstone (as she is also the producer). Something about a father/daughter misunderstanding, cold and distant relationship that some actresses tend to gravitate to. It exists in this movie. There are a lot of precious moments. And a lot of nostalgia looking back at it now. Is it a good movie? Yes. It's not's great, but it is entertaining.The chemistry between Benicio & Silverstone is a bit weird at times. Curious to know what in the original script drew Del Toro to the part (as he is known to be elusive to commercial movies).It is a decent time wasting movie on a slow night. "},{"Title":"First Movie I Watched In 2009...PERFECT!!!","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, so people might think I'm crazy for voting this 10 out of 10. The usual response and comment everywhere I look seems to be a negative one. But I was sitting here the other night, we just moved into a new house. I love the new environment, and I was ready for the new year. I was up late, as always, and this movie came on TBS. I had just watched Clueless with Alicia in, and I thought if I could stay awake long enough, I would watch this. I love Walken and Silverstone, but had never seen Toro in much. So I started watching it. I thought at first it was funny, hilarious, and enthralling. The way the girl tied herself up and put herself in the trunk, and was extorting her dad for money. I first thought she really wanted the money. Then I figured out it didn't matter, she wanted attention. It was a cry for help. Then I see sexy del Toro steal the car and freak out when he opened the trunk and saw her in there. The scene where Uncle Ray (Walken) saw she framed her fire news article...was hilarious and brilliant. And the scene at Knotty Pines where she said you don't have to be drunk to kiss me...and he said I'm not drunk...absolutely brilliant. Not too much love scene, then the scene the next morning by the lake was touching. I loved it whenever he's talking to her dad, and he says, Are you telling me I've only known this girl two days and already I care more about her than you do? Wonderful. And the scene at the end of the movie...I TOTALLY knew he was in the trunk. And they're sitting there in the trunk and he says what a view..she says What makes it a view? he says You and then Dave Matthews starts playing Crash Into Me...perfect song, then he goes to kiss her and he does that come on, come on, come on, come on, come on thing...and they close the trunk. Perfect ending. Okay, so I loved the movie. I think that's clear. But if any person watched this and hated it, they need to go back and watch it again without thinking too hard about it. You won't hate it then! "},{"Title":"Quirky and slightly entertaining, but nothing worthwhile","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've always rather liked Christopher Walken... no matter what the role, he never seems to disappoint. Lately, I've begun to take an interest in Benicio Del Toro(specifically after I saw him in Sin City), as well. And Alicia Silverstone is usually pretty good. So when I heard of this film featuring all three of them being aired on TV, I thought, what the hey, I'll watch it, it might be fun. Turns out, I was wrong. It's not. Well, maybe slightly. But not a lot, and barely at all after the excitement of the first few minutes dies down. What follows is more than an hour and a half of dull, uninspired mediocrity. The plot is fair, and possibly original, but mostly uninteresting. The idea is old. The pacing is off. The characters are flat and stereotypical. The acting is reasonable, decent at best. The comedy is just not there. It tries way too hard to be funny, and winds up coming across as forced. There's really hardly anything at all in this film worth watching... there's a car-chase and some fun stuff at the very beginning, but I suggest you turn it off after that is done. It only goes downhill from there. I recommend this to huge fans of one or more of the three aforementioned actors. No one else should really bother. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Excess filmage","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the two worst movies I've ever seen (at least movies that were supposed to be good).Alicia Silverstone, usually a decent actor, is simply annoying in this film. The usually excellent Benicio del Toro turns in an embarassingly bad turn as the love interest/kidnapper. In fact, the only actor of any importance here who performs reasonably well is Christopher Walken (who is the lone bright point in this complete waste of space.)The plot is convoluted, flighty, and downright dumb. The audience has no empathy whatsoever with any of the characters, especially with Silverstone's, nor is she even a cool bad guy. In the end (indeed, 10 minutes into the film) not only do we not care at all what happens to her, but we rather wish Walken would just lose his cool, lock her and del Toro in a closet someplace, and dance away into the sunset to a Fatboy Slim song.Thank god del Toro got his role in Traffic, because this quite easily could have wrecked his career. I don't recommend anyone see this film, unless you are just begging for ways to waste your money and torture yourself. "},{"Title":"Funny and cute movie","Date":"17 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I usually agree with general reviews of a movie, but I am honestly confused as to why this film has such a low rating. Romantic comedies are not even the type of films I like watching, but despite all that I really enjoyed watching Excess Baggage. The relationship between the main characters developed nicely in my opinion. I didn't find it cheesy or overly cliché either. It was hilarious, especially scenes with Benicio Del Toro, which is mostly due to the way his character behaves. Benicio's character was very unlike any other male love interest that I had ever seen, in a good way. Over all, this isn't a film to take too seriously. It is fun to watch, with weird but funny scenes. I'd even watch it again. The low rating should definitely be ignored. "},{"Title":"This Whole Film is Excess Baggage.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Excess Baggage (1997) Dir Marco Brambilla / Cast Alicia Silverstone, Benicio Del Toro, Christopher Walken, Harry Connick Jr., Jack Thompson Title indicates unwanted companionship, which can describe Alicia Silverstone's performance and the sympathy that should be given to her co-stars. She plays a rich brat who stages her own kidnapping in order to gain her father's affection. She locks herself in the trunk of a car but a car thief steals it. Clichés set in as he cannot get rid of her then after a warehouse full of cars burns down they have to stick together and fall in love, etc. Recycled plot done twice this particular year with A Life Less Ordinary being the other film. Directed by Marco Brambilla who made the equally stupid Demolition Man. He does his best but this project should have been put out of its misery before production began. Silverstone whines so much that she becomes irritating. Benico Del Toro does his best as the car thief but the role is reduced to a romantic prop with all the personality of a flat tire. Christopher Walken is a fine presence in the film as her uncle but the role is straight forward and totally beneath him. Harry Connick Jr. is given the cardboard role of Del Toro's partner in crime. Jack Thompson plays Silverstone's less than active father whose life is work. Title indicates that video outlets obtain too many movies and this one should go. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"bratty little rich girl","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Emily (Alicia Silverstone) is a bratty little rich girl. She plans her own kidnapping for $1 Million. Only it doesn't go as plan when her car is stolen by Vincent (Benicio Del Toro) with her stuck in the trunk.Emily is hot and a mess. She's a big piece of both. She pines for her daddy's love. He is a quiet nice thief, and just wants to get away from her craziness. But her antics cause him problems and chaos.Alicia Silverstone has made it hard to like the character. If she could dial down the annoying childishness, we could like her and root for the two to get together. It would make for a good edgy rom-com. But this is a clear miss. Benicio Del Toro does the movie no favors by being so meek at the start. They needed some better verbal exchanges. If you're able to take a crazy hot chick, this will be a fine movie for you. "}{"Title":"Excess Baggage","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A displeased pampered princess (Alicia Silverstone), whose crooked millionaire father (Jack Thompson) has problems arising with the Securities and Exchange Commission (taps on his phone by the authorities hoping he will give away details to put him in prison), stages a phony kidnapping just to get pops' attention (and hopefully his support; she later even envisions him personally removing her from the trunk with affection on his face and in voice to the media gathering about), but her car is stolen by a master thief (Benicio Del Toro), taken to his garage housing other confiscated vehicles. So it assumed Del Toro is the kidnapper and thanks to a feisty, uncooperative (and misbehaving) Silverstone, he loses control of the situation, the garage (thanks to a lit cigarette from Silverstone, hurled into a barrel with rags inside) sets afire with all the stolen, high-priced luxury vehicles going up in explosive flames as well. Del Toro was paid handsomely for the thefts and those who handed over the cash want it back because their cars went kaboom. If he could just get the money to them (Nicholas Turturro and Michael Bowen), perhaps Del Toro could still escape relatively unscathed, but then Silverstone's uncle enters the picture and complicates matters. That uncle is played (thankfully) by Christopher Walken and he holds onto the money in the duffle bag until Del Toro takes him to Silverstone as confirmation that she's okay. Then Turturro and Bowen realize that Silverstone could bring a hefty payday to them, so a real kidnapping will commence (Silverstone wasn't forthcoming to Del Toro, making her father think he had in fact took her hostage and had her touch his penis!), with Del Toro and Walken having to join forces to intervene.Personally, as much as I loved Silverstone in Clueless (1995) back in the day, I found her damn near insufferable in Excess Baggage. She reminded me of those spoiled brats needing to use shock methods to get Daddy Warbucks' attention. She is a difficult, pain-in-the-ass for Del Toro who just needs to deposit her some place and be done with her. But you wouldn't have a romantic comedy if it ended thirty minutes into the film with Del Toro and Silverstone parting ways (which, realistically, would have happened fifteen minutes in, but I digress&#x85;).Walken, thank goodness, rescues us from a complete failure with his effortless command of the screen as the fixer who knows how to get things done for his brother. My favorite scene (well, all of Walken's scenes are worthwhile, but this one specifically made me smile) has Del Toro awakening to discover Walken hovering over him (inside a hideaway cabin of Del Toro's). I have always liked how Walken can project so many attributes like charm, appeal, with a smooth control even when circumstances might result in panic, while, at the same time, there's always that thought he could kill your ass without blinking, without breaking a sweat. I never thought he would in this film, but, just the same, when he looks down at Del Toro, for a moment, he seemed primed to put a bullet in him. It is like a smile could (or could not) hide violent intent. While Silverstone snarls in a diner scene as Walken walks in (with Del Toro hoping he gets the money to take to his car dealer partner, Harry Connick, Jr. (Gosh.)), sitting at the table, trying to convince her to come home to Alexander, he carries her along with expert ease, the conversation made bearable just because is in it. Del Toro does his actor-studio shtick, using his hands and shrugging a lot, but he'd make up for this rather annoying performance later with great work in the likes of Traffic (2000), The Hunted (2003), 21 Grams (2003), and Savages (2012). He does convey obvious frustration which, considering what his character must tolerate thanks to Silverstone's immature antics, makes perfect sense. Consider this a waste of talent, with a nice rock soundtrack, and a Walken supporting part to treasure. Nothing more or less. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Movie","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Emily (played by Alicia Silverstone) is the rich, spoiled daughter of a corrupt millionaire named Alexander (Jack Thompson). She feels unloved and in this particular case, she is, as her father devotes more time and concern to his shady business than he does to her. So, in order to feel wanted, she devises her own kidnap scheme and after tying herself up gets into the trunk of a car. Unfortunately for her (and everyone else in this case), a car thief named Vincent (Benicio Del Toro) decides to steal the car not realizing she is in the trunk. Upon hearing a noise he opens it and that's when things really begin to go wrong for him. Now, while this may not be a side-splitting comedy, it does have some pretty funny moments. Benicio Del Toro is excellent as the dim-witted thief who has to contend with a spoiled brat and finds out all too soon that she is more than he can handle. And while Alicia Silverstone may have been nominated for a Razzie for her performance, I didn't think she was that bad at all. Yes, there were a couple of weak spots here and there. But overall, I thought her acting was just fine for the part. Likewise, Christopher Walken performed in his usual high-level manner as Ray, the bodyguard of Alexander, who probably understands Emily more than anyone. All things considered, I thought that this was a delightful movie deserving higher marks than some critics have given. "},{"Title":"Cool film with great supporting cast...","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A spoilt brat of a girl ('Emily' played by Alicia Silverstone) fakes her own kidnapping to spite her (very) wealthy father, but her plans to be found 'safe' locked in the trunk of her car go awry when an 'innocent' car thief ('Vincent' played by a charming Benicio Del Toro) steals the vehicle. There are several plot developments from this point forward involving a couple of heists, some dangerous small-time thugs looking for money owed to them, and a clumsy romance between Emily and Vincent. Chris Walken plays Emily's Uncle Ray, a savvy ex-military type who unravels the story behind the events more quickly than the hapless FBI agents. Walken is fabulous, and really connects the parts of the story, offering his own brand of menace (watch for a great scene where he tosses a giant redneck-type through a restaurant window), perhaps resembling a less-hostile, but relentless 1st generation Antone Chigurh (the Javier Bardem character from 'No Country for Old Men'). Remember though this is a heist-gone-wrong-romantic-comedy -- so, things never get too 'dicey'.Also shining are Michael Bowen (popular TV actor) and Nicholas Turturro (of the famous Turturro family), particularly the latter. They portray the small-time hoods, trying to get into a larger game, but clearly out of their element.One of the beauties of these lower-budget 'heist' flicks can be the prospect of playing a great villain, and there are a few distinct opportunities in this film. (I wonder if those who rated the film poorly missed that). A parallel example of what I mean is John Lithgow in Sylvester Stallone's 'Cliffhanger', a film that had little going for it, other than Lithgow's brilliant villain mastermind. Walken and Tuturro almost carry Excess Baggage by themselves, but the leads (Silverstone and Del Torro) work a special chemistry themselves. Del Torro is the real deal, by the way - a man who takes characterization very seriously and has played several bizarre roles to prove it. In a unique way, he does much more with the Vincent character than there was on paper.So, enjoy this PG-13 romcom - these films are a shrinking commodity. You can catch this on Netflix, if you can't find the a rental DVD. "},{"Title":"Sweet and invigorating, be sure to not miss this fine film!","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I sure did enjoy the review by Luvmymom and many other reviews here. I saw the 51% rating at the header and I am sad for the 49% that found no joy here.My Mom was - is - the finest, most Motherly human being on Planet Earth, possibly the entire Universe. A beautiful and proud Italian Gal, but more to the point a Human Gal - Mom and Dad were colorblind as to race and never locked our front door - What if one of our friends or neighbors has an emergency and needs our phone or something? - that was the basic way of life at our various San Fran and Brisbane households. Never went wrong with this way of life, even though some junkies who learned about our lax security walked in and stole my Brother Aaron's life savings while the family was at my Father's funeral in 1986.Both those unfortunates died soon after, due to their own druggie actions, leaving behind good decent families who are still our close friends.But I am getting way off track here.This film, these actor-artists, the writer and director, have put together a true piece of Magic.I just want to add The first time Dave Matthews Crash...comes in like a warm rainfall, is during the scene in the motel when Alicia says to Benicio, You don't have to be drunk to kiss me.When Crash began playing, I was reminded of the first time I heard this wonderful sound.I was crippled - for only a year, thank Ma Nature - by getting hit by a car while jogging, and I spent many months in 1997-8 staying in my room, feeling sorry for myself, and then I bought this Dave Matthews cassette...saved my Spirit, it did. I just got out of a wheelchair last year after a fall from a scaffold.This fine movie is helping save my life, that it is. "},{"Title":"There's a girl in the trunk!","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Emily Hope is a mess. She has an unresolved issue with a cold father that has not shown her any warmth throughout her young life. That is why she devises a plan to get even with the old man by staging her own kidnap in exchange for one million dollars ransom. Alexander Hope, the father, decides to go along in paying the ransom. Neither Emily nor Alexander are prepared for what happens next.The supposedly kidnapped girl decided to hide in the trunk of her fancy BMW parked at a car park, where she was to have been found. Vincent, a young criminal, steals the car for a client, not realizing there is a woman in the trunk. Vincent gets much more than what he bargained for, as he gets stuck with Emily, something that never entered in his plans.This 1997 Columbia Pictures release was a vehicle for Alicia Silverstone, the young actress that made a success out of her first big role in Clueless. She was one of the producers of the film with her newly formed company. Unfortunately, the star cast herself against an actor that stole the picture from under her. It is Benicio Del Toro who is the real star of the film.Perhaps with another team, Excess Baggage might have turned out differently, but as directed by Marco Brambilla, it does not go anywhere. Based on a story by Max Adams, the material adaptation for the screen is too predictable and it is a waste Christopher Walken's talent, who has a small part. "},{"Title":"I wasn't sure what to think of it at first... but it's a worthwhile watch.","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I began watching this, I thought it was pretty strange. I wasn't going to sit through the whole thing but I decided to, since I really had nothing else to do, but I'm glad I did. It's pretty different, to say the least. But it left me feeling happy and satisfied.Silverstone's acting, in my opinion, is mediocre. I've never been a big fan of hers. I don't know what it is about her, she just rubs me the wrong way. Del Toro, however, aces it, as per usual. (I love his dark, brooding eyes and the way he mumbles. Maybe it's just me P )All in all, I recommend it. Even if you're a little skeptical at first, try it out. "},{"Title":"The best way to do a romantic comedy","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched Excess Baggage for two reasons - one, it seemed to be a very funny and odd story, and two, Christopher Walken was in it. And while Excess Baggage is a romantic comedy, it is not a typical one - it is a very cool and charming movie with great acting by Christopher Walken and Benicio Del Toro, both very gifted actors. Alicia Silverstone was also quite good.As the movie begins, I'm captured immediately. This is going to be a ride like no other before. It separates itself from all the romcoms produced in big chunks with an original story, a lot of humor, drama and romance and Benicio Del Toro's completely endearing character. I truly loved Vincent and all his wonderful lines. He reminds me (odd!) of Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow - I think it is how Vincent balances between being as sharp and effective as ever, and being VERY disorganized and fuzzy in his behavior. One minute, he's like a shy teenager, the other one he's totally in control of what is going on around him. And I don't know why, but I'll bet you anything he's a movie geek. I also liked how he couldn't even look at Emily, or have her look at him, in the beginning.Short said, Excess Baggage has more to offer than a romantic comedy in general. I can really see how both Vincent and Emily grow through out the film and add meaning and message to a movie which easily could have been nothing at all. "},{"Title":"it's all in the cast","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, so it's kind of a stock movie story with stock characters but what really makes it a view-more-than-once flick are the characters, especially Benicio Del Torro who puts in another stellar performance. Del Torro's character, Vincent, was the only non-stock character in the film and I'm convinced that Del Torro made Vincent all that he was -- no matter how good the writing & directing. I never get tired of Christopher Walken and his Christopher-Walkenisms so I found him bonus in the flick. And who is this superb gangster Nicholas Turturro (Stick)? Again, a so totally stereotypical character, but Turturro's seamless, peerless delivery made me perk up in anticipation of how he would deliver his next line every time he showed up in a scene.Something else I loved about this film were the tight images. I think the quality of the air in coastal Washington(?) gave the film a solid, high resolution look. But things like the car storage facilities not being your ordinary chop shop garages contributed to that tight imaging. Even having the cars covered in plastic was a tight consideration. As much as I'm not a big Alicia Silverstone fan, her face extrapolated this tightness.A serious detriment to the movie was the terrible weakness & implausibility of everything to do with the police -- their acting, their entire investigation activities, the chase scene, their placid acceptance of Uncle Ray at the final abduction site. So strike that stuff from your memory and focus on Del Torro's acting. Thankfully, the cops don't impinge much on the story.Overall, I found this to be a very enjoyable film that I will *definitely* watch again. "},{"Title":"a girl fakes her kidnapping and gets caught up in a situation that no girl would like to be in. or maybe they would if the man was as hot as the leading man","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i didn't see this movie in theaters because i was only 5 when it came out, but i did see this on t.v and i thought that this movie was fun,flirty and exciting. when ever a good part came they would cut to a commercial leaving you to wonder what would happen next and when it did come back on you couldn't take your eyes off watching it.this movie is one of the best Performances that Alicia has done and Benicio Del Toro is looking very hot as a leading man.the movie is filled with twist and turns that leave you at the end of your seat. This is one of my favorite movies and i'm sure that you'll feel the same way once you watch it to. Excess baggage is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I own this movie...I think it's a fun movie to watch. Before this movie I never cared for Alicia Silverstone, but after this I appreciate her a lot more...especially now that I know she created it. This also was the first film I saw Benicio del Torro in...and I think he is fabulous! His quirky behavior...and the comedy added in...made the film fun to see. Throwing in Christopher Walken as Emily's uncle and Harry Connick Jr. as Vincent's friend helped spice up the story. I liked the story of a spoiled rich girl faking her own kidnapping to only end up with a very experienced car thief...and having them fall in love...it's sweet and funny! "}{"Title":"'Clueless' meets 'Bonnie and Clyde'...","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...  or should it be 'Thelma and Lewis'?!?Basically this movie is mindless fun - something that may have you chuckling once or twice and rolling your eyes a few times, as well....  Nobody is on their best behavior in this light and slightly campy film.  You've all read the plot summary - Rich brat kidnaps herself but gets more than she bargained for when her car is stolen from the garage and romance ensues.The cast is very good in all their places....  Silverstone plays a spoiled rich brat that wants desperately - DESPERATELY - for her father's love and attention.  But daddy is too busy with his business life and dealings - some of which are not on the most 'up and up'...  While he's no Mafia Don, it's hinted that he's not the cleanest business man in the world....  Walken is daddy's 'enforcer', who seems to help in some of the shadier deals that daddy makes.  But, Walken has a decent relationship with Silverstone, and seems to be more fatherly in his relations with her...Del Toro plays a high end car thief who steals beautiful machines on order....  You want a Ferarri?  OK, we'll get you a Ferarri...!  Del Toro is a bit annoying with his slow dialect and dumb founded look.  Harry Connick Jr. plays Del Toro's 'agent' in the car rip off ring.  He does a great job in this role, that I think is one of his first.Overall, the movie is fun....  sure, it's not the greatest comedy (romantic or otherwise) on the face of the planet, but it's decent fare - a decent way to burn a few hours....  If you're a Sliverstone fan, you'll probably like this one....  If you're a Del Toro fan - well, he's just himself - with a bad speech pattern.  Walken is his typical bad guy self, and shines.Overall, I'd give it a B....   "},{"Title":"Cute, much better the 2nd and 3rd times.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I first saw it when it came out in theaters.  It was alright... well, after Benicio Del Toro's fabulously impressive acting in Traffic, a friend and I decided to check out a few more of his movies.  Wow.  He carried the film. Completely. Unfortunately, Silverstone basically maintained her Clueless performance, which, though it somewhat fit the plot, it makes her character very one dimensional. Walken's performance was acceptable, though not one of his best. Still, I do recommend the movie, its a fun feel good movie. check it out. "},{"Title":"Benicio & Walken make this movie!!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This Benicio Del Toro's Funniest role next to The Usual Suspects. The scenes with Benicio and Christopher Walken are priceless. If you like Ironic Humor, you'll love this film. It's boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, girl Ruins boys life and they ride off into the sunset together. "},{"Title":"Excessively Underrated","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is no Bonnie & Clyde. It's not some huge feat in movie-making. It's not supposed to be; it's just a cute little comedy. But it's cool. It has some very clever dialogue & fine acting. Benicio del Toro looks better than he's ever looked in any movie here. Walken is delightful. Alicia Silverstone plays the pouty brat well - she's supposed to be a little annoying. It's a fun romp. "},{"Title":"An interesting little film creating a niche of its own.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How many bad reviews have I read of this movie?  Way too many... I decided to see it anyway since I'm one of Alicia's biggest fans.  By the way, if you listen carefully to all of the dialogue in this film, you will probably notice that this is her most personal film to date. I won't go into all the details, but there are a few reasons I know of why she rewrote a large chunk of the dialogue.  First, the plot is original, as far as I know of.  The first fifteen minutes immediately kicks into overdrive with everything happening at once.  The soundtrack, too...love it. She picked that out herself, too, and made great choices.  Benicio steals the show once again, but Alicia and Christopher aren't far behind with their performances.  Oh, and Mr. Walken is a little spooky in this movie (as expected?), but don't think of him like that in real life.  Emily T. Hope is by far Ms. Silverstone's most magnificent creation to date, topping Cher Horowitz and Darien Forrester.  Emily is nothing like Alicia, and that's a huge sign she's the greatest actress on the market today.  I suggest you watch this film just to learn a little bit here and there, despite the slowdown in plot during the middle and Brambilla's lackluster action sequences.  Well, except for the only car chase in the film...a classic. So, how 'bout a part two? "},{"Title":"Cute, fun little film with Walken stealing the show yet again.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the more enjoyable 'fun' films I've seen in a while, Excess Baggage left me with a smile on my face.  Del Toro seemed a little uncomfortable on screen, and it's always hard to see Harry Connick, Jr. trying to play a bad guy, but Silverstone was wonderfully bratty without overdoing it and Christopher Walken served up yet another delightful performance as the 'problem solver.'The scene in the garage/warehouse with all of the exotic stolen cars, the bad guys, and good ol' Ray (Walken) with a gun was simply priceless.Don't look for anything 'heavy' here.  Just kick back, relax, and have some fun, and enjoy the film for what it is. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time and money","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just cannot believe that I wasted my time on that stupid film. Alicia was unconvincing and boring and the guy had a role of mentally retarded person (no offence). "},{"Title":"More like Excess Garbage","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I like Alicia in Clueless but this movie, I feel, is uncalled for! The script is so bad, I felt like a zombie after watching it! And the mumbling 'Vincent', need I say more. And the message here about teens looking good while drinking and smoking isn't the most healthy by the way. Alicia deserves a better movie! "},{"Title":"Definitely a rainy (and maybe heavy winds) Sunday movie...","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie have been done so many times, and is so predictable. Maybe with as many stars in it, the movie execs thought they could pull it off, but nope.Benicio Del Toro does the best Dean Stockwell (Blue Velvet, Quantum Leap, et al) imitation I've seen yet (and without even trying).  Which is probably why I watched the movie so long; trying to figure out who he was trying to be.The best part of this movie, was that I watched it on cable, and didn't pay movie theater prices. "},{"Title":"it's surprisingly good","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is definitely worth a rental. Especially if you're male or a teenager. Del Toro, while mumbling through the entire movie, is still fascinating to watch. While you can't understand him, you can't help but like his mumbling, bumbling character. Silverstone plays a perfect spoiled, unhappy, teenager full of sexuality that is just begging to be unleashed. Unfortunately, it stays leashed throughout the movie. Although there is a few touching moments between Del Toro and Silverstone. Good movie. It had potential to be more explosive and more interesting, but its audience is teenagers. For a thirty-something like me to like it, that's saying something.P.S. Check out my other reviews too, including Wild Things and... oops, never mind. The imdb censor won't let you see those... "}{"Title":"In a ploy for attention a girl is kidnapped and eventually falls in love.","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie, not to be too crude, was garbage,  2 hours and $5.00 I will never get back.  Alicia, brilliant in her role as Cher in Clueless showed how much acting ability she DOESNT have.  Benicio Del Toro wasn't mentally on the set.  Beware of Excess Baggage! "},{"Title":"Excess Baggage - A crash course in fun, laughs, and adventure.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know, it never ceases to amaze me how movies can be totally blacklisted by the critics to the point of it being absolutely ridiculous and unfair Excess Baggage was victim to this. It was a bomb, however I feel it was really taken the wrong way.Silverstone plays a very cute spoiled rich girl who just wants some attention from her father, so she fakes a kidnapping, then locks herself in her own car. Del Toro plays an accomplished and stylish car thief... well, I think you can figure out what happens next.My thoughts of the film are this - I'm a sucker for cute comedy's with adventurous story lines, and that's what this is. The acting isn't bad, Silverstone is believable and Del Toro is always great. The chemistry on screen is just fantastic. Accompinied by a good soundtrack, and a sexy Silverstone romancing cool Benicio really makes this movie a can't miss. Even if it's something to watch with a girlfriend or boyfriend. It's one of those films from the 90's that just makes you want to go back. If you are reading this and deciding to make it a date movie, it has everything a good date movie has. Rent it tonight! "},{"Title":"alicia=hurl","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Basically I only watched this movie because I adore Benicio Del Toro. He of course, was wonderful and the only reason I didn't turn it off after ten minutes. Alicia Silverstone's constant whiny-snotwad rich girl thing just didn't work for me. Obviously some people will say that she was just playing the character written for her, but as the old saying goes, there's more than one way to skin a cat. There is also more than one way to play a little rich girl who just wants some attention, and Alicia missed this one by a mile, so basically you sit the whole movie wanting to strangle the character I *think* you're supposed to side with and instead take sides with the Co-Star, or maybe that's was how it was meant to be. Either way, I'd side with Benicio over Side-mouth-slur Alicia any day. So don't waste your time unless you love Beni. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing Benicio and Walken together.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilt brat Emily Hope, (Alicia), seeks attention from her snotty rich dad, (Thompson), by organising her own kidnapping. This time around its the girl who cried wolf when Vincent, (the very funny Benicio), ends up stealing a car with her in it. All hell breaks loose when good old Uncle Raymond, (Walken in his usual style of acting), comes on the scene in search of the two. It's Benicio's performance that hooked me in, it's quirky with a feel of spontaneity . Even Alicia gets in on the act joining Benicio's playfulness. And to top it all off, add Christopher Walken and you've got an interesting level of performances.  "},{"Title":"Not a bundle of laughs.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage isn't really the type of film that's worth seeing. It doesn't have much action, isn't funny and the plot is pretty basic A girl fakes her own kidnapping and hides her self in the boot of a rather nice looking car only for some one to steal it and take it to his own warehouse which is full of other nicked cars. Soon, Vincent (Played by Benicio Del Toro) finds out she's worth a lot of money due to the fact she's a millionaires daughter. From then on, It gets worse and less interesting.... Make sure you miss it. "},{"Title":"The father/daughter bond is pushed to the limit in this movie!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not trying to be a party-pooper for all you Alicia fans , but this movie was utter rubbish! The plot is so thin that if it got any thinner it would cease to exist. Also , im sorry to say this but where were the acting skills? No disrespect to the cast as , unquestionably they are all good at what they do , but the response from the cast to this film seemed to be non-existent! To summarise , a great idea for a movie but the end result is appalling. Oh and by the way , is it just me or am i the only person who could'nt understand a word of what Benicio Del Toro was saying throughout the entire film? "},{"Title":"Worst film I've seen for a long time","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In an attempt to get more of her father's attention Silverstone fakes her kidnapping and later falls in love with her kidnapper. It wasn't the story that let the film down or the acting (which was in some parts just laughable) no it was a hundred small problems that resulted in one major flop.  I only hope Miss Silverstone didn't put too much of her own money into this or we could very soon see Clueless 2.  In short Excess baggage is a poorly written, directed and acted film with laughs coming few and far between.  If you want to see a romantic kidnapping film I suggest you rent A life less ordinary.  It's a lot funnier and is head and shoulders above Excess baggage in the acting department.  "},{"Title":"Don't even bother...","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie left me with the urge to get a pro-rata refund from my local cable company.  I can only imagine what people felt at the movie theaters after paying $8.25 for this bomb. "},{"Title":"fun and interesting enough","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Maybe it was just the fact that I watched this movie on television with commercial breaks while doing homework, and therefore wasn't exactly giving it my full attention and deep scrutiny, but I rather liked it. It was pretty funny most of the time, though it was all pretty obvious, but that's all right. Journey's more important than the destination, and all that.The acting wasn't perfect, and all around, there could have been improvements, but I felt fortunate to have stumbled upon this movie. It makes an awesome excuse to take a break from studying every few minutes and stare at Christopher Walken. "},{"Title":"Silverstone good; movie didn't reach potential","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought Alicia Silverstone did quite a good job with the material she had. She was funny, determined, stubborn and generally an entertaining pain. The character was quite capable of handling herself, though I don't know how much was Silverstone and how much might have been movie magic. And when the time came for her character to be scared, she really showed fear.It's unfortunate that this was my first time seeing Benicio Del Toro since I first became aware of him. I thought he looked like Greg Brady on the cover of Parade magazine, where the article made it clear he was a respected actor. I have concluded that perhaps he did a good job here and that the character was just messed up mentally. I did see 'The Usual Suspects' but don't remember enough about that film, and certainly I wouldn't remember him if I had never heard of him, or if his character didn't make an impression.Christopher Walken did okay as the man who helped Emily's father to find Emily. Jack Thompson, as the father, came across as cold and uncaring. Nicholas Turturro was good at times as one of Vincent's business associates, but he seemed flat at first. As for his performance as Vincent's partner, Harry Connick Jr. is lucky to have a music career. Though as an actor he's shown himself capable of more.The opening scenes made it appear this movie had a lot of potential. I especially enjoyed the way Emily deceived her father. But this wasn't the zany comedy I was expecting, and Emily and Vincent didn't have chemistry. There was some excitement and some unexpected plot twists made things interesting, but this didn't work as an adventure. It certainly didn't work as a romance. I did enjoy the movie at times. "}{"Title":"Excess(ively) Bad!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This 1997 movie is meant to be a comedy but after about an hour I switched it off as if there was anything remotely amusing, I did not see it.The story spoilt brat daughter of a zillionaire fakes her own kidnapping to try to get the attention of daddy, but things go wrong as she is mistakenly captured by a car thief.All the actors in the film are wholly unconvincing.Post 9/11 and Baghdad....I don't think making a film about kidnapping is funny, especially as this one ain't got anything going for it and what is more it simply ain't funny!In real life someone stealing top of the range motor vehicles would not hesitate in getting rid of any witness rather than falling in love with her, which appears to be the ludicrous premise of the film.The actor playing the private detective brought in to rescue the daughter suffers from always being in awful 'B' pictures, and his hair transplant with phoney red hair looks ridiculous.The actress playing the daughter is completely unattractive in every way except physically. And the good guy car thief is a total jerk.Plus a script lacking in any merit whatsoever.1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"BORING!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sorry to say it but this movie SUCKS big time. It's pretty much boring all the way through. The story was actually a cute idea, a girl desperate for attention stages her own kidnapping. Cute right? With a good director that could have been a cute little movie but instead it ended up being boring garbage to be brutually honest. The movie gets a little weird when POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD*** Emily starts to fall in love with her kidnapper who by the way is about twice her age. Yeah right! Anyway, if you're a huge Alicia fan like me rent it for her but don't excpect to actually enjoy yourself. This movie was so terrible that Alicia Silverstone's own production agency First Kiss was dropped when the ratings for this one came in. If you're not an Alicia fan don't bother. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Excess Movie...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As the title says, this movie IS excess baggage in your video collection. The idea of the film isn't (at) all bad, only the resulting movie just lacks about everything in all areas; the dialogue is horrible, Silverstone is no actress and by the looks of this film will never become one either. Benicio del Turro oughtta be ashamed of his work. Never in the film does one believe in the relationship between the two main characters. As a matter of fact, I could have said it better in one brief statement don't watch this film. Period. "},{"Title":"A fun dud","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage tells of a rich brat (Silverstone) who kidnaps herself and becomes a victim of her own escapade when a car thief (Del Toro) unwittingly steals her by stealing her car while she's hiding in the trunk. What follows is a convoluted little romcom frolic which earned Silverstone a Razzie nod and is somewhere on the Silverstone scale way below Clueless and Blast From the Past. Nonetheless, with Del Toro and Walken carrying much of the load, this flick is just quirky enough around the edges to make it a pleasant albeit unoriginal (chop shop escape ripped off from Adventure in Babysitting, etc.) no brainer for Silverstone fans and romcom junkies.  (C+) "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an awful movie. It is so boring and almost nothing happens. It was like a teenybopper Tarantino movie. Just awful. Alicia Silverstone tried to be cute, and failed. This was pathetic on every level. Christopher Walken was wasted, as was just about everyone else in the cast. This could be my most hated movie of all time. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Excess Garbage","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I didn't have too high expectations to what it was going to be like, but even so I must admit I was disappointed. I wanted to watch this movie, part because I enjoyed the easy going humor in Clueless, and part because I like Alicia Silverstone as a young actress. But neither of these two reasons were enough to make me like Excess Baggage at all. The movie lacks a good plot, and is rather boring after a while. All though Silverstone put up a half decent performance, Benicio Del Toro didn't get his role together, and stood out like a sore thumb. A good tip don't waste your money OR your time on this boring and dumb movie... "},{"Title":"Cute Alicia cannot carry film on looks alone","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A really lousy movie.  Alicia Silverstone needs more than her cute looks to recoup the producer's money.  The dialogue ranges from incredibly dumb to hilariously stupid.  Director Marco Brambilla was out to lunch on this one. Don't watch this film, read the phone book. "},{"Title":"I appreciated Excess Baggage!! Although First I thought it was something to do with CargoForce.com","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If truth be told, I appreciated Excess Baggage!!(now stare at the title!!!) I actually liked all of the characters and how emily hope ( alicia silverstone) and Vincent( Benicio Del Toro) were so appealing jointly. To me , they represented someone needing someone else, or Emily needing the love and support of Vincent. I could watch this movie everyday! Another thing i loved about this movie was how sweet it was!! Alicia plays a spoiled rich girl who never got the love she wanted from her busy father, and plus her father would rather attend a business meeting than even talk to her. how rude!! And then she meets vincent and at first she is scared but then they sort of have an understanding of each other. (Plus Benicio is really hot in this movie!!!)Vincent,in a way, takes care of emily and fills that empty spot in her heart. He would take care of her much better than her own father. Vincent can't stand that even her own father wouldn't give her the love that she needs.It was a really beautiful movie and also it was Alicia Silverstones Debut of producing! Another thing i thought was sweet was that Benicio and Alicia actually dated in real life during the making of this movie! How Sweet! Even though the movie got bad reviews, i really enjoyed it. Not only that, but it is clean enough to watch with younger kids in the room.To me, it seems like the perfect date movie or whenever you just feel like watching a movie. Another plus is that christopher walken is in the movie and he has made a lot of movies and he is well known. There were so many funny and sweet performances. Christopher plays uncle ray, Emily's uncle, and ever since she was born, he has looked out for her as if he was her father. He would protect her in anyway he could, even if that means killing vincent, the car thief, who could put her in jail. There was only one think that i can think of that was really weird and that was the preview, i had never actually watched it before, but it didn't really showcase the movie for what it was! i would have done it completely different, but otherwise the movie was sooooooo great!!!!(plus there were a lot of nice cars) "},{"Title":"Disappointing Silverstone Saga","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Actress Alicia Silverstone's latest starring vehicle Excess Baggage opens amid a frenzy of activity like an inspired screwball comedy. Midway through the movie director Marco Brambilla and his scribes flagrantly shift gears from a sparkling comedy to a tedious kidnapping drama about an unhappy heiress and a woebegone car thief. Fans of the Clueless starlet may find Excess Baggage a puzzling departure for Silverstone who wielded ultimate creative authority over both script and casting. Perhaps she is more to blame for the muddled quality of Excess Baggage than either Brambilla or the writers. Never as entertaining as Clueless but better than Batman & Robin, Excess Baggage arrives as something of a letdown after Silverstone's long screen absence.Cast as Emily T. Hope, the moody daughter of a man richer than Donald Trump, Silverstone constantly struggles to elicit her icy hearted, corporate father's affections. Australian actor Jack ('Breaker' Morant) Thompson plays the father who has grown weary of his daughter's outlandish schemes to attract his attention. When he sent her away to a boarding school, Emily torched the place. As Excess Baggage unfolds, she has convinced not only her father but also the FBI that kidnappers are holding her for a million dollar ransom. Lamely, Emily hopes that her rescue from her bogus kidnappers will rekindle her papa's love. So she gags, tapes and cuffs herself before she jumps into the trunk (not a stunt you should try) of her BMW.Just as it looks as if everything is going Emily's way, a car thief spots her Beamer in a parking garage and steals it as she lies helpless in the trunk. No sooner does Vincent (Benicio Del Toro) wheel his latest trophy onto the street than a swarm of police cars descends on him. A tire-screeching chase ensues, and Vincent manages to shake his pursuers. He pulls into a nondescript warehouse that conceals his stolen vehicles. Vincent is an expert car thief who boosts expensive sports cars. When he puts the car on the rack, he notices that it wobbles. Imagine his shock when he finds a babe chick inside bound and gagged. Vincent slams the trunk! Since he cannot think of anything else, he calls his partner-in-crime Greg (Harry Connick, Jr), a car salesman.Meanwhile, Emily's suspicious father calls in his right hand man, Uncle Ray (Christopher Walken) to find his daughter. After Emily breaks out of the car, she calls pop, but hangs up when Vincent returns. Eventually, Vincent decides to leave her on foot far out in the forest. That's when he discovers her identity and that his car warehouse stands in a pile of smoking ashes. Now, the guys who paid Vincent to steal the cars (Nicholas Turturro & Michael Bowen) want their $200-thousand dollars back. Spotting Emily, they pull guns on Vincent and take Emily hostage with a million dollar ransom demand. It seems that Excess Baggage is a series of kidnappings and abductions.The inventive but offbeat script hangs together by the most improbable threads. The more unlikely the circumstances are, the more colossal the dramatic outcome appears. Anyway, whoever thought to demand realism out of an Alicia Silverstone comedy? Suddenly, Excess Baggage wanders off on other subplots that distract from Vincent and Emily. Not only that but the story slows down and a pall hovers over the characters. Realism tries to intrude on an Alicia Silverstone movie.Screwball comedy dictates that Vincent heists the same car that Emily uses to stash her body. A smoldering cigarette that she tosses into a rag bin later engulfs Vincent's neat hideout in flames. Neither Vincent nor Emily appreciate their predicament. Just when Vincent rids himself of Emily, he needs her and she needs him. Later, when Ray captures Vincent and confiscates his money, Emily comes to his rescue. Less than amused, the gruff Ray explains to Emily that she has committed a serious crime. They need to use Vincent as the fall guy to take her place.Clueless it ain't. Director Marco Brambilla, whose only previous directing credit is Sly Stallone's Demolition Man, whips these disparate elements together with such verve and style until Emily and Vincent team up. The action stalls out along with the humor and movie goes in search of a genre. Is this still a comedy? Or is it a social problem film? About the same time that the story loses its momentum, we learn what an insensitive brute her father truly is. Jack Thompson's stuck-up dad feels absolutely no sympathy for his daughter and finds a business appointment infinitely preferable to her attentions.Writer Max D. Adams and comedy veterans Dick Clement and Ian Frenais fumble in their efforts to maintain a consistent feeling and atmosphere in the story. After Emily and Vincent fall for each other, Alicia Silverstone's character spends several scenes off-camera. We get to follow the misadventures of poor Vincent who gets kidnapped not only by Ray but his criminal cronies. The focus shifts from the burgeoning relationship between Emily and Vincent and settles on the mechanics of a crime thriller. There's even a shoot-out at the end, and Alicia drives a forklift with the front end of a car on it through a wall. The filmmakers clearly lose interest in their characters when they let the leads take a back seat to the crazy twists and turns of the plot. But the ending isn't so neat. Emily's father couldn't care two bits for his daughter and wings it off to a business conference.If anybody holds this uneven caper together it's star and producer Alicia Silverstone. Although she is looking a little fleshy around the curves, Silverstone's china-doll eyes and her crooked smile are all the charisma this movie should have needed. The amazing thing is that Silverstone allows her character to be shuttled off-camera, something that rarely happened in Clueless. "},{"Title":"Alicia!","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Alicia Silverstone is very hot, though the title of this strange looking thing really sucks.When rich chick Alicia fakes her own kidnapping by locking herself in the trunk of her car in order to get attention from her elusive father (Jack Thompson), a car thief (Benicio Del Toro) steals it while followed by two lowly hoodlums and Alicia's anemic uncle (Chris Walken) who wants to bring her back to Daddykins. Alicia is beautiful and Benicio is handsome in this light romantic-comedy, though all the car trunk scenes will make you look at your watch. "}{"Title":"They both act great together!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie late at night on TBS. I read the info. of it and wanted to check it out just because Alicia Silverstone and Christopher Walken was in it. Once it started I instantly thought it would come out OK, the plot was great. It was hilarious when Alicia tied herself up then locking herself in the trunk. All of a sudden this actor comes along, I assumed it was Benicio Del Toro cause thats what the info said. Anyway I knew I'd seen him somewhere and thought this would be interesting. The acting responses he gave were great and at first I thought he couldn't speak English cause he doesen't say a word till he goes to the diner for coffee, waiting for the telephone. Anyway the fight scene with them is great, I love how as they stick together they gradually become friends, then well you can probably guess but I wont say. Anyway I too gradually came to really liking Del Toro till he became one of my favorite actors!!!) This was such a movie worth staying up for!! the acting and chemistry between Alicia and Benicio I think it's great, you see for yourself and if you don't agree than poor you!!! love it!!!! First Benicio movie I'd ever seen!!! "},{"Title":"This movie is one of my all-time favourites!  Benicio is amazing!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have watched this movie many times and I am always delighted by something new that I notice each time I watch it, along with the parts that I love every time! Vincent is so funny and weird and unbelievably cute. The banter between him and Uncle Ray is especially hilarious. Even the people who have tiny parts, like the waitress pouring coffee at the motel, the kid who knocks on the door at the motel, and the kid in the gas station store make their parts something a little bit different and great. I recommend watching it more than once if you want to catch everything....look for the c'mon, c'mon, c'mon repeats, for example....and Greg's use of the word Gosh! (move over Napoleon D!)...And by the way, Alicia is 21 in this movie and Benicio is 30. Therefore she is old enough as he says at the end (for various things), and he is not twice her age as someone in an earlier comment said, although Benicio tends to be mistaken for older than he is. "},{"Title":"I think this movie is awesome!","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this is a very good movie- it's kind of a feel good love semi-action movie. I really liked it, it is probably more of a chick flick- but I like Alicia, and Benicio is extremely hot. It has a fun, relaxed script. I would give it an 8 out of 10 for what it was, except Benicio is in it so it gets an automatic 10 out of 10!!!! Watch this movie,especially if you are feeling kinda mellow and especially if you appreciate the man benicio then its a good rent. I really liked the character Vincent, Benicio is such a good actor that really I must say he is too good for this movie (and Alicia...) but regardless i still like watching this movie. Alicia's character is kind of silly but I didn't expect more there anyway, and it fits the movie.  "},{"Title":"possibly a change in main lead actress?","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You know I like this film. I do believe in my heart of hearts if you put Christina Ricci in the role Alicia Silverstone exhibits and the film would probably flow better. I just believe that Alicia is unconvincing and forces too much. Possibly if Ricci were to slide in the film might be breezy. Let's just face it,Walken belongs and deserves better support. I did like Walken's scenes with Benencio del Toro and thought they had good chemistry. Alicia(though I love her) just doesn't fit..the whole time I just shake my head in disappointment. The film has it's moments,but the scenes where Silverstone and Del Toro are suppose to be bonding just felt uneven. They just don't look right. The film wasn't near as bad(to me) as what the critics said,but it certainly suffers from lulls and improper casting. ***/***** "},{"Title":"The appealing Silverstone lacks the positive traits of a likable character","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage (1997) Alicia Silverstone, Benico Del Toro, Christopher Walken, Jack Thompson, Harry Connick Jr., Nicholas Turturro, Michael Bowen, D Marco Brambilla. Rich, hard-headed girl fakes her own kidnapping to get back at Daddy, who has never found awareness in his own daughter, and demands a $1 million ransom. Her plan turns to turmoil when a car thief hijacks her car with her inside the trunk, and they gain an attachment to one another. Charismatic Silverstone's `big' break after CLUELESS shows her at the worst advantage in this zigzagging formula story by having her smoke, drink underage, and whine like a brat. Some amusing dialogue and Walken at least takes his role into glee, but not the actress's best. Running Time 98 minutes and rated PG-13 for violence, drinking, and sex-related dialogue. **  "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage is a not a bad movie.  I'm learning French so when I found this DVD in the bargain bin and saw it had a French soundtrack and French subtitles I thought I'd give it a whirl. The movie is entertaining although certainly not groundbreaking. Nothing unexpected happens but it does so to an excellent soundtrack with Dave Matthews and others. Del Toro is the highlight here, I haven't seen his other stuff so I can't compare it, but he is convincing and amusing.  Chris Walken is typecast, but quite well. This movie lived up to my expectations 100%. "},{"Title":"Excess Baggage ****(out of 5)","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  4.7? What the heck. This was way better than 4.7 out of 10! It was funny, enjoyable, original, and well acted. Alicia Silverstone and Benico are awesome! Chris W. is very good, too. Recommended.Alicia Silverstone plays Emily, a brat who pulls stunts to get her father to care. But one day, she plans her own kiddnapping and puts herself in the trunk of her car. But when a theif steals the car with her in the trunk, he's in a bad position.Rent this one!PG-13; language,some violence, drinking, and some sex-related dialouge.   "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really liked this movie when it first came out and I really like it now. It's the story of a rich girl who stages her own kidnapping to gain her father's attention, but the whole plan blows up in her face when a good-hearted thief makes off with her car with her in the trunk.  Alicia Silverstone is very charming in this movie as rich girl Emily and Christopher Walken is wonderful as Uncle Ray.  But, the real show-stealer is Benicio Del Toro as the thief Vincent.  His quirky delivery of lines, unconventional good looks, and sweet overall demeanor add the life to this movie and make it worth watching.      "},{"Title":"Gosh! What a girl! How old is she, 12!?","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  People who have seen the movie will understand the puns in my one-line summary, the others would better go and watch it. I was tempted to give this movie a 10, just to contradict the present media IMDb user rating of 4,7. Then I decided to be fair, and gave it a 6 - what it really is mild Saturday night entertainment, with a couple of lame plot points. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen - and for me, having seen hundreds and hundreds of movies of all sorts, it's rare. Not that I was so taken by the beauty of Alicia Silverstone (and even less by that of Benicio Del Toro - but there, young ladies may disagree...), but because the rhythm of the action is superbly conducted by the director. All character's have some irritating, peculiar characteristic - from which tempers arise, and plans go wrong. The car salesman who uses the speech anchor of 'gosh' is one. But this girl is the tops. I'm so lucky she is not my daughter. She is quiet an unquiet young lady. Not 12, as Benicio Del Toro asks, just to get even on her attitude. After all, she had been given a driven license, remember? But old enough not to want that female secret of all secrets. You'll even end the film without knowing it... Excess baggage indeed!... Recommended to all car robbers. Gosh! You'll see what I mean ;-) "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Honestly the first time i saw this movie in the theater it was just ok. But then when it came on video, I bought it and i have probably watched it 100 times.  I LOVE this movie!! I love Alicia Silverstone and I absolutely LOVE Benicio Del Toro! When i saw this movie I didn't know who Benicio was but i LOVED HIM!  Now he's in tons of movies! This is an excellent movie no matter what the critics say! Its worth watching! And pay attention to the sarcasm! Its very well written! And Alicia isn't ditsy like in Clueless. She's smart and mature! "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't understand why the grades are so low for this movie.I absolutely adored it ! It's hilarious and wonderfully-acted !!! It's too bad Alicia Silverstone hasn't done much since then, though. She's so great in that movie and in Clueless, she deserves a lot more...  "},{"Title":"An amazing movie with the sexy Benicio Del Toro","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Benicio Del Toro, as Vincent, is a cool car thief who's dream is to own a string of karaoke bars in Brazil. He falls in love with Alicia Silverstone, Emily. This is one film you've got to watch, most people that say this film is rubbish can't understand it. This is the best film I've seen in a long time - Go see it "},{"Title":"Rainy Day Entertainment","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is not that great, even as light entertainment. I like a little pleasure when I'm guilty. Walken, Silverstone and Del Toro give decent performances, but it's far from what they can do. There's no chemistry between the leads and the dialogue is rarely witty. Still, I don't think the film is as bad as people made it out to be. It's a decent way to spend a rainy afternoon. The only part I really liked was that the very sexy Benicio Del Toro looks the best he's ever looked here.   "},{"Title":"Halfway decent movie.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie just because Benicio Del Toro was in it.  I know, I know, that's not something you should base the liking of a movie on, but what can I say, the man is hot.  He's a pretty awesome actor too, and that is shown off in this movie.  Alicia Silverstone doesn't do much for me as an actress. I always look at her and think of Cher from Clueless.  I can't picture her as anyone else.  So while she was acting in this movie I was thinking Why isn't she out shopping or hanging with Dionne.  Then I had to go Oh, this is Excess Baggage, my bad.  I know, it's pretty mean to type cast someone, but I have to in Alicia's case.   "},{"Title":"A great film worth seeing","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is fantastic, it's well written and acted superbly.  I think Benicio was excellent in it and Alicia was great.  I don't understand why it didn't get good reviews.  I've seen it at least 50 times and I still crave for more.  It's got a great soundtrack and the dialogue is nice and punchy. Great work to everyone envolved in this film. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good fun movie, okay so maybe some of the situations were a little fantastical but come on, it's a movie, right?  Christopher Walken is so good at being bad, Alicia Silverstone at being pouty and poor Benecio, so good at being confused.  Good movie to just sit back, relax and enjoy some stress-free time with. Pretty Boy meets Cute Princess. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sit back, put your feet up, take your brain out, and watch.I'm a big fan of believing that every film can be enjoyed if you only take the effort, and this film takes no effort at all.  Even the actors don't take any effort in playing their parts.  Silverstone looks pretty and has a nice, easy, one-dimensional role to play.  Walken has been nicely typecast in a role that could have been acted by off-cuts from any of his other films Pulp Fiction, Last Man Standing, Things to do in Denver When You're Dead, True Romance, View to a Kill...  All pretty familiar territory for the man.The plot is almost 100% predictable, with a couple of cute images thrown in at the end to add to the sense of smug satisfaction that comes with knowing you're right.  So, if you've got nothing to do with a long afternoon, curl up in bed with your loved one/favourite pet/most comfortable stuffed toy/whatever, and give your grey matter a rest.  It's a film that doesn't add anything to the world cinematically and may not convey any deep and meaningful message, but it's faintly amusing and passes the time quite pleasantly. "},{"Title":"A car thief steals a BMW without knowing that a kidnapped girl is in the trunk.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is a nice little comedy, not exactly a philosophical work, but warm and sweet. Alicia is cute as always.A car thief steals a BMW without knowing that a kidnapped girl is in the trunk. Eventually the kidnapped girl and a thief fall in love. The only problem is that the police is looking for both of them.  "},{"Title":"I don't know what's wrong...I loved it!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As I watched this movie wary that at any moment I might be hit with a chick flick vibe, I was shocked that no such thought entered my head. Benicio del Toro's laid back attitude was perfect throughout the movie and at various points had me laughing my ass off! The odd couple of Alicia and Benny was hilarious and I loved every verbal sparring session, every moment they shared. As I stated before, I loved the movie...that was a special shock. I could find nothing wrong with the movie. If you're looking for a movie that will make you feel good and laugh at the same time, this is the movie.  "},{"Title":"Totally excellent film -- doesn't deserve its bad rep","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage got tons of bad press from critics, media and viewers alike. As lead actor Benicio Del Toro noted, the big boys who make all the decisions in Hollywood decided to rip this film apart because they didn't like that a young girl -- Alicia Silverstone, who was 20 when the film was made -- had so much power. It was helmed by Silverstone and her First Kiss Productions. Silverstone is deceptively blonde -- she seems like an airhead but, with Excess Baggage, she created an incredibly multi-layered and artistic film. Del Toro is luscious in this role, totally lovable, the man we all wish we could find and fall in love with. Christopher Walken is amazing and hilarious, as always. The scenery of the film -- Seattle, WA, and surrounding areas -- is lush; the scriptwriting is amazing. See this film and revel in all its little prizes. "}{"Title":"Good plot....Bad Movie","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie looked like it had a lot of promise.  The beginning of the movie was a new concept I hadn't seen before.  Rich heiress elects to kidnap herself to get attention from father.  Unbeknown to her, whilse she locks herself in her car trunk, the car is stolen.  The scene was set for a clever movie.To add to the plot some well known actors were added.  Christopher Walken (the consumat hitman), Jack Thompson (ok ok well known in Australia), Harry Connick Jnr (although bit part) and Nicholas Turturro.  Add to this Benicio Del Toro who is the male lead, and the scene is set for an enjoyable movie.So what went wrong?I find Silverstone to be an annoying actress...gorgeous and photogenic without doubt, however with a very limited acting range in this movie.  There are two many unecessary parts to the plot that could have been eliminated.  There was not enough time for an onscreen relationship with any credibility to form between Del Toro and Silverstone.  In fact Del Toro's character Vincent Roche is such a nice guy it's hard to believe he is a career criminal.  The only actor that I really liked in the movie was Christopher Walken.  His character Raymond Perkins is the character Walken was born to play.  The hitman with a heart.  He carries the scenes he is in and overshadows both Silverston and Del Torro.If the movie was supposed to be a comedy, I didn't laugh.  The romance is not strong enough and the action is ordinary.  With all this said, the movie only had the script to rely on and despite a promising opening, it too fell away as the movie progressed.If you like Alicia Silverstone, you will watch the movie.  If you aren't a fan, stay away. "},{"Title":"It was better than A Life Less Ordinary","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To me, both Excess Baggage and A Life Less Ordinary were different visions of the same story.  Both are good.  Both have rich ladies being kidnapped by less than skilled mid-twenties males.  Both are slapstick-ish comedies that center on the absurd at times.  For my money though, I think Silverstone does a better job at being endearing than Diaz did.  But what would've been best is if both directors had collaborated to create a REALLY good film, and they had combined the talents of Ewan McGregor AND Silverstone.  This film is fluffy and fun and light hearted.  If you're fighting with your significant other, it's a nice film to rent and cuddle to. "},{"Title":"Better Than Some People Say...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Despite the cruel writeups that this movie has received, it's more up to the viewer to decide. Anyway, it was actually pretty good. The humour is cute, and Alicia Silverstone gets to play a role less superficial than some of her earlier ones. Of course, she has a little bit further to go before she can be classified as a brilliant actor, but Excess Baggage well and truly sets her on her way.The story starts with Emily (the poor little rich girl), who is sick of her father ignoring her, so she ties herself up, manages to get into the back of her car, and arrange a ransom demand. This person, of course, is played by the delightful Alicia Silverstone. Unfortunately for her, the plans are turned upside down when the car is stolen by a hapless car thief (played by Benicio Del Toro, who also starred in Usual Suspects). Mix in an affectionate uncle, Jon Voight as the negligent father, and Harry Connick Jr. as the car thief's concerned friend, and the result is delightful. Make sure you catch this likeable little road movie before it gets away.Excess Baggage is clearly all kinds of fun with the fizziest, most flirtatious capital F. "},{"Title":"A rare good movie that teens and parents will enjoy!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was well worth renting. I enjoyed the plot's bits of twisting and turning. I thought the actors performed their roles well. I thought there was just enough teen angst mixed into the comedy to make it really worth watching.While I rented the movie just to see one of the bit players (Callum Rennie, who plays the motel manager and has a whopping minute of screen time), I was pleasantly surprised to find myself enjoying the movie on its own terms too.I don't know Benecio del Toro from any other movies and that seems to be an interesting change of pace for Hollywood nowadays. It used to be that the female leads in movies were often the unknown actor in the film. Now, with Ten Things I Hate About You, Never Been Kissed and other movies like this one, the women are the known quantity and the men are the relative newcomers. I appreciate that turn of events in Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've read so many negative comments about this movie, but watched it anyways, and i can't understand why everyone thought it was so bad!  I thought it had a good plot, and very likeable characters, especially Vincent, played by Benicio Del Toro.  I thought this movie was wonderfully acted, and just an all around good movie.  Although most people haven't, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A feel good, nice movie...","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know everyone hated this - but I liked it.  It was clean, kept my interest, funny in parts. I'm no fan of Miss Silverstone, but she did OK here.  I understood the longing she had for Daddy's attention and love. Christopher Walken was cool, kinda wondered if he was realy her uncle or a hired bodyguard of Dad's.  Vincent was kinda lovable, even if a bit slow witted.  If you want a video to watch after a tiring day, and don't want to think too hard, and you are tired of shooting, swearing, and nudity, then this is for you.  Older kids can watch it too. "},{"Title":"Silverstone does it again.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For some reason I put off seeing this film for a long time.  Maybe it was all the bad reviews.  Well, I've learned my lesson. I will never trust a review by itself because most of these critics don't know an excellent, original, funny, unique film when they see one.  I don't understand what all the complaining was for.  This is a wonderful movie!  I found it to be totally unpredictable and a little quirky which makes it stick out from all the rest.  The chemistry between Alicia Silverstone and Benicio Del Toro was spectacular and Christopher Walken was excellent as usual.  After seeing this and Clueless I am very much looking forward to Silverstone's next film.  Don't miss out on it because of a bunch of lousy critics.  My score 10   "},{"Title":"Alicia saves the day","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Admittedly a weak script, but that only goes to prove the acting and production prowess of Alicia Silverstone. The filming is slick and professionally sound. Alicia's performance is riveting as always, providing a believable character in an unreal situation. Credit where credit's due, the fair Miss Silverstone IS the film and makes the film pleasantly watchable time after time. Two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"The script needed less baggage and more brains...","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rich, unloved teenage girl stages her own kidnapping, but her plan gets foiled when a carjacker takes her for a ride. Anemic comedy-drama with cynical romantic undermining looks fairly stylish and is well-paced, but the screenplay is filled with plot-holes and annoying characters, and the film's last act loses all inspiration. In the lead, Alicia Silverstone--just off her star-making turn in Clueless--isn't bad, but she needed a stronger director to reel in her bratty-comic excesses. Surprisingly, the film failed to find an audience with its target group and did a fast fade. Silverstone deserved better. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I love it! I love it! I love it!","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I really loved Excess Baggage!!(just look at the title!!!) I really liked all of the characters and how emily hope ( alicia silverstone) and Vincent( Benicio Del Toro) were so cute together. To me , they represented someone needing someone else, or Emily needing the love and support of Vincent. I could watch this movie everyday! Another thing i loved about this movie was how sweet it was!! Alicia plays a spoiled rich girl who never got the love she wanted from her busy father, and plus her father would rather attend a business meeting than even talk to her. how rude!! And then she meets vincent and at first she is scared but then they sort of have an understanding of each other. (Plus Benicio is really hot in this movie!!!)Vincent,in a way, takes care of emily and fills that empty spot in her heart. He would take care of her much better than her own father. Vincent can't stand that even her own father wouldn't give her the love that she needs.It was a really beautiful movie and also it was Alicia Silverstones Debut of producing! Another thing i thought was sweet was that Benicio and Alicia actually dated in real life during the making of this movie! How Sweet! Even though the movie got bad reviews, i really enjoyed it. Not only that, but it is clean enough to watch with younger kids in the room.To me, it seems like the perfect date movie or whenever you just feel like watching a movie. Another plus is that christopher walken is in the movie and he has made a lot of movies and he is well known. There were so many funny and sweet performances. Christopher plays uncle ray, Emily's uncle, and ever since she was born, he has looked out for her as if he was her father. He would protect her in anyway he could, even if that means killing vincent, the car thief, who could put her in jail. There was only one think that i can think of that was really weird and that was the preview, i had never actually watched it before, but it didn't really showcase the movie for what it was! i would have done it completely different, but otherwise the movie was sooooooo great!!!!(plus there were a lot of nice cars) "}{"Title":"Negative reviews are unfounded","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, so i can't say that the negative opinions are Bull-Crap seeing as stating a preference can't be bull-crap. However, i think the reasons for these negative remarks are BULL-CRAP.This film manages to get the viewer to care about the characters even though, in the beginning, we shouldn't. The Girl is incredibly spoiled but is a product of her father's neglect, so she acts out. the thief is a Thief, albeit one with some moral code. These people do wrong things but they eventually GROW, from wrong-doing to redeeming themselves throughout the film. Christopher Walken is great and downplays himself just right, Alicia Silverstone is great as the spoiled girl who learns to care, and Benicio Del Toro is also Great as the thief with a conscience...don't believe the Nay-sayers...the film is good. solid. fun.=g= "},{"Title":"A charming bit of fluff -- well worth seeing.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It isn't more than it pretends to be -- charming fluff -- but it's well worth the watching. Alicia Silverstone is sweet, tough, and very watchable. Christopher Walken is a delight. See it! "},{"Title":"Fun movie","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked it. I love Alicia, and I disagree, I think her acting was good. I know quite a few Emily Hopes JUST LIKE THAT. And I really like Benicio, since seeing him in The Usual Suspects. Their characters were both cool and I liked watching how that would play out, knowing how it would end, but still was fun. Christopher Walken (is he in EVERY movie these days?) is Christopher Walken.I would watch this again on cable, I wouldn't have went to the theaters, but a fun home movie "},{"Title":"Unexplainably Excellent","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just happened to turn on the TV and started to watch this movie.I am so glad I did. I probably missed about a half-hour of it but this movie was awesome. It is undescribably great! I hope readers will ignore those other comments saying otherwise because you'll be missing out. This was one of the best movies i've seen in a long time! Ever since I saw it I wish I could see it again. There is something about the end part with them in the trunk that gave me chills. It was so romantic and left you with this positive vibe. 3 words that describe it are inspiring, deep, and moving. This is great movie for girls looking for a good movie for the night, this is one to check out! When it ends you'll be sad it's over. I'll be buying it soon. "},{"Title":"How did this thing get made?","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dull, witless, a real pain to watch -- and yet, unbelievably -- it's based on a script which won First Prize in the Austin Film Fest's screenwriting contest! (I guess all that advice about writing interesting stories with strong characters and sharp dialog got ignored by the judges.)   "},{"Title":"Good Movie To Have On The TV In The Background","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Awful movie to sit and watch. But that's not how I experienced this one. It came on TV and I had it on in the background as I did stuff around the house. In this way, I could just sample bits n pieces of the actors, and hear most of the (lame) story. This was great, because only HEARING this movie made me realize how spectacular - uhm.. better word unique - an actor Christopher Walken is. Walken is the epitome of Walken in this one. If you're an impersonator who wants to study the Christopher Walken voice and speech pattern, get this movie! There's absolutely no one like Walken.But as for the other actors Silverstone made no impression on me whatever, and I've never actually seen Benecio Del Toro in anything (or that I remember), and I thought he was pretty gutsy for taking on this particular characterization. He seemed so in this role that I wondered if he actually speaks like that. Frankly, it was a bit over the top, but kudos to him for pulling off a performance in the Brad Pitt school of acting method. Also, I saw that he was younger than I imagined. He looks young (but worn out) in this movie. He seemed more handsome than I imagined him, but clearly he'll not age well, which should make for some interesting character opportunities in the coming years. "},{"Title":"Excess Garbage","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage is a movie about a rich spoiled girl named Emily Hope(Alicia Silverstone) who doesn't get the attention from her daddy that she wants so she pretends to be kidnapped. But her plan goes wrong, when she puts herself in her trunk, and a car thief Vincent(Benicio Del Toro) steals the car with Emily in it. Now she really is kidnapped. But slowly Emily and Vincent become friends and SURPRISE,SURPRISE, even lovers! This wasn't a totally bad movie but it was pretty predictable and not funny. The only thing i liked about it was Alicia Silverstone, i think she did a good job. I would give Excess Baggage 5/10 "},{"Title":"I employ three moods when I watch any movie.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  # 1. I sit and enjoy a movie.  # 2. When I start looking at my glow in the dark wrist watch, I count the number of times that I look at it. When I get to 5, I suspect that the movie is not going to be very good.  When I count to 10, the fuse is lit.  When I get up to 20, I know it is a bomb, but I continue to watch it, just to see how bad it becomes. I lost count with Excess Baggage! # 3. This mood mimics the fictional/real movie producer who said he judges movies my the seat of his pants.  When he begins to squirm, he knows it is going to be awful.  While watching Excess Baggage, my squirming induced blisters on my backside.  Moreover, when I went to bed that night I was still staring at my wrist watch.  I was scared to take my eyes off of it for fear that the movie was not over.  Benicio El Toro is aptly named. He sleep walked through the movie like a bull in a yard full of other bulls. He made Brando and Dean look animated.  What ever possessed Chris Walken to contaminate his career in a movie that should have been entitled, Excess Garbage!  They only had to change one g to an r.    "},{"Title":"Really only for Alicia Silverstone fans.","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excess Baggage is not exactly a brilliant movie, I sure expected more from it, but it's not so bad and it's stars one of my all time favourite actress' Alicia Silverstone, who as well as producing the movie, gives a great performance here as usual. In the movie Alicia plays Emily, a young girl who basically has everything. What she really wants though is attention from her father, so to get this, she decides to fake her own kidnapping. When she locks herself in the trunk of someone's a car, unknown to Emily, a thief, Vincent played by (The Awful.) Benicio Del Toro steals the car with Emily obviously still inside. When Vincent finally realises that Emily is in the car, Emily gets attracted to his wild lifestyle and tags along with him, with her father ending up desperate to find her. Excess Baggage is a little like the movie A Life Less Ordinary, but let me tell you it's not as terrible as that was.  "}]