[{"Title":"Clever","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"112 out of 138 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A chilling psychological thriller, that is cleverly written and superbly portrayed.This film is not for everyone, you'll need patience and a real thirst for a good thriller. This film will play with your mind, it won't cover the screen with visuals and gore; that's why it works.Sit back and be absorbed by the story, be amazed by the cast, and be shocked by the climax.Warning, if you bore easily stay away, if you love a mind bending thriller; you won't find many better.Fantastic and clever 9/10 "},{"Title":"Chilling yet intriguing","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"100 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is not your typical suspense film. There is very little gore, a clever plot, gorgeous cinematography...but it all adds up to the scariest movie I've ever seen. Why? It plays with your mind. The horror is confined to your brain and not shown onscreen. Some people will (and do) hate this film; it eschews graphic storytelling for a visual, intellectual approach. The ending, which has been criticized for many reasons, is actually the only plausible way it could end. Yes we like to see the human spirit triumph, but more often than not things do not work out the way we like them to. It's refreshing to see a movie which ends on a real level, giving the film a true-to-life credibility which enhances the terror even more. Highly recommended for the intellectual person. Those easily bored stay away.  "},{"Title":"More Than Your Average Supernatural Suspense Thriller!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"89 out of 113 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After my initial viewing of the movie, Fallen, I knew that I had just seen a brilliant film. However, I did have a few questions, mostly concerning plot holes and things of that nature, so I immediately watched the parts in question again and found that everything ties in nicely with very few, if any, plot holes. If there are, I can not find them.John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) is a homicide detective who apprehended a killer named Reese, who is put to death for his crimes. Upon witnessing his execution, Hobbes continues on with his life until similar murders happen to catch his attention. It turns out that Reese was possessed by the demon, Azazel. Azazel is able to transfer himself from human to human simply by touching them, in most cases. So Azazel eventually finds himself a human host and begins another murder trail, confusing detectives by killing someone and leaving his hosts fingerprints and other evidence, then switching bodies and killing his previous host. As you can see, this can wreak havoc on a detective trying to solve these murders. Luckily, Azazel is more interested in exacting revenge on Hobbes than keeping his game a secret and lets Hobbes in on it, which is where the movie really takes off.The directing and camera work in this movie was superb. It was done in such a way where you can see Azazel's spirit go from person to person simply by following the camera up and down the crowd and watching the subtle touches one makes in a normal walk about town.Although this movie does require your full attention, it does not go unrewarded and you are not left at the end scratching your head wondering what had happened for the past 2 hours. All the answers to your questions are in there and that is why I think this movie is way above average. Why I have not heard of this movie before is beyond me. I think maybe the title came across as a bit generic, which the film is anything but. It comes highly recommended by me. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Overlooked movie","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"58 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a psychological thriller with every ingredient you could ever want for a great movie-experience in that genre. Denzel Washington acts brilliantly as the highly renowned detective Hobbes who's in for quite an experience. Co-actors, including John Goodman, Donald Sutherland and James Gandolfini also shine in this movie. Great acting, a story full of suspense and surprises, great score and some nerve-rattling scenes makes this a perfect movie worth buying for your collection. It's not only a great murder-mystery detective movie, but it probes deeper into the realms of faith, religion, philosophy and imagination and thus stands out as a movie more memorable than most. If you like Seven and The Ninth Gate, you're certainly gonna like this one. I've seen it at least 6 times. "},{"Title":"Legitimately Creepy","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This gets good marks simply because it is such an interesting, involving story that hooks you right away and every time you watch it and doesn't overwhelm you with violence and gore.Denzel Washington is appealing as always as the good guy and John Goodman is surprisingly low-key for most of the movie. All the characters are very interesting and the special effects are creepy.The story is pure Hollywood theology mean also means the characters - include the heroes - in here have no clue about God or the purpose of life. Believability-aside, it film provides excellent entertainment. The visuals are decent and sound-effects are chilling in spots. As the demon sees through the eyes of people and passes by with these whoosh sounds, it's very effective. As mentioned, the film doesn't need a lot of violence to succeed with it's horror-type tale. One note about the final scene. It isn't exactly clear on a couple of points so if you get confused, you aren't alone. "},{"Title":"Chilling yet intriguing","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is not your typical suspense film. There is very little gore, a clever plot, gorgeous cinematography...but it all adds up to the scariest movie I've ever seen. Why? It plays with your mind. The horror is confined to your brain and not shown on-screen. Some people will (and do) hate this film; it eschews graphic storytelling for a visual, intellectual approach. The ending, which has been criticized for many reasons, is actually the only plausible way it could end. Yes we like to see the human spirit triumph, but more often than not things do not work out the way we like them to. It's refreshing to see a movie which ends on a real level, giving the film a true-to-life credibility which enhances the terror even more. Highly recommended for the intellectual person. Those easily bored stay away.  "},{"Title":"A supernatural thriller with a great story!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"39 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The great cast already hints at it, Fallen is a great movie.Best way to watch this movie is to not know too much about it. Just pick up the movie and let it surprise you. It's like Identity, the less you know about it, the better.Director Gregory Hoblit is a great and underrated director. He knows how to get the maximum out of everything. He also directed the movies Primal Fear and Frequency and much acclaimed television series episodes for Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law and NYPD Blue.Really great about the movie is the story by Nicholas Kazan (yes, indeed the son of...). It's supernatural but it still knows how to remain believable and realistic. The viewer never knows what he is going to get and what will happen next. This is why it is best not to know too much about this movie's story before viewing it for the first time. All of the story its surprises will work better this way.A bit of an forgotten underrated movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"little recognised classic","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"45 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Denzel Washington gives a strong performance in this surprisingly little known gem from director Gregory Hoblit. A classic detective thriller with a demonic edge, this film managers to keep the suspense running until the very end. With one of the most dramatic and scary personal chase sequences ever brought to the big or small screen, this film has it all, including a strong cast (Donald Sutherland and John Goodman in a surprisingly convincing non-comedy role as Hobbes partner to name but a few.)Now reduced to a cheap video rental, if you have a spare evening, watch this film. Some great lines, truly chilling storyline, and believable characters played by a superb cast, all add up to make this a movie well worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Better than you would expect","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was actually a pretty clever supernatural thriller.  When released it failed at the box office, but has deveolped a following since.  It's quite fascinating, hardly ever boring, has a nice cast, and is pretty creepy. It probubly failed due to poor marketing, because if a piece of crapp like Hollow Man(2000) can be a hit, this film should definately have been a hit.  If you like supernatural thrillers, this will be right up your alley. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Ride","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"32 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the best I have seen in a very long time! With the excellence of actors such as; John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, and Denzel Washington, how could this movie go wrong? All three of these actors give the best performance I have seen from them. The story line is fast-paced and exciting, with enough twists and turns that even the most seasoned movie-goer will be surprised at what will come next. I was awed by the imaginative way that the catch phrase, Time is on my side was used. Anytime I hear it now, I remember that movie. I believe, if it can make a moviegoer remember it like that, it is a great movie! I am anxiously awaiting the sequel! "}{"Title":"The Prophecy + Seven = Fallen = CRAP","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a failure, plain and simple, on several levels.  It's got a slick look and feel, I'll give it that, but the story is simplistic and plodding.  The previews for the movie essentially gives the entire plot fallen angels take demonic possession of humans via touch, and Denzel Washington has the misfortune of getting the attention of one, who then sets out to ruin his life, or simply end it.  It ostensibly uses the Bible as an inspiration but this is your standard boogie man fare that just needs a cheap device that can be used to frighten the audience into feeling that it's subject matter is somehow real and substantial.The basic premise holds some promise, but the movie's execution of the story annoyed me to no end.  Read no further if you don't want to hear spoilersAzazel (the fallen angel that Washington chases throughout the film) can possess seemingly just about anyone he wants to by touch, although not skin-to-skin contact as most people consider touch--in the movie, he simply has to touch somebody's clothes or brush up against them to transfer his spirit, so in reality he travels by close proximity, I suppose--but no one seems to make a point of it.  The only person in the film that apparently is able to resist possession was Denzel, presumably because he's pure of spirit and is one of God's chosen to fight these fallen angels.  However, the movie later states that once Azazel's host is killed and he is in spirit form, no man (or woman) can resist possession.  So why he doesn't simply possess Washington at the very beginning of the movie when one of his hosts is getting the gas chamber for serial killing (with Washington standing about 20 feet away watching) is not explained--even though it is later implied that Azazel indeed tried to take possession when he shakes Denzel's hand from his jail cell.  As is the case with most bad movies, I think the most correct explanation is simply if this happened, there would be no movie.Of course, the audience is let in on the possession angle from the start of the movie, but we're forced to sit through a full hour before Denzel pieces it all together, and then finally hatches a plan to kill Azazel.  The ending has a nice twist, I'll give it that, but is also predictable--these fallen angels are very well near omnipotent.  With their powers, they truly would have to be stupid to be killed by any mortal, especially when their powers of possession seem to have no bounds (they could probably possess a cockroach for all we know).  The real problem with movies like these is they never explain the motivation of the killer beyond showing that they are anti-social psychotics.  That we're supposedly talking about a several thousand-year old angel doesn't seem to change it any.  One character states that fallen angle's ultimately seek the fall of civilization, but Azazel seems more interested in being a pest and serial killing when he's bored. Can we say Freddy Krueger?  Is the movie implying that serial killing can be partially blamed on fallen angels?  Is that the most creative idea they can come up with?  There is some fertile ground to explore with how the world is possibly affected right under our noses by spiritual forces of good and evil; as the saying goes how can God let bad things happen?, that movies like this MAY have been able to discuss if there was some intelligence at its core.  But this movie is thin as a pancake.  It offers no deep contemplations on evil or human suffering.   It's a cheap thrill ride devoid of thrills.  There is almost no suspense in the movie, it simply plods along predictably as we wait, wait, wait for the final act.  I give it a D grade if only for the solid production values. "},{"Title":"Bleak, ominous gothic thriller spirals into mediocrity.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films which gets a fair amount of publicity on cinematic release, but afterwards is never heard from again. I suppose the main reason is that there isn't much here that we haven't seen before. The concept of a demon passing from one person to another is fresh, but the execution is bland and dull. Very hard to engage the mind at first, once it grips it soon loses its way following on from one `it-wasn't-me' event to the next. Shot in an eerie manner, it nonetheless doesn't utilise all of the potential it has and the overall effect is deadening. Creepy, but shallow underneath the surface. The direction is tense and deeply atmospheric but the script is lacklustre- a throwback of bits and pieces of other horror movies combined with the average clichés. The outcome is a neat idea in search of a smart script to boot. What's interesting is the fact that each cast member gets their chance to play a particular character- Azazel. And with all this star-power on show, they do a good job of playing `the demon' along with the given characters. Charismatic leading man Denzel Washington is suitably cast as the protagonist and proves to have range, doing these simple roles and the tougher ones with equal va-va-voom. John Goodman is okay but greatly underused while the same applies to James Gandalfini who plays almost the exact same character. Donald Sutherland doesn't prove to have any range, doing the usual gruff routine that he does in nearly all of his movies. Embeth Davidtz is a talented and totally under-rated actress. She delivers a good performance and shows great potential for the future. I could go on for a while about all the flaws of the film but there isn't much point. Far from the worst of its type, the only major problem is the fact that it is so unrewarding. It promises big and strongly requests that you stick with it to the end, but you'll be left wondering why they make evil seem like such a good thing. The outlook keeps getting gloomier and gloomier until there is absolutely no hope of revival. Overall- not disastrous, but very little to recommend here. If you want a supernatural chiller, its worth consideration, but you should try `What Lies Beneath' or `The Sixth Sense' instead. My IMDb rating is just a 4.9/10.  "},{"Title":"Great acting, fun twist to the plot, well filmed","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen (1998)Half detective, half supernatural thriller, this movie really moves. It's clever but not preposterous, and Denzel Washington anchors the whole things with his smiling believability. This is a good one. And the rest of the cast is fabulous, from John Goodman to Donald Sutherland. The one woman is the convincing Embeth Davidtz, and there is a small role even for the late James Gandolfini.The plot seems straight up at first, as Denzel's character, Hobbes, looks for a murderer who seems to become a serial murderer. This morphs slowly into a a supernatural evil force inhabiting people and making them bad. This grows without a sense of shock so that there is a logic gradually built up.And the target of this evilness seems to be Hobbes, though we never quite know why. (He catches bad guys and one of them is executed at the start, but the spirit shouldn't have been bothered by this.) Hobbes of course feels that the crimes don't make sense, and his encounter with Davidtz's character, who studies angels and spirits, is a turning point.There are of course hundreds of horror films with similar kinds of plots, and what makes this one rise above most of them is how well made it is. Credit here goes beyond Washington, though he's clearly key. The cinematographer, Newton Thomas Sigel, is excellent (he also shot Three Kings and Drive) and the coherence of the complex movie is partly because of a consistent visual flow.Director Gregory Hoblit is mostly a TV guy, but around the time of this movie he made a few others with similar success, including Fracture which is quite good in the same solid way and Primal Fear which has a terrific performance by Edward Norton.Fallen does come out of a familiar mold, and that is one reason why it is satisfying (many of us know we like this kind of film) and also limited ultimately (it isn't completely fresh, after all). I suspect nearly everyone will like aspects of this, even if the most demanding viewer will groan at some of the clichés. The acting alone rises up in so many cases, the rest is easy to really like. "},{"Title":"A bigger budget, bigger name version of The First Power. Not a bad replica.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Someone saw The First Power a couple decades back and thought Gee if you throw a 'Name' actor in the mix and some hooky stuff and you've got a hit!.Well not so fast Chief, I'm not sure how profitable Fallen was but at least it is a pretty good serial killer flick with distinct supernatural and theological undertones.Detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) inhabits the Lou Diamond Phillips role. He too is an expert in identifying and tracking down serial killers, he too is celebrating a great 'get' in the form of Reese (Elias Koteas), an especially heinous individual who took great delight in taunting his pursuers, often calling Hobbes at home just as a tease.Even in captivity Reese is still cocky and brash, citing using obscure references harking back to eras long since past to bait and bait Hobbes in foreign tongues&#x85; all the way up until his execution. Well that's that then.Not really. Shortly after the execution a new killer appears, one that seems to be mimicking Reeses' modus operandi all the way down to the late night phone calls to Hobbes' home that he shared with his brother and nephew. Hobbes and his detective colleagues Jones (John Goodman) and Lou (James Gandolfini) jump on the case, with Stanton (Donald Sutherland) overseeing the precinct.Hobbes follows the trail closely, all the way back to a murder case over thirty years old with startling parallels to the present day. This leads him to Greta (Embeth Davitz) the daughter of a cop implicated in the old case, who warns Hobbes off the entire thing, telling him to stay away for the benefit of his family and everyone he knows.But that would mean half a film, so Hobbes doggedly continues on, at certain locations he seems to receive messages &#x96; directions almost &#x96; that impel him forward, seemingly closer to uncovering the truth&#x85; Which is where the supernatural elements kick in, elements that I have deliberately not mentioned here as half the fun is in discovering them. Denzel is solid as always in the central role, remaining stoic and professional even in the face of mounting evidence that he is facing a foe that is decidedly 'other'.The supporting cast are all fine in their roles &#x96; Koteas standing out in a role that demands he play things over the top &#x96; and even as the situation grows tighter and more desperate the filmmakers manage to keep the tone straight and as realistic as the plot line allows.I liked Fallen, it was very effective in building tension in a few early sequences as the truth is gradually drip fed to you, and the finale was quite good, especially considering that the film began to lose steam in the second third of the film.Was it necessary to make practically the same film as The First Power only with a bigger budget and Denzel to lend credibility and box office clout? No. Is it better or more memorable than The First Power? Not really. Is it worth a look? Yep. Especially if you were one of the few who actually liked The First Power. If you've never heard of it and liked this, look it up.Final Rating &#x96; 6.5 / 10. Touchy feely strangers singing Rolling Stones songs would be strange and disturbing if you weren't in the midst of a murder case. Here they just cap things off. "},{"Title":"An interesting idea but poorly written.","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A supernatural thriller without any special effects is unusual but this one has nothing except the odd change of camera lens.The plot is OK, a fairly simple good versus evil story, and the pace is decent, never too slow for long although never very quick.The problem is the lack of personality of any of the characters, you have a good cast wasted. Washington is the only one given any real screen time but he doesn't bring any depth to the character, he tries but the script just isn't good enough. The rest of the cast are in the same boat, they are completely two dimensional. Even the villain of the story has nothing to offer, no humour, no creepiness and no real dialogue.The ending is darker than I was expecting but other than that quite predictable.Pretty boring. "},{"Title":"Gaping plot holes opening into Hell... (SPOILERS)","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILERS* (don't worry, I'll try not to reveal anything from the last ten minutes...)Denzel's in too familiar territory here; he plays the same cop he's played before, which feels off in this particular world the movie's in.John Goodman, on the other hand, is a perfect fit, as are most of the supporting cast.Without an Award-Winning bad guy for Denzel to play off, Denzel has to muster the menace himself, from his reactions.  He doesn't do bad, but there are a few moments you feel like he's in front of a blue-screen...The hardest part were the logical lapses.  If any readers got an explanation, please let me know WHY AZAZEL'S NOT ABLE TO TRANSFER IN THE BEGINNING OF THE MOVIE, BUT DENZEL'S WORRIED ABOUT IT FOR THE REST OF THE MOVIE?  HE COULD HAVE STRANGLED THE GUY WITH HIS BARE HANDS, STUFFED HIM IN THE TRUNK, AND WAITED IT OUT!  WHAT DID I MISS?On a related note, the demon's motivation did seem murky, as well as the discussion on man's purpose.  was the demon letting Denzel know who he really was to drive him nuts, and make him a patsy, thereby creating the chaotic pattern (now that's an oxymoron) he started 30 years ago?  and how come he didn't put together who the daugther/ religous expert was?Ah, it's stuff like this that got in the way.  This just made me long for Wicker Man.  Still, as an entry in the cop-vs-the Apocolypse subgenre, not bad.  As an entry in the Denzel-as-cop, about as good as Virtuousity.Let's call Fallen a rental, and leave it at that... "},{"Title":"Oh no, not another mediocre serial killer movie!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is another addition to the seemingly endless list of mediocre thrillers that are out there (Along Came a Spider, the Bone Collector, Stir of Echoes). It's not a terrible movie, but it's so completely redundant and forgettable that one wonders why it was ever made in the first place.Granted, the idea behind this movie is interesting, but the plot suffers from a little too much coincidences and leaps in logic (a common flaw in thrillers), it never gets really exciting and the characters are all paper-thin. I especially hate the stupid voice-overs, which sound like they come from a corny 40's detective movie. I guess this movie is OK when you've really seen everything else, but otherwise do yourself a favor and watch Seven or Silence of the Lambs instead. Those are real thrillers, this one is mostly filler.*1/2 out of **** stars   "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion.......is horrible. The way it was represented was very typical (I think) and the ending was one of the things that might have did just for the fact of doing it. There was no suspense and the commonality of these movies.Sowwry, just dissapointed (i'm really confused why it is that directors would make movies for just money....i'm just hoping this is where it is not leading) "},{"Title":"A film drained completely of colour","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a film without colour. The Game was a shadowy, blurred miasma of green, yellow and grey, using its pasty-faced complexion and banal action to maximum effect in heightening the tension and claustrophobia. Fallen's characters and settings are simply faded, mangling an idea with the potential to create a supreme work of dark fantasy. In Fallen nothing stands out, well-cast actors struggling through jarring direction and a badly formed script. Only a few inspired scenes lift it above total mediocrity. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and talent","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie tries to cash in on the gloomy atmosphere of 'Seven' and the like, with some supernatural elements added. However, the first hour or so is sleep-inducingly slow. Then, we get one unconventional and brilliant 'chase' scene, after which the film becomes a little more interesting. The ending is a cheat (it sets up a sequel which hopefully will never be made). "}{"Title":"ending ruins film","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Strong performances from Washington Goodman, Southerland, and all supporting actors; tight story mixing elements of serial killer films and demon possession films; solid visuals, sometimes brilliantly executed in photography and editing - yet I can't recommend the film.What a stupid final sequence! We all know the evil spirit here needs a HUMAN - but all I can tell you is, the writers don't deliver it; the betray us - they go for the expected B-Movie open-ended closure, which turns the whole theme of the movie into trashy prologue - a real insult.This decision also weakens the dialog - you expect pearls to pop out of the mouths of these great actors - then suddenly, we hear the same-old same-old cliché we could expect from many weaker stories.Hollywood again cuts its own wrists and we have to watch it bleed - and then they expect us to lap it up?! Please! For arrogance unbecoming of film-makers, I rate this a five - lower than its professionalism deserves, but higher that it's insulting pandering is worth. "},{"Title":"Too much too soon","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some good scenes (the chase sequence) but ends up not really getting anywhere. As with a lot of Hollywood movies these days, they´re technically brilliant but don´t deliver script-wise. We´re several steps ahead of Denzel Washingtons investigation, and that takes away a lot of suspense. We get to see too much too soon, the scenes that establish the soul walking could have been saved until later. Good acting and some interesting music though. But Interview with the vampire already had that Stones-song at the end credits.   "},{"Title":"good start, then it collapsed","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had a good start good plot and good cinematography, then it fell apart. There's lots of suspense and clues to lead you to the end, then it just ends. It's so disappointing, it makes you wonder why they made this movie in the first place. Denzel Washington is a great actor; if you want to see him in a great flick, rent Crimson Tide. Skip this one- yuck.  "},{"Title":"alright supernatural thriller","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie wasn't horrible ... but it wasn't good. Th writing was great. Every fact was backed up in some way or explained in some way to leave the acts that were going on understood. An outcast angel was thrown out of heaven without a body and so it is able to take the body of humans by touch. The angel turned evil and enjoys death and singing. He or she grows a sort of infatuation with the main character played by Denzel Washington and wants to invade his body next. What keeps this story going is that this angel cannot enter his body, which is the only detail not explained(or maybe I missed it) but may be able to enter his body if his host carrier dies and he is left floating in the air... The basics of the movie are there good plot, good script, but fairly boring. There are no real thrills in this movie, it feels like more of a supernatural mystery but there's no mystery because we know whats going on. Something's missing there and that's what makes this film only mediocre. There is no filling. To use a really bad metaphor it's like going to eat a piece of pie and all you get is the crust. And the real sinker of the movie is the ending. Denzel figures out that he has to get this being to a secluded area - kill the host and then kill himself in the process because because this thing will die with no host. Little does he know that this being can use animals as hosts, it enters a cat's body and that's the end with the Denzel's voice narrating as the angel. It was terrible. The point of the movie seemed to be that this thing has been around for ever and Denzel would be the one to stop it. great idea that they killed with the ending. It made telling the story a waste. So anyway to the good....Denzel was excellent as always maybe not his best acting and I'm not sure he's cut out for narration but he was wonderful none the less. The female character in the movie(didn't write down her name) was also excellent. John Goodman was decent as well although I think he's better off sticking to white trash comedy. All in all it was worth seeing but I'm glad I rented it on $1 movie day.  "},{"Title":"Scattershot thriller hurt by ridiculous finish","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A transitory evil spirit (or, fallen angel) plays cat-and-mouse with police detective Denzel Washington, who is so cool-headed and amiable that this taunting, easily-transferable demon barely seems to ruffle his good nature. Occasionally gripping and yet only satisfactory police drama-cum-occult thriller opens with a heavy-handed introductory sequence to the players (fellow detective James Gandolfini behaves like a pushy ass in a bar, requiring Denzel to give a soap-box speech on the privileged nature of policemen). The religious angle is half-hearted, at best, while the plot minutiae is sometimes overheated (as with Washington's narration, which verges on camp In the night...sometimes you run into yourself or That question about God...what the hell did that mean?). The scenario is so muddled it's tough to discern what city the picture takes place in. It has flashes of film-noir, but it isn't respectful to its own characters. Intriguing, unusual, but mostly uneven. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"a ridiculous supernatural mystery","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie might appeal to people who like scare themselves by imagining evil threats coming from the supernatural world, angels and demons and things that go bump in the night, but if you're more reality-based than that, you'll probably disappointed. The movie begins as a standard police murder/mystery, and the circumstances of the murders are peculiar enough to gain your interest. Too bad it couldn't have stayed in that realm. Without spoiling the film completely, it's enough to say that once it turned toward the supernatural, it fell completely flat for me. I mean, how can a serious actor like Denzel Washington speak those lines with a straight face? At least Donald Sutherland (who never seems to stop making one movie or another for a single day of the year) was given a part he could play straight without having to spout mumbo-jumbo. John Goodman only had to get himself through a couple of ridiculous lines. But poor Denzel was in the thick of it, pretending to be part of some titanic struggle of good vs. evil. Pshaw! The little twist at the ending was just SO cheesy, lifted from three hundred previous horror flicks; I wanted to spit. Another phony bit borrowed from every horror flick ever made was when Denzel is alone in the basement, scary, scary, suddenly there is a thunderous crash and something huge drops on him from above. Oh, never mind, it was just the old rotting ceiling falling in, nothing to worry about after all. Carry on. We do this in scary movies to keep you from getting bored. Eeyew! I also object to a good deal of the camera work, with all its quick cuts and constant shifting of angle and perspective so that you often don't know what you're looking at. To me that sort of thing is a poor man's substitute for a good script. I gave it five stars instead of less, because the mystery started off as something interesting and because of some of the this-world performances, such as Goodman's and the other cop (played by James Gandolfini, I believe). A movie of limited appeal. "},{"Title":"Predictable and average at best.","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie was pretty much predictable from beginning to end. The ending was predictable too. I guessed the ending almost from the beginning and definitely mid way through the movie. I also feel the movie made the demon's abilities to jump bodies too easy and made him basically invincible from the beginning of the movie, making this movie predictable. If they made him a bit more vulnerable while he was in a human form, it would have been more unpredictable and exciting. I think if they also elaborated on the demon's origin, it would have drawn the watchers closer to the movie. I know the reason why they made the demon easy to jump bodies and why they made him pretty much invincible, but i think it made the movie almost pointless and predictable. And the girl that helped Denzel, u would think that should could have had a bigger part in the movie and made it more interesting. This movie was not scary but had the potential to be. "},{"Title":"Evil has a Face","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Unusual thriller about evil in the world today with Det. John Hobbs, Denzel Washington, targeted by this unknown and unseen force that makes it's way from person to person with just the touch of one's hand. Doing a documentary on convicted serial murderer Reese, Elias Koteas, the person who's Det. Hobbs brilliant detective work brought him into the death house awaiting execution. Reese asks for just a brief moment with Det. Hobbs and surprisingly sticks his hand out for Det. Hobbs to shake, he does and that sets off a string of events. In the end they would leads Hobbs to the deserted cabin in the woods to have it out with the Demon Azazel who, through Reese, had condemned him to death. We see Let. Hobbs at the beginning of the movie Fallen crawling through the snow around the cabin that he was staying at obviously dying. The movie then takes us back to happier time with Det. Hobbs at the big house, state prison, attending Reese's execution as one of the witnesses. Reese not at all afraid of what's to happen to him as he's strapped into the state gas chamber calmly sings, as the gas pellets are dropped into the acid bath, the Rolling Stones song Time is on my Side,yes it is. Let. Hobbs and his fellow cops later saw in the film Reese was right, dead right. The movie Fallen mixes the occult into a big city police drama and comes out a winner by doing it. Det. Hobbs slowly begins to notices that there's something very strange in what's happening to him. At first Hobbs feels that he's being set up to be framed, possibly by his fellow policemen, for a number of murders that has his fingerprints all over the crime scene.Hobbs tracking down a clue that leads him to unearth the files of a cop Robert Milano, the 1965 cop of the year, who like himself was somehow framed for a string of killings back in the 1960's. Milano in what seemed like, an act of depression drove out to his country home and then calmly blew his brains out. Getting in touch with the late Officer Malano's daughter Gretta, Embeth Davidzt, Hobbs finds out from her things that he'd rather not since, if believed by him, it will destroys his perception of reality. It doesn't take Hobbs that long to realize how right Gretta is with the evil directed at him,that was released by Reese, and later his family with his brother Art, Gabriel Casseus, ending up dead from a overdose of drugs. Hobbs now a rue believer knows just what he had to do to stop this sinister force that's been on earth together with man since the dawn of creation.Hobbs now a wanted man drives to the same cabin where Officer Malano killed himself some thirty years ago to finish the job that Malano started.There was a reason for Malano's madness but in the end he failed in what he set out to do then, destroy the evil demon Azazel. Hobbs made sure that this time around he, unlike Malano, would succeed.Powerhouse ending that will leave you as exhausted and out of breath as it did Det. Hobbs when the evil that hounded him throughout the film Fallen finally reveals itself in those cold lonely and uninhabited woods. Only to find out that he,Hobbs, not it had the best hand of cards from what it, the evil, thought was a stacked deck against him. "},{"Title":"Detective & Demon In Deadly Dual","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shortly after thinking that he'd brought an end to a series of murders, a homicide detective starts to realise that the perpetrator is still at large and is also someone who couldn't possibly be arrested or brought to justice by conventional methods. The way in which his investigation leads him to these findings and the formulation of a highly unconventional plan to end the killings, provides Fallen with its extremely offbeat plot. This well-written story begins very colourfully in a way that raises a lot of questions and then proceeds through the investigation stage before reaching it brilliantly twisted conclusion.Having been responsible for capturing serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas), Detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) visits him on death row immediately prior to his execution. Reese's behaviour at this time is rather strange as he thrusts his hand out strongly to shake hands with Hobbes and sets him a riddle to solve. He then talks loudly in ancient Syrian Aramaic and later, in the gas chamber, loudly sings Time Is On My Side until he can't anymore.A little while later, Hobbes has to investigate a further series of murders which are carried out in the same style as those committed by Reese and a clue he finds at one of the crime scenes leads him to research the case of a well-respected detective from his department who, 30 years earlier, had committed suicide at a remote woodland cabin after being accused of crimes he didn't commit. Hobbes' research leads him to the detective's daughter, Gretta Milano (Embeth Davidtz) who's a theology professor. She's initially very reluctant to talk but confirms that her father took his own life because of incriminating evidence against him which he felt he wouldn't be able to disprove.When Hobbes visits the cabin where Milano had killed himself, he finds the name Azazel written on one of the walls and Gretta later confirms that it refers to a fallen angel who, after being cast out of heaven, had been made formless as a punishment and could only continue to exist in the bodies of others. The demon's ability to pass from body to body simply by touch made it extremely dangerous and impossible to stop. Hobbes begins to realise that he's actually in a dual against a very formidable adversary who's determined to destroy him and so, when evidence starts to appear which implicates Hobbes in the murders he's investigating, he knows that he's rapidly being put in the same situation that detective Milano had been in and so devises a scheme to outwit the demon and bring a permanent end to the havoc he wreaks.Denzel Washington is very natural and believable as the decent detective who has never taken a bribe in his career and believes that cops are the chosen people. This extremely rational man remains typically methodical and professional as he pursues what turns out to be a supernatural serial killer and is confident that his approach will eventually enable him to put a stop to the demon's killing spree. John Goodman, James Gandolfini and Donald Sutherland all do well as Hobbes' police colleagues and Elias Koteas makes a powerful impression in his role which gives him tremendous scope to display his abilities.Thrillers which include the type of subject matter featured in Fallen often resort to sensationalism, gratuitous violence and endings that use some previously unknown piece of information to bring matters to a close. The fact that Fallen avoids all these pitfalls is very much to its credit, especially as its brilliantly twisted conclusion follows on perfectly from all that preceded it and puts an entirely different perspective on what appeared to happen in the movie's opening scenes. "},{"Title":"Just falls short of being a good movie","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen is your kind of standard supernatural thriller. You could see the ending coming from a mile away though but I was looking forward to it. I don't know about others but when the hero sacrifices himself to save others it always lets me leave a movie happy and sad at the same time. This didn't happen at the end of this movie though. You get to the end ready to see the hero make the noble sacrifice, but instead the demon survives by entering the body of a cat. All the lead up and hints to that moment throughout the entire movie are wasted and put to shame with this stupid ending. Sure some people may like when the hero falls short, but not many do this was a movie full of potential but is utterly ruined with a horrible ending. It is a 2 hour waste of time because of the ending, had Hobbs actually stopped the demon this movie would be one I would recommend people to watch. But once again a movie is ruined because someone along the line decided hey lets have a massive twist right at the end so it totally destroys everything we have been building up too in the last 2 hours of the film and makes it all pointless, yeah people will love that. If you are a fan of stupid endings then this is a movie for you if you prefer endings that don't spit on the last 2 hours of the movie you have been watching then give this one a miss. "}{"Title":"Demons can't do that!","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" D. Washington plays detective Hobbs in a slow moving murder mystery. The story centers on a demon that takes control of people through touch or spirit and uses them to commit murders. The problem is demons do not operate that way; they simply do not have the authority to fill your body against your will and take control. Demonic possession occurs through a series of steps where people open themselves up or invite demons in.At any rate, if I could watch the movie as a blank slate it would still be slow and leave too many loose ends for my liking. Plus the bad guy wins and I never can get too excited about that. "},{"Title":"Poor lost souls","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have been reading with interest the comments made by others users of this film. So first, let me say that I loved the film. Interesting, well paced, excellent choice of music.  The movie is unique, with a magnificent twist that almost annoys you (but I won't say anymore).Second, some of the users making comments seemed to have missed the plot. Those people who are saying it doesn't have enough action clearly have a limited appreciation for film genres. Stick to your fast paced action movies, and don't bother writing your limited opinions about other movies genres. You don't have the mental capacity to take in anything other that brain numbing gun fights, explosions and car chases.To say that, Goodman is smoking in the movie and I don't like smoking, OR they said 'Oh my God' in the movie and I don't like that, really has no relevance as to the validity of whether the movie was good or not. If people are so intolerant , then stick to watch lawm bowls. This is a brilliant movie that should not be missed.All of which I like, but then, I like many different types of movies. "},{"Title":"A REALLY GOOD X FILES EPISODE","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really can't think of any bad thing to say concerning the movie other than It reminded me of an episode of the X-Files (when the show was good).For once Donald Sutherland didn't annoy me do death, and the scary parts were actually scary! There were no great lapses of logic and they even managed to keep the religious mumbo jumbo to a minimum.  At the last five minutes of the film I was ready to pounce on the writers for overlooking the fact that the spirit needed a living being, not a human being as a carrier--but to my surprise they actually remembered their own story line!   A 9/10 for the genre   "},{"Title":"Good suspense thriller","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen, at times is a little slow but this all adds to the suspense created in this super-natural thriller which pits the excellent Denzel Washington against a fallen angel of some kind who can travel from person to person just by touch. Terrorising his family, work colleagues and innocent by-standers, Detective John Hobbes has to figure out how to stop the crimes it is committing. He can't trust anybody and the only person who can help him is an unwilling young woman who has had her fair share of torment with this 'fallen angel'. A cross between Se7en and episodes of The X-Files, this thriller entertains from start to finish although it is creepy and a little weird. "},{"Title":"Supernatural thriller with  strong acting  and spooky atmosphere","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Philadelphia Homicide detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) witnesses the execution of a serial killer named Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas) who is sent to the electric chair . Before dieing Reese unleashes an evil spirit called Azabel . Having captured the murderous , Hobbes is convinced that cops are the chosen people and he turns up on television smiling and proud . Soon after the execution the killings start again , and they are very similar to Reese's style . Azabel's aggressive spirit is passed along with touch , as a fluid is taken into the bodies , in a crowed city of Philadelphia anyone can become villain . Things get worse , however , when Hobbes is drawn to the biblical injunction 'hide your works' and strange words on walls and corpses . This thrilling film written by Nicholas Kazan packs intrigue , action , chills , suspense , twists and turns . Hybrid of cop-thriller and supernatural story contains solid interpretations and eerie atmosphere similarly to ¨Seven¨ including a surprising final . On a metaphorical level , this does sense AIDS and a fear of the city are central to the 90s . Very good Denzel Washington as an obstinate cop who becomes involved about cruel ominous copycat murders but slow to realize an explanation beyond the normal . Magnificent support from John Goodman , Donald Sutherland , James Gandolfini , Elias Koteas , Robert Joy , Gabriel Casseus and special mention to Embeth Davidtz . Colorful cinematography in Panavision by Newton Thomas Sigel, including the fidgety camera zooms in fascinating way . Thrilling musical score fitting to action by Tan Dumb who the next year would win Academy Award for ¨Crouching tiger , hidden dragon¨. The motion picture is well directed by Gregory Hoblit , a fine professional who works as TV , he's co-producer with Steven Bochco , as Cinema in successful pictures such as ¨Fracture¨, ¨Frecuency¨, ¨Hart's war¨; his greatest hit is ¨Primal fear¨ . Rating  6,5 . Good film , but some moments doesn't pay off and takes much too long to get where it's going . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"OK supernatural horror thriller, not too bad but not too great either.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen starts with convicted serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas) being executed in the gas chamber as the man who brought him to justice Detective Jon Hobbes (Denzel Washington) looks on. Hobbes thinks that this is the end but soon has to rethink as he receives a phone call which tells him to check a house out where he finds a dead man named Muscovich (Glen Witko) in a bathtub having been poisoned, the same way Reese used to kill his victims. At first Hobbes fears a copy cat killer but during the course of his investigation the name Robert Milano comes up, a decorated cop who apparently committed suicide. Hobbes speaks with his daughter Gretta (Embeth Davidtz) who at first is reluctant to speak with him. Things become even stranger when the man who killed Muscovich, Charles (Robert Joy) is found dead in exactly the same way having been poisoned again. Eventually Gretta tells Hobbes the truth, he is in fact dealing with an ancient demon called Azazel who has the power to jump form body to body at will by mere psychical touch. The demon Azazel seems to be taunting Hobbes, ruining his life & career, setting him up for murder & getting to his friends & family. Hobbes must find a way to destroy the ancient demon before it destroys him & everyone he cares about...Directed by Gregory Hoblit I thought Fallen was an OK time waster but nothing special. The script by Nicholas Kazan is far too slow & at 2 hours Fallen is just too long. It never gripped me or excited me, it's all very average & a bit of a chore to sit through certain parts. It's a very small scale film in the way that it feels, there are no big action scenes, only a couple of off screen murders which amount to very little over the course of a 2 hour film. The plot of Fallen sounds very horror orientated but in actual fact there is hardly any straight horror elements here, there are no scares, the demon itself is never seen & Fallen lacks any atmosphere or tension. The biggest problem I had with Fallen was why did Azazel go after Hobbes? I mean this ancient demon can jump form body to body at will & could go anywhere & do anything so why go after one cop? Personally I would jump into some mega rich person & live it up a bit! The flimsy explanation of Hobbes being one of the chosen few on Earth to fight these demons just doesn't hold water with me when it's given one line of dialogue throughout the whole film. Director Hoblit uses various MTV style editing tricks to try & modernise it I suppose, slow motion, colour filters, quick cuts & hand held jerky camera movements you know the sort of thing. Technically Fallen is fine with that very polished if somewhat bland Hollywood look about it. There is no blood or gore in Fallen a few bloody gunshots apart so forget about anything like that, again isn't Fallen meant to be a horror? The acting is OK, Denzel does OK although I can't see why he's one of Hollywoods hottest properties at moment on the evidence in Fallen, John Goodman turns up as Hobbes partner Jonsey & is as likable as ever, Donald Sutherland makes an appearance as the boss Lieutenant Stanton in a largely insignificant role that seems to have been expanded because the filmmakers wanted to give him more screen time. Overall I thought Fallen was average at best, it's one of those films that I tend to describe as having nothing especially wrong with it but at the same time there is nothing particularly good about it either. Worth a watch for sure but just don't expect anything brilliant. "},{"Title":"A fascinating and chilling film....","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Detective John Hobbs finds himself battling a formidable supernatural foe when a string of serial killings continue after the murderer dies in the gas chamber in this compelling thriller written by Nicholas Kazan and directed by Gregory Hoblit. Usually, I don't expect much from big-budget studio horror movies except special effects overkill. This film is a rare, pleasing exception that doesn't insult the intelligence of the audience. I really liked the script. It was rich and complex, even if, in retrospect, the misleading voice-over crossed the line. I was really expecting a lot more from writer Kazan after this film. Hard to believe all he's been able to deliver subsequently was Homegrown, Bicentennial Man and Enough. Enough indeed! As good as the script is, the film ultimately belongs to the actors. Denzel Washington is terrific, and it is great to see him backed up with talented supporting actors like Donald Sutherland, John Goodman, and a then-unknown James Gandolfini. Director Hoblit relaxes the pace enough at times to linger on their byplay, which gives the characters depth. Of course, all of that character development would have been wasted if the film didn't deliver, and it does. Don't expect any gore, but there is suspense galore. A fascinating and chilling film. "},{"Title":"Fallen Down","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite a very good cast (Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Elias Koteas), the premise of a demon (Azazel) released from the dying body of an executed murderer possessing others (like the gift that just keeps on giving) is truly far-fetched here. I don't care what nifty music you add to a soundtrack; it doesn't heft up the lack of originality evidenced in this story. It is just too derivative from other, far superior, movies -- like The Exorcist, perhaps, to name just one. And the ending is a major disappointment. It seemed to me like just a waste of my good time, and some fine talents. Boo! Yeah, very scary! Rent something else instead. "},{"Title":"great premise with poor execution","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Police detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) watches Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas) who he caught, get executed on death row. Reese's spirit seems to leave his body. Lt. Stanton (Donald Sutherland) is Hobbes' superior. Hobbes and his partner Jonesy (John Goodman) investigate a murder with a message seemingly from Reese. His investigation leads to Gretta Milano (Embeth Davidtz). The spirit is actually the fallen angel Azazel who had possessed Reese.The premise holds a lot of promise but the execution is really lacking. Even with Denzel in the lead, this movie struggles to get going. I think it starts off poorly. It could have started with Hobbes catching Reese in the first place. It could have laid out more of the premise early on. The handshake between Hobbes and Reese is suppose to be something big but the audience has no idea what it was suppose to be. It needs some exposition. The movie is generally too long and too slow. It needs a lot of tightening and general rethinking. Also Time Is On My Side is not necessarily the best idea. It needs to be something creepier like a nursery rhythm or a simple melody without words. "},{"Title":"Mostly Good","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Homicide detective John Hobbes witnesses the execution of serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas). Soon after the execution the killings start again, and they are very similar to Reese's style.Roger Ebert gave the film a mixed review, writing the idea is better than the execution, and... the surprises become too mechanical and inevitable. There is some truth to that. The biggest problem is just how long the film runs. There seems to be plenty of fat that could have been trimmed.It also seems too neat. This killer (or demon) could be going around, ruining people's lives, but he is obsessed with one cop. And rather than kill the cop or ruin his life, he first decides to drop hints on how to figure out he is a demon and how his power is transferred. Sure, you need some kind of exposition, but it just makes no sense. "}{"Title":"Excellent atmospheric chiller","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As far as the sub genre of supernaturally tinged detective vs. Killer mysteries of the 1990's,(Virtuosity, The Prophecy, In  Dreams etc) Gregory Hoblit's Fallen stands out as one of the best. It's a somber, sardonically written, Gothic influenced chiller that is absolute cinematic joy from beginning to end. Denzel Washington is reliably solid as John Hobbes, a sharp detective who's caught a vicious killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas in a cameo so scary you want to hide behind your couch), and oversees his execution. Reese's casually cavalier attitude and malevolent theatrics leading up to the execution unsettle Hobbes, but not as much as when an eerily similar copycat killer begins taunting him long after Reese's death. Enigmatic clues, visits from strangers who mysteriously know him and a sense of impending dread lead Hobbes to believe that Reese wasn't human, and is reaching out from beyond the grave to continue his murderous legacy. The plot gets spiritually ethereal and uses some very unique situational scares that are highly memorable. The colour palate and mood of the film are absolutely gorgeous, using a gauzy, earth toned,  fluttering brown moth wing style aesthetic that haunts the characters, and a darkly humorous screenplay that gives the actors dialogue and character feasts. John Goodman and James Gandolfini are fantastic as Hobbes's detective colleagues. Embeth Davidzt is down to earth and human as a mythological expert with secrets of her own, and other memorable support is provided by Robert Joy, Gabriel Casseus and Donald Sutherland. There are an endless parade of cop vs. serial killer films in the post 70's all the way to present day. Some pedestrian, some with lofty twists on the convention. Some work splendidly, some are crap. But in a sub genre so crowded with entries, you need to give yours a special brand and aesthetic that will make your effort stick in people's minds as something unique. Fallen succeeds very well in this way, and is a spine chilling popcorn flick with a grounded, serious undercurrent of shadowy, haunted house stylistics. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A metaphorical treatment of moral corruption","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen can be viewed as a straight-out supernatural thriller, in which case it may not seem to be as good as others in the genre. However, the real value of this production is found when the entire text is considered metaphorically, at which point it emerges that the demon moving from one person to another represents the causal mechanism of moral corruption in disguise. People are corrupted by other corrupt people, and the chain of corruption is lengthened over time as more and more people are persuaded to sacrifice their beliefs and principles for those of others who wish to capitalize upon their weakness.I found this film quite thought provoking, and I dislike supernatural thrillers in general. For that reason, I'd say that people who favor the genre may not like this movie, though they may. The people who praise this film are obviously digging beneath the surface. "},{"Title":"fallen and can't get up","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I tried to watch this film..had never heard of it ( probably for good reason) but I saw Goodman and Sutherland et al and thought I would watch. It is boring. It takes part of the exorcist and a few other movies ( seven and maybe a 3 stooges flick) and tries to braid something spooky and coherent.. it does not succeed. Washington is typical Washington..all dentures and con..but basically just another black guy that Hollywood decided to make a star ( samuel Jackson is another)..anyway, he cannot carry the movie- a total waste of time..I kept wondering what was happening and what was gonna happen..and guess what ? nothing happened. ever.like a seinfeld episode.clean the link out of your navel instead. "},{"Title":"Great Premise Falls!","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen (1998) Dir Gregory Hoblit / Cast Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, Elias Koteas Good concept reduced to repetitious formula and a cheap payoff in a conclusion where it would appear that the adversary cannot be defeated. Denzel Washington plays a cop who captures a psychotic killer then watches him die in the gas chamber. The killer's soul inhabits other bodies simply by touch. Two great scenes result from this. One regards a song sung by the killer during his execution then he touches other cops with the song continuing simultaneously. The other involves a pursuit where the killer gains speed just by touching every person ahead. Washington is alarmed about a recorded message by the killer in a language he doesn't understand. Directed by Gregory Hoblit who has an idea but little to back it. He previously made Primal Fear, also about the lurking of evil. Washington is the only casting given anything to work with as he struggles to solve the case to a dead end. John Goodman, Donald Sutherland and Embeth Davidtz deteriorate rapidly with cardboard roles. Elias Koteas plays the bogeyman villain who goes from convict to a hellish pain in the ass. Well made thriller that falls short on what it might have been. Theme regards the ever present reality of evil within a screenplay that does just as its title says and hits rock bottom. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Koteas versus Wasington in SK film that keeps falling and failing","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" To me Fallen was just a lot of puff. After the execution of a serial killer (Koteas-one of my favorite actors, a wild card, again making a meal out of his role) he leaves Detective John Hobbes (Washington) with a line of dire warning, and he's true to his words. After his passing, and a great killer line, a request if you will from Koteas, who was an avid admirer of Hobbs, though of course, not reciprocated, the same style of killings begin again. Now we venture into the world of the supernatural, and the why's as we look for a picture, then another big picture, another reason, then another reason, the story stringing us along successfully, in a want to know, why some New York city folk, strangers are acting creepy, towards Hobbes. And they're not just strangers, they're people in his unit. Hobbes is also seeing things, where the touch of one hand to another reaches Hobbes. Is it Koteas's spirit? The movie really puts too much into it, layer upon layer, as if to explain or keep the plot interesting while progressing the story more, ridiculously defending what we can't buy, every time, where in the end what ensues isn't earth shattering, but just ridiculous, more puff. The performances by all are good, James Gandofini for one, and Penelope Ann Miller, is it, who knows a lot about demons, and the church. She assists Hobbes to try and fight this spirit and properly rid Koteas of the universe for all. Fallen just joins those serial killer films of lower status or misfires, e.g, In Dreams, or the ridiculous Twisted, yet still the story does reel you in, having us wanting to know the truth behind's Hobbes's suffering. You won't suffer much during the film, but there will be some trying moments. Check out Mick Jagger's Time Is On Our Side song accompanied by a shouting and screaming Koteas, as he's led towards his doom. "},{"Title":"Offers Up Some Cheap Thrills And Chills!","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen seems to be a little-known supernatural thriller that is often entertaining and sometimes a little chilling. I'm not a huge horror fanatic, but this is the kind of horror I like. Less CGI and blood, a more realistic setting. This film may be a little confusing and the pace differentiates from time to time, but not a bad supernatural flick if you're looking for realistic chills.Gregory Hoblit's film is about a detective named John Hobbes who figures once this serial killer is executed, his troubles would be over. But they are far from over as he figures out demons exist and they can travel from body to body and now Hobbes must enter battle with this Azazel if he wants to live.I'm a huge Denzel Washington fan, but I'm surprised I didn't hear much about this film. He does a good job as Hobbes, though admittedly this is not his best role. John Goodman, in one of his rare non-comedy roles is convincing as Hobbe's partner, Jonesy. Donald Sutherland does a rather good job as lieutenant of the police force.Overall, Fallen is a decent supernatural horror film and with the great cast, I'm surprised more people haven't heard of this film. It goes easy on the CGI effects, which is nice for once. If you're a Rolling Stones fan, watch out because time may not be on your side. This is nothing special, but it's a serviceable thriller. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Evil just keeps right on comin'--Y'know what I mean?","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" FALLEN is a finely plotted 1998 sleeper hit that hybrids crime-suspense with the supernatural in a way I've never seen done before. Great performances by Denzel Washington and virtually everyone else, with special bravos going to Embeth Davidtz and Tony Donnelly. While there are a few minor plot-holes and ambiguities, FALLEN tells its rather incredible story very well, with well-planned surprises, particularly at the end. Excellent loaded dialogue, e.g., People just want the world to make sense, and the voice-overs from Detective John Hobbes (Washington), along with another character you'll just have to hear for yourself, contribute a great deal.I watch a lot of films of this sort, and FALLEN looked like it would probably be pretty standard stuff. Nevertheless, I was stunned by what a unique and clever piece this truly is. "},{"Title":"Great Concept, but slow pace","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The cast and acting in this film were superb, but they couldn't fix the pacing of this film. Elias Koteas gives one of the best performances I've ever seen. It's a shame it was in a movie that was largely overlooked. He was truly outstanding. There were moments where it started to be a great thriller, but it just couldn't get over the hump. The philosophical questions were intriguing, but they don't make for interesting moving watching. I found the demon sight to be out of focus, and the constant spinning made me slightly dizzy. There are many other ways to indicate possession. The movie was scored by Tan Dun, and it is wonderful, hauntingly beautiful. If you're looking for a face-paced thriller with philosophical overtones, then stick with Se7en or even Stigmata. "},{"Title":"Sympathy for the devil","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" &#x84;Fallen is an interesting horror/thriller movie . You could say it's more of a thriller with paranormal element . I don't think that this movie is scary . Gregory Hoblit does a fine job with the film.In spite of the fact that one knows what is going on for a good half-hour before the detective hero clicks on, both Hoblit and the script unfold these revelations with a decent degree of tension and suspense. There is also a beautifully written twist ending &#x96; the first one has ever seen that manages to so twist first-person voice-over completely on its head. Denzel Washington is good as always . He portrayed the transformation from cool and confident cop into frightened prey very convincingly. Elias Koteas is having fun with his role, even if it's a small one. Donald Sutherland doesn't put a lot of effort into his role , but he's still nice . James Gandolfini makes appearance , but the movie somehow forgets about him in the final minutes. I wasn't sure about John Goodman in the role of cop. Surprisingly it doesn't come out as a comic relief . He does have few nice jokes , yet is role is serious and he gets a chance to shine.It's a nice touch from the movie makers that Sympathy for the devil by Rolling Stones is a recurring theme . It adds an ironic distance to whole story.Not bad movie worth recommendation for both horror and thriller movie fans. Not really rewatchable , I do however recommend to watch it once. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Fallen","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen is a film which I was not paticualuly bothered about either way. When looking into it, I had heard it had mixed to negative reviews. So I was not expecting anything brilliant. I was therefore marginally surprised. Not a great film, but by no means a terrible one.Denzel Washington is usually one of my least favoured actors, he has made some great films, but also some utter rubbish. I would say his performance in fallen fell between the two, and he was average. Some.of the best parts of the film were in the shooting, some of the camera angles and colours used whilst in 'demon view' were impressive, and actually quite haunting. One thing I found was, our always seemed to be raining, especially when in the Police station, you could always see it bucketing down through the windows, whether this was done to create tension I don't know, but it made me think the director liked to do stuff with the weather.I do like a twist ending, the sort that makes you go back and review all that you have seen and view it in a new light. So for me the ending was probably my favourite bit. I mean yes it's cliché, setting it in the desolate forest. But so what, it's quite fun, and definitely entertaining.For me, a slightly above average thriller, with nothing paticualy special about it. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Good for a few chills","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen would have been better off being directed by someone with a knack for visual effects and atmosphere (David Fincher would have been nice). Then it could have been a lot more engrossing, not to mention frightening. As it is, Fallen has its moments, but overall it's unrealized potential.Detective John Hobbes (Denzel Washington) has just witnessed the execution of serial killer Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas in a genuinely off the wall performance). But soon after, bodies start piling up, and the M.O. is distinctively like Reese's.When the film starts getting into the real story (which I haven't even hinted at) its a genuinely fascinating premise. It's not that the script doesn't explore the possibilities opened by it, it's that director Gregory Hoblit can't generate much tension from the material. His approach is cold and clinical. While Fallen is always interesting and never boring, it's also not particularly involving.The actors are part of the problem. No one really does anything interesting with their character. Granted, no one is especially unique on paper (save for Edgar Reese), but these are professional actors who have demonstrated in the past that they can act. Denzel Washington has won two Oscars (although only one at the time of filming), Donald Sutherland should be right at home in this kind of movie, Embeth Davidtz provided an emotional anchor in Schindler's List, and John Goodman displays more range than anyone really gives him credit for. But acting wise, everyone except for Elias Koteas (who is a delight to watch, despite having less than ten minutes total of screen time), approaches their parts in a straightforward manner.There are a few creepy moments in Fallen, and although I don't hesitate to recommend it, it's not as good as it could have been. "},{"Title":"Touch of Evil","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The world of homicide detective John Hobbes was always black and white, answering the call of duty and bringing criminals to justice, but fate had other plans in store for him. We tell ourselves that evil does exist, but the war between good and evil has been waged for centuries. Heroes and villains surround our lives, and their stories inspire some to follow the light while others fall into darkness. And we wonder if truth does lie behind the myth of angels and demons, but do we really want to know the truth? Once our eyes are open, there is no turning back, and the life of one homicide detective will echo our own. And we will find ourselves living a story similar to the one in the movie, Fallen. "},{"Title":"In 5 Lines or Less - Fallen (Movie Review)","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I finally got around to watching this off the beaten track gem.Denzel Washington was in fine form years ago as the confused yet strong black man, who finally figures it out - a role he has reprised so many times (Pelican Brief, Out of Time, Manchurian Candidate, and most recently in Deja Vu).What impressed me was the boldness of the story/writers to colour outside the lines with the narrative.This boldness was further demonstrated by the director in the decision to allow the strength of the concept to dominate the presentation, instead of some flashy gimmicky special effects (although in fairness, this may have been a default position due to lack of budget - discretion, it seems, remains the better part of valour.) Heartily recommended for anyone looking to engage a slightly alternative story for a couple of hours - you'll find that time is on (your) side! "},{"Title":"Inventive Supernatural thriller","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is a pleasure to Denzel Washington not playing a character who is soself-righteous and squeaky clean. With the exception of Training Day,this is one of his most interesting projects.  The use of the Rolling Stones song, Time Is On My Side is brilliant inthat it's not just background noise but has to do with the plot. The acting device used to show the that the demon travels from host tohost is the most creative thing I've seen in any genre of film. GoodMovie all ar "},{"Title":"Great cast, and an imaginative movie","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film really surprised me as it came out of nowhere...that is the director and writer was not very famous. The cast was famous enough though. The only logical explanation for the beautiful cast to play this movie is that they fell for the story, and so did I. Really enjoyable to see Goodman, Gandolphini and of course Washington. It's dark and gloomy and will definitely demand a little imagination from the viewer. I mean, the viewer can't be very conservative and needs to be pretty open minded. I really enjoyed this movie in almost every way, it's a really good mystery/thriller. On the downside the plot could have used some more work. There are some holes that are a bit hard to swallow. And the movie also tends to be a little over-explained at times, which is not necessary at all times. To sum up...the movie is very good.  I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington rushes to trap a fallen angel that moves from human form to human form, committing murders.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like suspense, this is a movie for you. Fallen is one of those movies that you must watch carefully if you wish to truly understand the underlying concept. Denzel Washington must unravel the mystery alone- of the few people who do understand, most do not wish to speak the truth. As you travel through the unique storyline, you will sit on the edge of your seat. You just may find out why this mystery is so important to Washington! "},{"Title":"Blind chicken finds the seed","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A nobody as a director and a nobody as a writer shouldn't make such a good movie, especially when creamed with hollywood actors. Sometimes miracles happen. Fallen is a good movie. The plot is very clever and keeps you on your seat pretty nicely. Denzel does a good job as the policeman Hobbes being chased by the mysterious creature. Why the creature is chasing Hobbes, that i never found out. It was just explained that the creature was sadistic. But why Hobbes? I guess we'll never know. Despite the one flaw the plot carries itself with pride to the end, which pleasantly surprises you the first time around, but when you're watching Fallen for the second time it sounds like they're trying to explaining the whole thing a tad too much.The acting is solid professional level, Denzel does better than he did in his Oscar winning trash, and Elias Koteas is funny. Fallen, i think, was all about a mediocre writer finding a mediocre director and summing an enjoyable movie with the good chemistry found.I bought the DVD, which was rather pointless, though, since this is a definate one-timer, it's great the first time but there's really no need to view it again.An underdog that can be easily found in discounts around the world. I bought mine very cheap.Tii-ii-i-i-me, is on my siiide...7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie regardless","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Denzel is one of the best out there no matter how many times people try to downplay the man. I've seen countless actors give the same performance Denzel gives and naturally, Denzel doesn't get his due. This is not one of Denzel's best but IT CERTAINLY IS NOT THE WORST as many have said here. It's a good movie period. Imagine fighting with a Demon like that. No objects being thrown, fire, and horrible images, that you see in other demonic movies. This demon completely torments you're mind. His whole purpose was to drive people insane. Kind of creepy to deal with an adversary like that. You don't see him but he's there. Denzel was superb as usual in acting out how someone would behave, faced with such an adversary. One problem Denzel has is he makes such good films that when he does something that's average, people are all over him. The man is good, period. I have yet to see a bad Denzel movie. I'm sure one is coming but this one certainly was not it. "},{"Title":"Supernatural cop movie. Brilliant!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie begins with the execution of a serial killer. The cop who caught him attends. But, soon enough, we get to feel the presence of the killing element shifting into other characters....The story actually sounds a bit stupid, written down. But watching this movie, it was chillingly brilliant. The execution was near perfect, and this movie managed the outstanding achievement of thrilling and creeping out without expensive special effects or makeup. All it needs is a song and some good camera-direction.I will not give away too much, for I do not wish to spoil the fun. But the movie manages to convince the audience, and it has some great moments of surprise. Quite frankly, the best demonic cop / detective movie I have ever seen.9/10 "},{"Title":"Misses the beat but only just.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 119 min.Washington is good here as are the supporting cast with Gabriel Casseus deserving a special mention. This movie avoids flash special effects letting quick camera work convey the unsettling (not really horrific) world it portrays. Most of the time the viewer is ahead of the story but that only helps us see the world as Washington sees it.7/10 well worth watching. "}{"Title":"A surprising movie","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just two days ago this movie was shown on one of our local TV stations. As most other commentators here, I agree that this is a movie that is well written, well done, well acted, and well directed.I had no great expectations about this movie, not knowing what it was about. But, every now and then, one gets the pleasure of finding a good movie that did not get the big ads, and the big promotions.Well worth the time spent watching! "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  FALLEN is a dark supernatural thriller that is definitely worth watching. Denzel Washington and John Goodman both give their all,as does Elias Koteas.However,depending on your mood(and your willingness to hear Time Is On My Side played over and over and over and OVER)the ending is either brilliant or just doesn't work. There are actuallytwo scenes that are actually better than the whole movie itself the scene where Azazael jumps from body to body,talking to Hobbs,and the end,where John Goodman describes maximum fun. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"GOOD SUPERNATURAL MYSTERY","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Washington plays a cop who interviews a prisoner just before his execution. The prisoner, Koteas,gives him a mysterious clue to another crime which when discovered may or may not be the work of a copycat or something else.This is one of Washington's most underrated movies and with very able help from Goodman and Sutherland, makes this film one of the better supernatural mysteries. The tale is told with a flashback which is very fast paced and has a very good, altho somewhat predictable ending.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a well paced thriller that keeps you glued to the screen.  The story line is almost traditional but with a well thought and believeable, scary twist.  The story is written well enough even an unheard of cast would have done well here.  Even the non-Denzel fans should like this one!If this is your kind of movie you should also check out Stir of Echoes. Different kind of story but... you'll see. "},{"Title":"average","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Could have been much better. The story is clever, the cast is good, and the movie is creepy, but all that is brought down by sheer boredom. The film isn't very long, but spends so much time talking and trying to explain everything that it seems to go on forever. Needed more action and less talk, but it isn't completely unwatchable. 2/4 "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was in two minds about this film.  On first playing it I nearly fell asleep halfway through, but that could have been due to having just finished watching Lock Stock...  A few days later, I watched it again and was absolutely enchanted with it.  It has a brilliant storyline, but if you really want to get the most out of it, don't read the back of the case, it kinda spoils the mystery of it.Anyways, this is one to watch with your girlfriend, then when you fancy one of her chocolates, tell her there's a scary bit and to look away -)And the endings pretty good too... "},{"Title":"No Need To Close Your Eyes...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"               Fallen is a great, original movie.  It is horror in a sense although it doesn't contain any visual scenes.  You see it's all in your head- and that makes it really scary.             It is basically about a detective that captures a serial killer but then come the copycat killings.  A fallen angel called Azazel inhabits the spirits of living animals because it has no physical body.  So it gets them to do heinious crimes.  It passes onto other people by touch and can only live outside a body for one breath.              Washington takes the job to destroy the evil with the help of a woman whose father tried to do the same thing  but evidently failed.             It is a great movie but if you're not interested in religion-type things then you may find it boring.  Plus there's a great ending that is totally original and may get you scared. "},{"Title":"Oh Vic, I've Fallen","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  1998 was generally a manky year for films, so when the subject comes up, I've always been quick to champion the cause of the Hollywood underdog that is Fallen. However, nobody else in the world seems to have seen the bugger, which makes the potential for boozed-up, opinionated Saturday night arguments a bit short-lived.So recently I watched it again to make sure that I wasn't trying a bit too hard to see its good points. But no - it's still a very fine piece of work, intense and quietly accomplished with convincing performances across the board and a chilling (not entirely original, but still chilling) premise borne out with that rarest of things, actual directorial imagination in place of the usual atmosphere-crippling cheapo bluescreen effects. In fact, if anything, the second viewing improves the overall experience because of all those little pointers that you missed or disregarded the first time around... Bravo Greg Hoblit. That's two great films and one marred only by the presence of Dennis Quaid so far - keep it up and you might even get the recognition you deserve one of these days. "},{"Title":"The second time you see this movie, it all comes home","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a must-see. Not once, but twice. There is a trick ending that you almost need to view before the movie begins. The first time I watched Fallen, I was confused. But the second time when I knew what was coming, it all fit into place and the movie was easy to follow. Beautifully scripted and magically acted by Denzel Washington who was just coming into his prime with this movie, Fallen is a sly, witty portrayal of the battle between good and evil. And which side really wins? You will never listen to the Rolling Stones the same way again. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if predictable","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I often ask myself, when watching a film in which the incredible happens, would I recognize what's going on if I was in the middle of it? Denzel finally does, and we the film audience are treated to a nice, subtle bit of special effects in the process.There isn't much plot here, and what little there is has been strongly telegraphed by the score. But Denzel shows some nice acting riffs, and the creepiness factor is fairly high, so I found the film intriguing. There is the inevitable showdown scene at the end - ho hum - but there's also a little twist.OK entertainment. A solid 7. "}{"Title":"Time is on my side..","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This barely known movie of 1998 ranks tops in my book.  As a thriller it is superb, and as a detective story intriguing.  It is unique and enjoyable. Well acted.John Goodman's Mick Jagger has to be seen!   "},{"Title":"Top-notch thriller","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film begins with an interesting premise, adds to it superior acting, direction, and cinematography, and tops it all off with an unexpected plot twist at the end that is quite chilling. Denzel Washington turns in another fine performance as a Philadelphia policeman confronted with things he does not understand. Embeth Davidtz is a standout as the theology professor who helps him start thinking in supernatural terms. The Philadelphia backdrop is authentic (take it from this native son!) Kudos to Tan Dun, too, for the hauntingly beautiful original score. Highly recommended. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Potentially predictable...","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the previews for this movie, I had a guess as to the ending.  However, when a co-worker said the ending was very clever, I assumed that there must be something more to it.  Unfortunately, there wasn't.  However, it is a decent movie, and my knowing the ending before seeing it is probably more due to my extensive viewing of science-fiction movies than a lack of cleverness on the part of the writer.  "},{"Title":"Eeek!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Eeek, quite a scary unnerving film. Gregory Hoblit was able sculpt a tight supernatural thriller that succeeded in ratting me fro weeks after.There are some particularly good sequences that remain; where Azrael moves from person to person at the police station, with the Stones song Time is on my side as the only link, and the sequence where Embeth Davidtz is chased down a busy city street the same way. The ending is very cynical, but I still like to see Hollywood taking a chance ever now and again, and deciding not to create another pat ending.  "},{"Title":"Time is on my side...","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A really nice little film, a good cast (D. Washington, D. Sutherland and Goodman) and well acted. I rented the DVD a few days ago and didn`t know what to expect... and was positivly suprised! A bit too long perhaps, but all in all a good film (although the basic idea wasn`t that new). See this film and then grab your Stones album, because Time is on my side... oh yeah!!! 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Certainly this movie was better than I expected. It was chilling and creepy in just about the right measure - enough to keep you going, not so much you can't stand to watch. I thought the very lovely Embeth Davidtz was basically wasted (although it was interesting to see her character using her real name) and Sutherland's role was also a little lacking. Washington continues to be a legitimate star vehicle and the remainder of the supporting cast was strong. An interesting tale - how come Azazel couldn't enter everyone by touch, but never ran up against anyone resistant on the street??? - with an interesting twist in the end (although I could kinda see it coming - dang cats!) and keeps you watching. My vote, a strong 7/10. "},{"Title":"Impressing","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here you are, a movie that's got it all, suspense, horror, action ect. you would either bump in to this movie by just watching HBO and find how good it is, or you could be at blockbuster looking for a movie.  It is better to bump into it by accident; cause this movie has at least like million twists and turns in the plot, while your watching this you won't feel the chill down your back as you did in Candyman, and you won't be jumping up and down yelling, HURRY, HURRY as you did in North by Northwest but this movie has a little bit of horror and suspense, the mystery doesn't completely unfold 'till the very end.  You may get bored of Danzel picking up the phone hearing it go blank,  but I was entertained greatly by this movie. I wouldn't say it's the scariest movie i've seen, but it sure is one of them. Oh yeah, if you need high paced action in the first five minutes, turn your tv off. "},{"Title":"good, but too predictable","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The acting was fantastic, and I really appreciated the attempt to avoid the gore and shock approach to horror.  Some of the cinematography was too mtv (choppy, quick flashes of action), but overall maintained a consistent, interesting style.  The plot was standard, but well presented.  My major complaint was that they made it too easy to figure out what was going on. I guessed the ending within the first minute of the film.  I guess I should have watched it before Sixth Sense... "},{"Title":"A much better terror movie than I expected.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent concept, fine script, and super, underplayed acting all add up to one of the truly scary movies of the decade.  Doesn't rely on special effects or gimmicks, but the plausibly presented concept that consummate evil can occupy any body it chooses. "},{"Title":"It was a very good movie..","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was as very good movie.  The plot and store line were very creative and I thought that it was a very clever movie.  The actors in the movie played there parts very well, Denzel Washington and John Goodman were very good. The movie also keeps you guessing the whole way through, not revealing to much about it at  anytime up until the end. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly fun low profile movie...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing a poster of this at a movie theater and thinking... that looks cool... I made a point to go see this, but it was gone by the next week. So one day my cousin starts raving about how cool the movie is, so we rent it. Great fun. The cast is excellent (except for Donald Sutherland's wasted role - this must be the umpteenth time I've seen him in one of those five-minute-superior-of-something roles), and although the film is not really scary, the plot was excellent. It does seem to drag at times, but it actually managed to hold my attention throughout. And that hilarious ending... definitely not something you see everyday. This film was just fun and Denzel Washington proves what a great actor he is (Hey, people, give the guy a shot and go see his movies, alright?)  "},{"Title":"Overall a good watch.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We rented this movie not knowing anything about it, and were pleasantly surprised by it.A good premise, good acting (especially by Elias Koteas), and just enough suspense to keep you wondering.  Predictable it wasn't, although the observant will probably be able to guess at some possible conclusions to the story.  Loved the ending, as it's nice to see a movie that doesn't necessarily tie up ALL the loose ends for you.  This one had me thinking even after it was done.We'd definitely recommend this one.  It was clever and unnerving, and didn't rely on gore to make it scary.  8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great story, boring characters","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a good movie, and I really enjoyed watching it. But unfortunately there is one thing wrong with this film, so it shall never become one of my favorites.During the greater part of the movie, the plot was surprisingly good. The scene in which Denzel Washington meets Azazel in the police-station and on the street is absolutely great, the chase-scene is fantastic! Fallen is often compared with Se7en. This too was a thriller with a very good script, a movie that absorbs you from the beginning till the end. But Se7en offers the viewers something more interesting characters. Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Palthrow and, of course, Kevin Spacey make you really believe in the persons they play. I wish the scriptwriters of Fallen would have paid as much attention to their characters as the writers of Se7en did. I never really cared for Denzel Washington, his brother or his nephew. And the part of Embeth Davidtz wasn't interesting either. Denzel Washington is a very good actor (he was fantastic is Glory and Philadelphia). But in Fallen, his talents haven't been used as good as they could have been. The character he plays is very flat. This goes even stronger for the role of Donald Sutherland. This was a supporting part completely played on the automatic pilot, and therefore very boring. Luckily there was John Goodman. It's always a pleasure seeing him in a movie. The best role no doubt was for Elias Koteas, who gave a very strong performance as the first Azazel. I doubted whether I would vote 7 or 8 out of 10. I guess it was the music that made me decide for the 8 it's been weeks since I've seen this movie, and I still catch myself humming Time is on my side!  "},{"Title":"Good Spiritual Thriller","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this on DVD the other day. Never heard of it when it was in the theaters, but thoroughly enjoyed it. Strong thriller, creepy, well acted, tight plot, good cinematography and directing, few holes in plot, thought-provoking. Recommended for lovers of thrillers and detective genre. Ambitious blend of detective and religious themes. Works well. Appreciable feature of mainstream feature w/ African-American hero, tho not much made of that point. Well acted all around. Downer of an ending, but refreshing for avoiding the typical Hollywood ending. Perhaps contributed to its brief theatrical engagement. High marks. "},{"Title":"Fallen and Seven scary messages","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoyed Seven, you will enjoy Fallen. Both movies share the same nasty type of ending where the bad guy actually wins. And not by force but by intelligence. If these films represent even partly the forces humankind is up against, we should be very afraid.. "},{"Title":"Fallen is a movie that has impact.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a movie that has impact.  The movie has deeper truth then possibly the director or actors could even realize.  The laying on of hands and by touch is used in both camps.  There is the camp of darkness who suffer and the camp of light Jesus Christ.  Both use laying on of hands.  They both have out of body experiences, sometimes called astral projection or out of body.  And there is power in the people of both camps that is great and small.  Both have the gifts of languages known and unknown that is used in accordance with the elders of that camp.  Both camps have the ability to walk through your mind while standing in front of you.  The camp of darkness uses a demonic spirit  helper  and the camp of Jesus Christ uses only one the Holy Spirit  helper . This is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Slow, but overall a good film...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although slow at times, this film is a wonderful thriller full of drab colors and eerie moments.Denzel Washington turns in a fine performance as Detective John Hobbes, and the supporting cast is great as well.The story is excellent and the Azazal chase scene through the streets was intense.For those who love anti Hollywood films, this is for you. The ending is great, and the surprise twist made me drop my jaw to the floor.I just can't wait to see if Arlington Road's ending can outdo this one.Time...is on my side... "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good supernatural thriller","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is unfortunate that Denzel's movies don't do all that well at the box office because he is truly one of the better actors of our generation.  This film is just another example.  While I was apprehensive about the movie as a whole, Fallen was a solid supernatural thriller, very reminiscent of The First Power.  Strong performances by Elias Koteas and John Goodman back up a nice script with enough twists and turns to keep you guessing.  "},{"Title":"Hoblit almost prevails again","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gregory Hoblit can make a good, thought-provoking film. Evidence to support such a claim is his Primal Fear. That one, like Fallen, centers around that classic good vs. evil story and contains plenty of religious/biblical innuendo.I know, I know, we've all seen enough of these before. Or have we? Personally I love these types of thrillers that become more than simply thrillers once they begin to be brain bogglers.As many IMDB users have concurred, the premise behind Fallen is captivating, without uncertainty demanding of the viewer's attention. Too bad one can't speak the same for the acting, which I believe, is the film's tragic flaw. With sub-par acting, Fallen becomes a good film instead of one of the great ones. Denzel Washington as a detective in pursuit of a fallen angel isn't as convincing as he could have been. Goodman only dazzles during the last minutes of the film and Sutherland is plain boring.The plot/storyline, in other words, is the life-saving force of the film, its uumpth I would argue. Simply stated, the acting just doesn't deliver as hard as I wish it could have. Nonetheless, this is a cool movie The way Azazelle (the evil spirit Washington is in pursuit of) enters people is brilliantly captured in a riveting chase scene, Hoblit's ingenious use of a Stones song as the way Azazelle reveals his presence, and the resonating voice-over throughout the film (though it fails to deliver as powerful an effect as say, Goddfellas.) all point towards Hoblit's craft.Still, Fallen lacks that special something that inspires all the accolade for similar films such as Seven and to a certain extent a detective story like LA Confidential. At the film's conclusion, the voice-over, assumably sepaking about the evolution of the human race, mentions something about the turning point in life. With a minor upgrade on suspense and even a greater one on acting, Fallen could have been the turning point of Hoblit's directorial career. Still, that's not to say he's fallen. "},{"Title":"Under-rated surprise, excellent","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie surpassed my fairly high expectations.  It's exciting, intriguing, spooky, smart, and fast.  The surprises at the end are the best part.  Fallen has a likeable cast and a great story.  It kept my attention the whole way through.  If like mystery or horror movies, I recommend it. For 1998, I put it second behind Saving Private Ryan. "}{"Title":"Walking in the fog.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The idea might not be that bad but it's hardly developed and the whole flick stays far behind Seven. What the movie lacks is suspense and dynamics. What can you count on less above ? Cast ? Washington is readily recognizable, predictable and emotionless as usual. Goodman, despite his size, fell out of the shot. Who else ? Sutherland ? The only thing I liked was in the end of the film when it became clear whom belonged that voice behind the screen to.   "},{"Title":"This movie was all that!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just read someones review on this movie and they said that it just ended and it was very dssappointing, well I thought that the way it just ended was great, I'm tired of all movies being the same and the good guy always winning. This movie was GREAT! "},{"Title":"A very different plot...","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me just say at the start that Fallen got an 8 in my book. I saw it with my friends and they all said the same thing. Great movie, but a bad endingWhile I will not ruin it...prepare to be disappointed. Otherwise the plot is very intriguing. As police officer Denzel Washington pursues a demon that inhabited the body of a man he executed. The demon (the biblical Azazel) can pass to another person through touch. So that makes him pretty darn hard to find!!The best scene in the film sees Washington talking to the demon through different people as they pass him in the street. Azazel taunts Washington by singing Time is on my Side by the Rolling Stones. The scene gives tingles on my spine just thinking about it...But on the whole, for a very different film, see Fallen "},{"Title":"A very underrated, and misinterpreted, supernatural thriller","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The critics are wrong. When Fallen was released, it was brutally panned. This is a grave injustice to an excellent and suspenseful detective film. Denzel Washington will always be the taciturn hero, but the character he portrays here would more appropriately fit the literary definition of a tragic hero. The voice-over narration tends to get groggy and unneeded, but it is the clever climax that will leave the viewer completely stunned. A mystery film that takes some unexpected twists. And you'll never be able to shake that Rolling Stones tune from your head after the final fade out. "},{"Title":"One of Denzel's finest","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Hobbes watches the execution of a serial killer and believes that his job is finally done...But all of a sudden people are being murdered once more, killings that are similar to the dead serial killer.I watched this at the age of fourteen, and I loved every moment of it. The film has some scares and eeriness that I haven't found since in a movie, simply because the demon in the story can inhabit anyone. I honestly believe that this film is perhaps Denzel's finest...It's a different kind of role that needs the best of the best...And Denzel provides that. The film is well written and directed which again shows wonderfully. "},{"Title":"Great Supernatural Thriller","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Excellent movie a true supernatural thriller that gets you in till the end with quite an original script even though the story matter is not new.The cast are superb as detectives played by Denzel Washington and John Goodman as his partner. They suit their roles and play them well.Donald Sutherland as the Chief is his usual talented actor.Believable roles and you actually have empathy for the main characters. Plot keeps you enthralled. The ending is a great twist with good atmosphere .Theme song from the Rolling Stones is so appropriate to the movie. A must see in my opinion. The type of movie you can see and watch again down the track with equal effect.9/10 "},{"Title":"Chilling","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Horror fans had better stay away from this film, because Fallen is more of a supernatural thriller than anything else. It's an interesting concept for a movie, and Denzel Washington pulls off his character Hobbes extremely well.Intriguing twists and turns in a suspenseful movie with mixtures of The Exorcist and the excellent Se7en, startling moments combined with bizarre supernatural elements, Fallen can certainly keep us hooked. It's a film that can shock and surprise many viewers, with an interesting conclusion to the story.A fine, watchable film with good performances. "},{"Title":"Time on My Side has got to be the most annoying part of the film!","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie a couple of times. One of the main reasons that I purchased the tape was because the film was filmed in Philadelphia, a great American city. Sadly, I didn't see much of the city as I thought. There are strange moments in the film like the people on the street passing an evil spirit from one to the other person. I was annoyed by the song Time on My Side by the Rolling Stones. It got too much after a while. The cast is first rate with Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, and Embeth Davidtz but the story appears to be weak. There are memorable moments in the film like seeing James Gandolfini in a supporting role before his Tony Soprano role the year later. Anyway, the film does have it's moments. It shows brilliant actors like Washington, Goodman, and Sutherland make this film work in the first place. "},{"Title":"Evil can be anywhere... Think! Don't just watch...","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like all the movies that the ending in not what Hollywood wants!! It is an excellent film and i don't know why the rating is low 1. The script/concept is very good and scary,and 2. The acting is even better from all actors. I think that there is a connection with TWIN PEAKS, which by the way i love. More specifically with the character of BOB. Does anyone thinks that also? See both of them if you have not done that yet!! The movie is such a thriller without having to show to us blood or other scary tricks (like sudden, loud noises!) It is a thriller because it makes you THINK of the worst scenario without GIVING it to you. THINK THINK THINK... The horror is in our mind and not in our eyes!!Great, Great movie "},{"Title":"Slightly Disappointed","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film sucked me in from the very beginning with its mysterious Spiritual theme which eventually becomes apparent. Denzel Washington,(Det. John Hobbes),Devil in a Blue Dress, got himself involved with a few murders where the killer or killers kill their victims and then have cereal and milk. John Goodman,(Det.Jonesy),Beyond The Sea,'04, is John Hobbes partner and adds a great deal of humor to his role, eating food most of the time. Donald Sutherland,(Lt. Stanton), Pride & Prejudice,05 is not too happy about the way that Det. Jonesy and Hobbes are spending so much time on these cases. There is lots of suspense that captures your imagination, and then all of a sudden you are faced with a situation in the story you never realized was going to happen. Enjoy "}{"Title":"Fallen Up","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Came across this film in a video store sale bin at a giveaway price and bought it on the strength of the cast, Denzil Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland and Embeth Davidtz. Found it to be surprisingly good. Not a horror film as such, no gore or unconvincing CGI effects but a gripping story with supernatural elements. There are subtle shivers, particularly the 'touching' scenes and the sense of something evil hidden behind the everyday. The setting is bleakly autumnal and it is finishes with a nice twist. If you watch the film again knowing the ending it makes more sense.Of the acting, Goodman and Sutherland don't have much to play with but it is always good to see them in a film. Washington is very good as his normal cop character grapples with the mystery and Davidtz is excellent as the academic, scared and solitary and fallible. The scenes between Washington and Davidtz are well played. Tan Dun's music adds to the atmosphere. Well directed and well written. Well done. "},{"Title":"A solid thriller with good pace and nice twists that benefits from a strong lead performance from Washington","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Homicide detective John Hobbes is a clean cop with a good reputation; a reputation built on many closed cases including his most recent conviction and death sentence for serial killer Edgar Reese. Moments before his death Reese starts speaking a strange language and threatens Hobbes with revenge. Gassed to death and buried, Reese is just another reason for Hobbes to be smug on television but soon murders start happening with such a level of detail that it can only be that Reese had a partner who has carried on in his vein. Investigating this only produces more impossible findings and Hobbes soon runs out of answers; however it soon transpires that things beyond the human world are at play and this is much more than murder.I think for me, part of the joy of Fallen was that I never saw it coming. It didn't make so much as a ripple at the UK box office and it was only really when it got to TV for the first time that it appeared on my radar. Even then I knew nothing about it and it took me by surprise by just how effective a thriller it was. Watching it for the second and third time produced the same level of enjoyment and the only thing tempering it now is that the weaknesses show through. Accepting the plot is key to the success of the film and it manages to make this high concept easy to get into several different ways. Sadly at least one of these ways is by allowing the plot to make skips and jumps at times, taking easy roads and perhaps lacking logic here and there (as in logic within the universe it has written for itself). This bothered me a little bit but, to be honest, the film is engaging to the point where you tend not to notice. The thriller plot moves forward well, with solid pace and twists and turns the majority of the way.The direction is pretty good, although the demon's eye view of the action got a little stale towards the end and it was perhaps an easy device to use. Washington is a big reason this film works; his performance is strong even though his character is secondary. He is a good leading man and even managed to emotionally engage me despite the material not having this as its priority. With the nature of the baddie there is nobody playing directly opposite him so the rest of the cast can be called support. However this is no bad thing when you have good performances from Goodman, Sutherland, Gandolfini, Casseus, Koteas and others to rely on.Overall this is an enjoyable supernatural thriller that works despite the high concept plot. The twists and turns are enjoyable and Washington makes an excellent leading man even though the material doesn't give him a great deal to deal with below the surface. "},{"Title":"Fear My Wrath","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Upon release Fallen was largely overlooked by the public despite the fact the mighty Denzel took the lead role as Detective Hobbes and was backed up by a decent support cast including Donald Sutherland as his annoying Lt and John Goodman as Hobbes' loyal partner (who takes time out to discuss the meaning of life and the virtues of pizza with Hobbes). Fallen brings together the classic cop/ serial killer movie with the horror/demonic genre, a sub category that has been depicted on the big screen and in the guise of various X files/ Sci-fi channel concoctions. However, Denzel gives a fine performance as a straight cop who takes care of his brother and nephew whilst eliminating the evil criminals that pervade Philadelphia. Hobbes' character is a symbol of decency and is almost angelic in nature (courtesy of Denzel's well spoken tongue and calm manner). The story begins with Denzel saying good bye to Reese, a serial killer who he has put on death row. After Reese faces the gas chamber Denzel thinks that matter is closed (a safe bet under normal circumstances). Copycat murders start to pop up however with messages and clues that lead Denzel to a very different conclusion. Denzel must face Azael, a fallen angel hell bent on the fall on civilisation (one murder at a time) who has some very original demonic abilities. Azazel is cursed with being formless but is able to move from one being to next and fully control that individual, except for Hobbes. It is this inability to control Hobbes that fascinates Azazel and leads him to toy with the detective. The story evolves at a slow pace but the lead character's performances are so good and understated that you are more than happy to wait. Fallen is more of psychological thriller than horror movie and has a captivating effect on its audience. The plot evolves to an original and exciting finale that leaves the viewer considering many what if scenarios. Overall, this is a well constructed and entertaining movie that remains fresh with repeat viewings (the true mark of a classic). It also makes great use of the Rolling Stones track Time is on my side which is eerily recited by Azazel as a reminder to others of his immortality. You will be miming it for a day (which has the added benefit of alarming others who have seen the film). "},{"Title":"If you believe in fallen angels, this one is for you!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bible freaks, born agains, and people with fish symbols on the back of their cars who buy  into the supernatural notion of angels (and therefore) fallen angels will just eat this up! The  acting is really superb, and the filmic technology involved is state-of-the-art; BUT... the  thrills here will only be for those who subscribe to deities, popular and otherwise. And sadly,  without that leap of faith on the part of the viewer, the underlying plot here evaporates into  nothing more than spooky nonsense.While I am still curious about potential transcendental powers in humans, that is TOTALLY  different from the devilish stuff that is served up here. Much of this film plot is light years  away from anything remotely resembling logic and reason.For me, well,... my only answer to Azazel is,... pazoozle! (I want my money back!) "},{"Title":"Supernatural Thriller","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a 1998 offering from Greggory Hoblit and Nicholas Kazan.  The plot is loosely based on an amalgamation of Chrstian mysticism.  It sees Denzel Washington locked in what appears to be a hopeless battle with a sadistic fallen Angel, Azazel.  The film starts with some promise.  It has a reasonable cast with a charismatic big name star.  The rest of the film does not live up to the opening.  The plot seems thin and ill thought out.  It drags needlessly, lacking depth or imagination.  Even with a weak plot one feels that the film could have been better.  The execution was poor.  A poor script eroded the films believability.  The characters lacked charm and failed to interact like human beings.  The dialogue was stiff and stilted.  Character reactions were frequently risable.  It was difficult to tell if much of the dialogue was intended to be tounge in cheek.  Whether they were or they were not, they did not arouse mirth in the audience.  Likewise the direction was not strong.  Whilst not as bad as the scripting it was frequently annoying.  The blurred demon-cam shots were both cliche and just a pain.  They were over used and therefore added little to the suspense.  Likewise the audience did not really need it sign posted whenever Washington was about to be attacked.  The execution of the ending was smug.  The ending was also predictable.  What's more is that the audience simply do not care by the end anyway.  Their seems little left to fight fore.  The demon seemed undefeatable and remained so throughout the film.This film will appeal to you if you like pseudo-religious fantasy ala Stigmata or Prophecy.  It may also appeal to you if you like ghost plots.  For the neutral viewer you'd probably be best to look elsewhere for an entertaining film.   "},{"Title":"Tricky and interesting","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't out to win awards, and it isn't the best film ever. But, it was fun and light, with a pretty decent ending.  It is dark, but not dark AND unwatchable, like Seven.If you really liked Seven, you won't like this light fare.  However, if, like me, you thought Seven was overworked and a complete waste of time, you'll enjoy the funny moments, the great performances (Denzel, Gandalfini, John Goodman), and the way the movie moves itself along.I recommend it as a rental, and as long as you don't take it too seriously, you'll enjoy it.6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Still Exciting","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Denzel Washington offers his expected strong performance in a movie that, while not without weaknesses, is still quite watchable. Washington is Detective John Hobbes, who finds himself caught up in a supernatural murder investigation that leads him further and further into danger as he pursues a demon who can move from person to person, leading him to be suspicious of almost everyone. The story is interesting and imaginative, although the theology (such as it is) is extremely questionable at best. This is one of the primary weaknesses of the movie, along with the character of Gretta Milano (Embeth Davidtz), whose father died in suspicious circumstances that Hobbes believes to be connected to his current investigation. The problem is that the character of Gretta (who was supposed to be a theology teacher at a local college) was completely superfluous and added nothing to the story. Hobbes already had the thing basically figured out, and there isn't even a romance between the two (which I liked, by the way; I get tired of the required romances that Hollywood seems to feel are necessary to every movie.) The result is that the scenes involving Davidtz were - simply put - dull, because they weren't necessary. The other supporting cast members (John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, James Gandolfini) put on decent performances, although looking at Jonesy (Goodman) made me wonder if the local police in this unnamed city shouldn't have a weight requirement for their detectives!The end result is that while there's nothing particularly frightening here, there's a lot of suspense and in answer to the question that leads into the last scene of the movie (do you remember that I told you ...?) - actually, no I didn't, and that tied the beginning and ending together very nicely.Overall, not a bad movie, although it could have been better.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fallen, BAH!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We actually found the widescreen version of Fallen (1998) and hoping for a decent horror offering from the 90's we bought the tape and ran home to watch it. This movie stars Denzel Washington and John Goodman trying to stop a serial killer (who may be a fallen angel) from continuing his reign of terror. Very interesting. We do have a few complaints though. Firstly, why do most current films run too long? This film ran at a painful 125 minutes and could have been done in 80. Secondly, who writes this cheese? Granted, Fallen had a few clever moments but overall had no gore, no suspense and a boring storyline. Lastly, why does Denzel come off on screen as being a self-serving idiot? Who knows. Either way, this movie is good to watch but you'll find yourself wishing for the days of Jason or Freddy and real horror movies. Good ending however! "},{"Title":"too slow","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some reviewers like this, and I liked the plot idea where an evil spirit is passed between people, but it just seems to drag and not get going.  I thought the rating of 6 was too high, and would only give it a 4.  It just didn't seem to have much life and plodded along passing the buck, er, spirit.  The ending was predictable and standard.  For a much better possession / head game thriller see In Dreams with Annette Bening. -Bob  "},{"Title":"A potentially great movie that falls short","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What could have been a great movie unfortunately ends up rather lame. The premise is excellent A fallen angel moves from person to person, wreaking havoc and playing mind games with a police detective. There is some interesting supernatural lore and some good acting all around. But the story never really builds up to full speed, and the ending is a gross disappointment for one thing, it's obvious about halfway through the movie, and for another, it just plain sucks. You're left thinking That's *it*? This movie is worth seeing, but be warned that the ending will leave you hanging. "}{"Title":"There's a payoff in the end, but I still can't quite recommend it.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen has a cast including Denzel Washington, John Goodman, and Donald Sutherland, and in most cases that quality of a lineup would lead to a good movie. Unfortunately the serial killer thriller is bogged down by an incomprehensible plot, a mediocre script, and sequences that are just not that interesting. The last third of the film picks up from some of those flaws, and the last fifteen minutes is certainly a fascinating, well done suspense sequence. Still there are too many unanswered questions for me to get my head around it, and it's better in its style than it is in its substance. If you watch it or rent it you may not feel ripped off, but don't expect to feel like you've watched a good movie either. "},{"Title":"Average as a movie, but above-average as a horror flick.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a creative idea that is executed well and is a very entertaining movie.  That being said, it has a few flaws, mainly in the casting of the characters.  John Goodman plays his typical nice guy character throughout the movie, but you always sense his Barton Fink character underneath. Denzel Washington is convincing as a warm-hearted cop, but not as a noir hero trapped by evil.  Because Washington is so good-humored, a horror/noir movie ends on a note that is more matter-of-fact than dark.  I would have liked to have seen someone less fimiliar for Goodman's character and someone more depressed and desparate in Washington's place.  The movie is solid, mostly due to the frightening ideas and filming techniques.  Unlike most horror flicks that rely heavily on special effects, this one tends to challenge your mind instead of you eyes which makes some scenes completely erie and scary.  All in all, the movie is worth watching but not more than once. "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish.","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK so where do we begin with this pile of absolute vile trash. I came across this film online as I am a big fan of Denzel Washington movies and was interested to watch more of his unknown films from the 90's and early 2000's. So I came across Fallen and noticed the rating of 7.0 so figured I'd give it a watch as it was classified as a thriller.This film is possibly one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Let's start with the good Well, the end song that plays is Sympathy for the Devil by The Rolling Stones - a great song. This is the only good thing about the movie. Now for the badThe plot was absolutely ridiculous. I'll admit I went into this film not knowing entirely what it was all about. I thought it was going to be a thriller, not some fantasy, sci-fi trash about the devil possessing other humans bodies. The plot is ludicrous and laughable. I lost interest and because of the terrible story telling, the movie loses it's title as a thriller. Now let's look at some of the main plot holes. When the devil is possessed in Resse's body, he touches Hobbes and doesn't infect him because Hobbes believes in God and wears a cross or something.... Resse then goes to get executed but he touches the executioner. Why therefore doesn't the executioner get possessed here? Instead the devil doesn't leave the body of Resse until Resse is executed. If he can enter any humans body when he is in spirit form then why didn't he just enter Hobbes body here? Instead he picks the executioner - who must be religious as well seen as he isn't possessed until spirit form - Never explained in the movie = bad storytelling and plot hole.What was the point of Hobbes having a brother? The character served no purpose to the plot. Why was Azazel (the devil) obsessed with killing people during the plot when at the end he seems to not care? Why didn't Hobbes chase after Azazel when he kept switching bodies in the street and try and stop him here? This amongst many other plot holes make this movie dreadful. That horrible sound effect and camera visuals which change when we see things through Azazel's point of view was painful and irritating to watch. Was it meant to be scary? All it did was annoy me.Now for the final scene. If Azazel was the narrator all along then why is he speaking in Hobbes voice when Hobbes dies at the end and he's entered the cat? Why did Azazel bother to bring his boss along? Surely he must have known what Hobbes plan was all along. Why not just bring a spare live body in the trunk of the car? Hobbes method for killing the devil is ridiculous. How did that detective know Azazel couldn't survive for longer than a human breath or whatever nonsense was given for his survival? Plot convenience... If Azazel can enter cats couldn't he just enter a bird? Finally, if Hobbes was smart then he would have just captured Azazel and wounded him, then kept him prisoner in some locked room for eternity. Or he could have taken him to a much quieter place like the middle of the ocean and let him die there? This film was truly awful and I'm angered I wasted 2 hours watching this trash. A real shame for Denzel, his acting was good, but the ridiculous story and plot didn't give him much to work with. Dreadful film, avoids at all costs. "},{"Title":"Compelling original story with an ultimately unsatisfying ending","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Rolling Stones classic song Sympathy For The Devil (which you will hear in the film) explores the notion that the devil is omnipresent, passing through generations. That song was inspired by a book that Mick Jagger's well-educated girlfriend Marianne Faithful was reading. In a similar manner Fallen explores the idea that evil can be conveyed from one person to another and cannot be stopped. Washington as usual is good value in the lead role as a cop investigating unusual occurrences following the execution of a convicted murderer.It is an intriguing story that retained my interest but unfortunately I found the ending to be ultimately unsatisfying. However I'm not sure what the ideal ending would have been. Nonetheless worth watching most of the way.  "},{"Title":"The viewer should be forewarned that meaning, theme, logic, and film aesthetics are at a premium in this disappointing film.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Where to begin? The plot of this film demands, no, requires, a willing suspension of disbelief.  It appears that angels are very real entities-and so are fallen angels.  The title of the film thus betrays its content.  The very silly premise of the film is that fallen angles are out to get God in a big way.  And what more diabolical way to reap vengeance on Him than to just generally screw up, play mind games with, and, yes, to wantonly kill these creatures made in His image?If we are to believe this humorless film, Beelzebub, and others of his ilk, are behind all of the serial killings plaguing today's society.  But evil is fallible. Because these demons are still somehow spiritual beings, they must inhabit a human (or animal) host.  Once a demon enters its host, the host does the demon's bidding with the total loyalty and obedience of a robot.  But the relationship is anything but beneficial to the host.  One of the favorite games of the demons is to see how many serial killings they can chalk up before their human host is shot, gassed, hypodermically syringed, or electrocuted into non-existence.  When their human host gives up the ghost, they just peacefully waft away on the breeze to land on some other poor unsuspecting human (or animal).!!!!!SPOILER!!!!!Denzel Washington stars as John Hobbes, a Philadelphia homicide detective who has somehow ticked off Azazel, the head fallen angel.  In fact, getting Hobbes becomes, for no apparent reason, the demon's special project. Apparently, life in Demonsville is real dull.  Anyway, Hobbes becomes the pet whipping boy of Azazel, who generally makes a pest of himself.  In rapid succession, Azazel has Hobbes suspended from the police force, suspected of murder, and finally hounded by the police-an outlaw hopelessly on the run.All of this mumbo-jumbo is fueled by the daughter of a homicide detective who was likewise harassed 30 years earlier and ended up a suicide.  The daughter, Gretta Milano (Embeth Davidtz), is a professor of religion, no less. Ms. Milano is, no doubt, too serious about her work and needs to lighten up a little. She ultimately succumbs to Hobbes charms and befriends Washington and his young nephew (now orphaned by the brother's murder) who are on the run at this point in the film.  (Shades of Hitchcock's The Wrong Man.)Azazel and the other demons have one pretty nifty trick that makes them all but invincible-they can hop from one host to another with all the happy facility of fleas.  Merely touching someone on the shoulder, or shaking hands, allows the demon to exchange hosts faster than Donald Trump or Jay Leno can change automobiles.  Why, it's like a fun game of tag-You're it!  Only the first prize for the luckless host is a kick in the seat of the pants.Well, if there are demons (fallen angels to be exact), then does the film make the corollary statement that God exists?  Note quite.  The only serious religious questions raised in the film are answered in the negative.  Hobbes, for example, has lost his faith, or what little he had, through years as a big city police officer. He has come to no great revelation about earth, life, death, God, or any other teleological question.  Nor is there any great epiphany for Hobbes at the end of the film.The film, directed by Gregory Hoblit (Primal Fear, 1996), seems to say that all of the villains and the nameless evil lurking out there, just beyond our peripheral vision, are caused by the machinations and conscious purpose of the demon brigade.  This happy thought releases us-who, let it be understood, are created in God's image and have freedom of choice-from any blame for the miserable state of human affairs.  This idea sounds suspiciously like the theme of Millennium, that most downbeat of all Fox television shows (now, sadly off the tube).  Why does it always seem to be Winter in any television show or film concerned with serious evil?  Perhaps they are all filmed in Canada where it is always winter. "},{"Title":"creepy","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very creepy psychological thriller pits Denzel Washington against a killer who is basically a ghost who transfers from body to body. I really enjoyed it and was hooked from minute one. See it if you get the chance!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"The Violent Bore It Away (Spoilers)","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Given the current political rhetoric about nihilistic film violence, a film like Fallen should warm the cockles of the most dour fundie's shriveled heart. After all, this is a movie in which evil is a direct manifestation of demonic intervention in our affairs, and that we--at least some of us, anyway--are chosen by God to fight it. This isn't nihilistic violence; it's godly violence!And that's the problem. At least with nihilistic violence you know where you stand. Bad is bad, and good is, well, badder than bad. And because it's badder than bad, good wins in the end. Very simple.With Fallen, however, the eternal verities are upended. Bad people aren't really bad; they are just possessed by bad spirits. (Guns don't kill people; people possessed by fallen angels do.) Good people are so good they are either boring--Denzel Washington's John Hobbes--or virginal (Embedth Davidtz). For the good guy to win, he can't just kick ass. That would be Bad.  No, the good guy has to lose, and in losing, win, just like Christ, who according to Christian doctrine prevailed over evil by dying on the cross and taking on in so doing the sins of the world.But here's the wrinkle, and the problem with Fallen. If Evil in Fallen preys on humanity, rather than residing in it, then human morality is irrelevant, as free will becomes a joke. We are just the playthings of celestial beings, and have no real responsibility for our actions. So there's really nobody to root against.Moreover, if the Evil One is vanquished, then we are at the end of history. Since that is clearly not the case, the film is obliged to let evil win, undercutting the entire christocentric allegory of the film. Talk about your basic bummer.Give me Bruce Willis kicking terrorist ass any day.  "},{"Title":"Definite classic (contains spoilers)","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just happened to watch this movie at a friend's house - she had it amongst a stack of DVDs. I thought it would be cheesy, but Denzel Washington usually picks decent movies to star in, and I do have a lot of respect for the roles he chooses.There's some brilliant acting on everyone's part, I think. John Goodman was excellent, James Gandolfini was pretty good, Donald Sutherland - great as always. The plot builds up nicely, and there is humanity to Washington's character that's very tangible. You realize what he's up against, and the hopelessness that tugs at him...and the scene where his brother dies - where his heart is on the verge of breaking, is very, very emotional.The only thing which did a great disservice to this movie - I feel - was the end. I wish (as do a lot of folks, I'm assuming) that he had succeeded. But, I suppose, like life, the ending wasn't fair. And so that's all there is to it. "},{"Title":"Very good and original","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a really good mix-up of horror and thriller with a lot of surprises and a very good staging up until the bitter end.The movie also contains one of the best chase scenes that I have ever seen.I will not say more because that I am afraid to spoil something for you except that Denzel Washington is great in this film and that I think you should see it-If you dare. (WARNING! PEOPLE WHO ARE PARANOID AND THINK THAT THEIR FRIENDS ARE SOMEONE THAT THEY DIDN'T THINK THEY WERE THEN DON'T SEE THIS FILM) "},{"Title":"Horribly written, poorly acted","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Are we supposed to believe that Denzel just reaches his hand up in the middle of the room and finds that book atop the beam?-- from that moment on the movie (certainly not a film) was torture to sit through. Time being on your side may be a main point of emphasis in Fallen, but time isn't on your side when you have to sit through this. Yuck! "}{"Title":"William Peter Blatty should sue.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gripe 1 This movie is one of the most unoriginal piles of birdshlt that I have ever seen in my life. It basically copies and pastes right from William Peter Blatty's Exorcist series (The Exorcist & Legion). The antagonist here is called Azazel, a terrible ripoff version of Pazuzu that also has the ability to possess people's bodies. Gripe 2 I could practically hear the writer of this turd speaking the words, Aren't I so clever??? during the movie's end. Seriously, I've never seen a movie that was so impressed with its own conclusion that it basically flaunted it through its godawful dialogue. In short unoriginal self-impressed crap. "},{"Title":"Notes From the Underground","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Supernatural Thriller tries very hard but Ultimately when the Fat Guy Sings, not quite. Denzel Washington seems Slightly Miscast and the Lady Professor of Theology is Underused and Her Involvement in the Story should be Essential and Informative and it is Neither.The Look and Style of the Movie is Effective and the Story is a Fresh Take on an Ancient Theme but there is Something Amiss in this. The Film Never Sinks to the Depths of a Hellish Situation and the Demonic Playfulness stays more in the Playful and Seldom Ventures into Depravity. its all kind of Surface when there Needs to be some Chills from the Underground that made Seven (1995) a Gut-Wrenching Hit.The Creepiness is there and Enough Rhythmic Rousings to make this Worth a Watch, but it is Handled at Times in a Very Safe Manner and that does not Bode Well for the Horrifying Material and Bad Angel Behavior. "},{"Title":"Demons in one paused single frame!","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was pretty cool so cool i paused it so many times that at one single frame when paused i was blowin away from what i was looking at?? In this single frame in the middle of the TV is a demon or devil with 2 eyes and above it just to the right is an angel which appears to have slitly blond hair which looks to be either grabing the demon or holding it, in the lower corner above the angel there is another demon and all the way to the the lower right is an upside down demon very crazy my question is was this put into the movie or was it just there its towards the very end use your remote fast its a one second frame or faster pause many times between 14740 and 14741 keep pausing it and every thing i just explained is in this single quick frame its a 10th of a second so pause it many times, pretty trippy i hope the board post this you will be shocked at what you see! "},{"Title":"A Very Interesting Twist, but not really my type of film","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is almost identical in plot to The First Power. One of the main differences is that the antagonist in The First Power was a powerful human, while Azazel in Fallen is a demon. Basically, they both possess bodies and turn them against the hero. In The First Power, the antagonist can really only change bodies by killing the first and then, once free, inhabiting the next. Azazel can pass bodies by simply touching, though there are some who he cannot possess simply by touching.The idea is that when the angels rebelled, some were cast out and denied bodies, so they survive by possessing people (and animals) and if they are out of a body for too long then they die. Thus there is only one way to defeat it. Isolated the possessed body from anybody else and kill the body. This is much difficult than it sounds, especially since nobody really believes in them anyway.I really found this movie to be quite long and boring. Okay, the antagonist was okay, taunting the hero constantly, and there is an interesting twist at the end, but other than that, the movie doesn't really stand out all that much. Basically, the movie opens with a voice saying, I'll tell you about the time that I almost died. And we see the hero crawling through the snow. Thus we are led to assume that the hero is the one telling the story.The movie is narrated, and as far as we can tell, it is the hero as it is his voice and it seems to focus on him. Thus, in that way it is quite good, but otherwise the movie is just plain average. "},{"Title":"An underrated Horror/Thriller (IMO)...","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film before and pretty much enjoyed it. Noticing it in the TV schedules recently, I thought I'd give it another go and put some thoughts down about it this time. A film that is not widely hailed as a horror film, I found it both atmospheric and quite menacing. To me a good horror film pays on the audiences' fear of the unknown, and this film does just that. I'll tell you more after this brief summary.When serial killer, Edgar Reese, is about to be executed, he asks to speak to the detective that caught him, John Hobbes. Gloating at Hobbes, he begins to speak in some foreign language and finally bursts into song; The Rolling Stones, 'Time is on my Side'. Thinking nothing of this, Hobbes proceeds to witness the execution, but it's not the last he'll see of Edgar Reese, or is it Edgar Reese? A day later Hobbes is called to the scene of a murder, a murder that has all the hallmarks of Edgar Reese. Does he have an accomplice, or is there a copycat out there? Either way, it's a puzzle that has to be solved and one that will lead Hobbes and his partner, Jonesy, down a very perilous path. I won't say any more or the Spoiler Police (demonic branch) will be possessing my family and turning them against me.A well made film with a very interesting narration and a delightful twist at the end. Great performances all round, especially from Denzel Washington as John Hobbes, John Goodman as Jonesy and Embeth Davidtz as Gretta Milano. Honourable mentions go to Donald Sutherland as Lt. Stanton and James Gandolfini (with an outrageous moustache) as Lou.I very much enjoyed this film although it did fall a little flat about two thirds of the way through and I did find it a little over-long. Other than that I found it quite an intelligent film that keeps you guessing right until the end. It's one that will be overlooked by many (low gore factor), but one I would encourage any horror fan to watch. It has quite a slow pace, but don't be deceived, it's quite enthralling if you give it a chance&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.6/10.IMDb Score 6.8/10 (based on 30,255 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score 40/100 (based on 55 reviews counted at the time of going to press). "},{"Title":"Unusual cop story, complete with demon.","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well if anyone has ever read any of my reviews they will know I just think Denzil is great..I first saw this film years ago,and I now have it on DVD..cost me one BP.a bargain.This film is I suppose a semi horror come thriller,the plot is about a serial killer who Denzil has caught and witnesses his execution, what he doesn't know is the man is possessed by a demon who can jump from body to body.So when the killings continue after the execution with the same modus operandi, Hobbs(Denzil) has to investigate, it soon becomes apparent that the demon(Azazel) wants to destroy Hobbs...and the battle commences.Its got a well balanced cast,and suspense is maintained throughout the film..and the ending is pretty cool too...I said that it is only a semi horror film...and I have watched many films with more gore,and many more scares, but for me personally this film gets to me,it might not you, but it does me.All in all worth watching,with an unusual story and a twist to finish. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think Fallen is a somewhat underrated supernatural thriller. There should probably be a list somewhere for underrated films. This would be on it. It has a good cast, good plot and some clever direction. It's not perfect, and could have done with a little bit extra here and there, but it's certainly worth your time if you're a fan of slow-burning thrillers. Detective John Hobbs (Denzel Washington) has caught a killer. That killer has been sentenced to death. Before dying, the killer warns Hobbs that he'll be watching him. The killer is executed. Hobbs gets on with his life. That is, until another murder is committed - one that is a copycat, one that suggests the original serial killer had an accomplice, or a fan. Hobbs starts to battle the killer, but finds evidence that suggests the killer isn't human, but is a demon that possesses humans and kills to bring about the fall of civilization. Hobbs and the demon begin a game of cat and mouse that leads to Hobbs being suspected of murder himself, and a final, chilling and clever climax.This film is an effective thriller, because it has a good story to begin with. It's not one that's entirely original(demonic possessions have been done before), but Nicholas Kazan's script has enough in it to make it solid and interesting. There is some very credible dialogue, some good plot twists and some good characterization. There is also a solid twist at the end. To build upon the good script, there is also some good acting. Donald Sutherland gives a good, credible performance as the 'couldn't care less' boss who is trying only to cover himself. He in turn is upstaged by John Goodman, who gives a very strong performance as Jonesy, Hobbs' faithful partner. Finally, the direction is strong and sometimes inventive. You get a real feel for the streets of Philadelphia and the countryside around it. More importantly, you get a real feel for the demon because of the good techniques used to portray it. There are some downsides, unfortunately, which do prevent this from being a notch higher. At times, the pace of the film is a little too slow. And because it's just a little too slow, it's easy to lose track of what's happening and why. I feel certainly towards the hour mark, that this needed a little more power and pace behind it. It also could have done with a bit more in terms of the supernatural side - sometimes the demon was underused. I also think that this doesn't represent Denzel Washington at his best. He never seems to really get into this role as much as he could have done. He normally steals a film when he's in it - but this time he's upstaged by Donald Sutherland and John Goodman, who are far more credible in their roles. Finally, the use of the Rolling Stones music detracts from the supernatural element. I am a Stones fan - but their music wasn't right for this movie. Overall, this is underrated and is worth watching if you like a slow burner. But it could have been a bit better quite easily. "},{"Title":"Sick Joke or Masterful Film-You Decide.","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its a good film, on some levels. The devil is portrayed as a spirit who likes to sing and is called Azazel. The evil spirit jumps from body to body and only Denzel Washington's character can perceive this when it happens. Odd in a way when you consider that there was a lessor known black singer who released his first album in 1969, whose full name was Azriel Hill. I guess Hollywood types don't have access to music, or this film is just their way of expressing their opinion, which you might say is to demonize some obscure singer because the dude went by the stage name of ZZ Hill. Maybe that is taking this review too far. Maybe it isn't far enough. The film used lighting to good effect, and the script is not so stupid, aside from the fact nobody but Denzel seemed to get a bead on things. The devil frequently appears in different guises in a multitude of Hollywood films, but this depiction is probably one that will stay with me for some time. I give this a five because I think it really could be some bizarro Hollywood types concept of demonizing a singer, since no other Hollywood films depict the devil as a singing entity. The name Azreal is identified as The Archangel of Death in some forms of Christian Mysticism. I have never read anything about Azreal liking to sing. I don't know about you, but that just about does it for me. Is it a Sick Joke or Masterful Film? I think honestly that it is an odd movie. "},{"Title":"Fallen...","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this when I was only ten. It took two times watching it and two times having it explained for me to finally understand the mechanics of the movie. However, nowadays, it's one of my most favourite movies of all time.Denzel Washington, once again, pulls off a masterpiece and John Goodman is in his lovable role as the sidekick, but somehow, John pulls off the role in a new approach. Detective John Hobbes (Washington), is trying to wrap his head around copycat crimes that keep piling up, despite the fact that he watched the execution of the serial killer, Edgar Reese (Elias Koteas). John's partner, Jonesy (Goodman) and his boss Stanton (Donald Sutherland) tried to give him a hand along the way.It's got a lot more comedy for this thriller type of movie. It's got lots of suspense and it's got some short action scenes. It's fun to watch and it's pretty easy flowing paced.I think the things that stand out for me, are Denzel's narration, the opening credits and how much fun they are, and the last scene and the amount of drama there is.It's a good movie, and for anyone into spirits and higher beings, this will be a great movie for you. "},{"Title":"Why won't you tell me your name?","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As ridiculous as it may seem (especially after browsing through previous reviews) this is actually a very good film.No bells and whistles here as far as directing goes, and I will not attempt to dazzle this review with pretentious nonsense. The musical score is there, but unimportant.This is one of those films that you need to see without any preconceptions in order to enjoy it as intended. (Disclaimer Brain required) To sum this up - intelligent women always say that the biggest enemy of women are other women. Perhaps the biggest enemy of human beings are other human beings. Discuss. VIEWING ADVICE Watch. Preferably when not drunk etc. but would rather enjoy a film that you need to pay attention to. Do watch it though. "}{"Title":"Very well-done little thriller","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I could refer to this film as a supernatural thriller, and yet the beauty of it is precisely that it does not recur to grand visual effects to set and maintain its atmosphere of mystery, suspense, even horror. It tells the story of a police detective and an elusive serial killer, subtly but firmly injecting doses of Christian demonology and eschatology in the process. In the end, the filmmakers do allow themselves a bit of fantasy... I was irked by their selection of a cat as demon familiar, bypassing the top choice of a serpent. But then, a serpent is not very likely to come slithering by on a snowy winter evening in the deep woods of Canada, right? That would have ruined the casual, everyday tone of the film. "},{"Title":"interesting concepts","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, and I have it in my DVD collection. I find the twists and turns satisfying in ways that most movies can't beat. If you like twists, if you like movies about spiritual matters, or just Denzel Washington, you gotta see it. I think it would be easy to spoil this one, so I'm gonna be careful. I really enjoyed it for the reasons that you would note if you watched it. The characters were great. Casting deserves a lot of credit, filling small roles that actually made a difference. I think the direction was good, the characterization a little lacking (that's why the 8. Would have been lower if the plot had not been so good.) The movie leaves a sense of paranoia, like is this reality...am I seeing what's real, or is there another level to this? Great movie! "},{"Title":"A very good movie that nobody saw.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is my 2nd viewing of The Fallen. I saw it 2001 & where I really enjoyed it I must have been preoccupied because I didn't remember much more than the basics. I remembered it as a Sci-Fi movie & forgot many of the scenes etc. But that was to my advantage on the second viewing as it was a lot of fun to see again. I wouldn't want to spoil the movie by explaining my favorite scenes & who would care anyway, but it was just creepy & supernatural enough to please & make watching fun. I'm surprised it didn't make a bigger splash than it did as the acting was first rate ( no Hamlet, but WTF!? ) & there were some big names in this movie. As far as the ending, I was happy with it! I get so tired of happy endings where everything gets sewn up into a neat package. Good guys win over evil, blah, blah, boring! Not everything is what you think it is right to the end. Very subtle & very well done. If they could do a sequel, which I normally hate, & do it well, Id like to see it. "},{"Title":"Worth The Time...","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You will have to be a die-hard cineaste to understand this reference, but what Fallen does is give the audience a brand new take on the good vs. evil theme that was apparent in a very old but classic film which originally starred Vincent Price, Diary of a Madman. Although the plots are not identical, the themes are very similar. Hate to be so obtuse, but previous reviewers are indeed correct the less you know about this movie, the more you'll enjoy the creeping dread and the great little shocks it has to offer, leading up to a surprising ending.Note I said surprising, not necessarily satisfying. Gorehounds and lovers of graphic, red-dyed-Karo-syrup-all-over-the-walls violence should definitely look elsewhere. Some very nice performances from the entire cast, but I have to single out John Goodman and the underrated Elias Koteas. I want to keep as many spoilers to myself, but I will tell you one more thing just like in Stir of Echoes, there are a couple of Stones songs that you will never hear the same way again! "},{"Title":"Great film!!! awaiting a sequel . . .","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow. I'm just writing this after watching it on telly last night, I thought this film was great! The ending was so surprising, yet for some people there might have been an inkling of what was going to happen, seeing as a previous detective had tried and failed to defeat the demon. I really did think the ending was clever though, and somewhat sad, what happens to little Sam now? Maybe i take films a little too literally. But thinking he had saved the world and got rid of the baddies, and then a cat comes along and the whole thing is going to start again is pretty ingenious!Is there going to be a sequel? Perhaps with the woman this time trying to defeat the demon? (sorry can't remember any names). but maybe it wouldn't be as good without Denzel . . . "},{"Title":"not denzels best, but a goodie non the less","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  while not being denzels best movie, i was most impressed by it. the story bears similar traits to old x-files episodes and other movies, all of which were i found quite good. the best thing about this film is certainly its eeeryness. the song the demon likes to sing (time is on my side) is so freaky when different people start singing it. the scene where the demon rapidly switches from person to person while tormenting denzel washington is one of the cleverest scenes i've seen in any film. however, despite this clever technique and twist at the end, denzels performance is far from his Oscar winning training day effort and non of the other characters/actors particularly stand out which is why i awarded this movie a reasonable 7 out of 10.SEE THIS MOVIE, ITS CERTAINLY WORTH RENTING, BUT PERHAPS NOT EVERYONE WILL WANT TO BUY IT.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie --- excellent concept","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I give this movie a definite thumbs up.  This movie deals with the underworld of angels and fallen souls and has Denzil Washington going crazy trying to figure out what is going on.  There is occult subject matter in this movie and so that is why I liked it.  "},{"Title":"Mind-blowing supernatural/psycho-thriller","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frankly, I go more for supernatural thrillers than for psychological ones. Although I love a good Who Dunnit, mind games just aren't my favorite things to watch on film. However. This one is one of the best mixes of psychological AND supernatural genres of horror I've ever seen.I am amazed at the creative perpetration of such a complicated plot, sub plots, and extremely deep and well developed characters.The narrative is completely explanatory, filling in any blanks the direction may have left in its attempt to stay within budget. The acting quality is superb and great attention has been paid to the scenery, settings and prop details. The dialog is good and strong, and the narrative is not only thought-provoking, but some of the pearls of wisdom shared are truly eye-opening if you are open minded enough to allow that sort of thing.The filmography and cinematography of this move are exemplary.This movie all around just soars above other movies which have attempted this device.While other critics have compared this movie to Seven, this production is uniquely written, directed and portrayed. The only real similarity I found in the two are the darkly christian sub-texts and interpretations of the deeds done. I find it to be the veritable breath of fresh air one needs in order to keep stagnation and creativity block at bay.This unique and creative story line is quirky, imaginative and twisty.It defies your imagination and demands that you use it. Those who do not understand the plot, of this movie, simply do not possess the intelligence and creativity to think outside a dogmatic upbringing.John Goodman is very likable and believable as Jonesy, John Hobbes's (Denzell Washington's) partner. As they puzzle together the clues and begin to put together the pieces of a picture to which they can't yet even begin to see the outline, their characters and the working relationship between them become well defined and developed early on in the movie.The plot and story move right along, with no slow spots and no waste of film. What seems in the beginning to be a lull in the movie, actually gives you so many details you need in solving and understanding the bigger picture, that if you allow yourself not to pay attention to those scenes, you will not be able to follow the movie later.This is definitely one of those movies you have to WATCH. You can't just view it while you're doing other things, and still get anything from the movie. Take the almost 2 hours away from your busy schedule and let Denzell Washington entertain you, SCARE you, and maybe even make you think of other possibilities in this world.Sometimes, I think the basic job that human beings have, is just to figure out what the hell is going on? John Hobbes.Ignore the religious undertones, sit back and enjoy it.As the pieces begin to go into place, the puzzle gets even more complicated. This is where the intricate sub-plots begin to come into play. It's amazing how Gregory Hoblit (Hill Street Blues, NYPD Blue, and LA Law among others) keeps the story and plot separate and yet coherently brings them together without losing track of what is happening. Absolutely brilliant.One of the main things I enjoyed was experiencing the bond between Hobbes and his mentally-challenged brother Art (Gabriel Casseus) and his nephew Sam (Michael J. Pagan). I appreciated the loving way Hobbes dealt with them both, even in times of crisis.There are moments which mark your life; moments when you realize nothing will ever be the same, and time is divided into two parts before This and after This. John Hobbes.I found the narrative to be very intelligent and inspiring. Narrated by Denzell Washington in a cool, even voice.The scene inside the station house where the Fallen begins to interrogate Hobbes's character and then moves out into the street, again and again...is one of the most compelling psychologically freakish scenes I've ever experienced. It really, honestly spun me out. As one of the most memorable scenes of the movie, it goes into the Horror Hall of Fame along with the Redrum and the Heeeeere's Johnny! scenes of Kubrick's adaptation of The Shining, for originality and outright freakishness.While most of the scary scenes of this movie are suspense, there are some out right scare you moments.All in all, I have to say this movie is by far a most excellent and entertaining movie all the way around.This production also contains a good, strong and believable performance by Donald Sutherland as Hobbes's Captain. I still love Sutherland's performances from the Invasion of the Body Snatchers days. I've never seen him portray a character poorly.He's definitely one of the greats. While I haven't liked every movie he's done, I've always enjoyed watching a real professional actor at work.I also have to say the same thing about Denzell Washington.While I've not always liked his movies, I've always enjoyed his roles and performances.This is one of my favorite thrillers and by merit of quality, originality and creativity, it rates a 9.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"scary","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Im not going to bleather on about this film, I'll leave that to other people who like using words like film noir.....doh ! great film , had me freaking out a little,  and thats VERY unusual. truly a horror film coz it had me scared. if you get the chance watch it.. its good! "},{"Title":"Nice Thriller","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen. Religious type movies are interesting to me. The idea that's he's being chased by an evil spirit or demon is definitely different. He can't die and never will. Hence why he's a spirit. I liked it a lot. No one to trust, not even yourself. Good movie. "}{"Title":"creepy","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie should be on the top 250 it is so good SPOILERS denzel washington plays a police officer who is tracking a serial killer who turns out to be a demon who can enter people at will and cause them to  kill and washington narrates throughout the whole thing and in the end you find that it is not washington narrating it is the demon who has taken over washington through the entire movie great ending 8\10 RATED R VIOLENCE AND PROFANITY "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yet another original piece of movie art. A subject rarely treated in movies in such a convincing manner. Denzel as usual at his best. One of the best horror movies I've seen because it seems so realistic and very properly directed to add to the horrifying idea. Very much recommended as a classic horror movie.  "},{"Title":"Not quite Se7en...","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...but almost. The similarities are there for all to see. A uncorruptable cop, a rainy city, an intricate plotline involving a clever serial killer and a noirish feel to the whole thing.Make no mistake - like Se7en, Fallen is a very good movie.The acting is great for the most part (especially from Denzel) although it's depressing to see Donald Sutherland (one of my heroes) wasting himself on yet another meaningless chief of police/army/prisons role. John Goodman was a bit hard to accept as a hard bitten cop, but that's my fault rather than his as his acting was good, I just can't quite shake Rosanne out of my mind.The plot is good despite some oversights that if examined closely produce logic problems. Examine almost any movie too closely and you'll find these - you're either willing to accept them (as long as they're not too major) or you're not. I fall into the former camp - when we see a movie we're only witnessing a slice of what is going on. There may be a perfectly good reason why Azazel didn't transfer into Hobbes from the beginning - just because the plot doesn't spell it out to us doesn't mean it's a logic flaw.Azazel's transference from person to person produces some really good scenes, especially when Gretta Milano is fleeing from him, and when Hobbes accosts him on the street after his visit to the precinct. The ending is a pleasure and has a classic twist - the use of the flashback sequence at the beginning was inspired.Overall - there's quite a lot going for this movie - I'd go as far as to say that it's one of the best thrillers of recent years. With good performances, plot and an intelligent message somewhere within, Fallen is well worth your time.   "},{"Title":"A creepy obscure thriller.","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Probably one of the best thrillers of the 90's. Though it has a lot to compete with, with films like The Usual Suspect or Momento.  Like those, Fallen has a great plot, and an ending that will keep you asking questions until you've watched the movie over and over again.  Not only does it have a great ending and plot, but it's also psychologically scary.  Could their be a being as powerful as the one featured in this story?  We should hope to god that their isn't.   Aside from it's magnificent plot, this movie also has a great cast, Denzel Washington (who is always good), John Goodman playing a different type of role than usual, and Donald Southerland. Worthy of mention is James Gandolfini who we know as Tony Soprano.  These actors worked very well together, to creat in my opinion the best thriller of 1998.     I also very much enjoyed the narration in this film, it's important to the story, and is slightly creepy.  It also has some interesting quotes that you'll find yourself repeating.         Deffinately worth a look, you'll love the ending, the acting, and the all around great plot. "},{"Title":"Excellent supernatural thriller.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is one of those movies that wasn't entirely appreciated at the time of it's release and quickly sunk out of sight when it hit video. However, despite this, Fallen is one of the great films of the last five years. It is a rather understated film that tells the story of a fallen angel carrying out its vengeance against mankind by inhabiting the bodies of anyone it touches and generally causing mayhem. It crosses paths with Denzel Washington's character Hobbes in the form of Edgar Reese, a virulent serial killer consigned to the gas chamber in the beginning of the film. From then on the film tells a tale of a good man's struggle against an implacable, and immortal, foe.All the performance's are great with a strong supporting cast that complement the principle characters. The interaction between Goodman and Washington was a joy to behold and makes me wonder why these two fine actors haven't done more work together. Elias Koteas in particular sets the mood for Fallen with a great manic performance as Reese. The film is genuinely creepy in places as the fallen angel stalks Hobbes through countless strangers, pushing the frantic cop to breaking point as circumstances steadily spin out of control. The way the demon manipulates events against Hobbes makes you grateful that such creatures don't actually exist (hopefully).The last half of the film speeds quickly to the inevitable showdown between Hobbes and the demon, but just when you thought you had it figured out, Fallen presents you with perhaps the great movie twist since the The Sixth Sense. If you're even remotely interested in good film with a strong cast and a great ending, Fallen is the film for you. For fans of Denzel Washington, alongside The Hurricane, Fallen is perhaps his best work since the late eighties. Go out and see it today.  "},{"Title":"So-so creepy thriller","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some reason, the more I watch this film, the more I like it. Therefore, if were to write about it again in a years time, the above one line summary would probably be promoted to 'Fine creepy thriller'. Therefore, here follows as balanced a review as I can make it.  The reasons I like it consist of a combination of elements- Washington's sturdy (as always) performance; the two darkly appropriate Rolling Stones songs which bookend the film; the final twist(without wanting to spoil it, I'll just say I don't like happy endings so this pleased me..); an original idea for a serial killer movie; the (unfortunately short) appearance of the underrated Elias Koteas; and some good claustrophobic scenes, notably where Gretta Milano is running down the street, or where Hobbes is standing outside the police station.However, there are also a multitude of reasons why, for me, it fell short of the mark. There were too many unnecessary supporting characters (Gandolfini, Sutherland); it seemed to go in one direction with Hobbes investigating the murders of previous 'hosts', then veered off in another direction entirely, alienating the audience; the  villain(s) failed to generate real menace; as I said before, an original idea- but not handled very well; the film went on for too long; and personally, I just can't accept any ex-cast member of Roseanne in 'serious' roles(sorry Mr.Goodman, but stick with the Coen Brothers), which is also probably why I hated Scream 2 and Poison Ivy (although Johnny Galecki actually was good in I know what you did last Summer;sorry I seem to have gone off in a tangent)....So there you go, you either like it or you loathe it- worth a look if you're a fan of the genre. But beware, on the video cover, it promises a 'Se7en style' chiller- this is nowhere as good as Se7en.      "},{"Title":"This movie has it all!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Denzel Washington plays a homicide detective (John Hobbes) who is sought after by Azazel (a fallen angel/demon) who could transfer from human body to body through touch.The movie is scary, smart, brilliantly written and acted, and contains one of the best endings I have ever seen. I would classify Fallen as a hybrid of Seven and The Devil's Advocate-but better than both.Fear is invoked in Fallen, not through blatant gory scenes but rather through tricky camera work (by director Gregory Hoblit)and by basically toying with the viewer's mind-which actually gives the movie an even more frightening aura.Washington is great, John Goodman is solid as Hobbes's partner Jonesy, Donald Sutherland was his usual creepy self (maybe not substantiated since he plays a police lieutenant), James Gandolfini shows his talent before Sopranos fame, and Elias Koteas thrives in a short but powerful role.Do yourself a favor and watch Fallen if you like thrillers that keep you at the edge of your seat, guessing, and really make you think throughout. As the movie tells us, look around, there's always something happening. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Creepiest, scariest, most horrifying thriller ever. No gore, just terror","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Awesome movie, with a really depressing, downbeat ending that's all too true to life. This is it, man. Not even Seven is as terrifying as this, and all the other devil incarnate movies, other than Rosemary's Baby, are puppy food in comparison. See it and be challenged, feel hope, take joy in the human spirit and innate goodness of some people, and then despair at the futility. Wonderful performances by Washington, Goodman, and all the cast. Never seen anything like it. "},{"Title":"More people need to rent this.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best scary movies ever.  It is not especially gory, but it is absolutely frightening, and Denzel Washington does an absolutely amazing job of presenting himself as the cop who finds himself in a bizarre situation.  I can only guess that the reason this movie isn't ranked higher is because not enough people have seen it..so go rent it! "},{"Title":"Grippingly creepy supernatural/serial killer chiller","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stunningly good movie in the serial killer genre, with a bit of hocus pocus and pure biblical evil thrown in. Washington is good as the hero, fighting a truly scary incarnation of evilness which flits from head to head to torment him. The whole thing has that subdued, washed out feel, lots of style in the graphics and camerawork, flitting around with lighting and film stocks and so on for some good creepy effects. Goodman is his usual great self in support, as of course is the 'born creepy' Donald Sutherland. Great ideas, brilliantly executed make for a really original, gripping and possibly classic movie. "}{"Title":"Outstanding thriller, interesting plot, no cheap scenes.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One could say that this is classic thriller you've already seen. There is something that makes this move exceptional. Mystery idea makes this film different and very compelling.Photography and sound-track is great! It catches you. What's the most important, no cheap scenes including conclusions. If you like thrillers and mystery, you've got to see that. "},{"Title":"Very good thrilling detective!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best thrillers I have seen lately. Despite the fact that the movie at the time the comment is written is already almost three years old it still has thrill, humor and some good detective elements in it, which are up to date anytime. Denzel Washington is performing professionally and his play is smooth and relaxing to watch. Suggest to see this movie in case you have a free rainy autumn or spring evening ahead. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and interesting","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now here was a movie I really enjoyed.  I can't say it was the best I've ever seen in the horror/thriller genre, but it's an enjoyable way to spend an evening.  The script has a certain intelligence that requires a substantial amount of attention to detail in order to grasp all the plot elements.  I like to be challenged in this way by a movie (many people I know don't), and I enjoyed it more on a second viewing.  In fact, I suspect this is one of those movies that grow on you with each viewing.  Perhaps it will acquire a minor cult following in the years to come.One complaint - Denzel Washington is starting to look like a major disappointment as an actor.  His versatility and emotional range are really limited, and I kept waiting for him to say Explain it to me like I'm a two-year-old like he kept saying in the movie Philadelphia.  Really, he's Denzel Washington playing Denzel Washington in most of the movies he's in.  Like someone else commented, I think a better choice of actors would have improved the film.I rated this movie 7/10 (= 3 stars out of 4).  It could have been 3 1/2, except for the appealing but untalented Denzel Washington, and a rather disappointing performance by Donald Sutherland.Minor Spoiler AlertThe surprise ending is indeed surprising.  Not really so much what becomes of Azazel, but who the narrator turns out to be.  The second time I saw this movie, I found that I had forgotten, and was surprised a second time!  "},{"Title":"Overlooked movie","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect of this film but I was positively surprised by it. It was very, very dark and contained nearly no pleasant scenes. It is therefore very different from what Hollywood normally delivers.The story is not completely new but more original than in most other films around. The film is not predictable and never loses its tension. It is also very cruel at times and that's why it made me feel uncomfortable (a rare ability of today's films). The actors did a good job and Denzel Washington is credible (as usual). The minor roles were cast very well too, especially John Goodman and Embeth Davidtz seemed very convincing to me. Another strong point is the direction which creates an interesting and exciting atmosphere also supported by the score.This film doesn't get the attention it deserves. It is one of the best mystery-thrillers of the last years. In my opinion it doesn't show any weak points. I'm glad that it is still possible to shoot a movie that doesn't have to fit into the normal clichés because that's the way we get really interesting experiences.Watch it if you're tired of all the other (standard) films.My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fallen is one of the best horror films I've seen in a long time","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is one of the best horror films I've seen in a long time. It is full of suspense and excitment even though it stays away from a lot of gore. Even though it drags in a few parts (very few parts) it always comes back with a surprise twist. The ending is the best ending to a horror film ever (with a few exceptions) because its real. I give it a 9.8. "},{"Title":"One of the best. . .","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I saw this back in January '98 when it was released.  This movie turned out to be perfect for such a late winter night.  My friends and I found the film to be dark, scary, mysterious, etc. , but also funny in some twisted way.  I also loved the ending--a great finale to a dark and twisted 2 hours.  I like the slower pace; it actually kept me on edge, in an edgy anticipation.  The only part I didn't like was the character Gretta Milano. Overall, a different sort of flick, worthy of several repeat viewings. (9/10) "},{"Title":"A GOOD MOVIE WITHOUT THE GORE!!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good horror/mystery/thriller that avoids violence and gore and creates a frightening atmosphere. Good acting and a solid story. The killer at the start is a great character Time is on My Side,  Yes It is Him singing like that makes him more menacing.  The story is Det. John Hobbes is convinced that when killer Edgar Reese is executed, all of his troubles are over. But when people he knows and people on the street start to sing the same tune that Reese sang in the gas chamber, and those same people taunt him, he is told that maybe the cursed fallen angel Azazel is behind it all. Azazel is cursed to roam the Earth without a form, and he can switch bodies by any contact, making him hard to track. When Hobbes is forced to kill a man possessed by Azazel, he must clear his name while protecting his family and others from the evil, vengeful Azazel.  If you want a break from blood and gore and you want a good movie give this one a go.  "},{"Title":"See it twice or not at all...","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a movie that benefits tremendously from repeated viewings.  The first time I saw it, >.  The second viewing, which took place the following night, had the effect of clearing up 99% of the muddle and a personal re-rating of 3 1/2 stars.  I also came to realize (the second time around) that the narrator of this movie is not at all the person I thought he was... but I've given away too much already.  Looking forward to a third viewing... but I think I'll wait awhile this time. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A Superb Combination Of Intrigue And Horror","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Not only does Fallen accomplish its given target to play with the audiences minds, but it does it with such ease. Denzel Washington(malcolm x) is a great lead. Donald Sutherland(a time to kill) and John Goodman(the big lebowski) both deserve recognition for their performances, but the best performance I have seen for a long time comes from little known Ellis Corteas(the thin red line). His execution was more bland than that of Gene Hackman's in The Chamber. The song that he sings as the gas travels up his nostrils and into his brain will always be remembered by me,Time, is on my side. Fallen has a great story and worthy performances by the aforementioned and James Gandolfini(true romance) as Lou. This is a great film that I recommend to all audiences that love a great mystery. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i'd ever seen in my life","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a very very good movie, i really enjoyed every moment in it, the idea of the movie is so strange and attractive. i like to see other movies of the same type and i really advise everyone who like deep thoughts and paranormal status to see this wonderful movie. "}{"Title":"I wicked biblical story","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so so cool. I love this movie to death. The story is about a FALLEN Angel called Azazel which means Evil Incarnate this demon can pass through bodies with a mere touch if its host dies it can still go into a body in a certain time. If you liked Se7en then you should go and see this baby...**** Out Of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i'd ever seen in my life","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a very very good movie, i really enjoyed every moment in it, the idea of the movie is so strange and attractive. i like to see other movies of the same type and i really advise everyone who like deep thoughts and paranormal status to see this wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"One of very few films that had an ending that actually surprised me!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen happens to be one of my top 10 favorite films, along with such great movies as Shawshank Redemption and Braveheart. Now this film has been criticized by many so you may be asking yourself, Why would he compare THIS to such films as Shawshank and Braveheart?. Here's why. Most movies nowadays have a poor plot, and an extremely predictable ending. Now this movie had an ending that not only surprised me, but it was combined with an outstanding cast and script. It does have a lot of religious content and me being an atheist, I normally wouldn't go for that. Even with the religion, I just couldn't help but to like, no, love this film. "},{"Title":"Some new murders happen after the serial killer's execution","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the best way to comment this movie, is not to give away too much clues and details about the movie. This is the kind of  movie that has the power to surprise the audience by its brilliant plot, the excellent acting (especially Denzel Washington as detective) and the mystical ambiance.In short the story will come to this a serial killer being executed promises to detective Denzel W. that after his death the murders will go on. Later on the killer seems to keep his word when new victims are found. Denzel W. starts an investigation and tries to find out what the hell is happening. An intensive search for the killer begins, finally leading to a rather surprising result. Though the movie doesn't get much attention (at least not in Europe), it really is worth watching. I especially recommend frequently watchers of X-files and Profiler or a movie like Seven to rent this movie some day (or better night). "},{"Title":"Arrogance always comes before a fall","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good film with an interesting premise.  Denzel Washington plays the part of Hobbes with a wonderful air of arrogance.  Nothing can touch him, until...  The plot moves at a respectable pace, with Hobbes working out the clues in an intelligent manner (Quite why the clues was left at all is a mystery to me and quite unexplained).  A good ending, presumably making way for a sequel, but good none the less.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"a decent movie...","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The preview intrigued me; overall I enjoyed the movie.  Denzel is great no matter what role he plays.  The end was a little disappointing; you feel incomplete.  But it's a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Unfairly Underrated","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is actually a very good film, with a great story, superb acting and a clever twist at the end.  Some of the set pieces are stunningly spooky.  I cannot understand why it got such terrible reviews. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My husband and I have watched this several times and enjoyed it more each time. It's stylish, well-acted and keeps you guessing up to the very last scene. I love seeing Denzel team up with partner John Goodman-- a great team!I would recommend seeing it a few times to catch anything you might have missed the first go-around! "},{"Title":"A superior thriller","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gregory Hoblit(Primal Fear) directs a devilish tale of homicide detective John Hobbes(Denzel Washington) that discovers Azazel, a fallen spirit who is conducting a spree of killing as part of a plan to usher in the fall of Babylon as prophesied in the Bible. He goes from one host to another with a brush of an overcoat or touch of a hand. This is a fine film, it´s like The Prophecy(a.k.a.Gods Army) so if you liked that film you´ll love this one. The end falls short but it is still a really good film.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most people would think that a drama like L.A. Confidential, should win an Oscar.  Or an action picture like Titanic, which did win, or a comedy like As Good as it Gets (my personal favorite out of all the nominees).  How about Denzel Washington's thriller Fallen?  This movie would be my favorite.  It has the correct blend of action, suspense, comedy, and drama. It had terrific cinematography, great direction by Gregory Hoblit (Primal Fear) and wonderful acting by Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, and everybody in the cast.  Most people go to a horror film with a negative attitude.  They think that all horror films are terrible.  I go to thrillers because, once in a while, a film comes along like The Game, Dark City, Scream, or Gregory Hoblit's Primal Fear, and Fallen, that make you say wow when you walk out of the theater.  I leave you with my favorite line from that film, spoken by the narrator There are turning points in life when time is divided into two parts before 'this,' and after 'this' "}{"Title":"A spooky suspense film with a lot of great twists!","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie caught me by surprise. Not one to get spooked easily this one struck a nerve about the tenacity of evil. Lots of great plot twists and a freaky ending.  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Upen renting this film, I thought 'great another crappy thriller', but I was wrong this movie is intense. The part when Hobbes is chasing after the spirit and its traveling from host to host is one of best scenes in the movie.  This movie is definitely worth renting! "},{"Title":"Stupid and insulting","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So, early on in the film we learn that the demon can't possess the body of Hobbes, yet at the end Hobbes kills himself so the demon can't possess his body. They must think their audience have really short memories and it seems many reviewers do, since they thought this movie was clever thought provoking suspenseful etc when a major plot hole like that was was used to hurriedly finish the movie. F'n insulting (as Riddick would say).Stupid = the same ending as other films where the antagonist/ protagonist comes back in another life form (Aliens and Species to name two franchises with such endings). "},{"Title":"authentically creepy and mysterious","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this is a genuinely creepy and mysterious movie,and it maintains that atmosphere throughout,but stops just short of being oppressive.Denzel Washington is the main attraction,and is very good,but the ensemble supporting cast are also strong.John Goodman,Donald Sutherland Embeth Davidtz(June Bug)James Gandolfini and Elias Koteas are the core group of supporting players.Gregory Hoblit(Primal Fear)directed this movie.he's directed at least three or four movies i have really liked.the suspense is high in this one,and there are a few twists and turns that you may or may not find predictable.there's also some good action and intensity to keep you engaged in the proceedings.the ending though,leaves more questions than answers,so some may find that frustrating.in this case,it worked for me.though not a masterpiece,this is still a very good movie.for me,Fallen is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"FALLEN (Gregory Hoblit, 1998) ***","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Intriguing cop thriller on SEVEN (1995) lines but with supernatural overtones; this element, however, makes for a far-fetched and, ultimately, unconvincing plot - with the demon passing from one body to another merely through touch, which somehow renders him less threatening than he should be...and, in any case, he's seemingly bent solely on discrediting the hero (which makes his belated 'possession' of him all the more baffling)!; with this in mind, the film misleads one into thinking that the hero turns out to be an 'angel'! Still, Nicholas Kazan's script features enough twists to ensure an above-average show - and, for all its lack of the expected special effects (and for which one is actually grateful), the battle-of-wills between hero and villain (or, if you like, Man and The Devil) is certainly engaging and results in a few undeniably effective moments. The cast (Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini) is pretty good, even if the performances are somewhat mannered i.e. you know you're watching actors rather than 'real' people. The climax is well done and also quite clever in its surprising identification of the narrator figure - even if the final, albeit amusing, twist feels like one too many trips to the well! All things considered, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Demons are not nice creatures, friend.","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What if you were a demon? Condemned by God and a majority of the other angels in Heaven, a supernaturally empowered vagabond. Humiliated, shamed, ridiculed and completely without hope of anything but a fiery end. You would probably be angry and full of hatred, but with nowhere to direct it. Enter humans stage left, a big fat juicy chance to let off some rage and strike back at God at the same time. Have a little fun with his precious creation. You hate humanity because they will someday occupy the position you once held, basking in the love of God while you remain a doomed pariah, awaiting the ultimate public execution. You've seen the creation of the earth, walked with dinosaurs, watched man evolve from Cro-Magnon to Homo-Sapiens and been along for the ride all the way. Millions of years, millions of lifetimes, a prehistoric entity that speaks every language man ever spoke and understands the little talking monkey far better than he does himself. You read thoughts for goodness sakes; you know the sum total of all human knowledge and then some. How's a mortal human going to effect you in any way, let alone offer resistance? Your only limitations are those imposed by God himself.I love this movie because for the believer, that just about sums up the way it is. Having had personal experience (Native American descent), I know those things hate us. Most fiction has firm roots in fact. The film gives a rather accurate view of what reality truly holds and fleshes it out skillfully. Whether you are a believer or agnostic/atheist, this movie will have you looking at people next to you sideways for days to come. Denzel seems to have a penchant for occult and sci-fi based films that are unusual, but well crafted. Once again he has involved himself with a winner. Thought provoking with a plot that doesn't lead you by the hand, the movie ends just as it should, surprisingly. If you yourself ever do encounter a fallen angel, you'd better pray for divine assistance because you are definitely outmatched on your own. "},{"Title":"I've never understood the hostility towards this film","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In my opinion Fallen is one of the better supernatural thrillers to come out of Hollywood in the past few decades. It's smart, slick and well-acted - not exploitative or full of shock material (gore-wise), but rather it operates on a more intellectual level.Denzel Washington and John Goodman are both superb as NYC cops who begin to believe a string of murders are being committed by a demon - the same demon that had earlier possessed a serial killer who was executed in the beginning of the film. As Washington investigates further he realizes this demon can jump from one person to the next (resulting in a rather eerie scene on a sidewalk in which the demon skips back and forth from each passerby). This may sound utterly silly, but the way it's filmed is what makes it effective.The ending is a shocker and the script by Nicholas Kazan (Reversal of Fortune, Bicentennial Man) offers decent dialogue.If you like atmospheric thrillers you should check this out. "},{"Title":"Rare combination","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a rare combination of outstanding acting and compelling writing. As always Denzel Washington is amazing and John Goodman turns out to be the perfect foil for Denzel's intensity. The story is very intriguing and well paced and there are a number of interesting recurring motifs strewn throughout the movie. The writer managed to avoid the common pitfalls of the genre by nicely balancing foreshadowing and suspense to create a story that is worthy of multiple viewings. Any fan of Denzel or supernatural thrillers should definitely take a look at this movie. One thing I really appreciated about the movie is it minimized the love story aspect which plagues most movies. There is what appears to a fledgling love story but it is undeveloped and plays almost no role in the movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I bought this DVD many years ago and today I have to admit that the story is not a clever horror thriller because it's soon predictable and it is too long. Then it tries to mix some intriguing scenes but it fails completely showing all the time the same things and after an hour I had enough and stopped this disappointing thriller. It begins promisingly but after many efforts to create a chilling atmosphere for the audience it let me absolutely cool. Denzel Washington and Donald Sutherland played as usual solid roles but they couldn't save it from this mess. For all that reasons I give with my wife a vote of 5/10. I highly recommend therefore the supernatural thriller THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES with Richard Gere that is inspired at least on true events and that I watched already twice. "},{"Title":"Shake hands with the devil","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen is a thriller that combines crime with the occult. Director Gregory Hobllit has produced a movie that is entertaining as well as good to watch. The screen play by Nicholas Kazan shows a lot of imagination in the way it plays.The real achievement though is in the great casting for the film. Denzel Washington makes Fallen his movie and runs away with it. As John Hobbs, the police detective, he is seen at the beginning attending the execution of the criminal Edgar Reese. This is a monster who is put to death for crimes he committed. Hobbs is only happy to see this evil man get his due, but in the process he makes a serious mistake. When Reese offers his hand to Hobbs to shake, he passes some of his repulsive self to Hobbs, and thus the chain in the killings of innocents will continue. While this seems to be an improbable fact, it gives the director and his writer a great premise to explore.John Goodman, as Jonesy, is particularly good. Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini and Elias Koteas do excellent work under Mr. Hoblit's able direction. "}{"Title":"This movie depends on a good story and some very nice acting, not on spectacular scenes","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A good movie with an interesting mystical atmosphere and some decent acting, you'll not find that too often. Most of the time the directors try too hard, spoiling everything and making me loose all interest after about 30 minutes. This time however, it was a completely different case. Gregory Hoblit, the man who also made the interesting movie Primal Fear, but who hasn't made many movies since, has done a good job with an interesting story and some very good actors...Fallen starts with the execution of the serial killer Edgar Reese. Now that Detective John Hobbes knows that the man is dead, he's convinced that all his troubles are over. But when people get killed by someone who uses the same method Reese once used and several people he knows and people on the street, start to sing the same tune that Reese sang in the gas chamber,... he knows something is wrong. As Hobbes follows up the last clues Reese left, an evil presence called Azazel, moves from one person to another, coming closer to Hobbes and threatening everyone he holds dear in the world...I know all this may sound rather unbelievable. A fallen angel, praying on an honest cop, does indeed seem a bit too far-fetched and typically Hollywood, but what is more important this time is that it all works. I was interested from the beginning until the end, not only thanks to the story, but also thanks to the very good acting by Denzel Washington, Donald Sutherland, James Gandolfini and (the in my opinion underrated) John Goodman. They were the real stars in this movie and they made it all work, but it was Elias Koteas who stole the show with his short appearance as Edgar Reese.Of course many people will be disappointed by the lack of any big and spectacular action scenes. If you are looking for that in a movie, than you better leave this one alone. This movie doesn't really use any special effects or big explosions, it almost entirely depends on the acting and the storyline, although the direction and the way this movie was shot give it something extra too. Overall this movie certainly deserves to be seen by a larger public, especially when they are interested in thrillers with the presence of evil and demons as a subject. I liked it and that's why I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"The time has come to not trust a handshake.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a murky, supernatural drama of a Philadelphia homocide cop(Denzel Washington) struggling to solve a series of bizarre murders linked to the occult. It seems the spirit of a serial killer is passed from body to body by touch. This is an intriguing blend of murder mystery and supernatural chiller. You may need a second viewing to understand the story line. It is well worth it. Washington is sterling as always. Also in the cast areJohn Goodman, Donald Southerland, Elias Koteas, Embreth Davidtz and James Gandolfini. "},{"Title":"A Sneaky, Unique Thriller","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie made quite an impression on me. I'm not so easily-scared, but this movie shook my bones really good. It's not Possible to either Guess or Find out the Endings Plot as it tend to thickens more and more... "},{"Title":"The word clever is fast becoming derogatory, here's why.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen has a quarter-decent premise for a movie. It would be a half-decent idea for an episode of the X-files, and an absolutely brilliant idea for your grade 8 (in Australia, that would make you about 12 years old) English exam.It desperately wants to be meaningful, but in a look at me, haven't I come up with something really clever way. Sometimes even good films (with genuinely interesting ideas) play like this, and you find yourself envious that you didn't come up with the premise yourself (like, say the Truman Show). The biggest problem that films like these face is that you ultimately make no connection with the film - you tend to forgive it a lot of sins simply because you are impressed with the premise.In the particular case of Fallen even the basic premise is only remotely engaging - you get the impression that the filmmakers were confident that it would play well in a trailer - where they can afford to be a bit obtuse. Over feature-length it becomes quite tiresome and even embarrassing (some of the soul-searching dialogue is truly atrocious).There is one scene, quite near the end, which makes so little sense that one can only assume that a lot of footage wound up on the cutting room floor. The scene involves John Goodman, who I consider an excellent dramatic actor (remember him in Barton Fink?), and the direction he takes the scene in is so ridiculous and non-sensical that it could only be explained by a lot of missing footage (or perhaps by terribly mis-informed direction from the director).   "},{"Title":"Good action movie gone wrong.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A bit of a strange movie this.  Alternating between lines of incredibly cheesy dialogue (Everything's personal if you're a person) and scenes of great visual imagination (in particular the chase sequence where the bad guy doesn't run but simply moves through a line of people), Fallen is a really good action movie gone slightly askew.The acting is proficient enough, although Gabriel Casseus turns in a somewhat bizarre performance as Denzil Washington's brother, Art. The main idea itself is used to good effect, particularly in the scenes where Washington attempts to confront Azazel in his various guises, with occasional tragic effect.Unfortunately, however, the scripting is, as mentioned, a little on the patchy side and the addition of an ill-judged voice-over by Washington does nothing for the pace of the film.  Add in Embeth Davidtz dry as dust, Name of the Rose-style witterings about the nature of the beast and Washington's thoughts on sin and redemption and you have a good action movie with a nice twist let down by its attempts to be more than that. "},{"Title":"Disgraceful product placement sequence","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whilst I don't like it, I can usually live with product placement, as you could argue it's a necessary evil needed to scrape together funding for a film that would otherwise not have been made. However, did anyone else find the scene where Gandolfini and Washington were arguing over beers utterly unacceptable? For me, it was the worst example of product placement I've seen.Not content with just having the product on display, paying movie going punters are forced to put up with about two minutes of this nonsense that has no point to the plot of the film whatsoever. I loved the message of that little sequence1) 'It's just a bud' ( implying honest, down to earth, good ol' American beer )2) Evil, wretched, ugly badman Gandolfini ( before his public reputation was deservedly transformed to cool Gangster in The Sopranos ) unreasonably attacks this American mainstay and even worse, recommends foreign muck! Thankfully, he is suitably chastised for this and made to look like a fool.3) Money shot of Hero Washington supping up those cold suds (side on profile in a warm golden glow ) with the knowledge he is drinking the best beer in the world.I hate advertisers. They spoil it for everyone and insulted the integrity of this film.Other than that, I liked this film.Can anyone else think of any worse product placement sequences? "},{"Title":"Too derivative.","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is an annoyingly derivative picture. It steals bits and pieces from all over the place, but mainly from The Hidden and Wes Craven's Shocker. It lacks originality, and it also feels generally aimless and repetitive, since the whole concept doesn't go any further than a simple revenge story. The cast is full of familiar names, but they don't bring anything special to their characters here Goodman and Sutherland are purely decorative. And this yet another movie where IF you KNOW that there is going to be a surprise ending, you MAY very well guess the ending by thinking that the improbable is probable in a horror film. On the positive side, Fallen is well-directed and absorbing, and the filmmakers deserve some credit for keeping us interested in a story as tired and unoriginal as this one (a demon that can possess the body of any person, until it becomes necessary to find a new body). "},{"Title":"Routine thriller with an unusual premise","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" FALLEN Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSGregory Hoblit's FALLEN is a routine thriller with an unusual premise. Denzel Washington plays a workaday cop who's pursued by a fallen angel which takes possession of its victim's bodies simply by touching them. The potential for greatness is realised only fleetingly The multiple possession which takes place in front of Washington at police HQ; the moment he's forced to kill an innocent man to save his own life; and the deeply cynical final twist which may leave some viewers with a rotten taste in the mouth. Otherwise, the film isn't terribly engaging. The villain is depicted as an ethereal presence which fails to generate any sense of real menace at all. In fact, Washington is the whole show here, and he's suitably earnest, but he seems to be cruising on autopilot, and John Goodman is largely wasted as his detective-partner. The emphasis on characterisation yields some interesting results (Washington's caring relationship with his mentally-handicapped brother is a particular highlight), but the film doesn't have the guts to RUN with its outrageous premise. A little less pandering to Washington's star status and a little more outright horror could have made all the difference. "},{"Title":"A below average","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  effort at best... what starts out as a marginally interesting concept, turns into a crashing bore after an hour or so... denzel washington is his usual 2-D cut-out character, but has a decent supporting cast... how anyone could be surprised by this derivative hollywood schlock is beyond me.... "},{"Title":"Horrible direction (some spoilers)","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When there is a movie with an excellent cast of very famous actors that you've somehow never heard of, it's usually a good bet that the movie is terrible. Unfortunately, I disregarded this time-honored rule and watched this movie starring Denzel Washington, John Goodman, and Donald Sutherland. I usually have faith in Denzel to guide me to a decent movie, but he let me down with this one. I haven't yet posted here to completely pan a movie, but I felt a responsibility to warn you about this one.The movie has a relatively intriguing premise and not terrible writing, but it is totally ruined by pretentious, obnoxious direction. I was surprised to see that this director was the same guy who did Primal Fear, but then it all kind of made sense. This movie, like Primal Fear, is very full of its own importance, with edgy camera angles, melodramatic music and over-the-top acting. UNLIKE Primal Fear, the story is not entertaining enough to legitimize this melodrama. Instead you get a plot that is garbled and unintelligible and really doesn't have much to say. It's pretty much the fault of the director, in my opinion.The basic story is that some spirit named Azazil is able to transfer from body to body (we're not really ever told convincingly HOW this happens, or why - sometimes it appears to be at will and then sometimes not). Azazil has no real apparent motivation for wanting to wipe out the human race, except that he is ancient and pretty angry. This can still be entertaining in a scary movie that is directed well. Unfortunately, this is not such a movie. The director spends so much time trying to make the hokey plot seem smart that the story trips all over itself. Large parts of the plot that would be better left in to explain things seem to have been cut out, and events get laughably confusing and stupid. Yet the movie continues with a tone that would make you think the director and all its participants believe they are delivering the most meaningful movie since Citizen Kane. The end result of all the hokeyness is that Denzel Washington gets framed for various crimes. He then spends most of the last half of the movie yelling at Azazil (who we, and Denzel, of course cannot see most of the time, and who jumps rapidly from body to body). The camera angles and styles used to demonstrate Azazil's movement give the viewer a major headache. I stuck through it to see if there would be an interesting ending. There was not. Suffice it to say that John Goodman, when possessed by Azazil, is NOT scary. And the VERY end of the movie is GROANINGLY dumb - to the point that both my husband and I (who rarely agree on movies) both *actually* groaned.The only reason I gave this movie 2 stars instead of 1 is because Denzel tried so hard. "}{"Title":"Began at a good pace and ended just as good.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As with movies of moral implication do this movie begins with mysticism and keeps going. It has to be followed carefully or you will get lost. Very enjoyable and just as intriguing. It takes you in and keeps you going from beginning to end. But not for the viewer who does not like The Seventh sign or The Prophecy. These movies are in a league of their own and can be viewed more than one time to see more than you saw the first time. Enjoyable and although not an action movie action packed. "},{"Title":"Damn good!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although it received mixed reactions from critics and audiences alike when released in 1998, this supernatural thriller benefits from a sustained atmosphere of anticipation and dread, and its combination of detective mystery and demonic mischief is handled with ample style and intelligence. Under the direction of Gregory Hoblit (who fared better with Primal Fear), Denzel Washington plays detective John Hobbes, who witnesses the gas-chamber execution of a serial killer (Elias Koteas). But when another series of murders begins, Hobbes suspects that the killer's evil spirit has survived and is possessing the bodies of others to do its evil bidding. Even Hobbes's trusted partner (John Goodman) thinks the detective is losing his grip on reality, but the dire warnings of a noted linguist (Embeth Davidtz) confirm Hobbes's far-out theory, and his case intensifies toward a fateful showdown. Although its idea is better than its execution, and the story's film noir ambitions are never fully accomplished, this slickly directed thriller has some genuinely effective moments in which evil forces are entwined into the fabric of everyday reality. Among the highlights is a memorable scene in which Detective Hobbes must track the killer as the evil spirit is transferred between many people via physical contact. Even if the film is ultimately less than the sum of its parts, it's an intriguing hybrid that resides in the same cinematic neighborhood as Seven and The Silence of the Lambs with a cast that also includes Donald Sutherland and James Gandolfini. Included on the DVD is a full-length audio commentary by director Hoblit, screenwriter Nicholas Kazan, and producer Charles Roven. "},{"Title":"What are we here for? What do we do?","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to rank this film up with the best of Denzel Washington. It's not one that I can watch over and over like Man on Fire, John Q, The Bone Collector or The mighty Quinn, but it is still an example of the excellent work that he has done throughout his career.If you believe in god, angels, and devils, then you will find the premise totally believable. Otherwise, it is an excellent horror film that supposedly explains evil in the world. It is never boring, as Emmy-winning director Gregory Hoblit (Hill Street Blues, NYPD Blue) keeps the pace up.With excellent support from such actors as Donald Sutherland, John Goodman, and James Gandolfini, it is an enjoyable experience.Check it out. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this is an interesting movie. with good, solid performance by all actors, it kept me intrigued. the story is not an ordinary one, although at one point it got me thinking about a few other movies ('shocker' for example). although you might be tired of seeing Denzel Washington in yet another police detective role, he does a good job and to me the main character is actually the 'invisible' azazel - the director nicely kind of wraps the whole movie around this entity, and although we never see the 'real' azazel, we see his actions and we hear him speak, albeit through other characters. i especially like how the director infuses us with the impression that humans are really not that significant in the universe and that there are many other things 'out there'the surprise ending came a little light after the whole suspense through-out the movie, but it wasn't that bad - the movie does not really pretend to be a horror flick - its all entertainment, baby )I give it 7 not because its a bad movie, but because it doesn't really carry and sustain a message, but it's interesting, watchable and good for spending a few hours in the world of the moving picturespeace "},{"Title":"Way Lower Than Six Feet Under.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sleep inducing insomnia cure that makes itself out to be a scary and innovative cop thriller. The movie falls hard and fast like a heavy stone in the ocean due to an interminable running time and a snail's pace. Detective Denzel Washington is trying to stop an unstoppable supernatural curse as it appears that a dead killer's (Elias Koteas) soul is still living and literally playing a game of tag to survive by jumping from body to body. Also along for the ride are spooky religious expert Embeth Davidtz (of Schindler's List fame), police superior Donald Sutherland and fellow detectives John Goodman and James Gandolfini. A witless movie that is dull, predictable and instantly forgettable. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"All for nothing.spoilers","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie until the end. Everything Hobbes (Denzel Washington) fights for is all for nothing. Hobbes will go down as a brutal murderer and Azazel wins. Hobbes was willing to sacrifice his life to stop Azazel, but it doesn't work. And why did he have to kill himself? He could have just ran or drove off after shooting Jonesy. And what was with the cigarettes? Why didn't he just inject himself with the needle? How did he know that lacing a cigarette with poison would kill him?I feel cheated after watching this movie. It could have ended better, but was sacrificed in an attempt to be smart. "},{"Title":"Disappointing End","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A Psychological and Supernatural Thriller, which might not be liked by allThe story line is original and unique, something that cannot be seen in typical moviesHaving said that, the thing I hated the most about this movie was the END as I guessed and most of us who watched did so. There was also a question as whether the demon can possess any living being....birds etc. when it can do it to a cat. I also felt that the ending was cheap, giving way for the producers to make Fallen II, III,....Denzel Washington, as always, is good and not at his best. It was quote unnatural the way he reacts when his brother is dead.Interesting with some good scenes...but with a very disappointing ending  "},{"Title":"Scary Story Spoiler","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is a great movie and is well written and has superb acting.the premise of this film is that there are demons or fallen angelsout there that have the ability to take over our bodies and do whatthey want with us and to us. For those of us who believe in Angelsand Demons that is a pretty frightening idea to grasp. The moviebegins with us seeing the main character John Hobbs scurryingthrough the snow looking for a set of keys in order to escapecertain death. What we don't realize is it is the fallen angel who istrying to get away from death not John Hobbs. Then we are takento the beginning of the story in which John Hobbs becomes aplayer in this game. We find out through the course of this moviethat Hobbs is a special Person whom the Fallen angel can't enterby touch the way he can others. So he ( Azazel the fallen angel )makes it his goal to ruin John Hobbs's life and enter him anotherway. The story proceeds to show us how the demon plans to dothis until we are taken back to the opening scene with John Hobbsrunning for the keys. At which time we come to understand that it isnot Hobbs who is afraid of dying but Azazel the fallen angel who isafraid of dying, Because John Hobbs is nearly successful at killinghim. In the end we see Azazel take possession of a cat and go onliving. "},{"Title":"Excellent...","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theater when it was released several years ago and have recently seen it again, for only the second time, after I purchased it on VHS...it is definitely the kind of film that you will want to own and watch multiple times.The story line is original and unique, something that cannot be said very often about major films with big name stars. The biblical/supernatural angle was interesting and done with respect and accuracy to those who may have some knowledge of Scripture and the basis for demos and fallen angels. Having said that, the thing I liked most about this movie was the way it played on ultimate, eternal questions in such a way as those of us in modern times would realistically deal with them. In other words, this isn't some kind of epic cartoon movie.Denzel Washington, as always, is solid and unbeleivably liekable in this film. I feel it is one of his more powerful performances, which is saying something. James Gandolfini, while not the megastar he is today (this was pre-Sopranos), gives an excellent performance as Denzel's love 'em/hate'em polie companion and John goodman is fantastic as the loyal partner. As if these performances werem't enough, we are treated to a strong supporting role by Donald Sutherland, who seems to buoy any movie that he is in as well as a phenomenal performance by Ms. Davidtz, who essentially becomes her character. To me, the greatest compliment that can be paid an actor is to feel, when watching the performance, that you are watching the true character/person who is bering portrayed. Davidtz's character is played to perfection, with an understatement of th eimplied romance with Denzel Washington's character while never losing sight/beleivability as a person who knows some things most humans don't know about what is around us...and maybe we aren't supposed to know.Recommend highly!!    "},{"Title":"A overlooked gem","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a shame that Fallen is not more well known because it is a powerful and suspenseful film that boasts a fine cast and original story. Denzel Washington is one of the finest actors of our time and pulls of a great performance as Det. Hobbs. John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, and Elias Koteas also turn in wonderful performances. With a tense pace that keeps you guessing and keeps things moving along, Fallen is not your typical suspense thriller. With it's religious and metaphysical overtones, it really brings an original angle into this tired genre. With an unusual soundtrack laying down a weird vibe, this is a film that you should look into if you haven't seen it already. Bottom Line A great film that's sadly not as well known as it should be. It's in my collection and I suggest that you add it to yours.   "}{"Title":"scary thrilling film","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you think Denzel Washington is a good actor, I do, then this movie is a must see. I think it's an intriging exciting film that sucks you right in and almost makes you scared of the people around you. So if you want to have a few thrilling hours, see this movie. "},{"Title":"If you are an action freak - go directly to jail! Do not push start.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Way too cerebral to have had any hope of general success! This is one very clever film, beautifully constructed and acted, with a superbly thought-provoking ending - DOES it end?  Who miscalculated?Denzel Washington is a committed detective.  What he has no experience of is a serial killer with the ability to switch bodies simply by touch. Exactly how he came by this talent IS explained but leaves Denzel with one mother of a problem. You don't cuff guys like this!Excellent support is provided by John Goodman as his long suffering partner, in fact there isn't a weak performance in the film. If you are prepared to LISTEN, INGEST and EVALUATE, you cannot fail to draw something constructive from this film. If you are a moron (ask someone!) give it a wide berth! "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i have seen","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  personally , this movie is one of my topmost three , if not the best movie i have seen so far . once in a while there comes a movie that makes a part of you wish they make a sequel to it and a part of you really wish that they don't because it is such a good movie that you wish it remains one of its kind. danziel washington as detective hobbes is briliant and together with some truly imaginative and sincere script, make a deadly combination. i recommend this movie as a must see. it restored my faith in script writers. "},{"Title":"Innovative","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is severely under-rated and obscure. It should have been promoted more upon release, and more people would then know about it.A very innovative story line is backed up by good performances by Denzel Washington and John Goodman.Watch this, Steve "},{"Title":"had great potential","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Denzel Washington stars in this eerie thriller about a dedicated homicide detective who faces the challenge of a lifetime. Having just witnessed the execution of a notorious, psychopathic murderer, he stumbles onto the case of what appears to be a copycat killer, until he eventually comes to the realization that he's chasing a dreadful and potent force that is not of this world. Has a great setup, good performances, as well as some inventive and genuinely spine-chilling moments, but the film rambles on in its own boring logic, suffers from leaden pacing, and has a climax that doesn't pack very much punch. It's too bad, because this one could have really been something special. **½ "},{"Title":"A little-known classic","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great movie. Its a shame that this film is not known by many. The story opens with Det. John Hobbes (Washington) dying in the snow. We then flashback to the incidents prior to this event, which makes up the movie. Hobbes brought a serial killer to justice, now said killer is to be executed. Hobbes watches the mad die in the chair, but its not over. In fact its just begun, the killer is actually a ghost now, I don't want to spoil the plot for you, because they're some very interesting things brought up about the killer. But anyways, the killer now inhabits bodies of others and starts his killing spree yet again. Hobbes investigates and soon learns that his old enemy has survived somehow, and soon learns of biblical ties to the killer. Soon, the chase begins, and Hobbes becomes both predator and prey.Overall, this movie was excellent. a 10, thanks to superb acting from all the cast, and the direction of the film was great, especially when you see the through the eyes of the killer. And the ending is the best I've seen in a movie. Ever. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the best movies ever made. Definately edge-of-your-seat stuff. Denzel Washington shines (surprise, surprise) but it is the excellent support from John Goodman and Donald Sutherland which really makes this film cook. I really hope there is a sequel. "},{"Title":"Denzel does it again","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This falls pun intended towards the end of the period when Denzel Washington seemed to be in every single film you saw.Not as good as he was in The Hurricane - not that that is possible - Denzel is excellent as the police officer haunted by the demonic spirit that is stalking and knocking off the ones he loves, after it makes it personal by transferring itself from a man he tracked down for murder who was since executed.A gripping thriller, if a little silly in places, this is one of those films that although 2 hours long could have used another 30 minutes of quality drama in it.John Goodman is good as ever - although does he always have to play a cop? - and Donald Sutherland is a bit tiring nowadays actually.Worth watching, although going by the case it was never going to be anything else. "},{"Title":"A brilliant supernatural thriller.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boy oh boy was this a hell of a film. Fallen was far better than i was expecting . Denzel Washington was superb as Hobbs a cop who is caught up in a web of supernatural intrigue and murder. I dont know if this was first a book , it seems the type of film that was,if so i bet it came over well as a film. This also stars Jon Goodman and Donald Sutherland as fellow cops who aren't all they seem to be. I would highly recomend ANYBODY to watch this film as it is one of the best film i have seen all year. Great acting ,great storyline and a fantasticly shot. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"excellent and surprising","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It used to be when one went to the video store and had not heard of a film, the film turned out to be either very lightweight or a bomb.  Fallen, a sort of Serpico meets Rosemary's Baby is an intriguing and scary film with a top-notch cast that, for reasons known only to its studio, came and went in the theaters somewhat quickly.  Very skillfully done and keeps you interested till the end. "}{"Title":"Flip side of Wings of Desire; excellent evocation of evil incarnate","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen is the most believable and well-executed film production of evil incarnate I've ever seen. It's the flip side of Wim Wender's Wings of Desire. Using wonderfully subtle audio and visual special effects, with a minimum of blood and gore, it conveys the true terror of the nature of evil, on a very human scale. Thrill-seekers may be bored, but people who care about the film's central question Why are we here? will be chillingly challenged, if not necessarily enlightened. A film worthy of the closing song, Sympathy For the Devil. "},{"Title":"One of the best of all time","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Panned, looked down upon was this movie, yet it is one of the best.  Ranking right up there with Se7en, this movie has it all.  A unique twist at the end, an original storyline..what more could you ask for.  I honestly don't know what everyone else was watching, cause it sure as heck couldn't be this movie.  If you liked Se7en or those thrillers that leave you guessing, than this one is for you.  A 10!! "},{"Title":"Extra or Accidental Bystander?","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I was watching Fallen, I noticed a man in the crowd scene when Hobbs shot the teacher ~ the man looked like Ron Jeremy.Did anyone else see this? It was very distracting and totally hilarious at the same time.And why do I have to make my comment be at least ten lines? Forcing me to write ten lines seems to be. Very Stupid. It makes me write. In this annoying. Way that no one wants. To read, because I'm not. Really saying anything. Of importance. So instead of simply. Posting a question about. Whether Ron Jeremy. Is standing next to Art. When Art brings his son. To see the shooting scene. I'm asking questions about 10 lines... "},{"Title":"how can you catch a killer that  you can not see","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a jewel in a sea of mediocre supernatural thrillers. the premise of the film is of a straight laced,decent ,cop played magnificently by Denzil Washington who comes from the school of thought that things are only real if you can see them. His down to earth ideas are turned on their head when he finds himself on the trail of a killer demon that can go from person to person by touch. Denzil Washington is magnificent,as usual,trying to uncover hidden police secrets and catch a killer that he knows he cannot defeat.As he slowly uncovers the truth he is led up one garden path after another.His battle is against a supernatural foe and a police force unwilling to divulge its secrets. He is helped on his quest by a religious watcher, played especially well by Embeth Davidz, who has to try and make him realise that just because you can't see something doesn't mean that it does not exist. This film has two things going for itAt times it is very thought provoking and it has moments that literally make the hairs on the back of your neck stand on end. This film is a must see movie that is good at any viewing but ,like another great thriller Identity,it is always best first time,when you don't have a clue what is going on. This film will certainly scare the life out of you and the twist at the end will blow your socks off. I give this film full marks 10/10 "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  very good thriller is creepy very well acted and it has a shocking ending and this keeps you on the edge of your seat although this sometimes loosely strung together it is still an engrossing time with very good acting and it is intelligent too ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Slow-paced and boring","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a very boring thriller.  I really wanted something better and more to happen.  The end which was supposed to have a good twist did have one, however I didn't like the twist.  It had a very slow pace, and I am not a fan of slow-paced, boring films.  I was expecting a great thriller, however, I was bitterly disappointed after seeing Fallen. "},{"Title":"A great story with a unexpected twist in the end.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A great story with a unexpected twist in the end. Listen to him and try to figure it out before it's told. I dare you. The movie is about a cop (Denzel) whom tries to figure out a series of murders, probably made by a copy-cat. But then again, maybe not. He finds the clues the killer leaves him which leads back to an very old story that involved another cop, now dead. The only one with knowledge of him is his daughter, but she won't talk to him. And the time is not on his side since his boss tells him to leave this alone.The film has a pretty dark plot all through it and like I said a good twist in the end. And some great songs that will make you hum them for the next couple of days. Especially one... "},{"Title":"very unoriginal","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd have given this film four stars if not for the fact that it's the exact same movie as THE FIRST POWER, which was exactly the same as SHOCKER, which was very similar to THE HORROR SHOW, which copied a lot from THE HIDDEN. If you haven't seen these, you're probably among those who have praised FALLEN. And if you haven't seen FALLEN, check one of those underappreciated films out instead. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fallen is a great film that has a great cast including Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini, Elias Koteas, Gabriel Casseus, Robert Joy, Frank Medrano, Bill Clark, and Graham Beckel! The acting by all of these actors is unbelievable. Washington once again performed great. Goodman and Koteas arguably have the greatest performances in this picture! Sutherland is excellent and Davidtz is just wonderful. Gandolfini is very different and Beckel has a brief but one heck of a performance! I thought The horror is good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed really good. The music is great by Tan Dun. Ecellent directing by Gregory Hoblit! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a great and thrilling film. If you like Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini, Elias Koteas, the rest of the cast in the film, Horror, Mystery, Thriller, Action, Crime, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"A much underrated Movie","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Suspend disbelief and go with it. Its a great movie as one would expect from this cast. For those that enjoy the supernatural this is a must see. Even we of an anti-theist bent can happily revel in the Christian mythology. Well directed and shot. John Goodman does a great John Goodman and ya' gotta' be happy with that. One word  Denzel. Has he ever made a bad movie ? I have had the pleasure of introducing this flick to many people and have not yet heard anything but praise of it. The soundtrack is almost perfect. Its almost as if the Rolling Stones were commisioned to write the title music.What goes around . . . really goes around. "}{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really minor spoiler near the end.Picture this Take John Carpenter's The Thing, set it in the big city, change the alien to a demon and turn MacReedy into a cop. Now make the characters less interesting and remove all the gore and most of the suspense. If you can picture all that, you'd be picturing Fallen. Denzel Washington plays his typical cop role, which by this point he has completely mastered and does a great job at it. The plot was pretty interesting, though derivative of more than just The Thing. Kept my attention though, despite moving very slowly in the middle. Aside from Washington's character, nobody has any depth to them. Though well acted, I wish they would have got more into Donald Sutherland's character, in my opinion that was a waste of a good performance. The ending is great, I like how it made you think there wouldn't be a twist right up until it was revealed. All in all this film has it's flaws, but was definitely worth the $7 I paid for it.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"loved fallen","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie one night not really knowing anything about it..just knowing that Denzel Washington is great I thought I would give it a chance...It was awesome!!!!!!! Rent it tonight..and be prepared to be scared....warning..Don't WATCH ALONE!!!!!!I did and finally fell asleep but not without my lights being left on..it is very original..and being a fan of horror films I would rate this as one of my top 10...it is one that I watch a lot...probably one of those that I will watch 100 times lol.....peace to all...and rent this movie..I promise you will not be disappointed...It will keep you on the edge of your seat through the whole movie..you will not even won't to take a bathroom break..you will be too scared..so if you do..take someone with you lol..Peace to all "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  since the 1st time i watch this movie, i felt something strange about it. it's a unique movie that deals with the idea with the power of evil in everyone of us by a different way. it's so original and in my opinion it's one of the best movies ever. it's not a cheap ghost movie, it's getting deep in the depth of human and find the core of evil within. Acting is really good in this movie, lights and set very well done and the most thing i liked about this movie is its soundtrack and how it's going with the mode of every moment of the movie. simply it's a movie you have to watch and i guess people who interested in philosophy and parapsychological studies will find it really interesting . "},{"Title":"A must see for fans of suspense movies.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The twists and turns in this movie keep you going all the way to the end. The casting and dialog make this a movie you will want to own and watch over and over again. I still find things I had missed in previous viewings, subtle twists, hints in lines spoken, ect. A must for fans of The Devil's Advocate and The Sixth Sense.  "},{"Title":"Best Creepy Thriller","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.   It's one of my all-time favorites!   It's a perfect mix of action, suspense, and eeriness! I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Denzel meets Fred Flintstone","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The script of this film is fantastic. It begins in the classic 3 act structure whereby act 1 introduces you to the story. We start off with Denzel running in the snow and his internal thoughts being translated to us through voice over. He carefully states that he is in a near death experience, but because of the style of the genre that we have become used to, we assume that Denzel is going to die. Act 2 takes us back into the life of Denzel prior to the moment when we engage with him at the beginning of the film. He works alongside his colleague, John Goodman, in a police station, and they are both eventually possessed by an evil spirit, or more rightly termed, a fallen angel. John Goodman becomes the antagonist possessed with the fallen angel, out to take possession of Denzel. Denzel is forced to impose a slow death on Goodman in the middle of nowhere, and takes a lethal nicotine injection so that when the spirit leaves Goodman and enters inside of him, he is already dead, thus putting an end to the travels of the fallen angel. Once the spirit realises this and enters inside of Denzel, we see Denzel running in the snow as at the beginning of the film. Then, Act 3 kicks in. We still have in our minds that Denzel is about to die. And he does. But the internalisations that we hear are not the words of Denzel, but the fallen angel. The fallen angel manages to live on beyond Denzel's death by entering inside a white wolf, thereby double crossing the audience through the use of drama synchronised with a familiar voice. A very clever piece of writing. "},{"Title":"Dont know what to watch or u do, put everything else back and watch this!","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WOW! What else can be said about this movie? Not much, this would have to be one of the best movies i have ever seen! Now being  movie critic for a few years and working in a video store i always recommend it to each customer and i have not had a single complaint but plenty of praise. Each and every aspect of this movie is perfect unlike a lot of other good movies which are good but fail in one department, this movie excells in all fields. Directory Gregory Hoblit has proven to be in my mind one of the most professional directors, he has had a perfect record of excellent movies FALLEN and PRIMAL FEAR and hopefully in the upcoming movie FREQUENCY.  If U ever get a chance to see this movie , WATCH IT. If u dont get a chance , WATCH IT! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Abominable!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Listen carefully to the two Rolling Stones songs -actually only the second is theirs-that frame this horrible workthey are the only valuable thing of a bad lot.Not only Hobbitt copies seven ,but he also draws inspiration from pretty watchable stuff like the hidden (Jack sholder,1988)and from some much less so the appalling first power (Robert Resnikoff,1990). Denzel Washington, flanked by a bubblehead brother and a theology teacher (sic) cannot do anything with such a hackneyed script.As if it were not enough,the beginning apes sunset boulevard and the ending interview with the vampire ,complete with the same song! Give the leftovers to the dog( or to the cat,in this case). "},{"Title":"most intelligent, mysterious and eerie thriller since 'The Usual Suspects'","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fallen starts off like a Se7en type cop mystery with a simple plot based on a notorious serial killer and his execution which causes many strange murders around town, with clues leading straight to the same man. But then, the slow pace starts to build and the story begins to take shape, until the film completely turns around to become a serious religious-related good/evil story. Denzel Washington is perfect for the part of the angel cop who just seems to be at the right place at the right time, and find every clue there is possible to find. I must say the first half is boring, but the thought of rejecting and leaving this great storyline would have been outrageous. Unpredictability is the film's great weapon, and, after the film finally gets the complex meaning into the viewers' minds, the film has the freedom of choosing dozens of good endings. The ending is surprisingly and satisfyingly delicious, like the ending of Devil's Advocate. Even the film's tenaciously slow pace is forgiven because of its wickedness at the end. Memories of The Usual Suspects creep up, and it's hard to let go.Captivating viewing for loyal supernatural fans and lovers of good police mysteries. "},{"Title":"copied from Wes Craven's Shocker","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I might have given Fallen a higher grade if it hadn't been an obvious rehash of Wes Craven's inventive Shocker, in which a killer gets executed but his spirit keeps getting passed around to different people. OK, so Denzel Washington, John Goodman, Donald Sutherland, Embeth Davidtz, James Gandolfini and Elias Koteas do a good job with their roles (especially Goodman when imitating Mick Jagger), but watching the movie, I just kept repeating to myself This is basically a 'Shocker' rip-off. So, my advice to you is to watch Wes Craven's original version. I do wish to assert that it's actually more interesting. "}{"Title":"Good, but plot is apparently copied from a book and another movie","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In itself, it's a good horror movie, but I have mixed feelings about it - because it seems that this flick shamelessly copies plot ideas from a well-known horror book and a popular film. It appears that the basic plot is simply copied from Stephen Gallagher's excellent novel The Valley of Lights, with some things taken from Wes Craven's movie Shocker (which, as a child, I placed among my favorite horrors ). Keep this in mind while watching Fallen. You will probably enjoy it, though, as it's quite atmospheric, with a handful of great actors (and I don't mean Washington - I'm referring to John Goodman and Donald Sutherland). I particularly liked the movie's ending, spoiled only by an awful pop song played after that.  "},{"Title":"Horribly boring!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so boring I was waiting for it to end. I rented this along with Shawshank Redemption and maybe that's what I get for renting a classic movie compared to absolute crap. I think Denzel sucks to begin with but this movie was just horrible. It had a good story but it was just way too boring it's mostly talk and not interesting or suspenseful talk just pure boredom!  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I had major problems figuring out what was going on. It was especially difficult in the first part of the movie, with several scenes that didn't make any sense at all. Because of this, I thought the movie sucked big time. Then, I decided to give this film a second chance. Some of the scenes that didn't make any sense before now did, but it's too bad that you have to watch a movie twice to get the whole picture. Anyway, I really didn't like the direction the movie took. At first, it could be an OK thriller, but with all this supernatural stuff it just got dumb. And about the ending I can understand why some people think it's so great, but in my opinion it's not very good. In fact, I got really disappointed. Sorry. "}]