[{"Title":"This is beyond charming - it has heart","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A seemingly small movie yet it's beyond charming, it has heart. Don't dismiss this as an expanded version of the TV series Jennifer is in, she's what she is, yet she fits into this story so well, playing opposite Jay Mohr and Kevin Bacon, with Ileanna Douglas as her best friend and Olympia Dukakis as her mom &#150; it's Jennifer Aniston perfect.The heart may not be evident in the beginning, especially with Jennifer's central character, but hang in there, heart becomes more and more ever present as you follow the story closely.  My appreciation for the nuances of this movie did not come deeper until I sat through it again on cable over the weekend. I remember I liked the movie in general and that Jay Mohr gave a very good performance &#150; he's just as becoming as Jennifer is. They do seem like a perfect pair.This could be a date movie especially for a single young woman with career ambitions (here it is in advertising), who thinks she can be self-sufficient without any ties or warmth from others, including mom. It is very much a city woman movie. It is maybe for the 20 to 30 something's, yet there are lessons in loving that anyone can take away with. Essentially, it is about how we can take for granted the people around us and not realize the little things in life that are free and in abundance for us to receive and enjoy &#150; if we would only open our eyes, pause - truly listen, and let the heart do the rest.Trivia There was a play on the movie title as it first appears and appears again. Ha! Have fun and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A lovely, light romance. Aniston is terrific.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is quite a bit of divergence here with the Imdb comments for this movie, which may reflect where people's hearts were at when they viewed it. This is not a block buster or Academy Awards winner, but I found it to be very enjoyable and certainly agree with all of the positive comments below. Actually, I was surprised how I liked it, since I am a 50 year old man and do not normally care for 'fluff movies'. The acting by Jennifer Aniston and John Mohr was very good, and the film gives an overall positive message for us all (Hollywood style, but it feels great). Watch it with someone you love, or if you have a warm romantic heart.  "},{"Title":"If you're a fan of the actors, it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only saw this film because of Kevin Bacon and Jennifer Aniston both being in it. Not a huge fan of either of them, but nevertheless I thought it might be interesting to see Aniston (during the peak of Friends' popularity) crossing over into mainstream film. For the most part, it works.She's basically playing Rachel, her character from the TV show, again. Aniston's character is a shy, awkward business woman who isn't promoted due to the fact that she is considered unstable - no husband, family, etc. So she hires a fake boyfriend, Nick (Jay Mohr), to pose as her lover. She ends up winning the affections of a man she has a crush on in her office (Bacon), but then Nick begins to actually fall in love with her.The title derives from the fact that she works at a picture agency, and that's where a lot of the film's scenes take place. It gets a little weary after a while, and is very predictable - but if you're a fan of the actors, it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"Predictable but nice","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston is not really her Rachel from Friends but she comes close in Picture Perfect as Cate. I like her in Friends and I think because of that I liked her in this film.The story is even more predictable than movies as Notting Hill and Addicted to love, but I did like it. It is simple, it makes you feel good, there's no real bad guy or girl, there is some chemistry and we all know it will end very happy.You can like Aniston here, or may be you don´t because she is too much Rachel. I liked her because she is. Kevin Bacon was a little disappointing in a role that might be too easy for him and you will like Jay Mohr. If you want to feel good and sleep with a nice feeling, you might want to watch this. 6/10. "},{"Title":"One star away from awful","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *** contains spoilers *** I watched this as an Instant Play on Netflix. I enjoy the romantic comedy genre, so I gave it a shot.I won't say that Picture Perfect was completely awful because I did watch it all the way through. I will say that this film paints humanity in an ugly light.Kate is utterly self-centered, showing the total lack of awareness of others. The entire film is predicated on the decisions she makes out of her self-centeredness. Even the happy ending depends on Kate's lack of awareness for anyone else but herself. It doesn't occur to her that she's ruining a stranger's wedding because she can't wait 30 minutes to get out her apologies. The film's writer insults the viewer by assuming that because Kate manages a few tender moments while she's being selfish, we then are supposed to be endeared to her.Nick shows no dignity for his own self. The more he gets to know the self-centered Kate, the more he falls in love with her?? She insults him with her proposal, she is disrespectful and rude to him, she shows weak moral character by her affair with a colleague who is using her for thrill-sex... and yet, he professes that he likes her more and more. The viewers are expected to endear ourselves to him too.Kate's colleague, played by Kevin Bacon, only sleeps with women who are married or otherwise committed. Enough said.Kate's boss only shows his female staff respect based on whether or not they are stable, which in this case is determined by whether or not Kate is showing signs that she's in a committed relationship.Kate's friend encourages her to lie and cheat in order to fool her boss into thinking she's stable.Kate's mom is portrayed as an overbearing mother whose self-worth depends on the constant reassurance that her daughter cares about her.Kate's other work colleagues are portrayed as gossip-mongering and thoughtless.Don't be tempted to watch this. Whether it's intended or not, the film ends up being a commentary about the inherent selfishness of and lack of self-dignity in humanity. "},{"Title":"Perfect example of why we now have an economic depression","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A consistent homage to all the 'values' that have brought the credit crunch to the USA and UK.Selfishness and shallowness portrayed as acceptable and lovable characteristics.The underlying theme being that it is fine to lie, cheat, get into debt, deceive your closest friends and it will all work out fine - as long as you really really want whatever it is you are prepared to lie, cheat and deceive about.A career woman, uses a nice person, a stranger she meets at a wedding, shows no interest in him as a human being and despite saying 'I don't want you to feel like a thing' goes on to treat him exactly as a 'thing'. A prop to help her get what she wants.What she wants is to sleep with a serial womaniser, to get promotion and higher pay and that's about it really.Then when she gets them she decides they aren't as shiny as she thought they'd be and wants the 'thing/stranger/wedding guy' to be her permanent plaything instead.She still has no idea about him as a person other than he took the time to get to know her (and for some incomprehensible reason given her behaviour and lack of any redeeming characteristics) and bought her a watch to replace one she lost as a child.Yet based on this tenuous reason she admits the subterfuge to her bosses and risks her job. Given she has already decided the job isn't all that great - it isn't that much of a sacrifice.Then the 'new improved' female gatecrashes a strangers wedding, risks the business of her intended 'plaything' by ensuring he will be remembered as the guy who ruined his clients wedding by being stalked by a nut job.For some reason this selfish, irresponsible act endears the used, abused 'plaything' guy so that he agrees to be 'the one' for her - kiss, kiss, end of film.The main guy character has in effect fallen in love with a selfish, controlling, manipulative, scheming narcissist and signed up to be treated badly until she finds something more shiny to distract her in the future.So given how stupid a lot of people are that bit is probably true to life at least.But touching, funny, heart warming - no it isn't. "},{"Title":"Better than it has any right to be","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is yet another romantic comedy that wants to get by on charm rather than anything genuinely funny or romantic, but surprisingly, for the most part, it does.  Part of that is due to the fact that everyone in the cast is likable, particularly Jennifer Anniston, who I'm not a big fan of, and Jay Mohr, who I like but aside from JERRY MAGUIRE haven't seen much of.  Also, director Glenn Gordon Caron may be working with an outrageous concept, as most romantic comedies these days do, but he tries to keep it grounded, which is nice.  I'd recommend it more except I hated the ending; not for who she ends up with, but how. "},{"Title":"This was a horrible and unrealistic movie!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoiler) This was a terrible movie.  Along with absolutely unrealistic characters there was an awful plot.  The characters all were horrible people. The main character, Kate, was a very superficial, manipulative caricature of a modern working woman. The only good character,  Nick,was a nice person, but completely spineless and gullible.  In what would have been the only intelligent point in the movie, he backed down from doing the right thing and wimped out. One of the worst parts was near the end when Kate totally ruined a couple's wedding to apologize to Nick, who was taping the wedding. When she was done ruining the wedding, all of the guests and the people getting married clapped for them!!! Now please tell me when this happens in real life! I wouldn't waste your time and money watching this movie, unless you like to see selfish people hurt other people's feelings. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect!","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picture Perfect is my favourite Jennifer Aniston movie. Of course, we all know her as Rachel from Friends and that's probably the way it will always be. The same with the rest of the Friends cast. (There's absolutely nothing wrong with that though. Friends is the BEST.) I guess, that's why she's been type-casted for the last few years and why most of her films are of a romantic-comedy nature. Still, even though not many of them do very well on release, (That will change soon though.) she still does a good job in all of them, including this one.Picture Perfect is about Kate, (Jennifer Aniston.) a woman who really can't find love. She does fancy her work colleague Sam, (Kevin Bacon.) but he doesn't really seem interested in her, as she is with him. One day Kate is at a friends wedding and she meets Nick (Jay Mohr.) who is there to film the wedding. They have a chat, have there picture taken together and that's about it. Until, one day at work, Kate's friend Darcy, (Illeana Douglas.) tells everyone that Kate is engaged to Nick, so Kate can get promoted at her work. Everyone obviously believes it, so now it's up to Kate to ask Nick, if he can pretend to be her fiance, for a while and then later on in the 'relationship' they will have a break up in front of everyone . Nick agrees to do this. The only thing is Nick ends up falling for Kate and whilst Kate is 'seeing him,' she ends up sleeping with the guy she fancied in the first place, Sam. He seems to want her now, she's with someone.The story in the movie is a little unbelievable, but so what, it's a just a movie and it's a very enjoyable one too. It has one of those stories, where you can guess what's going to happen at the end straight away. Jennifer Aniston, Kevin Bacon and Jay Mohr are all great here too. So, if you fancy seeing a romantic comedy (If you've already seen, classic movies like, Sleepless In Seattle and You've Got Mail, etc.) then Picture Picture is the one for you. I rate Picture Perfect an 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Picture Perfect today. I was expecting an okay movie, nothing special. But the movie I watched wasn't okay. It was GREAT. I'm one of those people that usually stops a movie midway because I'm bored of it. I didn't even want to get up because I was so into the movie.The movie is basically about Kate who works for a advertising company. Her boss basically says to her that she can't get this promotion because she doesn't have a husband. So Kate and her friend created this crazy plan to pretend that Kate is engaged to a guy she actually barely knows. What happens after that is very exciting and you'll have to watch the movie to find out.Now I have heard a lot of people say that this movie was predictable. During the entire movie, I had no idea what was going to happen. I guess some people are just good at figuring out that kind of stuff? Well this movie was very good. I recommend it to anyone. It's a great Saturday night film. =) "}{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston is wonderfully funny & touching in a nice romantic comedy","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate (Jennifer Aniston) is a rising star at a big advertising company. Nevertheless, when she receives no credit for a winning ad, Kate seeks advice. The buzz is that, because she is not married or does not have a family, the company is reluctant to promote her, thinking she might jump ship in the future. Shortly after learning this, Kate attends a wedding and asks Nick, a gentleman she meets there, to play the part of her fiancé for a spell. Now, Kate is taken more seriously when she brings Nick along to company functions. Will there be any promotions or romantic complications in her future? This has got to be one of the best movies Aniston ever made. She is adorable and funny, she looks like a dream, and she handles the serious moments of the film with ease. Jay Mohr turns in a very likable performance as Nick and Kevin Bacon charms the audience in a lesser role. The plot was fun at full speed and the script has many memorable lines. If you are an aficionado of romance films, told with humor, and you love women with beauty, brains, and Buster Keaton's comic timing, don't hesitate to seek out this film while it may be found. "},{"Title":"A Decent Rom-Com!","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Glenn Gordon Caron's 'Picture Perfect' is A Decent Rom-Com, that entertains. Also, Jennifer Aniston & The Ever-Amazing Kevin Bacon give spirited performances.'Picture Perfect' Synopsis Kate is working on a career at Mercer Advertising but is passed up for promotion because she's not stable enough, still being single and having no ties to the company. A story is made up about her being engaged to Nick, a guy whom she just met at a friend's wedding, and all seems to work out well for Kate. She even gets the attention of a colleague she had always wanted, but events soon take a dramatic turn.'Picture Perfect' begins & ends on a light note. Being a Rom-Com, this 1997 flick offers good humor & breezy moments. Glenn Gordon Caron's Direction is good.As mentioned before, Jennifer Aniston & The Ever-Amazing Kevin Bacon give spirited performances. Aniston makes a lovable protagonist, while Bacon once again proves, that he can never disappoint. Another likable performance comes from Jay Mohr.On the whole, 'Picture Perfect' isn't perfect, but a decent & light film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. I thought it was very charming and well acted by Moore and Anniston. The story of a woman who has almost everything she wants, held back in her career because she doesn't fit the profile of the other executives to upon the advice of a friend she creates a fictitious husband. She coaches Nick (moore) to know everything about her so that when they meet with the big bosses they will be believable as an engaged couple. The ruse is that they are to have a big fight at this business dinner so that she can go on with her life as a single person, but portray herself to her company as someone who is destined for marriage and a more stable life.Of course this all goes awry when Moore falls for her and tells her he does not want to go through with the plan and break up and perhaps they should give each other a shot for real. She is not happy about this and decides that she's going through with her plan with or without Nicks cooperation. He sees she's not backing down so he helps her go through with the plan and it is a success.What troubled me about this story although very cute was his insistence that she was a manipulator and acted as if he was a victim. While I don't think it's very nice to use people in the way that she used him she DID tell him all about it in advance and gave him the chance to say yes or no. He opted to help her, but clearly he just wanted a chance to get closer to her and had no real intention of following through with the fake breakup. He just wanted a chance to be with her.So while it followed all the rules of the Hollywood formula I found it a bit unfair and manipulated myself. "},{"Title":"So sweet!!!!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only have two words to say Kevin Bacon! He gives depth to a character that most actors would have made quite shallow and far less interesting. While watching this movie I realized that Mr Bacon is not only a great actor (which I already knew), but he is also very, very attractive! And the movie was so incredibly sweet, that I kept smiling the entire evening! -)  "},{"Title":"Charming Romantic Comedy","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie mainly because I like the romantic comedies.  Okay, they all tend to be predictable and the scenario is fairly typical - girl wants bad boy, meets nice boy, doesn't want him, but he wins in the end. However, if you enjoy charming little movies this will probably appeal and the characters add to the charm of the movie, and were perfectly played by Jennifer Aniston, who seems to excel at the quirky working girl, and Jay Mohr as Nick, who gave a convincing performance of the geeky but kind hearted soul.  My favorite scenes were the dinner party and the gift of the watch which was particularly heart warming.  The ending was great too.  If you like a bit of escapism you will enjoy watching this movie.   "},{"Title":"It's a perfect Friday-Night Film - relaxing, unwinding, undemanding.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story has real potential - girl invents fiancé for career reasons, has to produce him on a social occasion,  the guy she pays to fill the role falls for her, etc.etc . - but once it becomes evident from way out that it's abandoning any subtlety and heading for the happiest of Happy Endings, all you can do is sit back and enjoy its charm. In that sense, it's a perfect Friday-Night Film - relaxing, unwinding, undemanding. A small success - which could have been a bigger one. I'd not seen Jennifer Aniston before (WHAT!!! What planet have you been living on !!!), and I was impressed by her comic acting. She has a great range of facial expressions that she controls and times perfectly. Kevin Bacon is wasted in a silly role. Why do actors of his talents accept such thankless parts! (Well, he can enjoy the bedroom scenes with J. Aniston, I suppose . . .). Oh, incidentally, poor Jennifer has to suffer some of the worst dresses you're ever likely to see in a glossy fillum. Watch out for the cleavage-disaster that they inflict on her for her most glamorous outing.  "},{"Title":"A sweet charmer","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first and best of Jennifer Aniston's string of comedies. She is sprightly and charming and the film light and airy. What really carries this over and makes it better than the host of pale films that have come after is Jay Mohr. He is ingratiating and sweet, he has always been better as sweethearts although he can play a jerk well, and the chemistry between the two of them is much better than she has shared with most of her other leading men. A high grade supporting cast adds to the pleasure of this, Olympia Dukakis is a delight as Jennifer's brassy mom, the always dependable Ileana Douglas fun as her friend, Kevin Bacon has a snarky charm as the office gigolo and Kevin Dunn offers a nice turn as her boss. "},{"Title":"Hardly an Original Story, but Aniston is a Pleasure in her Metre","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" PICTURE PERFECT is truly a bit of fluff, a story that has been posed many times before in other successful date movies, a movie that would easily be dismissed were it not for the reminder that Jennifer Aniston has a finely honed sense of comic timing that keeps her in the top of the league for actresses in this metre today.Aniston plays a career conscious young woman who hires a wedding photographer to pose as her boyfriend in order to test the interest of a man who has caught her eye and demonstrate to her company her degree of commitment to her job. It all backfires the poser is the one she falls for and her priorities are reset. The cast includes the under-used Jay Mohr, a wasted role for Kevin Bacon, and only slight nods to the talents of actors such as Olympia Dukakis and Illeana Douglas. But Aniston is a joy to watch, even with a flimsy script and despite a series of 'costumes' that detract from her very natural beauty. The story is so derivative that it may offend the senses, but if an evening of fluff is salve for your tired brain, this excursion will fill the bill. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"So out of touch with reality, it might resemble something created by alien beings...","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Desperately-single advertising employee, who apparently lands all the biggest accounts for the firm based on her sheer talent and drive, is passed over for a promotion because she lives her life like a college student; her gal-pal invents a fiancée for her friend, but soon this unkissed honeybunch has to pony up her non-existent boyfriend for a big dinner with the boss. Picture Perfect wasn't made to be thought-provoking or insightful--it exists purely to charm and amuse. Unfortunately, there's nothing charming nor amusing about the central idea in this witless script (that a woman who isn't married isn't taking her life seriously, and is therefore not a likely candidate for better pay at work). Jennifer Aniston struggles with creating a character out of absolutely nothing; she has a few nice, quiet moments, but her big scenes fall flat because the writing and directing are so bad. Jay Mohr, as a video-photographer for weddings, probably comes off the best here, even though there are no romantic sparks between him and Aniston (they seem more like brother and sister). Once again, Illeana Douglas is wasted in a second-banana role (she begins the movie calling the shots but then simply evaporates); Kevin Bacon has it even worse in a himbo role (and his long hair looks really unprofessional for an account executive in New York City!). The production values and technical aspects of the film are passable, yet the sitcom set-up renders the picture utterly false. Aniston comes up with an ad campaign to put Cindy Crawford together with a bottle of mustard--but we never get to see the visual results of this! Director and co-writer Glenn Gordon Caron acts like he's working for the Lifetime Network. No wonder 20th Century-Fox pretty much threw this one away. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The best thing about this movie was the end","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was going to give this movie a 6 but I thought the end was so well done that I gave it that one extra point. As a movie as a whole there isn't much that stands out from other movies, but I thought that the ending was cool and it was that which stuck in my mind.Basically the movie is about a girl who wants to get ahead but seems to be too picky about her men. As such, the good jobs are out of reach and the guy she likes is not interested because she is not married. So, when people see a photo of her sitting on a man's lap, she seizes upon the opportunity to say that he is her fiancé. Things start to turn around, until they decide to meet him, so she tries to arrange with him to break off their relationship, but unfortunately he falls in love with her, and she realises that he is actually quite a nice guy.I guess there are a couple of things that stick out here. The main thing is in regards to what the boss says at the beginning of the movie. Basically the company is only interested in promoting you if you are a safe investment - namely you will not run off to another company because they give you a better offer, so what they do is encourage you to marry, buy an expensive house and an expensive car, so that you are such in debt that you need to keep the job.It seems more a safeguard for the corporation than for the person involved, because if they stuff up badly then they loose their job and are in deep thickets because they are no longer on such a great income. I guess it also says that a little white lie to get ahead is okay, but in reality it is not. Once one begins to live a lie, or get trapped in a fantasy world, then when reality hits home, you cannot handle it.This movie is okay, and the ending is great, but unfortunately some of the moralistic overtones simply suck. "}{"Title":"Bright Cast","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Glenn Gordon Caron, Picture Perfect is a predictable, everyday romantic comedy that is lifted above the drudgery by the movie's bright cast alone.Jennifer Aniston is a fresh, enjoyable movie newcomer. She plays well the frustrated career woman who can't get her job or her relationships sorted out. Jay Mohr is the nice guy who tapes weddings for a living and Kevin Bacon is the sleazy Sam, a guy who sticks to unavailable women to avoid commitment. Likable support from Ileana Douglas, Olympia Dukakis (though not at her best) and Kevin Dunn.Tuesday, April 25, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"nice moments in a cut-above romcom","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It may be unfair to label Picture Perfect a RomCom. It certainly sits at the less frivolous, more acutely observed end of the spectrum within the genre. There are some small but brilliant moments here, mostly to do with rom rather than com. When Aniston attends the wedding and the bouquet is to be thrown, she steps forward to find herself the only single woman in the room. It is quite poignant, and her retort - Oh, just hand me the damn thing! - plays the scene out beautifully. The fight in the restaurant, when it does come, is a masterclass in infusing sub-text into dialogue. Aninston holds it all together with ease, Kevin Bacon is superbly vacuous as the office beefcake, and Jay Mohr does a decent shift, especially when called upon to hint at deeper feelings for career-driven Kate. The ending reverts to by-the-numbers RomCom proceedings, but there is enough in the build-up to have you give up some smiles and tears that you'll feel the film earned. "},{"Title":"1997 movie capitalizing on Anniston's 'Friends' popularity.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though she was merely a TV star in the ensemble cast of 'Friends', Jennifer Aniston is a naturally good actress. Here she plays Kate Mosley, single and thrifty, dressing very conservatively, NY grad student style, but working very successfully for an advertising company. In fact, she comes up with the new approach to advertise Gulden's, the number two mustard on the market.But Kate is on the fast track to nowhere, because she doesn't act and dress the part. She isn't married and isn't deep in debt, so there is nothing keeping her attached to the company. And, why should her boss give her more responsibility and risk her leaving for another job, running off with some clients? So Kate hatches a plan with the encouragement of her good friend. She had met Nick (Jay Mohr) quite by accident at a wedding reception where Nick was filming. They had a photo taken, and Kate decides to represent him as her fiancée, as a way to get her bosses to give her recognition she earned. Things go bad when Nick shows up and actually likes her. Kate has career on her mind, so she just wants Nick to do his job and get lost.SPOILERS FOLLOW. Kate finally realizes that perhaps relationship is more important, and she tells her boss and coworkers about her sham fiancée. She goes to Massachusetts to find Nick, and they become destined to end up together, while her boss appears ready and willing to forgive her indiscretions when he fully realizes she did everything to try and fit in at her company. "},{"Title":"Homage or dated?","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***What struck me about this film is the whole premise.  Have things really changed so much from 1997 that in 2004 I can't believe that one's employers really give a darn about their employee's marital and financial status? Forget about the ethics, there are laws about this stuff!The only way a woman can get a promotion in an ad agency is to get engaged? Coworkers and bosses actually care about this?  Maybe if the film had been made in 1937 I could buy this. "},{"Title":"Perfect in every way","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great showcase of the talent that is Jennifer Aniston. Initially she was the only reason I saw the movie, but I loved the story from the first time I saw it. It is very well paced, and is easy to get into. A good soundtrack as well, and you have a movie that is impossible to dislike. "},{"Title":"Sweet enough","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So this film made me cry - but when you consider that I cried when the villain died in 'Beauty & The Beast', this is no great feat.For a 'romantic comedy', this film is almost dramatically unfunny. I barely even sniggered. But I still liked it - this is possibly due to the fact I'm a sucker for romance (and awwwww Jay Mohr's character is soooo sweet!) and I like Jennifer Aniston (but what is going on with her clothes and make-up in this film?!). The acting is pretty solid, with all the cast quite likable, but hmmmm... plot-wise - well, where was it really?! And as for the ending!After all that build-up, it is such an anti-climax!Still, it's one of those films that's hard to dislike with any real vigour because there's so little to it. Instantly forgettable, yet sweet all the same.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't worth a buck","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As tonight is the night of the  last Friends episode, I was reminded  that this pic existed. I saw it back  in 1997 or 1998, or went to see it...  and walked out after 20 minutes. No  characters to identify with, no  significant plot... fortunately, it  was at the second-run dollar theatre  at the time. Rated it a 3, and  that's purely out of charity. "},{"Title":"Run of the proverbial mill","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty run of the mill, slightly above average film. It engages the viewer and keeps them guessing to an extent. It's a likeable film & one which you cannot hate. On the bad side however Kevin Bacon - a good actor - is dreadfully mis cast as both the playboy heart throb type and in a comedy, neither of which suit him. Nor should the man in charge of the costumes ever work again. Some of Anistons outfits were hideous.A low 6/10 "},{"Title":"Strangely familiar","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alternative title, The 105 minute Friends episode with Kevin Bacon in it.  Jennifer Anniston plays the same part (superficially charming bimbo bitch) as she always does, which is a shame as I really suspect there's a versatile actress in there struggling to get out.  I'm sure she'll quit starving herself into ever tighter dresses, and pick a decent character role soon.  Hopefully she'll make the switch before her cleaving re-arranging affectations becomes sad and tired rather than cute and winning.Kevin Bacon either read a different script than the one they actually used, or he owed big money to the wrong people, because he's badly underused in this film.  The rest of the competent cast say their lines and try not to trip over the furniture, but they're also not given much material to work with.It's not funny, and Anniston's character is too fundamentally horrid for it to be romantic.  So what is it?  105 minutes of fairly harmless backdrop, I suppose, but not anything you'd actually sit down to watch given the choice of anything better. "},{"Title":"somewhere between awful and dreadful","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting a great movie, but something that was enjoyable.  What i got was a script that was a complex mess which was unfunny.  Well, Ok I laughed once at something but by the end I couldn't remember what. JA's character is terrible, in this type of movie you should feel some sympathy and liking towards it.  I thought her character was arrogant, calculating and a person I really wouldn't want to cross the street to help if she dropped her shopping. I am glad I saw this on satelitte and could periodically walk out to get a cup of tea, anything to break up the tedium..... "}{"Title":"A Star in the Making","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After spying Jay Mohr in Jerry Maguire I was interested to see how he would fair in a romantic comedy. After watching 'Picture Perfect' I have to say that I was blown away by his superb performance. Whilst Kevin Bacon's character lacked substance, Jay Mohr created a guy, that even I fell in love with. Never in any movie have I ever seen anyone with as sincere a set of eyes as Jay did. It is enough to make one's legs turn into slush!! He is surely a star in the making.She may not win an Academy award but Jennifer's performance was solid, if not far from her role as Rachel in 'Friends. One thing that I love though was her gorgeous wardrobe!! "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, and I loved it!!","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of Jennifer Aniston's first good films, that actually does her justice. She is not Rachel Greene from Friends, she has some characteristics of that spoiled girl from long isle off the sitcom, but also has some added bitchiness, and overall sweetness too her. The cast fits the film so well, and makes the movie what it is, I also loved how new and winding the storyline was. I laughed so hard in some parts, and was sitting up straight on my couch thinking what else is this women (Aniston's character) going to get into? in others. I won't leave a summary of the movie, because there are already good one's out there, or you could just look at the back on the movie/DVD case. This is a movie about a women basically using two men to get what she's wants, too make her life what she thinks will be perfect but she realizes that reality is much better. In 2005 a new film much like this one came out called The Wedding Date and I was disappointed in it, because they stole Picture Perfect's storyline. I was pleased with this one, and you will be too. "},{"Title":"A light hearted, well balanced movie.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picture perfect is the kind of movie that can be watched no matter what mood or frame of mind you happen to be in. Many movies hold the problem that the viewer has to be in a certain mood to enjoy the film and get the most out of it - in this case, this does not apply. You simply have to put aside the serious side of your life for an hour and half and join the characters in a charming story of love, life and success!Jennifer Aniston puts in a convincing performance as the independent and determined Kate Mosley, and Jay Mohr plays the sweet and lovable Nick. Both of these stars fit perfectly into this movie and truly bring it to life.I received this movie as a gift from a friend and after the first time I saw it I was hooked... I have now seen it many, many times and it still captures my imagination and my heart.Contrary to popular belief - you don't have to be a slushy romantic at heart or even a Jennifer Aniston fan to enjoy this movie. With that in mind I strongly recommend Picture Perfect to anyone and everyone!  "},{"Title":"Really dull","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take nice-looking characters and direct them in super slo-mo, and you have Picture Perfect. Some of the scenes--e.g., the one in the restaurant to meet Kate's fiancé--might have been funny, but the leaden direction turned them deadly dull. Skip this one and look for something else. "},{"Title":"SO bad, worse jennifer aniston film","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a total waste of time. there is no chemistry whatsoever between Nick and Kate (the two main characters). the story is predictable and the couples are so awkward. I would rather watch some totally meaningless action movies and go to bed. For the sake of people who haven't watched this film. please take my advice and leave this page right now. Thanks.(By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph.) "},{"Title":"Not Picture Perfect.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Picture Perfect (1997) Dir Glenn Gordon Caron / Cast Jennifer Aniston, Jay Mohr, Kevin Bacon, Olympia Dukakis, Kevin Dunn Romantic comedy about expectations fooled by false representations of self. It stars Jennifer Aniston as an advertising executive who invents the picture perfect date in order to advance her career. She pays Jay Mohr to have dinner with her and her co-workers. She has everything figured out right down to how they act and know about each other. Mohr obviously doesn't want to follow the plan. Standard formula romance that is never given justice. Director Glenn Gordon Caron does his best with its lavish settings but the performances are at the mercy of the material. Aniston is hardly sympathetic. Mohr is introduced as a local hero who is schemed into this idiocy by Aniston. He falls for her and she sabotages him. Kevin Bacon plays a co-worker whom she has an affair with. Olympia Dukakis is also featured as if it matters. Kevin Dunn plays Aniston's boss whose role is to predictably to discredit her. It could have demonstrated how selfish ambition can damage reputations but instead it is subdued in sitcom romantic clichés that water down any meaning. It is not funny to see a reputation of an honest person get damaged while some bimbo seeks to progress through the situation with higher job status. The screenplay is far from perfect. Score 3 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Romcom with Jennifer Aniston -- not bad, but not great either","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While 1997's Picture Perfect wasn't Jennifer Aniston's first movie, it was her first starring role. She plays Kate, a talented ad executive in New York City who's passed up for promotion because her boss (Kevin Dunn) thinks she's not dependent enough on the company to be reliable in the long-term. In other words, she's single and doesn't own a home, etc. Her best friend (Illeana Douglas) encourages her to fake an engagement to a guy she barely knows from Boston, Nick (Jay Mohr), and then stage a break-up after she gets promoted. Meanwhile, Kevin Bacon lurks in the background as the office lothario.Jennifer proves that she has what it takes to carry a major film, no sweat; it's just that the movie in question is mediocre. Actually, I thought the first hour was quite amusing for a romcom, but after the big staged break-up it got dull as a certain character does some serious soul-searching. However, the cast is fine and I think Picture Perfect would be appreciated more by fans of 'chick flicks' and Aniston. Bacon is excellent as the bad boy, but Kate's just too good for him, literally. There is a good lesson at the end and I liked the boss' honest response to a certain person's confession.The film runs 105 minutes and was shot in New York City and nearby West Orange, New Jersey.GRADE C "},{"Title":"bland rom-com","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate Mosley (Jennifer Aniston) is 28 year old working single girl. Darcy (Illeanna Douglas) is her best gal pal and boss. Sam (Kevin Bacon) is a sleazy co-worker who thinks she's too nice to date. She comes up with a pitch for the new big account but she gets left off the team. Her mom Rita (Olympia Dukakis) is itching for grandkids. She meets videographer Nick (Jay Mohr) working at her friend's wedding. The firm's boss Mercer (Kevin Dunn) thinks she's not settled enough so Darcy makes up a lie about Kate and Nick. Mercer gives her a promotion. Sam starts looking at her differently. Kate has to make up all kinds of lies about Nick. Nick becomes a big hero and Kate needs him for to help cover for her lies.None of the jokes work well if one can call any of them actual jokes. Aniston is charismatic enough for the single gal rom-com. The story is rather bland. There is no snap in the dialog. There is nothing terribly wrong with this movie other than that there is nothing terribly interesting here. Director Glenn Gordon Caron has given very little and seems to be relying on Aniston's charms. She's not good enough to carry this whole movie without any help. The other problem is that she and Jay don't spend a lot of quality time together until 42 minutes. The chemistry doesn't get developed enough. The good news is that they seem like a perfectly likable couple but that's not enough. "},{"Title":"Picture this","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Glenn Gordon Caron has good form with romantic comedy caper type films as creator of the television series, Moonlighting. In Picture Perfect Jennifer Aniston is Kate working in an ad agency with a thing for work colleague Kevin Bacon, who only goes out for women with commitments such as being married in order to avoid commitments himself.One day Kate's friend tells everyone at the office that Kate is engaged to Jay Mohr in order to get promotion at work. Jay is a photographer she met earlier at a wedding and now she needs to convince him to pretend to be her fiancé.Over time Jay falls for her although once she is seen to be attached Kevin Bacon finally makes a mover for her.There is a horrible odour of deceit in the plotting of this film. Both Bacon and Aniston play nasty, self centred people with only Jay Mohr playing a decent character and he is the only one who uplifts the film thanks to the actors subtle and sincere performance. "},{"Title":".. . like a great wine..  takes aging","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of 'America's Sweethearts'.. here she's 28 years old, at her charming best. She has great acting skills, too many times not fully evidenced in the films in which she's appearing. These rom-com's are okay, but now, in her mid 40's, and how many has she done.. almost all copies one way or another of each other. Not to say she hasn't done some very challenging work, but here in this film, now 17 years old, she again shows nuances of great acting skills.. to my mind lost in what is just another mediocre script. Many would disagree, as is their right. She's not going anywhere.. she'll be around for quite a long time.. maybe it will change as she gets older. Personal opinion.. we've yet to repeatedly see the depth of just how good an actor she truly is. "}{"Title":"Mediocre, with 'Americo-centric' morals","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Coming to this movie with an open mind&#x85; and with a wife who is rather partial to anything soppy and romantic! - knew I was in for one of those 'bog-standard' americanized ham-fisted attempts at romantic comedy&#x85; and in that respect I wasn't disappointed.I have never been over-awed with Jennifer Aniston - yes, I don't deny she is attractive and appealing - but her on-screen performances always leave me non-plussed; she is invariably agreeable and wants to be 'likeable' and maybe it is that desire to please that I find objectionable? in the end her performance is woolly as she blends in to the 'public consensus of moral opinion and social atmosphere' of the day.In terms of that 'social atmosphere' this movie is very much a reflection of American values - or lack thereof; permissive attitudes, selfishness disguised by ingratiation, and capitalistic corporate obeisance.As is so often the case (with American movies), they just do not get subtlety, nuance - or comedy for that; this movie resembles - or tries to emulate - the great British romantic comedies such as Four Weddings&#x85; except without the charm, class, appeal, pace, sympathetic characters, attractive setting - or comedic relief!No wonder I was only watching this because it was part of a multi-movie compilation DVD.and sorry Jen - I much prefer ANY Sandra Bullock movie. "},{"Title":"Picture Imperfect","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm pretty sure that the title was created before the plot, because the plot is a bit forced. Kate (Jennifer Aniston) works in advertising but can't really progress in her job because everybody else has a nice stable marriage and a house of their own, and she's unlucky in love and still staying with her mother. Her good girl image is also a turn off for her sexy adulterous boss, Sam (Kevin Bacon). So when a friend sees a photo of her taken at a friend's wedding with a friend of the groom's, she concludes that the two are a couple. Kate then invents a fictitious engagement to the man, Nick, (Jay Mohr)who she had never met before the wedding. It impresses her colleagues and bags her Sam. Kate pays Nick to pose as her fictitious man but her plan gets screwed up a little when he falls in love with her.I know that the advertising industry might be concerned with the 'image' of employees but I doubt that they would imply that being single and living with your mother meant that you had no career path. I'm pretty sure that you could sue for the implication that your love life and where you live prevents you from promotion. Anyway, the opposite tends to be true- the married couples are likely to leave and have children. Also, Kate must earn enough to get her own flat and surely if she's worked up to a good position in the company, she's got a bit of independence and drive? She seems to have quite a few psychological issues.Jennifer Aniston acquits herself well in a movie that probably is just a vehicle for her. Though if you don't think much of her, this film probably won't change your opinion. Kevin Bacon is actually quite good as Sam- and he makes a nice bit of eye candy, of course (though the hair is BAD). Jay Mohr doesn't have that much to do but he plays the cardboard cut-out nice guy quite sweetly.As I said previously, the plot has holes but in formulaic rom-coms this is sort of expected. However the comedy in this film is intermittent. It starts off as lightly amusing but this is abandoned for a more serious romantic tone (it's rather depressing in places as well), which spoils the fun a little, seeing as both Bacon and Aniston show that they could have handled a rom-com script. The soundtrack/score is pretty dull and a bit dated as well.If you're in the mood for a soppy non-taxing romance, this would do the job, and if you like the leading actors, it's worth a watch. If you like Maid in Manhatten, you'll probably like this as well (probably more). But if you're looking for a light rom-com, you might be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Easy-going, glossy romcom","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Aniston vehicle, released at the very height of Friends' success on telly. It's a sunny, back-to-front romcom after Green Card, for example, in which Kate (Aniston) uses a guy she meets at a wedding to advance her career. Like most men on the planet, Jay Mohr's Nick can't simply play the attendant fiancé though and the complications bring things to a head, nicely resolved in one of the least likely, contrived, wedding-themed conclusions I've seen in this kind of flick. Mad.Illeana Douglas and Kevin Douglas are the stalwart, bankable support and Mohr is capably riding the surf of being the chief antagonist of predecessor Jerry Maguire. The film is all about Aniston though. She's a good actress giving the flimsy conceit some body. Speaking of body, she's also sufficiently aware of her own appeal to wear a second-act dress a size too small, as well as no bra in the denouement. Oh and Kevin Bacon's in it too. As I say, mad. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Average Aniston movie","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average Romantic Comedy that features Jenifer Aniston in her prime beauty. Story is not too unbelievable here but the screen writers managed to ruin the movie a bit by inserting the unlikely Wedding scenes in the last few minutes. Below average Script/Screenplay. Only for big fans of Romantic Comedies and Jenifer Aniston fans....... "},{"Title":"Gosh, Jennifer Aniston is cute!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this as the sunday night movie and switched it on to see my favourite 'friend' jennifer aniston.Picture perfect is perhaps more of a chick-flick (a romantic comedy), but I guess most guys would find it bareable. There is few times where you will laugh out loud, but you will find it as a cute, warm hearted, sunday night movie with a sweet ending. Good to watch for a quiet night in with your partner. The guys will wish that they were the lucky one that got to live in anistons apartment, and the girls will, in turn, like the look of the guys! (no relationship problems here, I hope!).Aniston is cute in this (a pity that the intimate scenes dont show more of her - quite a tease in fact!), and there is a sweet message throughout. Not a bad romantic comedy... but after watching it, guys might want to put on a James Bond film to come back to down to earth!! "},{"Title":"This is the best romantic comedy EVER","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies I have ever seen. It was funny, and romantic. I think that Jennifer Aniston did a great job in this movie and that she is one of the greatest actresses EVER! Kevin Bacon also was great in this movie. You really should watch this. You will be glad that you did! "},{"Title":"This movie is sure to brighten up a rainy day!","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lighthearted movie, the story opens with Jennifer Aniston (as Kate Mosley) making out on the couch with a date. As the story unravels, we see that she is an ambitious 28 year old New Yorker working for a fast paced advertising agency and still looking for 'her break' as it were. To further secure her position at the agency, Kate is thrown at the deep end by her well-meaning though slightly pretentious friend Darcy; also a colleague at work, who lets slip that Kate is engaged (when she isn't even seeing anyone!) Kate works overtime trying to convince her superiors at work that she is the right person for the job, whilst at the same time 'dressing for the part' by parading around Nick (a guy she met at a friend's wedding for barely an hour or two) played by Jay Mohr, as her fiance. Kevin Bacon also adds a devilish touch as a colleague whom Kate has a crush on, and who also has a fling with Kate thinking her 'hot' because she is 'engaged' to Nick. Though it sounds complex, the story is a simple one, and highly humorous moments are deftly added by Olympia Dukakis as Rita, Kate's mother. Definitely a movie I would recommend to any fan of the hit comedy friends.  "},{"Title":"slight and forgettable piece of fluff","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston is good on tv but so far her movies have left alot to be desired. This movie's story is boring and contrived and I never bought into it "},{"Title":"If you like 'Friends' than this is a terrific comedy for you.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like 'Friends' than this is a terrific comedy for you.  Jennifer Aniston carries the movie, but everyone is good.  Mom (Olympia Dukakis), Nick (Jay Mohr), and Sam (Kevin Bacon) are especially good in their roles. Among his other talents, Kevin Bacon is known for terrific cameos ('Plains, Trains, and Automobiles''Animal House', etc).  This is a little more than a cameo and Kevin does his usual best as Kate's unrequited love interest. Best if watched more than once. "},{"Title":"adorable, cute and not flimsy","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For some reason I really liked this movie because if you put yourself in Jennifer Aniston's shoes you start to get the goose bumps. I thought that Jay Mohr was lovable and makes you want to take him home to your mom.The only thing that bothered me was Jennifer Aniston's character's name. Did anyone else find it ironic that in The Cutting Edge the main character's name was also Kate Mosely (as was Picture Perfect)?   "}{"Title":"Cute, but forgettable","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very much in the mold of 'Friends stars' movies, Picture Perfect can best be described as cute but forgettable. I was surprised at how weak Kevin Bacon's role was 'though. As a character actor of some note, he did little for this movie. "},{"Title":"Picture Perfect Not Bad","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston makes her debut as a bona-fide leading lady in Picture Perfect, in which she plays a talented and charming advertising director named Kate Mosley -- and I do mean charming!  Fans of the divine Ms. Aniston will be head-over-heels for this film, watching the leggy knock-out parade around in a serious of provocative and hermetically-sealed outfits.  But guess what &#150; for as hot as Aniston is, life just ain't picture perfect!  The independent lil' lady can't advance up the corporate ladder because she's unattached and has no liabilities, meaning she has no responsibilities, meaning she could leave the firm at the drop of a dime.  On top of everything else, Kate, tired of dating an endless stream of losers, falls for bad-boy co-worker Sam Mayfair (Kevin Bacon), who unfortunately only dates `unavailable' woman and finds Kate `too nice.'Her colleague Darcy O'Neal (Illeana Douglas) invents a fictional fiancee for Kate based on a silly, random photo taken with a Bostonian named Nick (Jerry McGuire's Jay Mohr) at a wedding the week before.  She's only met him once, as he was videotaping the wedding.   Frustrated with everything, Kate reluctantly goes along with the harebrained scheme and gets her promotion, as well as her man, for the previously unavailable Sam is suddenly attracted to the now officially-unavailable Kate.When controlling factors force Kate into generating her fiancee, she hunts Nick down and hires him for one evening to pose as her beloved.  He agrees, and the two create a past history for their relationship, as well as a convenient break-up that will take place during a business dinner with her boss. The catch?  Nick falls in love with Kate, Kate unknowingly falls in love with Nick, and Nick becomes uncomfortable with the whole facade.  We, the audience, are forced to root for Joe Ordinary (Mohr) over Joe Cool (Bacon), knowing that his hapless, hayseed schtick is probably three yawns too tired for a city-slicker like Aniston's character.  I didn't think she should date either of them!  Still, contrived and all, it's a pretty good flick, and Aniston is always compelling as an actress (and not just as an object to ogle), mind the one scene where I fell completely out of sympathy with her for being such a crass bitch!  But she looked good being one...  "},{"Title":"Not bad, amusing but formula-type plot.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston appears to have quite successfully lost the friends tag with this film, and pulls off a successful performance opposite Kevin Bacon's cool support. Amusing and contrived, but before you know it you'll be enjoying it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but little else","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyable, but little else is a very fair summary of this film. It follows a very basic plot, with no twists but does so in a fun way.Sitting down to watch this on video my wife and I predicted the plot from the first few minutes, and so could focus on the way the portrayal of the characters happened.There is actually very little character development in this film, nice girl, good guy, bad guy, boss who ain't so bad by the end. All very stereotyped, but and this is a BIG BUT the flick moves in an altogether enjoyable way. Deep and meaningful it isn't, thought provoking ? again NOPE. Good way to spend a couple of hours on an evening by renting the video when you are not in a mood to go out certainly.In to 'Friends' go for this rather than 'Romy and Michelles High School Reunion', which I really felt was a waste on space.  "},{"Title":"You know what's funny? Not this movie...","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yep, that's it. Cold and hard. You can call this film 'sweet'. You can try to justify its existence through every possible way known to man. You can even claim that it's romantic, rather than dated, derivative and 'been there, done that'. Nothing will change the fact that this film simply is not funny. The humor is just not there. The chemistry between the cast is non-existent. The film reeks of 'could have been'. There's nothing funny about it. While I watched, I tried come up with things less amusing than this film; I couldn't think of a thing. Within the first thirty minutes or so, there's an ethnic wedding. Somehow, I felt that it was supposed to be funny, that I should laugh, but nothing about it was even remotely humorous. Early on, there's a scene where Aniston's character's boss tells her she needs to spend more money than she has if she wants a promotion. I couldn't help but be disgusted at this; in a country where a few people have almost all of the money and so many people have nothing at all, someone actually looks down who doesn't spend more than they need to. Worse even, this is passed off as humor. I felt like turning off the TV at that point, but due to my strong curiosity, in other words, my desire to find out if this garbage got any worse forced me to keep watching. Fortunately, it didn't, but I still couldn't muster up the effort to watch attentively after that first half hour. The plot is so stupid and far-fetched that it's almost a waste of space to put it in writing here, but I feel that I must warn others, deter them from watching this utter mess. Aniston, as just mentioned, can't get a promotion if she doesn't start spending more money. Her friend knows this, so she does what any sensible person would do for their best friend... she uses a big, fat lie to get her the promotion. She tells the boss that Aniston is engaged to be wed. Apparently, this also makes her attractive to a guy she's in love with... like I said, I didn't pay much attention to it. Not much else to say... the acting is fair. Jay Mohr(who I am a fairly big fan of, and because of whom I watched the film at all) does very good, as usual. The film isn't really worth watching, for any reason at all. I recommend this only to huge fans of one of the leads and girls who sob over even the most ridiculous love story. No one else should bother. 1/10 "},{"Title":"An unlikeable comedy","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A bland 'Green Card' rip-off with Jennifer Aniston as an advertising executive who ropes wedding videographer Jay Mohr into pretending to be her fiancé so she can appear more suitable for a big promotion, and into the bargain convince womaniser Kevin Bacon that she can be a bad girl so he'll sleep with her. We're supposed to sympathise with Aniston's character, so perhaps making her a selfish, manipulative schemer wasn't the best way of going about it; sure, she confesses to her bad points at the end of the film, but even then she interrupts a wedding to do it! The only spark to be found in this formulaic dross comes not from Bacon, as I expected, but Mohr, who somehow manages to flesh out his underwritten character. "},{"Title":"Anniston & Bacon  Held this Picture together","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are a big fan of Kevin Bacon,(Sam Mayfair),Apollo13,'95, and Jennifer Anniston,(Kate Mosley),Leprechaun,'93 you will certainly enjoy this very amusing and entertaining film about Kate Mosley who apparently has the hots for two men in her life and plays the real sexy role with both of them. Sam Mayfair gets really turned on with Kate and simply has to take her to the bedroom whenever he meets her face to face. Jennifer Anniston put her heart and soul into this film and Kevin Bacon was a great supporting actor. If you want to relax and enjoy the great acting of both these great actors, this is the film for you. However, the plot of the story is really way out, especially a scene during the Wedding of another couple and how the ceremony is almost destroyed. "},{"Title":"Just another Jennifer Aniston movie","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Picture Perfect (1997), directed by Glenn Gordon Caron, is a film that fails to live up to its--admittedly--modest potential. Jennifer Aniston plays Kate Mosley, who works in an ad agency. This in itself is hard to believe, because Kate is naive and unworldly, and advertising is not exactly a good fit for someone with those qualities. Anyway, she falls in love with the wrong guy, fails to recognize Mr. Right, etc., etc. The plot, unrealistic as it may be, is predictable from the start. The last scene in the movie is so unlikely that it makes the rest of the film seem to be cinema verite.Still, Aniston is charming and likable as a vulnerable woman surrounded by hard-bitten types. It's easy to overlook all the flaws in this movie and just watch it and go with the flow.Incidentally, if there were such an award as an anti-Oscar, it would go to costume designer Jane Robinson. At one point Aniston is told by the agency director to buy a new dress before attending an important party. Aniston arrives at the party in an ill-fitting outfit that makes her look like a hooker. Did Ms. Robinson ever hear of the little black dress? "},{"Title":"A little weak on humor.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With picture perfect you just wonder why the story which should be hilarious isn't funny. Actually it's kind of dull. I think the premise was good but what were supposed to be the movie's funnier aspects weren't funny. Hence, my attention wandered and I didn't really get into it like I wanted.I also think Anniston was miscast-there are many who would argue the role is similar to Rachel on Freinds and thats just the point. We've already seen this person-once a week for years-Anniston's a good actress and she should keep playing against type like good girl or even Her role in Bruce Almighty which was more sweet then funny. Here, it's just Rachel starring as herself-not Anniston's fault-the movie should also have been funnier-the idea was funny in itself and the scenes were a bit flat and forced when they could have been kooky and fresh. I wouldn't give this past a 5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Jen's hot...that's all that mattered.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picture Perfect is the story about the girl who hires a guy because she wants a guy who doesn't want any girl that's not attached.  Jay Mohr gets to play the hired dunce.  Kevin Bacon plays the cool dude who only digs chicks who have beaus.  Of course, Jennifer Aniston gets to play the girl in the middle.  Well, so the story unfolds.  Unfortunately for us, we don't really care about the characters because face it, even if Aniston and Bacon are in their corporate office, our real lives just might be more interesting. After all, the office gossip is sure more entertaining when its REAL rather than fictitious as here portrayed.  But the film has some appeal.  Mohr is a nice fit as Aniston's fake boyfriend until we begin to wonder, is she really that cruel after all?  Well...Jennifer Aniston is a babe.  And even if this and Object weren't prizes, its fun watching a hot brod for two hours on a screen rather than having to endure the not funny Carrot Top and Norm MacDonald.  That's this reporter's view anerhow. "}{"Title":"Uh, just a Jennifer Aniston flick.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find that all of Jennifer Aniston's films are pretty much the same.  If it weren't for her 'Friends' success, I would guess that she wouldn't have a whole lot of luck with her movie career in Hollywood.  'Picture Perfect' is a simple comedy that is somewhat entertaining, but nothing to brag about.Jennifer Aniston is a good actress.  I will admit that.  And the main reason that she is one is because of her TV fame.  Who cares, I like her, so whatever.  She does a great job in this role.  Well, I might want to tone it down a notch.  Jay Mohr is also pretty good.  I can't say that I like Mohr, but in the few films that I have seen him in, he was fairly decent.  Kevin Bacon, who has a very small role, is okay, I suppose.  Neither of the guys are fantastic, but they aren't that bad.  The plot is a little out there; it could use some work on.  Actually, it's particularly dumb, but I'm not that bored with it.  The writing is average.  Is it even supposed to be a comedy?  It is?  Well, it isn't too funny.  I really didn't laugh at all, come to think about it.  So, 'Picture Perfect' isn't bad or anything, it's just ho-hum.  If you like Aniston, what the heck, go out and rent this.  I would, however, recommend 'The Object of My Affection' as opposed to telling someone to see this.  They both have a little deja vu going on for me for some reason, but I'd say go see 'Object' instead of this. "},{"Title":"Above average romcom fare","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston is more than capable of pulling off the role required of her here - a character in the style favoured by many romcoms as their central figure, pretty and nice enough but a little self-centred, ready for the lesson in life that leads them into the happy relationship at the end. Though not adding much to the other movie and tv roles she has tried out, she stands up well and seems just as comfortable on the big screen as on the small. Splendid support is provided by more experienced movie players Kevin Bacon and Ileanna Douglas, and Jay Mohr is good enough as Bacon's nicer rival (mmm, who will win the day and the girl I wonder). A reasonable script provides just enough laughs, tension and romance to please most fans of the genre, and though it runs a little long the complex web Aniston weaves round herself is more than enough to keep the viewer's interest. Few superlatives here then, but there is little or nothing in this film deserving of criticism, which makes for a pleasant change in a genre that produces more than its fair share of stale, turgid clones. Well worth watching for the romcom crowd, and Aniston's fans will surely adore everysecond she's on the screen. "},{"Title":"Almost enjoyable but entirely forgettable","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost enjoyable but entirely forgettable with a big scene at the end which made me cringe, being a re-working of the Crocodile Dundee ending (which has been copied so many times now).  Jennifer Aniston plays a hysterical and less likeable version of her character in Friends.  Kevin Bacon is very weak in his role and completely unbelievable as a man that Jennifer would fall for.  This is probably billed as a romantic comedy but I found very little evidence of romance (particularly in Jennifer's role) although there were some humourous moments.  Worth watching if you're a couch potatoe, otherwise forget it! "},{"Title":"FUN & FUNNY","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This motion picture was a pleasant experience.  Spending time with one of the stars of the television program 'FRIENDS' was time well spent.  Jay Mohr and Kevin Bacon shine as potential suitors.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. Jennifer Aniston is a great actress. I think that this is one of the best movies I've seen. "},{"Title":"Picture Perfect","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read a little bit of the review for this film, and it did sound like something I might like, and I had my predictions of how the plot would go, so I gave it a shot. Basically at Mercer Advertising, single Kate Mosley (Jennifer Aniston) is trying to build up to a better career at the company, and even when suggesting a great and chosen idea for a campaign, isn't promoted. Then she finds a way to get the promotion she wants, when people see her in a photo with some guy at a wedding party, she never corrects anyone about being engaged to him. Kate's new and better career seems to be going great, and she is spending her money on lots of luxury and convenience, she even manages to bed her crush, Sam Mayfair (Kevin Bacon). But then her boss Mr. Mercer (Kevin Dunn) wants to meet the guy, Nick (Jay Mohr), and he manages to track him down, and pays him to go along with her plan to have dinner and meet everyone, and quickly break up. He is willing to go along with the plan at first, but it is obvious the few days before it happens, he develops real affection for her, and she is forced into making the break-up happen. Obviously they get back together again before he has to go away, but as is predictable, in the end she goes to a wedding he is filming, expresses her (real) feelings for him, and they have their happy ending hug and kiss. Also starring Steel Magnolias' Olympia Dukakis as Rita Mosley, Cape Fear's Illeana Douglas as Darcy O'Neil, Anne Twomey as Sela and Faith Prince as Mrs. Mercer. The story may be predictable mostly, and even on the preposterous side, but Aniston (in her days of Friends' success) is likable, and it is a good-natured romantic comedy. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Dark Side Of The Moon, is still an awesome album!","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When they make movies what is their purpose? If movies were like hamburgers I could just send this movie back to the kitchen, say,  Hey, cook it this time and don't drop it on the floor.  Customer Service, it's important. I don't want to buy a f*cked up hamburger. Let's take a step back, get some perspective- impossible billions of years unfolded without our knowing to have the end result of us here and now on planet Earth, and we are still without knowledge, and also we made this movie. Each of us had a hand in it, we kissed Jennifer Aniston's ass and we told her she should be in a movie and she agreed, and now, all the people who have been born after this movie was made, part of them was made by this movie, part of the reason why they were born is because of this movie, I mean if you want to look at the whole totality of existence thing what with all possible matter and energy in the universe being interconnected and whatnot. "}]