[{"Title":"Hokey, But Intense Man's Movie","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wow, this is an intense story that should keep you interested for the full two hours. The five main roles are all men and they are pretty interesting, led by Danny Glover's character, who is very, very creepy.I'm hesitant to say much about this film for fear of giving anything away for those who have not seen it. Suffice to say its a rough movie in regards to language, violence and general attitude but the story grabs you quickly and is tough to put down once you are into it.One complaint I read said this film never made it big because it was too convoluted a storyline. In fact, the story isn't really pieced together until the last few minutes. Well, a lot of films over the years were like that (Charlie Chan and Sherlock Holmes mysteries, just to name two) and no one complained.The fact that FBI agent Dennis Quaid would figure things out to the exact minute does stretch credibility so don't look for a film that makes a lot of sense it's simply a very tense thriller that entertains, so it serves its purpose.Lee Ermey, the fanatical drill sergeant in Full Metal Jacket, also is fun to watch in here. Jared Leto and Ted Levine also contribute nicely. It's a man's film, for the most part and an effective diversion for two hours. "},{"Title":"An under-rated top-notch serial killer thriller.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time on late night television after returning from the cinema where I saw the disappointing 'Along Came a Spider'. There are similarities, but Switchback is by far the better film. Jeb Stuart has done a terrific job keeping us at the edge of the couch and there are very few cliches around. Danny Glover and the entire cast are just right, and all the characters, even the minor roles, are three-dimensional. The story centres on a young handsome hitchhiker picked up and befriended by the serial killer. But this is no ordinary serial killer -- he is Mr. Popularity along the mountain roads where they travel in buddy movie-fashion. But not for long. The killer isn't out to make new friends. What he is doing is cleverly framing the loner-hitchhiker (finger prints on murder weapon etc) so that the law will be searching for the hitchhiker, and not the real killer. That is the killer's modus operandi.  So here we have this handsome hitchhiker with a mysterious past (a doctor who ran away) and a killer with a bloody past who is on the run. Enter an FBI agent (Dennis Quaid) who is wanted by the FBI. The FBI want Quaid off the case.  But Quaid is a determined man the serial killer, who he has tracked for 18 months, has kidnapped his son....All of these outsiders come through a small town where the local sheriff loses the election by opting to help the truant FBI agent find the real killer... Three quarters of the way through the film, everyone is chasing someone and the tension keeps mounting along with the altitude.The killer has left a note with a cryptic clue that Dennis Quaid must decipher. But the key to his son's whereabouts lies elsewhere.....This is a fresh breath of writing into a genre that has been abused and neglected of late.  There are nice echos of our favourite films noir (...the hitchhiker, the loner, the car accident.....the guessing came about who is who...). There's a touch of The Fugitive, but not too much.  On top of all the good acting, casting, plotting and suspense, there's nice atmosphere and locations in the Rockies.   "},{"Title":"A different kind of serial killer","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback was an enjoyable mystery/thriller with a few nice action sequences.  Quaid's character seemed a bit cliche to me (like he was impersonating a dour Harrison Ford) but Glover's character was unique and interesting.  This movie didn't have a lot of surprises or plot twists, but director Jeb Stuart managed to keep my interest high by using well drawn and likeable characters and by keeping a lot of balls in the air from the beginning of the movie.  With the exception of the serial killer himself, the conflicting motivations of the characters played well with the story and provided plenty of tension.  I especially enjoyed the portrayal of the serial killer himself.  This is possibly the first movie I've seen where the killer had a human face and was not a psycho mastermind genius or a low-life loner with a chip the size of Manhattan on his shoulder. "},{"Title":"More character driven than usual","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a thriller, this had some holes.  For starters, Stuart identifies the killer too early (at least, I figured it out), so some tension is robbed). The postcard thing never really made any sense to me.  And though it's clear who the killer is, his identity raises questions about how Quaid's son is kept without the authorities knowing.  But I can forgive a lot of that because we care about the characters.  Quaid, Ermey, and Glover, are three of our finest character actors, and they make us interested in their characters.  Also, Ted Levine offers fine support, and Jared Leto creates mystery in his role when there wasn't a whole lot written in. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked just about every aspect of this movie. The local police aren't portrayed as a bunch of inbred idiots, the killer isn't portrayed as maniacal and impersonable, and the FBI agent isn't just a suit with all the personality of a tube of toothpaste. All of these combine to make a refreshing murder mystery/thriller. This isn't the classic who dun it? type of murder mystery; rather, it is more in the flavor of Silence of the Lambs, where we discover who the killer is long before the end of the movie, and the suspense comes from anticipating the hero catching the villain. "},{"Title":"Good thriller  about a mysterious series killer who executes slaughter and kidnapping","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Exciting thriller plenty of suspense and action , dealing with the kidnapping of a FBI agent's son and the desperate chase of the murderer who has him . As a F.B.I. agent named Frank LaCrosse (Dennis Quaid) goes home to encounter has been broken into and his son is missing . He is following the clues of a brutal serial killer whose massacre stretches nearly two years . Frank's relentless pursuit leads to Amarillo , Texas , where two more victims have been found slashed to death and the enigmatic series killer goes on his crime spree . As Frank join forces with the local Sheriff named Buck Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey) and his Deputy Nate Booker (Ted Levine) to search for his suspect , elusive killer , and all of whom investigate the murders before he disappears perhaps forever into the Rocky mountains . Meantime , a drifting previous medic named Lane Dixon (singer/actor Jared Leto) is picked up by an ex-railroad man , an African-American named Bob Goodall .This is a thrilling film that contains intrigue , noisy action , suspense , chases and plot twists . The highlights result to be the train confrontation and the surprise ending . Interesting and thrilling screenplay by the same director Jeb Stuart who debuts in this enjoyable flick . Intriguing narrative is well developed , as we are interested on the events are we are really cared what happens to this people . According to an interview with Jeb Stuart in Premiere magazine, he had originally intended to make this movie back in the early 1980's under the title 'Going West in America', with Sidney Poitier, Robert Duvall, and Kevin Bacon in the three main roles . Magnificent acting by the protagonist trio as Dennis Quaid , Jared Leto and Danny Glover . Excellent support such as Ted Levine as Deputy Nate Booker , Leo Burmester as Clyde 'Shorty' Callahan , Walton Goggins as Bud , William Fichtner as Chief Jack McGinnis and special mention to Lee Ermey as Sheriff Buck Olmstead . Furthermore , a rousing and stirring original musical score by Basil Poledouris . Colorful and evocative Cinematography by Oliver Wood . The motion picture was well directed by Jeb Stuart in his film debut . Stuart is a prestigious screenwriter , he wrote successful films such as ¨The fugitive¨, Die Hard¨ , ¨Another 48 hours¨ , ¨Lock up¨ , ¨Fire down below 2¨ and ¨Just cause¨ . He only has directed two films ¨Switchback¨ and ¨Blood done sign my name¨ , both of them failed at box office ; however , ¨Switchback¨ is today pretty well considered . The picture will appeal to Dennis Quaid and Jared Leto fans . "},{"Title":"Dennis Quaid keeps a straight face","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  throughout this noirish thriller, and it doesn't look easy. Otherwise, the acting is fine and the story is full of interesting twists and details. Watch this film late at night, alone -- it definitely will keep you awake until the very end, when you might sit up and say Huh? No, really, it's a good film.  "},{"Title":"A solid thriller","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised by this film quite a bit. I thought it would be another mediocre paint-by-the-number genre piece. To my amazement Switchback is a taut and suspenseful film. Its fun to see Danny Glover cast against type. By no means a masterpiece, but well worth watching by thriller fans "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies. Glover's best role.","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. A very menacing storyline if you pay attention. Danny Glover is fully believable in the role of a serial killer, Bob Goodall. His eyes and smile convey an extreme homicidal persona one second, but just friendly and laid back the next. I have never seen any actor portray this kind of character as well as Mr. Glover. One of the most convincing scenes is when he follows the attractive female clerk into the store room of a country store. His demeanor, very understated, reflects a trusted friend until he enters the room and says a few words to her and his facial expression, still subdued, completely changes in an instant, going from friend to most dangerous. Hard to describe, but his acting was superb as a psychopath and I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Virtue and the Serial Killer","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Formally a thriller, this film is in fact a rather substantive morality play about the price of integrity. Everyone in the film is called upon to make a moral choice that reflects who and what they are. And choosing has a price. Sheriff Olmstead played masterfully by R. Lee Ermey--once observes that He--FBI agent Frank La Crosse--told the truth, and once you tell the truth, everything else is just cheap whiskey. Olmstead's observation pretty much sums up the film. Virtue is good whiskey. Laughably, Ermey delivers this line spot on with a bottle of Jim Beam--definitely not good whiskey--in the background. Olmsteads's integrity costs him the sheriff's election. His elective replacement, Chief McGinnis, played by William Fichtner, initially comes across as a pompous ass but even he makes a virtuous choice that eventually costs him. Jared Leto who plays Lane Dixon, a burned out physician who strangely bonds with the killer, is another case of self-discovery through moral agency. Even Bob Goodall--a.k.a Danny Glover--the clearly insane serial killer, has a kind of warped integrity. Twisted, yes; but true to his twistedness. FBI agent La Crosse's observation that the killer, Bob Goodall--the name is hardly accidental--may be a murderer but is not a liar simply underscores the film's larger Stoic themes. As Epictetus put it Be one man, bad or good. This film, written and directed by Jeb Stuart should have received more critical attention. It is a thoughtful and philosophically reflective film that paid a price for its quirky moral subtext and integrity it flopped at the box office. Philosophical films, even subdued ones, are generally not money makers--even with decent writing such as this and a popular genre that should have been an appropriate vehicle for its message. However, even for an unreflective viewer this is an entertaining film directed and written by the same guy--Jeb Stuart--who wrote the screenplays for Die Hard and The Fugitive. "}{"Title":"Great Suspense Film","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I guess critics feel they have to criticize. Must be fun looking for flaws rather than enjoying a movie for what it is...a movie! If everyone did this, there'd be no James Bond, no Tarzan, no Lethal Weapon series, no Die Hard series and many more. Getting back to the subject at hand, Switchback is an extremely tense, terrific action film and is much like a ride on a roller-coaster. The cast is fine. Danny Glover as a villain, R. Lee Ermey as always dependable, Jared Leto in one of his best roles, Dennis Quaid good in the lead role and all the others in the cast were very good. The action stunts were great and I'm sure they used miniatures in the train scenes but they looked flawless. Basil Poledouris' score was effective. The script was fun and come on you gotta use a little imagination too. Sure there were a few loose ends but all in all this movie entertains and what more do you want, a social message or a Disney feeling? Come on people, quit looking for errors and enjoy the thing for what it is...entertainment. "},{"Title":"Well-Done Serial Murderer Thriller.","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Almost an oxymoron, isn't it? A well-done serial murderer story? Yet they do come along from time to time. This one isn't as innovative as Seven, not as well observed, but it's still above average.The killer, the affable Danny Glover, arranges to take the hitch-hiking, unwitting Jared Leto on a trip through the Colorado mountains in the middle of winter. Glover, whose identity is unknown to any social control agents, is being pursued by a local police department, R. Lee Ermey in charge, and a loose cannon FBI agent, Dennis Quaid, whose son Glover has kidnapped and stashed away somewhere.Half the film has Glover driving his white El Dorado, festooned with pics of Playmates of the Month, through a convincingly snowy landscape. The other half deals with the reluctant cooperation between Ermey and Quaid. Ermey finally decides to throw the law books out the window and join Quaid in his personal quest. The climax brings Glover, Leto, and Quaid together in the caboose of a freight train plowing its way through a mountain pass and turns the movie into what is more or less a formulaic bang up.Two things contribute to the quality of the film. One is the location shooting. Everything looks cold, bare, gloomy, and windswept. The landscape seems to be hibernating and waiting for spring. The other thing is Danny Glover's performance as the serial killer. He's great. A Scatman Crothers whose big grin and avuncular manner barely manage to mask the vicious psychopath beneath. Glover's character has worked these mountain passes for the railroad before. Everyone in the small towns along the route and on the job seem to know and love him -- and he's a black guy too. It says volumes about our national change in attitude that someone was willing to cast an African-American actor as a charming murderer of white people, and Glover justifies the risk that was taken.Quaid is stolid, stuck in the humorless role of the anxious but determined father. Jared Leto can't really act at all. And there are clichés in abundance. The car that rolls off the road and hangs on the edge of a cliff while its occupants try to crawl out of the wreck. It's held up by a single tree, which cracks and allows the vehicle to plunge into the valley, while Leto hangs onto some projecting roots by his fingertips.But it's Danny Glover who redeems the film. At the start, we only see him as an amiable guy, and only gradually do we come to suspect his identity as the killer. The first time he uses his knife, the victim is an old friend with whom he has shared his childhood. It's a truly chilling scene. Glover's friendly smile fades into a scowl while the puzzled victim simply stares back at him. Then there is Glover's death. He's knocked from a speeding train and does a series of somersaults down a snowy slope, yipping and yelling along the way, like Major Kong riding the catastrophic bomb in Doctor Strangelove. What a job he does.At heart, it's just another serial killer story but -- here we must all get on our knees and thank heaven for small favors -- the killer doesn't leave puzzling clues behind based on Alice in Wonderland or The Seven Deadly Sins or the first folio of Billy Shakespeare's works or the seven levels of Inuit hell. There's only one teasing clue, and it doesn't require a trip to the library to solve it. There's really very little gore, and no violence except for a few minutes at the end.You'll probably like it. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was one of the best movies of that year, but no one's ever heard of it. That is one DVD I pull out on a dreary Sunday and watch twice. This flick also made me a Jared Leto fan. Leto, in the bar scene was very James Dean. The twist of Glover coming to his rescue still surprises me though I have seen it about 20 times. Quaid I can take or leave in any movie, he has a Harrison Ford quality about him, that I just don't find appealing. Movies in recent months have reminded me of it, certain plot lines, and minor details, but this is an original. Kudos to our favorite drill sarge for his outstanding role.Finally, if you have not heard Jared Leto's band, 30 seconds to mars, you are missing out. "},{"Title":"Good acting; lots of action; predictable ending","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dennis Quaid and Danny Glover did a decent job in their character roles for Switchback. I was especially fond of R. Lee Ermey, the Sheriff, (who played the drill sergeant from Full Metal Jacket Private Pyle; what is your major malfuction?). Being a fan of movie music (and Basil Poledouris), the score kept right up with the action. It's too bad that it didn't do well at the box office; lots of good scenery, especially the railroad fight sequences. I'd recommend this movie to Glover, Quaid (and Ermey) fans! "},{"Title":"finally - something much different","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is by far a very differemt serial killer movie than other ones I've seen. it really makes you fall in love with or hate the characters. i have to say these days there are a lot of serial killer films , that people have to be killed in, but when they do die we neither feel happy or sad towards their deaths.all the parts were played well and the casting was well chosen. there's not many twist or unexpected stuff at the end cause they were all revealed in the middle og the film , and that disappointed me cause i like to keep guessing the killer towards the film.its a for sure recommendation. WATCH IT!! 7.6/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the LD purchase price, not to mention a $3 rental.","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To comment on the actors' roles would be to give away a critical piece of the plot.  Suffice it to say that this is an excellent murder mystery with a surprise ending.Stars Quaid and Glover notwithstanding, R. Lee Ermey actually gives the best performance (as the local sheriff).Ted Levine must need the work.  After Jame Gumb in Silence of the Lambs, his character here seems too milquetoast for him.Cinematography and sounds are top-notch. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, this movie wasn't the best movie ever made but Dennis Quaid and Danny Glover were great, and Jared Leto stole the scene with his big, beautiful eyes as usual. As for the plot, it was scary, and kind of gross, but all around good. I'd recommend this movie to watch, if you like the suspense/mystery thing. "},{"Title":"Underrated flick which indeed is an excellent thriller","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Switchback is really a zig-zag journey with lots of action. Altogether in the beginning there are three persons who could be the potential killer(s) plus one undefined imaginative possible killer. The atmosphere and locales (scenery, etc.) are very well selected and the acting by the main characters is pretty good for a film like this. There are a lot of surprises and the ending really ties everything nicely together as this movie has a solid beginning, a well-rounded middle and a breathtaking finale. It's really a well-made movie and perhaps one of the best thrillers in this genre ever made. The editors also did a fabulous job as did the cinematographer, ... really cool shots and excellent cut. Most viewers will want to see this movie a couple of times or even several times as there's so much detail that most minds won't perceive all the great little details at the first viewing and these details really flesh out the texture of the film. Switchback is well worth watching and it has a good soundtrack too. Too bad it has been overlooked and it's a much underrated movie. "},{"Title":"This is really prime stuff! A movie made by MEN for MEN","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This really neat little B-flick is less than 10 years old and already has some cult-following as one of the best thrillers of the 90ies! And deservedly so! I have seen SWITCHBACK in its entirety 3 times by now and parts of it approximately half a dozen times and it's still great, in every matter and department. It actually seems SWITCHBACK gets an airing here in the German speaking parts of Europe every few months by some other channel, that's how popular it is.This is a movie in fact out of sync with its time! In the late 60ies and early 70ies such prime movies came out at least once a month and you had people like Aldrich, Siegel, Peckinpah (the best of the best) and a few followers directing such great movies every year or so, but today ...Jeb STUART has done a perfect job and created a movie, which would much better fit in this early 1970ies period (with movies such as EMPEROR OF THE NORTH POLE) than it fits into the late 90ies. But in the late 90ies, it's a monument of it's own. Certainly the best action movie involving trains since RUNAWAY TRAIN (1985) and an equal to SEVEN, the best thriller of the 1990ies.OK, the story of SWITCHBACK does have it's minor flaws, but then again, the way it has been handled ... wow! DENNIS QUAID is stoically and professional as never before (and I do like him as an actor), the sheriff BUCK OLMSTEAD (what a name) is just wonderful and could have walked out of every Peckinpah movie (thanx to Lee Ermey), in short all the acting is as required, the dialogue is stiff and clever, and the photography ... breathtaking! What a landscape, what an environement! A man, his job (taking care of the beloved ones, getting a job done, taking revenge), the killer, the forces of nature, ... combined in a neatly made superbly thrilling movie! I just wish they'd make them this way more often than they do! "},{"Title":"Country perspective","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is rare in serial killer movies to have any of the characters, but the killer himself to be of the rural, sprawl-less areas. And for the most part country means dumb to producers or New York Times editorials. Hope that gave nothing away at all, but it could have.Here's the story Quaid's son is kidnapped by a serial killer, then a murder happens in Amarillo, where R Lee Ermey is the Sheriff about to lose the election to an usurper William Fichtner. The two are connected and Dennis Quaid shows up to follow the trail he knows to be his rival killer. Other characters come and go seemingly making non-sequiter movements to reveal themselves in the final act on the pass clearing freight trains in southern Colorado. (Runaway Train has to be a favorite movie of writer/director Jeb Stuart, perhaps he wrote it?) Jeb Stuart has a subtle touch in the use of country ballads sung by love broken voices and manners of tough miners and railroad men living without female company or a stable existence. Basil Paledouris's score provided terrific accompainement to the flow of this strange serial killer thriller. An adventure of great precarious outcome is Switchback and an entertaining trek if any ever is. "}{"Title":"I enjoy an edge of your seat mystery thriller.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was exactly that.  I thought the story, the acting, the scenery and the suspense mystery of it was great!  I'm going to make this movie part of my collection.  I think Danny Glover was everything I've come to expect in terms of acting and carrying the character He's supposed to be to the fullest.  I feel likewise about Dennis Quaid. "},{"Title":"I liked it so much, I bought it!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You can't beat a good serial killer thriller . . . but with friendly Danny Glover as the perp? This I had to see. Well, Danny pulled it off admirably. He managed to be chilling and yet, you couldn't help but admire some of his attributes (the non-lethal kind!)I've viewed few features where every last cast member seems to have been hand-picked to carry across the plot and flavor of the piece throughout. Switchback managed just that. A great movie! "},{"Title":"Good Enough *!! Some SPOILERS !!*","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to say that Switchback could have been great, instead its good enough.  Danny Glover was great, and I think he played his character perfectly.  Afterall...if they had chosen someone else to play his part, and had them play it like every other serial killer, then it wouldnt have been that hard for the FBI to find him now would it?  Leto and the Sheriff..everyone really except Quaid did a good job.  Quaid needed to be a little more passionate..avenging..afterall..he had every reason to be p***ed, but they way he played his character didnt make that much sense. Mr. Sensitive FBI guy shouldnt have had the balls to be a rogue FBI agent seeking revenge, but he did...it seemed inconsistent with his character. Someone should have kicked him in the ass to get his blood flowing or something.  Aside from some plot holes to mislead the audience, I'd say this movie is good enough to suggest to other people.  I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Switchback is one of my favourite 'serial killer vs. cop' thrillers of the 90's, and has seemingly slipped through the cracks these days. It has a special place in my heart, because as a kid my father would take me to his office at work, where I would catch a lot of cool movies on what was back then called 'TBS Superstation'. I once saw a few quick moments of this one, and wondered for years what film it was. A couple years back I tracked this one down because it stars a bunch of actors I really like, and was pleasantly surprised to have my childhood memory jogged, and finally find out what movie I had seen. It's got a solid, able bodied cast that's speckled with both prominent, square jawed leading dudes and some salty character actors as well, to spice things up. The film starts off as jovial Bob Goodall (Danny Glover) picks up mysterious hitchhiker Lane Dixon (Jared Leto) somewhere in the remote northwest. The two strike up a rapport, but we know that one or both will ultimately figure in the other half of the story, where things get decidedly sinister. Many miles away in another state, renegade FBI agent Frank Lacrosse (Dennis Quaid, turning off his smiling charm a quiet, smouldering turn as a guy at the end of his rope) searches for his infant son, who was kidnapped several years before by a dangerous serial killer. His search leads him to Amarillo, Texas, where he's both aided and stymied by local law enforcement. Kind, caring Sheriff Buck Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey, one my favourite character actors) and his deputy Nate Booker (Ted Levine, always reliable) do all they can for him, but in the midst of a reelection, their efforts are somewhat sabotaged by rival candidate Jack McGinnis (William Fichtner), causing delay in the investigation. Meanwhile, Glover and Leto draw closer and closer to a violent conclusion as the tension grows, inevitably tying in with Quaid's story. It's a crisp, no nonsense thriller that wastes no time bounding out of the gate, and yet never feels rushed. As Glover and Leto travel we are treated to some gorgeous, snowy Colorado scenery, captured nicely by DOP Oliver Wood. I revisit this one from time to time and am never let down at its tension, performances and skillful execution. A fair bit overlooked in thriller-ville as well, I might add. "},{"Title":"Amazing Serial Killer Story","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An FBI agent (Dennis Quaid) tries to catch a serial killer (Danny Glover) who kidnapped his son.Switchback received negative reviews from critics and holds a 32% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 25 reviews. The film bombed at the box office, grossing just $6 million domestically off a budget of $38 million. This criticism is wrong, and I suspect if they were to reflect now (2015) they might be more positive.This is a strong cat-and-mouse thriller that has a nice change of pace a serial killer who happens to be black. This defies the stereotype, and allows him to get away with much more while on the run. Very clever. We also have some actors who were not as big then as they are now. Jared Leto's career has only gone up, and Ted Levine really made a name for himself with Monk in 2002. (Yes, he had already broken out with Silence of the Lambs, but Monk is arguably even bigger.) "},{"Title":"A very underrated thriller of the 90's!","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I remember the first time i see this and become one of my favorites movies of the 90's.I know what your thinking we already see this movie before but the big difference here is the actors,the direction and of course the script.Dennis Quaid,Danny Glover,Jared Leto and R lee Ermey are the powerful cast of this movie.The direction of Jeb Stuart is more than incredible he never leave you to take a breath and give you the enough suspense to keep stuck to the TV for almost 2 hours.The script is clever,intelligent and very very entertainment you never gonna yawn in all movie.I am glad to see this movie years ago and i always recommended who haven't see it...Like one of the best thrillers of the 90's. "},{"Title":"It's more about the acting here than thrills.","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The extremely well chosen cast raises the value of this thriller a notch, in this tale of a somber FBI agent, Frank LaCrosse (Dennis Quaid) in relentless pursuit of a serial killer. For Frank the pursuit has become personal because this particularly crafty and odious killer has abducted his son. The movie intercuts between Frank's story and that of drifter Lane Dixon (Jared Leto), who's hitched a ride with gregarious character Bob Goodall (Danny Glover). Eventually the two stories are brought together, and a confrontation occurs on a train passing through some mountains.As those who have seen this will tell you, whodunit is not at all the hook of the story. Debuting filmmaker Jeb Stuart (who had co-written Die Hard and The Fugitive for the screen) cares far more about his characters - and telling the tale - than trying to dazzle the audience with elaborate action set pieces. Granted, the movie does eventually head in that direction, but this is one of those rare cases where the action serves the story rather than the other way around.And these characters are people we can actually get to like - even the psycho, who does have a certain charisma about him. You can see how his victims wouldn't feel threatened by him until it was too late. Filling out the rock solid supporting cast are R. Lee Ermey as the small town sheriff who is moved by Franks' predicament, Ted Levine as his loyal deputy, William Fichtner as the smarmy lawman trying to move in on Ermey's job, Leo Burmester as amiable mechanic Shorty, and in small parts, Brent Hinkley, Walton Goggins, Ted Markland, Gregory Scott Cummins, Maggie Roswell, Allison Smith, Julio Oscar Mechoso, Kevin Cooney, Merle Kennedy, and Sandy Ward. Glover is engaging as Bob while Quaid is wonderfully understated.Those aforementioned action scenes are rousing, and there's a great deal of impressive rural vistas well shot in Panavision.Switchback is lengthy, but worth the effort for fans of the genre.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"thrilling action sequences","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Switchback begins with a murder and a kidnapping. The next thing we know, an FBI agent, Frank LaCrosse (Dennis Quaid) arrives in Armarillo, Texas, looking for a serial killer. The MO of the murders there matches that of the killer he's been tracking for some time.In a parallel storyline, a good ol' boy, Bob Goodall (Danny Glover) driving a wild Cadillac gives a ride to a young man, Lane Dixon (Jared Leto) with a mysterious past -- at one point, a man is choking in a coffee shop and Lane announces he's a doctor and gives the man a tracheotomy. But he won't discuss it with Goodall.And in a third subplot, the town of Amarillo is preparing for a big election of sheriff, and the fight is between the current Sheriff Buck Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey) and police chief Jack McGinnis (William Fichtner). In the midst of their murder investigation, Olmstead learns that FBI agent Frank LaCrosse was removed from the case and is on probation with the FBI.All these plots fit neatly together.Switchback is an exciting film with sequences that will have you on the edge of your seat, particularly those on the train. In a funny way it reminded me of a less glossy version of a James Bond film, in that the stunts were wild, with characters hanging off of cliffs, dangling from trains, in horrible car accidents - it never lets up.The plot is a little far-fetched and the ending predictable, although some elements are left open. But it has moments of real thrills and tension, with good performances by Glover, Quaid, and Jared Leto who always looks so drop dead gorgeous in movies. Monk star Ted Levine (Leland Stottlemeyer) plays a deputy, and if you look fast, you'll see Shield's Walt Goggins as one of the sheriff's men. Fortunately both have gone on to deserved success.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Definitely a Good suspense/thriller","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely a Good suspense/thriller........should have been rated nearer to an 8 to an 8.5 rating. Danny Glover does an excellent acting job. There are enough turns and twists in the plot to keep one's interests all the way through the movie, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Cheap whiskey.....","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" F.B.I. agent Frank LaCrosse returns home to find his home has been broken into, his son is missing and Missy the babysitter is lying in a pool of her own blood.Her murder being the hallmarks of a elusive enigmatic serial killer whose slaughter spree stretches nearly two years.Frank's desperate pursuit leads to Amarillo, Texas, where two more victims matching the killers M.O. have been found slashed to death.As Frank searches for his suspect the local Sheriff Buck Olmstead and his Deputy Nate Booker investigate the killings in-between a heated election feud, with his competition police chief Jack McGinnis.All the while drifting former doctor Lane Dixon is picked up by ex-railroad man, Bob Goodall.As a local Mechanic, Clyde 'Shorty' Callahan becomes the latest victim.Frank hopes and prays to find this sociopath before he disappears perhaps forever into the rocky mountains...It's a good movie with some great performances from the cast, but if you have common sense, you should know that Glover is the killer from the start because such a prolific actor wouldn't be in a role where the character has no real meaning in the film.He only picks up Leto, and thats his part in the narration of the film, and acting like an old school cowboy, I would have been very surprised if he were innocent.But despite that flaw, it's quite a tense film, with lots of beautiful locale, and red herrings.Quaid lets the side down a little, if only for the fact that he has an expression of 'no toilet for the next 20 miles' on his face.When Glover and Leto are on screen, the film is full of energy, and this is the problem too, the film seems dull and lifeless when they are absent.But all in all its a good effort, but never challenging, thanks to advertising and Glover playing the obvious choice for guess the killer. "}{"Title":"Just a good action/thriller.","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. There are plenty of imperfect action/thrillers out there that fell much, much shorter than Switchback. I've always enjoyed typically protagonist actors reverse roles, and I thought that Danny Glover did great. He wasn't Robin Williams in Insomnia (or One Hour Photo for that matter) but he was strong. I felt that delivering his performance in typical good guy fashion really added. Dennis Quaid wasn't phenomenal in the film, but he did fine. There was some real tension in most scenes, and though you knew what was going on, there was the occasional shadow of doubt. Sure the ending was the usual good triumphs over evil scenario, but so was Terminator, Die Hard, and for that matter Braveheart. Sure the plot had some holes, but all-in-all I thought this was a solid movie. "},{"Title":"A thriller with lots and lots of twists and turns","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SwitchBack is a thriller with many twists and turns. It can be a bit hard to follow at first because it seems to jump from story to story a bit much but it all comes together at the end. I must say I didn't feel comfortable with Danny Glover as the bad guy. He is too much a good guy to make a good bad guy. All in all, not a bad movie but I've seen better. There were some good action scenes. I don't know I appreciated the killer's method of killing. It was a bit over the top. I did like the portrayal of the good sheriff. His part brought out the value of being honest and how sometimes you have to do some things that me seem wrong in the eyes other people in the name of what is right. Dennis Quaid did a good job as always playing a series dramatic role. The movie should have included more women too. It was unbalanced in the male and female role ration. "},{"Title":"thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the theatrical release of this film, and also bought it on DVD.This movie is something of an oddity.  It breaks tradition with all the common notions surrounding (serial) killers, both in film and in real life.  I won't spoil it, except to say that it is refreshing to see the bad guy portrayed in a likeable character.  It was well cast.  All the characters were compelling, and I especially enjoyed supporting actors and background stories like the one provided by Buck Olmsted (Lee Ermey), running for re-election as sheriff.Also, the scenery & ambience of the movie were great.  I loved the scenes in the mountains, the snowed-in diners, the candy store, and clearing the passes.  It just makes you remember those cold winter days when you curl up beside a fireplace w/ a cup of cocoa.  It also makes you long for a train ride through the Rockies. "},{"Title":"thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the theatrical release of this film, and also bought it on DVD.This movie is something of an oddity.  It breaks tradition with all the common notions surrounding (serial) killers, both in film and in real life.  I won't spoil it, except to say that it is refreshing to see the bad guy portrayed in a likeable character.  It was well cast.  All the characters were compelling, and I especially enjoyed supporting actors and background stories like the one provided by Buck Olmsted (Lee Ermey), running for re-election as sheriff.Also, the scenery & ambience of the movie were great.  I loved the scenes in the mountains, the snowed-in diners, the candy store, and clearing the passes.  It just makes you remember those cold winter days when you curl up beside a fireplace w/ a cup of cocoa.  It also makes you long for a train ride through the Rockies. "},{"Title":"For many reasons,this is one of my favorite flicks.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a lot like one of those page-turner novels that you can't put down.  It has genuinely likeable characters and plenty of plot twists and turns along the way to keep you hooked.  Add gorgeous cinematography and a vintage El Dorado and what more could you ask for?Danny Glover is excellent as the charming drifter who is everybody's pal,or is he?  Jared Leto gives a fine performance as the disillusioned young doctor,who is hitch-hiking his way across the west and ties in with Glover's character.  R.Lee Ermey pretty much steals the show as Sheriff Buck Olmstead,the wise and kind lawman who is locked in a heated battle to hold onto his office against a slick young opponent.  Now he has several brutal murders on his hands,and the only man who seems to have any knowledge that could help him is a renegade FBI agent,played by a haunted-looking Dennis Quaid.The entire supporting cast is particularly good in this movie.  Ted Levine, again demonstrating his exceptional versatility,does a very fine job as Olmstead's loyal deputy.The ending is tense and ultimately,satisfying.  Settle back with a bag of popcorn and slip this one in the DVD player or VCR.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Better","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback comes very close to being a very good movie.  The plot revolves around that standard 90s character, the serial killer.  But Switchback puts an interesting spin on the story by simultaneously weaving three distinct plot threads through the movie.  The first follows a hotly contested election for sheriff in one of the towns where the killer strikes.  The second is the manhunt by a rogue FBI agent of his elusive quarry, the killer.  The agent has special interest in the case in that the killer has also kidnapped the agent's young son.  The third is a cross country car trip by a retired railroad man and a young medical school dropout hitchhiker who just happens to be in every locale the murderer strikes.The filmmakers almost pull it off.  On-location shooting of the Mountain West in winter is extremely effective.  The supporting cast is great and believable.  If the story didn't have so many plot-holes and stupidisms (the killer's identity is revealed way too early).  And if Dennis Quaid had turned in a decent performance as the FBI agent (he's pretty bad).  Well, this movie could have been a very good, and suspenseful movie.As it is it's not bad, and I give it a C+.  What annoys me is that it had so much potential, and it was wasted. "},{"Title":"Danny, Danny, Danny. . .","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is made from the Thriller Tinker Toy set. I'll guarantee you it took waaaaay more imagination and creativity to get this dog made than it did to think up the story.  Talented actors who must have been desperate for work do their best, but when your best looks this bad in the hands of the makers, how could you help but get discouraged knowing that THIS clunker would be on your film record for the forseeable future?  My condolences, Danny Glover, Dennis Quaid, Jared Leto, Lee Emery, and Keith Hatten. "},{"Title":"Really good film where you actually want both guys to win","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Even though you know that Danny Glover is the bad guy so is going to have to pay you can't help but like him as well. All of the cast were superb and you feel so sorry for Jared Leto when he realises what's been going on. I would definitely recommend this film to anybody. "},{"Title":"Unusual Thriller","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback is a worth-while rental.  Dennis Quaid reminded me of Harrison Ford; his character was strong and silent on the outside, but definitely hurting (and possibly screaming) inside. Danny Glover also breaks his acting mold and does something different.  He is likable but a little creepy. Jared Leto once again plays a quiet, introverted young man with a mysterious background.  Needless to say, he is (as always) easy on the eyes.R L Ermey (sp?) is admirable as Sheriff Buck Olmstead.  I will remember this guy for a while.  He often plays politicians or policemen in his movies.The movie is about a Sheriff (Ermey) who is running for re-election against a younger, somewhat slimy, opponent.  There is a strange double murder in his jurisdiction, and he is soon joined by a lone FBI agent (Quaid), who is intent on catching the killer and unconcerned with local politics or Bureau policy.  Meanwhile, a young hitchhiker (Leto) catches a ride with a cheerful traveler (Glover).The film does a nice job of having two separate storylines and then bringing them together ... well-paced film.  Unique characters.  Solid acting.  I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Switchback","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Powerful suspense thriller with Quaid as an F.B.I. agent who pursues a killer who abducted his son. On the edge of your seat entertainment with Glover co-starring in a pivotal role.  "}{"Title":"Not bad, but nothing special.","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well done thriller, but, ultimately, I was somewhat disappointed, because it didn't really bring anything new to the table. The violence in the movie was pretty disturbing, not because of the gruesomeness, which wasn't particularly extreme, but instead due to the preferred method of killing and the killer's attitude. Dennis Quaid delivers a solid performance as the exceptionally solid, totally dependable, ideal father figure, a particular archetype he seems to have built a career on. Like one of the other reviewers commented, Danny Glover is not a favorite actor of mine, but he played his role in this film very well. In summary, a pretty run-of-the-mill thriller with high production values that plays much more like very good TV than a major motion picture. "},{"Title":"Once you've heard the truth, everything else is just cheap whiskey","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Compared to other serial-killer flicks of the 1990s, director Jeb Stuart's Switchback is pretty good. It stars Dennis Quaid as an FBI agent who's busy tracking a murderer across the United States. Assisting him is Buck Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey), a small-town sheriff. The film also finds actors Jard Leto and Danny Glover playing a pair of likable drifters. One of them may also be the killer.More competent as travelogue than thriller, Switchback is at its best when its drifting in and out of motels, towns, train-stops, snow-capped roads or hanging out with ancillary characters. Stuart would have done better to delay the revelation of his killer's identity by an extra half hour, but for the most part avoids formula.7.9/10 &#x96; Underrated. See Jennifer Eight, Flesh and Bone (1993), The Pledge, Memories of Murder, Night of the Hunter and Humanite (1999). "},{"Title":"'Switchback' (1997)","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I come to fully realize now, that while I find 'Switchback' to be an enjoyable and watchable movie, it is also not very convincing and many things about the film are poorly done. Namely, the screenplay itself remains unconvincing to the end. It was like the script was written in two days with haste, and then delivered to the studio, and without any rewrites to try to tie up any loose ends that the film might have, they just went on ahead and made the film anyway. I feel like Jeb Stuart was in love with his idea from the start, and didn't care about how little sense it made at the time, he just acted like he was Kerouac pounding on his typewriter in the midst of writing On The Road, and published the story intact with errors and inconsistencies abound.The story itself has a nice feel to it, our characters are mostly pretty likable people, and the locale of the story is probably the best thing about it. It makes you feel for the traveling soul, puts you in their disposition, and makes you feel right at home. The snowy mountains sure do look nice on camera, but this doesn't save the movie from being completely just LACKING in the story department. The tone of the film is good, but the pacing is just all wrong. It feels entirely too rushed, and maybe if Jeb Stuart had just sat on this idea just a little bit longer, and maybe rewritten the screenplay a few times, he could have had something really spectacular on his hands.Dennis Quaid is a good actor, in my opinion. I know he is really just an A-list actor with a B-movie star personality, but I generally enjoy his characters, because he never gets too carried away with it. Danny Glover and Jared Leto are the real centerpieces of the action here, and they play off of one another nicely, and I would say it is them with a little help from R. Lee Ermey that save this movie from being a complete waste of time. Ted Levine and William Fichtner are basically just wasted talent here. There is suspense present for the most part, but the identity of the killer is revealed far too quickly, and we are dragged along with the burden of knowing who it is, when Jeb Stuart could have just left that part out completely because it is mostly irrelevant to what happens in the film for the next hour. The ending of the film again, it looks really nice. The cinematography is admirable, but the story is just extremely anti-climactic. Somehow, the film retains it's personality throughout, and it stands as a watchable flick. Entertaining? Yes. Good? Not really.SWITCHBACK -----6/10. "},{"Title":"Not a credible script","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whilst I enjoyed the actions and characters in this entertaining movie, the script or plot was not convincing..... I suppose that this is the difference between a 6 out of 10 movie and and 8(or higher) out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Tense and Exciting but Wants Characters Who Express","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Viewers keep trying to predict the action based on scant information about characters. Thus, the story is tense and exciting. From early on, a question is Why is FBI Agent Frank LaCrosse (Dennis Quaid) so determined to find this culprit? At the same time, another question is Why does the serial killer do any of that? And there are other questions at the same time. But, of course, no murders need to take place in a story for multiple questions, and suspense, to occur -- this genre is not to my taste. It's unrealistic, or else cynical. However, given the story's assumptions, there is a lot of suspenseful questioning in the viewer's mind, some of which is satisfactorily resolved. It is never clear what could be motivating murderer Bob Goodall (Danny Glover) to do any of this, as there are many games to play, and as Goodall as portrayed by Glover seems to be a well-humored type. Glover's performance is not convincing; with all the pals he has around there, he would have been better as a policeman. It is resolved why LaCrosse is after Goodall with determination -- pretty much what one guessed. But he is too remote from his relationship with his son. When he reveals this motive to the sheriff after the sheriff has elaborated upon the dinner he prepared, there is more interest in whether he will sit down and eat it than in what he tells about his son. Maybe he didn't even like his son, or maybe he wished he had spent more time with him -- but we get nothing more than a defined relationship and an inevitable act of paternal duty. Maybe LaCrosse just likes adventure -- chasing a train in his car, and physical challenges like that. "},{"Title":"Despite all the potential, this movie didn't always do it for me","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love mystery thrillers more than almost any other movie genre, but so often the problem with this kind of movies is that the writers can't keep up the tension from beginning until the end and that's exactly what you need to stay focused and to believe these stories. Too often they give away some vital clues, spoiling all your fun and turning an entire movie into some cheap pulp for the popcorn munching, almost brain dead viewer. A good example of such a movie is Along Came a Spider with Morgan Freeman, but there are many more movies like that. Knowing this, I had certain reservations about this movie, but I decided to give it a try, hoping for a surprise...A serial killer called Bob Goodall has set a trap for FBI agent Frank LaCross, who was in charge of the task force assigned to catch him. By murdering the babysitter and then kidnapping his young son Andy, he has forced the FBI to take LaCross off the case, because of his personal involvement in it. But LaCross doesn't give up that easily and goes after him on his own and without the help of the Bureau. In the meantime some more gruesome murders are committed. But where they done by Bob himself or was it the lonely and mysterious hitch-hiker that he has picked up alongside the road? Goodall appears to be very well-known and popular in the sleepy Rocky Mountain village where the story unfolds and there is clearly something more about the hitch-hiker than meets the eye...Despite the fact that this was a very promising script, I never had the feeling that they got the full potential out of it. It's nice to see how they try to use the double story line, but too soon it is all too obvious where everything is going. Most of the tension is gone, leaving you behind with the feeling that you're watching a mediocre action movie. And that's too bad, because this might have been an enjoyable movie. What I did like however was the acting. OK, there is nothing world shocking in the performances, but Danny Glover and Dennis Quaid certainly did a nice job and the other actors were more than OK. It's just not enough to save this movie and that's why I can only give it a 6/10. If you want to see a nice murder story in the snow, you better go for Fargo and leave this movie behind. "},{"Title":"1st hour 8/10, 2nd hour 4/10 (spoilerish)","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Serial killer thriller starts off well and is really exciting for it's first hour or so, but then kinda collapses.Dennis Quaid is FBI agent Frank LaCrosse, who is in search of a serial killer. This serial killer hasn't been killing for a couple of months, but then starts killing again in the district of Sheriff Buck Olmstead, and him and LaCrosse try to catch him.That's one side of the story. The nice touch here though comes from the other side, the killer's. You see, we have two men cruising the country (Jared Leto and Danny Glover). One of them is the killer... but who is it?This set-up works pretty well for the first hour or so, but once we know who the killer is there isn't much to enjoy anymore. In particular because the movie has some side-elements that don't make much sense (I won't bore you with them now, but they include kidnapped sons and an election). The ending really was too much... too bad as it started out so good.Conclusion slightly above average, but could've been better 6/10. "},{"Title":"paint it black","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Others have commented the unusual combination of serial killer as a friendly person. I'd say here it's more than unusual, it is so down-right unbelievable that writer(s) either never met real people in their scribbling lives and don't have a clue about people and character (in which case they're in wrong profession, and judging by this film, i'd say they are), or they have some other reasons for their strange invention. Now, i'm not saying that a serial killer simply can't seem like a friendly guy - on the contrary, some probably are, and it IS an interesting start for a story - but i think not just ANY kind of a friendly guy. Certainly not THIS type of man. Judging by the fact that the villain in this film is the only black man in the movie, it seems to me that there may be a hidden racist agenda lurking from the depths of this ugly movie, trying to show how even your friendly uncle-Jim type of nigga, amiable, wise, reliable, loved and known by everybody and his aunt 500 miles around, could any time rip your guts if you don't watch your back when he's around... Motivation? Who needs it when you're black. BOO!* Maybe Dennis Quaid realised (only after signing the contract?) what he's part of here, and that's why he refused to act in this movie? Because, he is not (acting). He uses a single - literally - face throughout the movie, and a dead one at that. I bet he got cramps in the face for weeks after the shooting, from the worried smirk he's uniformly wearing all the time here.  "},{"Title":"Novel serial killer story for the casual viewer","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Quaid and Glover featured heavily as actors for leading roles in the promotional cover for this movie, but we also get Ermey, the one time drill sergeant of Full Metal Jacket.  I'm not sure if this is his first major role in a movie, but it is not his best I'm sure.  He tends to drag his lines and generally lend a neophyte character to a movie featuring some skilled and experienced professionals.Still, the story is not bad and features some solid action scenes and thrilling moments.  Quaid is a wandering FBI agent pursuing a serial killer who he says has kidnapped his son.  Glover is an unemployed drifter who picks up a hitchhiker.  And Ermey is a sheriff seeking reelection in a town hosting a murder that draws the attention of the FBI agent. "},{"Title":"SWITCHBACK (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Every day they show tons of pointless movies on your screen about serial killers and even if it is my fave genre I come often to a point that I wanna return to the days where Snowy White and her dwarfs ruled but okay this picture is all by all not bad, in fact it could have been a superb movie if only the scriptwriters wouldn't be such idiots... This movie leaves you more with unanswered questions than an average Wim Wendersmovie and it just feels like they didn't care to answer them at all, just an ordinary actionmovie that happens to have good (cheap?) actors like Dennis Quaid and Danny Glover. "}{"Title":"decent psychological thriller","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback is a decent film, despite what you may have heard. The cast is great, but suffers from a somewhat predictable script. Dennis Quaid is perfect as a relentless FBI agent trying to find his kidnapped son. The film is watchable, but tries(and fails) to keep you guessing before the finale. Nice effort, but the script needed some tweaking. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Well conceived movie but can be better","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Dennis Quaid is his usual pensive and dour self as an FBI agent tracking a serial killer in the beautiful mountains of Colorado. This is not the usual serial killer movie but a slow moving thriller that reveals the identity of the killer two-thirds into the movie. Although's Quaid acting is colourless, it doesn't vitiate the quality of the movie. The storyline is engaging and rest of the cast makes up with their spirited performances, especially Danny Glover, Jared Leto and R. Lee Ermey as the brilliant Sheriff Buck Olmstead. A well conceived movie that on the whole, is watchable but could have been so much better with a faster pace. "},{"Title":"Had potential","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had the potential to be an excellent thriller.  Glover and Leto's performance was very good, but Quaid's fell short, he was just plain dull. The scenery was beautiful, which added greatly to the movie, but the ending was very disappointing. Overall I give this movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stellar cast, but wooden acting, tangled plot and unbelievable ending (*Spoilers*)","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, not good.It starts out interesting, but looses its way a few minutes into the movie.It does not help a lot that none of the normally great actors (Quaid, Glover, Ermey, Leto etc.) delivers a really good performance. It might be owed to the fact that I saw a dubbed version (german), but Dennis Quaid's character was especially wooden and annoying, and Danny Glover does not really make for a believable villain. Moreover, Jared Leto's character does not really contribute to the story whatsoever (except saving one main character's life at one point, but that scene is as necessary as a windshield wiper on a submarine in the first place ;-)Speaking of unnecessary scenes - the main complaint is really the tangled and cliché-ridden storyline The detective (of course!) has to settle a personal matter with the villain and is (of course!) suspended from his official duties courtesy of his personal entanglement. The killer (of course!) *wants* to be tracked down and plays a cat-and-mouse game with his opponent for years ... I don't know how many movies build on a similar plot - most of them better, however.The plot has got holes galore and many completely unbelievable and unnecessary scenes that do not contribute to or work well with the storyline at all (e.g. the truck stop scene or the car at the cliff's edge etc.)To top it off, the ending tries to be original and exciting, but fails completely in these regards. We've seen *much* better finales with a similar kind of ultimate-battle-on-a-train-in-a-forlorn-winter-landscape setup ... In the end there is the supposedly moving reunion of parent and child ... hokey, at the least. "},{"Title":"Needs More Training","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Pity the poor writer of detective fiction. The nature of the beast is to establish a game of wits between the reader and writer. More recently that has been mirrored in a similar battle of wits between the detective and an archenemy, often a serial killer. Even more recently a cinematic vocabulary has developed where the killings themselves are supposed to contain clues in this grand battle. Unfortunately in translating to film, the work of detection on the part of the viewer is dropped as Hollywood doesn't like to market films that demand thought.So the writer must turn to other devices or be left with a disaster like, say `Bone Collector.' `The Pledge' took the genre in one direction and with skill produced a fine film. Here, another direction is attempted with less success.The device here is that the killer is an appealing fellow who cleverly uses surrogates to divert attention. We briefly are confused by his most recent partner, but way too soon all is made clear.It is also a tradition with mysteries that some unfamiliar slice of life is employed in the setting and perhaps the clues. Here, the device is the western rail system. although all sorts of possibilities are there to be mined, we are reduced to simple use of fights on a speeding train.Alas. Great possibilities are ignored all throughout, and we are given cliches for instance the old cat-jumping-out trick at the beginning and the old spike-through-the-bad-guy at the end. "},{"Title":"Average Thriller","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's the story of a serial killer the police is trying to find and who also kidnapped the son of a FBI agent (Dennis Quaid)to challenge him. I didn't mind this movie because it has a good pace and the story is well developed. The setting is also nice being Colorado, with its snowy mountains and its long highways. The chasing scene on the train is also gripping and catching. The actors Dennis Quaid, Jared Leto and Danny Glover, who I've always used to think of as the policeman who's made fun of in Lethal Weapon, is credible in his role. However I give a 6 to this movie because it doesn't have that touch in the plot and in the action scenes that make it more than an average thriller. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining thriller","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A good idea the two third of the flick actually includes two apparently different plots (but the viewer will quickly guess where the connection is),and hero Quaid (who keeps his deadpan face throughout the movie,never cracking a smile,anyway it makes sense,considering his situation) only appears after 25 or 30 minutes.On the other hand ,the pair Leto/Glover provides the movie with a whodunit in miniature which unfortunately is not long enough.The revelation comes much too soon.It's also a road movie which turns railroad  movie in its last part.Good scenesLeto ,performing an operation in a restaurant,the sign open/closed (must be the wind,Leto says)in the shop where a murder is committed ,the car in front of the precipice,the panoramic shot when Quaid arrives in the town where his boy might be.Weakest link the treasure hunt,with which the killer plays cat and mouse with Quaid is botched.For that matter,you'd better have a look at Fincher's the game ,released the same year.Entertaining though. "},{"Title":"Half the way there, it's missing-Something.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It has the cast-Quaid, Ermey, Glover, Leto, etc. It has the locales-Rockies and trains. It has a decent enough plot-FBI guy's kid is kidnapped by serial killer, chased all over the US. Simple right? Well...no.Spoilers below am sure!Problems-Who was the snaggly toothed goober at the door in the first scene? As in HOW did the killer know him and etc? C'mon guys....this Is important.  For the very end-What was the kid doing at the neighboring house and in what capacity? This is a loose end too...As far's the killer himself-okay you could have bought it was Leto instead of Glover for awhile-but then since SO much about Leto is unexplained-it does make you wonder-where they going somewheres else with him? Maybe making him also be in on the chase somehow? that by itself would have been a better idea than what they had I think...Quaid is flat out Thorazined as the FBI guy. No backstory save his kids kidnapped and he is after the baddie. That's it. He underplays an underwritten character which is doubly bad for your movie.I liked the side guys-Ted Levine, 'Shorty', the train guys, Ermey, even 'Captain America here' William Fichtner(Armageddon reference...)-but the holes and the silly season stuff...you just knew Glover would wind up dead at the end.  The hanging the caddie off the Wile Coyote cliff was kinda stupid too..** for the pieces that went well, but it's a shame they didn't know how to fit them together.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILER There are many things wrong with SWITCHBACK, just like many other reviewers say, like how the killer's motivation is never really explained and why he would even do such a thing without getting anything in return. Usually, in suspense thrillers, the killer has something he wants in return for something else (in this case, it would be giving back the kidnapped child for something the killer wants) but the killer does not want anything in return. This is a little weird.The cast is an all-star one. Dennis Quaid, Danny Glover, R. Lee Ermey, Ted Levine, Jared Leto, and William Fictner are the stars in this steaming suspense film. The acting is quite good, but I am still chewing on all the loose ends in this movie.I am also confused as to what the guy at the door in the beginning of the movie had to do with anything. (SPOILER) Now, here I am going to reveal the killer to you, so be warned if you have not seen the film already. The killer turns out to be Danny Glover's character, but I still am wondering as to how he made the cops think that the killer was a white male. I still do not get that part. And when Dennis Quaid is finally reunited with his son, why is the kid at some woman's house? And why is all happy and stuff? I also think the kid is a crappy actor, because the second he turns around, he yells Daddy even before he could tell who the person was. Whatever. That's the film business for you, you can't make everything come together clean. SWITCHBACK gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"There's a good movie in there somewhere","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched this movie in high definition widescreen on HBO, and was blown away by the photography, which was stunning. The general structure of the movie was very good and economical, not laboring the setup and has a generous helping of Lee Ermey and the rest of the Texas policemen, who were very watchable. The movie drops the ball in being about 30 minutes too long (90-100 minutes would have been a good length for the movie). Some of the performances were just great, and probably someone less pickey than me would like it a lot, but for me the last hour needed to be compressed. "}{"Title":"No sir I didn't like it.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  O.k. I don't like to be too critical of someone elses work so here's the straight skinny. The acting was fine, as were the characters, and all the technical stuff. However it seemed to me like there were plot twists thrown in just for the fun of it, and maybe it's just me, but I couldn't figure out why the killer (who was such a nice guy) seemed so intent on knocking off all his old friends. Hmm. Oh well like I said the acting was o.k. and the characters were likeable enough. Not a complete dud, just not my cup o' tea. Later "},{"Title":"Good elements don't make a great movie","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are a lot of things to like about this movie  A serviceable plot, great scenery, and outstanding work by Danny Glover, R. Lee Ermey (who does a 180 from his Full Metal Jacket character), Ted Levine (perhaps the least recognized character actor around; see Georgia), William Fichtner, and Leo Burmester.  But Dennis Quaid brings little to his starring role, and the serial killer seems to have too normal of a life (note the number of friends he runs into) to be believable.  And who is the person involved in the kidnapping at the beginning of the film, and who is keeping Quaid's son? "},{"Title":"Keepin' it real","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's not something that Quaid or Glover would want to buy back and destroy every copy but it's not very good either.Quaid has one constipated expression all through the film as does Leto. They obviously needed the paycheck. Glover, to be fair, hammed it up, had fun and it kept me from changing to something else.But the entire plot was bad - and even the chases were dull lacking any excitement, the contrived surprise was revealed too early - and nothing makes much sense. Just a bunch of scenes strung together to fill the time. No humor or decent FX/explosions ala Lethal Weapon to distract from a boring story either.Very meh - Predator 2 was better... "},{"Title":"wait a minute...","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I mostly liked Switchback, but the last half hour or so seemed kind of anticlimactic, as if suddenly the truth gets revealed and then nothing more can happen. Granted, they did have a lot of tricks up to that point, but I still would have preferred a bigger surprise at the end. Nevertheless, Dennis Quaid, Danny Glover, Jared Leto and R. Lee Ermey do well in their roles. I kind of wish that more movies took place in the Rocky Mountains region (the most famous one is The Shining, but another good one is Sunshine Cleaning).Anyway, an OK movie, but I would have preferred a stronger ending.PS Maggie Roswell, who plays Fae, is best known as one of the voices on The Simpsons. "},{"Title":"Casting against type has gone too far","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this movie at the cinema many years ago, and one thing surprised me so negatively that I could not see any redeeming virtues in the movies Dennis Quaid was cast as a policeman that never smiles or grin, while his smile and grin are two of his trademarks. Danny Glover was cast as the bad guy, but - again - most viewers' imagination could not go far enough as to believe him in that role. Also, Jared Leto was not believable as the former medicine student. The tension was just not there, since the killer was known very early. The finale was, again, neither dramatic nor tense nobody around me cared about what was going to happen next. All we could wait for was the end of the movie. All in all, a disappointing evening spent at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Right","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's strange how a movie that has so many things going for it just did not feel right. In some ways this is a typical serial killer story yet there are a few twists. We have a killer who is the opposite of an intense Anthony Hopkins type of character. A lot of Switchback feels homey like a trip to the mountains or telling stories at a local small town café. Without the murder scenes, this would be some interesting buddy road picture.Danny Glover is very good in Switchback. He seems relaxed and natural. The problem I had with the movie was Dennis Quaid. I was very surprised at how one dimensional his performance was. There were moments when he did not seem at all believable as his character. A better actor could have helped to elevate the quality of Switchback. It shows how one important thing going wrong can hurt a movie. The rest of the cast were alright finishing off the rustic, western feel of the film. That atmosphere was also helped by good scenic photography and small towns where you could almost smell the coffee being made. The action and suspense were well done and there were a few bits of humor thrown in that also loosened up the story.I can only imagine how good Switchback would have been with an excellent lead actor but as it stands, it is a decent crime thriller.  "},{"Title":"Off the rails","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Apparently, Switchback had at least two alternative titles prior to release -- pity, then, that Derailed wasn't one of them.Not so much a cynical as clinical exercise in film making, Stuart's script observes every principle handed down on screen writing courses without ever once making a claim for credibility (or logic).The result is that, yup, there's a main plot (Quaid, running on auto, chasing a serial killer who has kidnapped his son), and a sub-plot (serial killer and unsuspecting companion, journeying from one murder scene to another) and a sub-sub plot (something the cat seems to have dragged in a political battle between two candidates for the office of County Sheriff, the point here being that it allows the temporal element -- the up against the clock principle -- to get an airing).That there are some thrills is more a credit to Stuart's directorial style than Stuart's script, though Quaid is so somnabulistic for so long, his gymnastics aboard a speeding train are as unexpected as they're unbelievable.The notion of a serial killer who doesn't act like a serial killer isn't novel Britain's Ealing comedies did it first and better years ago. Stuart, of course, isn't playing for laughs, so the mechanics on view here are a great deal more clumsy struck with the notion of making the killer more viewer-friendly, Stuart spends most of the film having the killer first encounter and then introduce us to his friends. Wow. There's plotting for you.In fact, that's about all the plotting there is, because the set-up -- a postcard that seemingly provides all the clues, rather like a pirate's treasure map -- is nonsensical not only does it mean very little, it actually seems to signify an intention on the part of the killer to commit suicide -- an interesting idea which Stuart, having thus raised, then later abandons.The acting remains low grade throughout, with Quaid being sleepy, Glover being nice and everyone else being unwitting. Most unwitting -- natch! -- are the Feds instead of organising a nationwide manhunt for the serial killer who kidnapped their employee's son, they do the precise opposite, leaving Quaid with the necessary cinematic motivation to trudge through one improbability after another until the denouement.There could have been a good film here. Instead, Stuart has stuck so firmly to the route mapped out in sterile teach-yourself-to-write-a-screenplay tutorials that Switchback is ultimately derailed by the inadequacy of its own concept. Voted three out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Garbage...boring, a waste of time.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback is a very poor attempt at an action/thriller. Different plot twists set up are neither interesting nor thrilling. Don't waste your time. While the production values and acting are decent, the story and the characters most certainly are not. If you are interested in murder mystery movies, watch Psycho again. I did, after seeing this.  "},{"Title":"A serial killer film with an interesting turn that loses it's way in the final act","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback has some nice moments. And the idea of a popular serial killer rather than a loner one is quite interesting. But the basic premise of the film - that this serial killer is setting up an FBI Agent (Dennis Quaid) from the beginning, relies too heavily on plot devices and very little on believability.The killings at the end of the film are worse than perfunctory - with very little impact given to the unmotivated killing of a close friend of the killer. The idea being it is to further set the trap.The clues left for the FBI agent are too obscure and quite likely to be completely missed by the agent, except of course the plot couldn't have that.The final act - where the agent goes to find his abducted son is so cliched and tacked on as to be almost laughable.A shame really because there really are some lovely moments - the best of which centre around the feuding sheriffs - two men trying to be elected into that office. The reigning Sheriff - Buck, is a delight in a film that generally lacks a lot of quailty believable moments.My viewing partner has only two words on this film so i will end with his quote... F******g Terrible "},{"Title":"A Big Switch-Off","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** Murder mystery film about an elusive serial killer on the loose in the snow-covered Rockies thats just too slick for it's own good. Trying to make a game of his actions the murderer seems to be setting a trap for the FBI agent Frank LaCross ,Dennis Quald, who was in charge of the FBI task force assigned to catch him by first murdering his baby-sitter and then kidnapping his young son Andy. This has LaCross taken off the case, because of his personal involvement in it, and then has him going on his own with out the help of the Agency making it a one on one matter between him and the killer. The movie SwitchBack starts out with what seems like two different plots that are independent of each other, with different actors. As the movie goes on it merges into one story in the final half hour or so. There's enough Red Herrings to open up a fish store with that everyone in the movie seems suspect including the FBI Agent. It turns out that Agent LaCross' son was kidnapped and is being held as some kind of insurance to keep the killer alive with him being the only one knowing where the boy is. Meanwhile during the movie a number of gruesome murders are committed by the serial killer using a most unusual manner of dispatching his victims Cutting their Femoral Artery with a hunting knife and having them slowly bleed to death. That's to show the FBI Agent that he's the one who killed them and leading him into the trap that he's set for him. SwitchBack is very confusing due to it's slickness and also by trying to bite off more then it can chew. The killer should be obvious to the audience right from the start but for some reason he's made to look so friendly and personable, far more then anyone else in the movie who you would suspect. This makes it very hard to believe that he could do these brutal crimes even later in the film when you finally realize just who he is. The movie goes far beyond trying to fool the audience about the killers identity where in one scene, long before he's exposed in the film, where it's all but certain who he is when he kills someone who trusted him that he cornered in the back of his garage.The movie for some reason still went on as if he were innocent by involving him in a number of incidents where he was made to look not only honest but even heroic.The exciting action in SwitchBack with a nail biting ending on the train ride through the Rocky Mountains more then make up for the giant plot-holes and inconsistencies of the story which ends with the finding of Agent LaCross' son in of all places Oakland Calif. The killer just happened to give away where the boy was being held during one of his heart warming conversations with one of future and unsuspecting victims in the movie, that he almost killed by slashing is throat. The killers potential victim not only remembered the address that the killer told him but was also able to write it down as he was almost dead and unconscious from loss of blood. The movie SwitchBack is very well acted and the action scenes are top rate but the films storyline is on par with movies like Friday the 13th VIII Jason takes Manhattan and A man called Stoner. "}{"Title":"Switchback Good actors, Interesting plot but...","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like the cast pretty much however the story sort of unfolds rather slowly. Danny Glover does a good job making you wonder if he's the bad guy. Meanwhile, the other characters are just part of the story. Dennis Quaid didn't have as much room in the story as he could have had. I thought the first scene was a bit over the top grim compared to how the story unfolded. I'd watch it again though. I rated it a 5  (wish I could rate it a 5.5) "},{"Title":"This Movie Just Falls Flat","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For me, this movie just seemed to fall on its face. The main problem for me was the casting of Glover as a serial killer. I don't know whether this grows out of type-casting or simply his demeanor, but I doubt Glover could ever portray a convincing villain. He's a good guy, and that's always obvious in his performances. Other than that the film is your run of the mill serial killer story. Nothing very innovative . "},{"Title":"Poorly Written Script","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The script weighs us down with an overly convoluted plot filled with too many characters. We know from the get-go there is a serial killer lurking somewhere in this film. But the plot tracks two almost non-overlapping threads that, though they come together at the end more or less, generate confusion and vagueness through most of the film. I would have to ask ... who is the story's protagonist? It's not at all clear, as the plot darts this way, then that, back and forth, with several characters occupying about the same amount of screen time.Except for Sheriff Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey) none of these people are interesting. Dennis Quaid's character is so dull and deadpan as to be inert. And if Quaid's vocal delivery had been any softer I don't think he would have been audible. Baby faced Jared Leto does not convince as a medical student. And, though we learn the identity of the killer way too soon, the killer's manner is such as to make him not the least bit scary, regardless of the too-soon reveal.The two plot lines are set in different geographical locales, one in Texas, the other in the mountains of Colorado; why? Is that really necessary? The Texas setting is preoccupied with local politics, with its attendant chatter, which drains away the suspense of a serial-killer plot. Indeed, the screenplay is filled not only with too many characters, but also too much dialogue.Cinematography is quite good, especially in the second half, with some interesting mountain scenery and camera angles. The visuals are easily the best element of the film. Editing and production design are pretty good, but background music seems irrelevant.The basic problem is a script that needed a re-write or two. It's almost like two separate films. Too bad, because some of the cinematography is quite good. If you skip the first half, the second half makes a decent travelogue through the snowy Colorado mountains. "},{"Title":"A thriller that hardly delivers.","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The cast and characters, the snowy mountain setting and later on the action on the train are pretty okay. The story isn't very exciting or surprising, though it has potential. But there's too many coincidences and incidents that keep it from being believable, as does the clichéd emphasis on good versus bad (with the exception of the killer, who has an endearing side to him). Glover's character is too quickly revealed as the killer, which is a missed opportunity for maintaining suspense. The ending that (expectedly) delivers the most action - on a train in the snowy mountains, no less - is just barely up to par, but it'll do.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"More middle of the range beer than cheap whiskey","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Films with meaningless titles are often symptomatic of a similar blandness contained within the films themselves, but Switchback, for the most part, is something of an exception. It tells the story of the hunt for a serial killer by an FBI agent (Quaid) whose young son the killer has kidnapped. Where this aspect of the story alone stands up to only the most arbitrary scrutiny, the way writer-director Jeb Stuart makes us care about the characters involved is what helps set this film apart from many others in this sub-genre. Even the serial killer's fairly likable! The film is made up of two connected stories that of the obsessive hunt for the killer (Danny Glover in good ol' boy mode) and the predicament of young hiker Lane (Jared Leto) who has hitched a ride with him against his better judgment (the killer, Goodall, drives a white caddie whose interior is pasted with centrefold pictures). Within seconds of having Goodall drop him off outside some godforsaken bar in the middle of nowhere, however, Lane needs his ride to save him from a bunch of drunken rednecks, and a friendship of sorts is forged.While the relationship between Lane and Goodall is the more absorbing part of the film, the elements involving Dennis Quaid's tortured agent are as far-fetched and badly devised as they are predictable. Quaid doesn't really do much other than look sullen and relate his story bit by painful bit to sympathetic small-town cop (and mayor) Buck Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey &#150; who, in a far less showy role than Glover's, nearly steals the film from him). The holes in this part of the plot gape wider than a tunnel mouth and almost scupper the entire film but, just when you start to question the likelihood of Glover's roaming killer finding somewhere safe to stash Quaid's kid, Stuart distracts you be serving up an action set piece to throw you off the trail.The only other real drawback is that Stuart reveals Glover as the killer too early for my liking. The 'is he/isn't he' part of the story should have been the film's strongest card, but it is played too soon. In fact, entire films have been made on such an idea and, given how well Stuart handles this element of the film, it's a shame he didn't concentrate more on this than the missing kid strand. "},{"Title":"the acting is better than the material","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Frank LaCrosse is a steadfast federal agent whose life is thrown into disarray after his son is abducted by an elusive, games-playing serial killer. The FBI apprehends the purported culprit and closes the case, but his son is never found. Years after conducting his own search and investigation, LaCrosse finally stumbles onto the trail of the real killer but like in so many investigations past, must play the killer's deadly game if he hopes to get his son back. Intriguing setup is well-performed by a first-rate cast, but it does itself in by throwing out one unnecessary plot twist after another. Would have worked better had it just stopped rambling and gotten to the point. **½ "},{"Title":"Essentially run-of-the-mill.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unsurprising, largely unthrilling crime thriller that begins promisingly enough, and keeps you guessing for a while, but then plays out all its cards too soon, leaving the viewer with nothing to do but watch with increasing indifference as the plot plods on and on, interminably. By the time it reaches its cliched action climax (which would be more suitable in a Steven Seagal vehicle), the element of suspense has been lost completely. Dennis Quaid is rather stiff is his role, but at least all the other performances are very good, and almost make the picture worth watching. (**) "},{"Title":"nothing special","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Switchback is like one of those contemporary serial killer novels that have embossed letters on the cover, generally a brownish color scheme to affect seriousness, and a clever (but not too clever) tagline.  Generally well received by the reviewers, maybe it hits the NY Times bestseller list for a brief stint.  Then, after about three or four months everybody forgets about it, and buys the next contemporary serial killer novel with embossed letters and a brownish color scheme.That's the case here, minus the whole angle about it having been a novel. Well, it was a novelization, but that's not quite the same thing.For the most part Switchback is your standard, bargain basement detective story.  You get two parallel stories in the beginning, one of which has to do with cops chasing after a serial killer who's terrorizing the countryside.  The other story doesn't have anything to do with the price of tea in China, so it must be assumed that one of the guys in THAT story is the killer--so you spend your time guessing which one (I had the wrong one for about twenty minutes, I'm not ashamed to say).  When he's revealed you say, oh, okay.  Then you hang around while the rest of the machine works its way to the end.  Being a mystery, you don't know where it's going ALL of the time, but when it gets there, you sort of knew it all along.Unfortunately, it's rather confusing along the way, with plot twists and little leaps of faith and confusing bits that go by too fast for you to catch.  With all these things you think gee, this is what 'Silence of the Lambs' and 'The Spy Who Came In From the Cold' did to me, I must be watching something great.  Wrong.  This time you can say with impunity that your confusion is derived from a lackluster directing job, not any sort of infernal cleverness.  Plus it's rather emotionless, which doesn't help either.That said, an average joe movie like this has rarely been acted out so well. R.Lee Ermey is always a pleasure to watch; its a general rule that when the titles say also with R.Lee Ermey as... the movie isn't going to be all bad.  Danny Glover is also a plus--it's possible to say that the movie would've been a complete failure without his casting.  Randy Quaid is here too, in the role of the sourpuss FBI Agent on the trail of the killer. He's got (surprise!) personal reasons for catching him.  Additionally, Jared Leto is quite good as the Extraneous Plot Device, without whom the movie would be half its original length.  Of course, that might not have been so bad. "},{"Title":"SPOILERS Disappointing film at best","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderful actors. Lousy script and not too great direction either.  My main problem was I simply didn't CARE about any of these people.  Not the killer not the victims. The settings were pretty drab.  Dennis Quaid's character was so poorly written in, I didn't even care when the end came.  He got his kid back.  Big deal!  I wanted my money back. "},{"Title":"Switch Roles ,not switchback!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The greatest thing that stands out from this movie ( apart from the gaping holes in the plot) is that the two leading actors should have switched roles. Glover was far too lightweight for the character he was playing and quad was far too deep and depressing for his role. I wouldn't say this was a bad film it was actually ok  but it won't last for too long in the memory. 6 OUT OF 10 "}]