[{"Title":"True to Woolf's finest novel, brilliant portrayal of contrasting themes...","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I agree with some of the more perceptive comments made here, I have a few of my own to add.  First, the novel on  which this film is based is an all-time favorite of mine and I'm happy to have seen it beautifully translated into cinematic form.  The contrast between the personal and inner life of an upper class English woman and the horrors produced by war (in this case, symbolized through the experience of one man, brilliantly portrayed) is both moving and exacting.  Vanessa Redgrave gives a splendid  performance as Clarissa...sensitive, radiant, conservative and uncertain about life decisions as she looks back (nicely depicted in flashback).  Michael Kitchen as her would-be lover of old is perfect for the role...quietly romantic, sexy, with just the right British propriety.  The troubled young war veteran and his wife are well cast and Marleen Gorris should be credited with graceful directing. "},{"Title":"A beautiful adaptation of a wonderful book!","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful little film, which portrays the book admirably. When put up against its counterpart in The Hours I think it compares favourably. For sure it is a much smaller film in both stature and actor profiles, but this does not make it worse, in fact quite the contrary.The English cast do a great job, on this essentially English story, with strong performances all around, notably from the leads from both eras. It is nicely shot, and the script has been well managed, and achievement for a Virginia Woolf novel.I often find myself trying to pick out flaws in films like this, but the only possible complaint I can think of is the lack of continuity in height ratio between the leads over the two eras, petty some might say, and actually a small price you might expect to pay when you cast the wonderful Vanessa Redgrave.I can't help feel sorry for those people who don't get this film. If Virginia Woolf isn't your cup of tea fair enough, but to think this and therefore the book is boring can only mean a lack of understanding or appreciation of Woolf's views on the point of life.In essence when I watched this film it charmed me for an hour and a half, and then when it was finished left me questioning the value of my life, and important decision I had made, and was yet to make, which if you have ever read it is exactly what the book does. "},{"Title":"This is an superb character study, beautifully acted and directed.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kudos go to all who participated in making this wonderful film.  Vanessa Redgrave, as usual, is perfect as an aging dowager who settled for the safe path in life instead of seeking adventure and taking risks.  When her old flame reappears, she reevaluates her choices and second-guesses the paths that she chose.  The film also has a sub-plot about a shell-shocked World War I veteran who is in emotional torment and is inconsolable.  The film works on two levels.  It shows the interaction between proper British people who speak politely to one another, but the viewer senses that there are fierce and passionate undercurrents and important thoughts that seems to be unspoken.  In addition, the film is a clear indictment of the stuffy and snobby British society of Post World War I England, in which a party could be of such importance that a person's reputation could hinge on its success.  There is also a feminist slant in the movie.  Can a woman who spends her time at home making parties and pleasing her husband ever feel fulfilled?   Did Mrs. Dalloway make the right decision in playing it safe in life?  That is up to the viewer to decide.  Meanwhile, revel in the fabulous nuanced performances, the witty dialogue and the beautiful cinematography.  This film is a triumph. "},{"Title":"How sad, to find it boring!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone doesn't like everything, so I'm not surprised that some people find the movie of Mrs. Dalloway boring. They probably would find the book boring too. But it's depressing. So they won't agree with some of us who see the novel as one of the great works of the 20th century, and the film as a truly remarkable and beautiful capturing of it. The only touch I regretted was the opening of the film with the Septimus Warren-Smith war scenes. The opening really belongs with Mrs. D. and her first words, I will buy the flowers myself. After that moment, it's a quiet day but a beautiful and sensitive one. "},{"Title":"A miraculous adaptation","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marleen Gorliss has pulled off a most successful adaptation of one of Woolf's most diaphanous novels. I'm not a fan of voice-over, but here the device is used discretely and to great effect. The magnificent performances of Redgraves and the rest of the cast bring to life this delicate tale. Probably a chick flick in its focus on love and the meaning of things, this film will not appeal to all tastes. But if you liked 'The Hours,' you'll love 'Mrs. Dalloway.  "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much, although I really loved the novel a bit  more, but that's always the case it seems. Vanessa Redgrave and Natasha McElhone make a GREAT older/younger version of each other, and Rupert Graves gives a stellar performance as a young man dealing with the impact of war. This is a gently told tale, but it's done very well. Worth a look.    "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, well-written, well-performed.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs. Dalloway is a very well-written and performed adaptation of the Virginia Woolf novel. Kudos to screenwriter Eileen Atkins for her faithfulness to the original story.  The double casting of the central characters is realistic and makes the flashback scenes easy to follow. Every actor was completely believable in his/her role. But the most brilliant performance of all was Rupert Graves as Septimus Warren Smith, the tragic young war hero suffering from delayed shell shock.  (For the full impact of his inner torment, try watching this movie with a combat veteran, as I did.)  A quality movie.  Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Simply Divine","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This period film is rich in character, lush scenery of London and divine costumes.  Vanessa Redgrave is simply lovely. I thoroughly enjoyed the building of the story by interchanging flashbacks with current time. The movie encourages one that hasn't read the novel by Virginia Woolf to do so.  "},{"Title":"Mrs Dalloway rocks!!","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though I haven't read the book, I felt the movie had a lot to offer and should not be so easily dismissed as boring. Maybe I am biased, I am an ardent fan of Vanessa Redgrave. But the real star in my opinion was Natasha McElhone. She really internalized the role of a blossoming of young girl, who is not a child not yet a woman. She is mischievous, mature yet artless in certain ways and also innately different from the mature Mrs Dalloway essayed by Vanessa Redgrave. I also liked Rupert Graves character. I would not have guessed the abrupt ending of his life.My one observation about the movie is till the end I was not too clear about the depth of emotions that Clarissa had for Peter!! Maybe the book also leaves it vague, but some information would have helped me understand why on one hand she treats him in such a cavalier fashion but then again she shows her tender side in her overwhelming concern for him at the end. Hope other people like it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Sublime adaptation of essential novel!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is VERY little less than a masterpiece!It actually works on several levels, all blending effortlessly together. Redgrave is absolutely sublime and shows what a great actress she really is - she sails thru the film with grace and dignity and lends real spirit to the character whom she plays. Surrounded by a stellar cast, most notably Graves and McElhone she makes this film a sheer delight to watch.And you can watch it again and again and never get tired of the wit and beauty which is ever-present all thru the film.  "}{"Title":"Party-Crasher","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like most of Virginia Woolf's literary output, I appreciated the film-version of Mrs. Dalloway more than I enjoyed it. There are flashes of blinding beauty in this movie, however, the film's sum is  not equal to its parts. Of course, Vanessa Redgrave continues to astound me with her talent. And ---yes, the film is beautifully made and attention to period detail is evident.  And --- yes, parts of the story are very heart-rending. Yet....  why does this film satisfy me but not move me? Like a guest at one of Mrs. Dalloway's parties, I am more impressed with the effort that went into the production than the product itself.  "},{"Title":"Damage","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Woolf was an interesting writer, in a way. She occupied herself with ordinary stories  about people with ordinary problems, like the river of thousands of other writers. But at  the same time, she devised a rather extraordinary manner of circumnavigating those  same issues. Safety on the one hand, risk on the other.And that's incidentally what this story is about bracketing life between the damage from  taking risks and the damage from not taking them. Oddly, Woolf created her own  detractors because many will come to this book and this movie expecting Evelyn Waugh,  or Edith Wharton. These are safe readers/viewers. They want the simple taste of a  pleasant story, but this is precisely the vacuousness that drives Woolf out of her story.Other writers were experimenting with what it means for the narrative to leave the  grounding of the story and become its own character with its own drive. Joyce would  leave the story to encounter fragments of a dream life, but those fragments would be  well ordered according to geometric cosmologies and the geography of Dublin. Proust  would similarly layer the story but with fragments of annotated recollection. The order in  his case came from rather mechanical folding of time and awarenesses.Woolf is at once between them (annotated memory, but fabricated from yearnings) and  apart her narrative wanders. It has a mothlike quality -- deep insight with an attention  deficit. The capriciousness of the thread was result of the capriciousness of fate the  irrelevance of decision. Why would I mention all this? Because each of these features has  a cinematic counterpart.Hitchcock and Tarkovsky invented the camera that has its own motivation and is likely to  take interest or be distracted. Altman and now Anderson developed the cinematic  conventions for shifting characters while maintaining the same issues and perspectives.  (See Things You Can Tell for the best many stories and characters, all the same  woman.)Several filmmakers have successfully experimented with the kind of layering Woolf used  folding between the imaginer and the imagined. Pinter specifically quotes Woolf in his  French Lieutenant's Woman, and even brushes her sleeve in his unproduced screen play  of Proust. There was lots for Ms Gorris to work with in approaching this project. There  was plenty she could have safely done to emulate the experimental approach of Woolf. But no. She chose extreme safety. She chose the Dalloway life. The Hours played the  game. It invented nothing new cinematically, merely understood that the story didn't  matter a whit. That's the point. And that Woolf introduces her own presence in the  narrative. The Hours was a far superior flight, but still not nearly as risky as its source.  All that business about Richard Brown had too much purpose. Septimus Smith being in  the trenches was as arbitrary as Clarissa's appearance in the flower shop.Bottom line yet another project that doesn't take the risks whose depiction is the  purpose.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"very annoying film","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" During filming, was Vanessa Redgrave taking mogadon? It was like she was reading from an autocue. I've seen more life in a wooden spoon. Or perhaps that was all part of the character? whatever, it was very very annoying, I kept wanting to shake the screen to hurry her up. I read the book a long time ago & didn't like much about it except that Septimus's descent into madness was very well done - but I don't think Rupert Graves showed this very well, his acting was all on the surface. The connection between his life and Clarissa's is not very well done either but I suspect the attempt is to show the sacrifice soldiers made to enable people like Clarissa to continue their vapid lives. The film is very bitty and has no real unity to it. Hated it. "},{"Title":"An unsuccessful adaptation of Virginia Woolf's novel","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me start in this way Woolf is a writer who is almost impossible to put on screen.It is so because there are hardly any plots in her works--the emphasis is on thoughts, memories, reflections, parallels and contrasts. Even taking this into consideration, I think this film is unsuccessful. First of all, the authors allow themselves too many liberties with the original text.Perhaps the greatest of them is that Clarissa and Septimius MEET in the film ( through the window of the shop). This spoils the whole idea of Woolf that her two main characters NEVER MEET in the novel. This is extremely important in the book and is ,I believe, one of the main themes in it.Second at the end it is suggested in the film that Clarissa also contemplates suicide which again is NOT present in the book. And there are other departures from the text...These are not trifles as they change the whole perspective of the viewer. I am sure that most viewers would find the film boring and dealing with banalities, especially if they have not read the book. Septimius is unconvincing and he should have been EXPLAINED to the spectators more. In general the film leaves me with a taste of superficiality. There are lots of themes in it and important themes at that. But they all are presented very superficially and light-heartedly. As a whole the film can be classified as some kind of comedy and the funny, entertaining music also adds to this impression. But this is horribly wrong I think! Virginia Woolf's works are NEVER comedies and should never be presented as such I think. I myself have an ambiguous attitude to Woolf I both like and dislike her but I have always considered her a serious author. This film will convince viewers that probably she is not worth reading which is a pity. "},{"Title":"Totally missed the tone of the novel","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I appreciate this film for its technical quality, as well as its ambition in trying to film a novel that is written in the stream of consciousness style, however it fails overall because of Ms. Redgrave's performance. Her acting destroys the tone of the movie in a extremely jarring way; the contrast between her just-swallowed-a-bottle-of-Prozac happiness and the other plot lines and draws the viewer out of the experience of the film. The novel's tone is much darker and Clarissa's point-of- view much more based on regret, and more in sync with the post-traumatic-stress and depression of Septimus and the ennui and disenfranchisement of her daughter. Her performance wasn't only in the wrong tone, but it was incredibly phony; a viewer should never see acting happening. This is the same gripe I have with Rupert Grave's performance of Septimus; his acting is too stagy and I never truly believed him when shouting EVANS! EVANS!Probably will be (and perhaps should be) the last time a film adaptation is made of this novel. "},{"Title":"Visually perfect - weak plot","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had never heard either of Virginia Wolf nor of Mrs Dalloway but my mum received a free DVD of this film with her daily newspaper ( a very common practice in the UK apparently ) so she gave me this on a recent visit to England and I thought Why not as I have always enjoyed Vanessa Redgrave in the films I have seen of her. I think that to appreciate fully this sort of film you need to be English or have lived many years in England. Much attention is given to recreating the period, the accents, the costumes and decors of the 1920's in that country and the result is truly remarkable. I can understand Americans and other foreigners not appreciating this as it is very far removed from their lifestyle. Also, the plot is rather tame ( I would have preferred more sex and passion ) but presumably the novel in question did not include this. I was also confused by the introduction of a sub plot whereby a WW1 soldier with shell shock married to an Italian wife commits suicide and couldn't understand the relation between this and Mrs Dalloway. In spite of these misgivings I actually felt pleasure watching the film. The actress who portrayed Clarissa Dalloway young, Natacha something-or-other, had subliminal beauty which reminded me of the great actresses of the 1940's, something you very rarely see nowadays, and I have always liked a great deal Michael Kitchen every time I have seen him in a film. I would therefore recommend the film to all those who like period pieces but would warn that the plot is rather tame and subdued and that if you are looking for passion, sex and romance you might be left disappointed, or at least hungering for more, especially as the ending is rather flat and unoriginal. As you can see, my feelings are rather mixed, there is good and bad but globally my appreciation will be positive, hence a rating of 7 !! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good movie to watch when you are in a thinking mood.  I think it would not be a spoiler to know before watching that the young soldier is not ever personally known by Mrs. Dalloway.  Yet, there lives are interwoven.  All actors were superb.  It is fun to watch with someone because the movie poses many questions about live and living.   "},{"Title":"A Real Snoozer","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you ask me, this movie would be best to play when you want to put people to sleep.The film was not entirely without merit. I thought the actors were good and the cinematography interesting, but the screenplay itself left a lot to be desired. I felt as if there was a huge amount of repetition and little (if any) action. Nothing really happens for the most part, excepting for one character whose character was never given to us -- only his shell-shock from his time in the war.There were a few interesting moments in the film. I'm just sorry it took -- what was it, 2 hours? -- to convey what I feel could easily have been conveyed in 20 minutes or less. "},{"Title":"A Boring Romance With A Beautiful Reconstitution of a Period and Excellent Actors and Actresses","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clarissa (Vanessa Redgrave and Natascha McElhone) is a shallow woman, divided between the love of his friend Peter Walsh and Richard Dalloway, a prominent young man from the upper class. Clarissa is showed in two periods when she was a teenager and as an old lady, worried about parties. There is also a parallel plot of an honored English soldier, Septimus Warren Smith (Rupert Graves), showing the cold and insensible English system. The story is very shallow and boring. The reaction of the bored Peter Walsh, in old Clarissa's party in the end of the movie, when he says, `How boring are the English!' may be extended to `How boring is this movie!'. I never read Virginia Woof's novel and indeed, after watching `The Hours' and `Mrs. Dalloway', I certainly will not. However, there is a beautiful reconstitution of the period from the end of the Nineteenth Century to the after First World War, and a good performance of excellent actors and actress. Recommended only for fans of Virginia Woof and her novels. My vote is five.  "},{"Title":"Nothing to be afraid of here except boredom","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Virginia Woolf is thought of as a high-brow rather than popular novelist yet the novel this film is based on sold well when first published in 1924. It is easy to see why &#150; there is nothing rarefied in the treatment of its themes, making choices and breaking with the past.Clarissa Dalloway, a society matron, played with startled radiance by Vanessa Redgrave, is throwing a party and while making the arrangements she remembers back to the choice she made 30 years ago as a young woman between two men. One, Peter, charming, intelligent, adventurous, is the sort who went out and conquered India, or at least seduced the Major's wife. The other, Richard, good-looking, loving, a bit boofy, devoid of flair, is the sort that gravitates into politics. Naturally, the young Clarissa (played by Natasha Mc Elhone) has chosen the safe one, but Peter, after a chequered career, has turned up in London and pays her a call. She invites him to the party. Parallel to Clarisa's reminiscences is the story of Septimus (Rupert Graves) a returned soldier from World War I, whose wartime experiences are eating into his sanity. Clarisa is put up as a `modern woman' who refuses Peter's love because she sees it as all demanding and all consuming, despite his attractive personality. Yet she accepts Richard, who wants and needs a dutiful, supportive wife. She also passes up the possibility of love with her close friend Sally. Though shaken when she hears of Stephen's fate from his psychiatrist, a guest at the party, and touched when she meets her old lovers again, she sees her life as going on before, safe and unexciting.For a film-maker the amount of interior musing generated by Woolf's `stream of consciousness' writing technique presents a challenge and here Marleen Gorris has effectively used flashback to externalise Clarisa's memories. We get two stories artfully intercut, though there is not much tension in either of them - costumes, but not much drama. One does, however, get the feel of how it might have been to be in the upper class during the Edwardian late summer; as if just being there was enough (we even meet the Prime Minister at the party). Woolf and Gorris have evoked the atmosphere precisely, even if, as Lytton Strachey said, there isn't much of a plot. Even the minor characters sparkle. Robert Hardy as Sewell's psychiatist exudes bonhomie and guile, and Margaret Tyzak as the meddlesome Lady Bruton gives us a fine example of the old-fashioned female power broker at work. Overall, the film is rather slow, especially at the start, and I did wonder whether it would have been made without all the government and foundation money listed in the credits, but the quality of the performances redeem it to some extent. "}{"Title":"No plot, but you should expect it","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a good transposition of the Woolf's novel. Woolf is famous for the almost complete lack of plot of her books (leaving apart the first one, some very few short stories, and Orlando), being interested in writing about what characters are thinking of, and not about what they're actually doing or saying. It was a challenge for the director and the cast, but the result is OK. The weak points are the first sequence (a short narration about Septimus during second world war everyone can understand what happened without looking at it, and its style is somehow inconsistent with the rest of the movie) and the music, which was rather poorly chosen or written (in a movie in which there is little dialog and a lot of close up of people thinking the soundtrack should deserve greater attention). Very good casting and acting (everyone, not just the two leading roles) and gorgeous cinematography. However, if you like movies in which something does actually happen, don't choose this one. And if you are looking for something that perfectly capture the complex description of the feelings of Clarissa and Septimus... read a book and don't watch a movie. "},{"Title":"Cry Woolf","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's a certain type of 'art' film the English do very well and likely as not Vanessa Redgrave won't be far away - I can't wait til someone has the good sense to release A Month By The Lake on DVD so that I can write about it without having to rely on the memory of having seen it twice within one week on its initial and limited release. This is no exception and virtually everyone is to be congratulated for 'visualizing' a novel employing the 'streams-of-consciousness' technique at which Woolf was a a dab hand. It's a given - or it should be - that Vanessa Redgrave illuminates any stage or screen she cares to grace and here she catches beautifully the light-as-air slightly ethereal quality of Clarissa Dalloway in middle age preparing, at one level, for a party she will hold in the evening whilst reminiscing on another level about her youth and, among other things, the suitor she let get away in favor of the 'safer' Mr Dalloway. Redgrave is supported more than ably by some stalwarts of British TV and stage, oliver Ford Davis, Michael Kitchen, Amelia Bullmore, John Standing and Rupert Graves who, for once, is not so much precious as actually watchable. Surprisingly someone has put some thought into decor and color so that the overall result makes for a pleasant wallow in Charm, Sophistication and Style. "},{"Title":"Insufferable","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most boring,pointless movies I have ever seen.  The title character is self-centered, self-absorbed and wholly distasteful.  The secondary plot line is incomprehensible and its relation to the primary plot line is mystifying.  Hated it. "},{"Title":"Out off all the books I have had to read for Eng Lit this is the best","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Compared to 1984 and other boring tripe this film is entertaining.  I like how they show the class structure, how one trys not have norms and standards.  My wife thought they were snobs, but after years of working with people who act like the audience on the Jerry Springer show I found this movie quite refreshing.  I would like to tell Mrs Dalloway life is not that bad, and for her friend to get over her.  You tried to make her a person she is not.  When you do that you end up with a unhappy life.  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Some books should not be adapted to the big screen","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since I was just finishing the book, `Mrs. Dalloway' by Virginia Woolf, I was excited to see that it was on one of the movie channels last weekend.  What I encountered, however, is a film that was boring, incomprehensible and non-sensical.  One cannot entirely blame the film, it tried the best it could with the material it had, but when the source material is Virginia Woolf, and is almost entirely written in stream-of-conscience style with extended periods of internalizing and little actual dialogue, one would certainly think that there shouldn't be a film made from it just because a film can be made from it.  Vanessa Redgrave, who plays the title character, does not deserve any blame for the failure of this film, nor do any of the other actors.  It is just simply a film that could not intelligibly be made from the story that Woolfe wrote, and should not have even been attempted.  Don't watch the movie, read the book.  --Shelly  "},{"Title":"Slow and disappointing","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually like period films but this one just seemed to drag and drag.  I'd perk up during Rupert Graves' scenes, but Vanessa Redgrave just put me to sleep.I was disappointed in the film.  It lacked a little punch at the end that I'd hoped it would have. "},{"Title":"So good it made me want to read the book","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs Dalloway (1998***1/2 out of ****) I haven't read Virginia Woolf's novel, but the film worked so beautifully on its own that I suspect it's a faithful and intelligent adaptation.  Like most good adaptations (and some bad ones), it made me want to read the book.  There are two parallel subplots one dealing with a day in the life of comfortably affluent, middle-aged Mrs. Dalloway as her life-choices come back to haunt her, and the other about a tormented, shell-shocked young war veteran (nicely played the always watchable Rupert Graves).  Some of the critics thought too much time was spent on the second story, but I disagree.  They both dovetail touchingly at the end of the film at Mrs. Dalloway's party.  All-in-all, any criticism I'd have of this one would be of the nit-picky variety (e.g., some of the actors chosen to play the main characters when they are young don't match up very well to the actors who are playing the same characters when they are older). "},{"Title":"A waste of a fine cast","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mrs. Dalloway is an English period flick (circa 1920ish) which is all about a day in the life of the title character (Redgrave). The film sports an excellent cast and all the trappings of the period's polite society. Unfortunately the film falls apart on story/screenplay which is a herky-jerky mess jumping around between Mr. Suicidal Whack-Job, Dalloway and her best friend umpteen years prior, and prattling about her little evening soiree while spending her time on her duff. The characters are paper thin, the story flat, and the screenplay a shambles making what could have been such a lovely film an unrecommendable waste of a good cast and crew - and that's from someone who adores British period flicks. (C) "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another movie from the woman who gives us the wonderful Antonia;. In this romantic bourgeois; drama, the director did a marvelous job directing all the cast. She's also very innovative with the way she introduced us to the flashback of the life of Mrs. Dalloway.  This is very intelligent cinema! 95 % of the movies from England, in the 1990's, are absolutely great. "},{"Title":"A movie without a plot","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I kept waiting for the film to move me, inspire me, shock me, sadden me in some way but it stirred none of my emotions. It just meandered along to the end. None of the characters seemed very unique or complex, they just seemed like actors reciting their lines. I think it could have been a better movie if the characters expressed more emotion. The only one who did and was believable was the veteran and he probably committed suicide just to get out of the movie as soon as he could. It was a waste of talent, film, their time, and mine. If there is a message or meaning or genius in this story, it certainly is well-hidden or I am very dense, which I doubt. "}{"Title":"B - O - R - I - N - G!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can you say Boring with a capital B! It's slower than watching grass grow! It's more boring than watching paint dry! You'll sleep right through it.....we all did.....don't do it...you'll regret it! "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen, worse then The Piano even!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't believe this was the same director as Antonia's Line.This film has it all, a boring plot, disjointed flashbacks, a subplot that has nothing to do with the main plot what so ever, and totally uninteresting characters.  It was painful to watch.  Soooo, painful.  "}]