[{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very powerful and moving story, particular the relationship between Buzz and James; both dying of AIDS and both in love.Very well acted and incredibly moving, especially when happy-go-lucky musical loving Buzz begins to break and confesses how he really sees things.It may not be real life, but you could believe that these characters exist. The script is good, as are most scripts based on plays AND adapted by the original writer. I would be very inspired to actually see this performed.I am sick and tired of straight people, there are just too many of them. I was in a bank the other day, they were everywhere writing cheques, two of them were applying for a morgage, it was disgusting. "},{"Title":"Very good, but not great","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Eight gay men spend Memorial Day, Fourth of July and Labor Day in a remote house near NYC. Film follows their friendships and relationships. Previous posters have complained about the lack of character development but remember...the original play ran 3 1/2 hours! They had to cut out over an hour's worth of material to get a two hour film and the cutting does hurt. Still I like the film. The entire cast is good...even Jason Alexander. The setting is beautiful and the script is very good...but I saw the play so I was constantly remembering things they cut out. Ramon's (Randy Becker) part especially was chopped down. Still, the film shows a bunch of gay men dealing with AIDS, sex, love etc truthfully and with great humor. The best performances come from Alexander, Justin Kirk, John Glover and Randy Becker. Also the film has plenty of casual male nudity (especially Becker who is handsome and has a very nice body). Worth seeing...especially if you never saw the play. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Sad and Excellent","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adapted from a hit play by Terence McNally and utilizing most of the original stage cast, this film cannot hide its theatrical roots... nor should it.This is a sweet and sad story set against a perfect summer at a perfect country estate in upstate New York (?) that shows the lives of 8 gay men as they come to terms with AIDS, death, love, compassion, and the thin bonds of friendship that hold them together.Their summer idyll is a microcosm that, apart from the real world we never see, touches us all because it is their humanity that dominates this story. That one is a dancer, a lawyer, a choreographer, etc. is unimportant. They are 8 gay men whose lives are intertwined in love, valour, and compassion.Jason Alexander is very good in the Nathan Lane role, the portly man dying of AIDS who, late in life finds love. John Glover is brilliant (repeating his Tony-winning role) as twins one a nasty hateful man; the other a sweet man whose death from AIDS is imminent. Stephen Spinella and John Benjamin Hickey are solid as the yuppie long-term couple. Stephen Bogardus is warm as the stuttering host, Justin Kirk is surprisingly good as the blind man, and Randy Becker is good as the Latino hunk whose causes so much trouble.The film is full of stereotypes and warm humor and terrific moments of truth. This is not a revolutionary film that tries to change the world, but it is a wise and bittersweet look at the lives of gay men in the time of AIDS, men whose lives are shattered (and ended) by a cruel and heartless disease.There's nothing earth-shattering here, no insights that make the lives of gay men clear and understandable to non-gays. But it is a work of great honesty and simplicity in showing 8 gay men as.... human beings.The scene, when the men go skinnydipping under a summer moon is beautiful in its complete innocence. No viewer can fail to understand their childlike glee in such a simple pleasure.This film is a must see just because it is not a strident, political rant against the horrors of AIDS. The characters, especially those played by Glover and Alexander, accept their fates with great dignity, humor, and valour. This film is a great tribute to all our victims of AIDS, and a silent condemnation to the society and politics that let it happen. "},{"Title":"The Gay 'Stand by Me'","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to wholehearted disagree that this film is disappointing.  I found the characters interesting and deep.  Yes - the gay men approach stereotypical roles in some instances, but they are developed over the course of the summer in a manner that mimics the boys in Stand by Me.  We see the changes in the relationships between nearly every pairing of the eight men.  Some are in relationships; some were.  Some hate each other; but they nearly all care about one another.  This is the kind of movie that makes you reflect on your own human interactions.  You don't have to be HIV+, a choreographer, a yuppie, a broadway queen, or even gay to see yourself in these characters.  This is a fine exhibition of love, lust, friendship, and life. "},{"Title":"Love? Valor? Self Pity!!!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is perhaps the most inappropriately named movie ever! There is no Love, there is no Valor, and there is no Compasion. Let's try this instead Self Centered!, Shallow!, Headonistic! I saw this film when it came out in 1997 and as the credits rolled in the theater I wanted to crawl into a hole and pull the hole in after me. Last night I caught parts of it again on cable and immediately started having PTSD symptoms. What a giant pant load. As a gay male, and ballet dancer myself, I cringe to think that people out there might see this vapid movie and think that my life in any way resembles it or any of it's pathetic inhabitants. Sorry to take this personally... This is not a movie about people, gay or otherwise, and their struggles or triumphs. It's about gay cartoon characters. And not very nice ones. Every distasteful stereotype is there. And most of the characters are several all at once. What do they have in common? They are all shallow, self centered, bitchy, immature, and totally lacking in impulse control, which explains the last thing they all have in common, they are all dying of AIDS. And so we have one of two problems here. Either gays are now making movies that perpetuate commonly held negative stereotypes about themselves, in which we have a movie and gay problem. Or, these aren't stereotypes and we gays are really like the way this movie portrays us, in which we have only a gay problem. Either way this movie is just one big problem from start to finish because it's loaded with bad movie making and bad gay characters. When The Boys in the Band opened in the 1960's the gay community, of which Terrence McNally had to have been a part of at the time, was outraged at it's negative portrayal of gay men as stereotypically sad, self loathing, and bitchy. Whatever Mr. McNally's perspective was back then he clearly thinks that stereotypically sad, self loathing, and bitchy was the way to go thirty years later in 1997, and that AIDS would somehow ameliorate the subjects' distastefulness. Not even close. More importantly, all the personal and sociological offenses aside, this is just a really bad, unenjoyable, movie. The house and landscape are beautiful but there is no one to like or care for anywhere to be found. Like too many gay films it trades on shallowness, bitchiness, nudity,and the promise of easy sex. Those can be elements of a film, but they can't BE the film. Follow this if you will. One of the many subplotlines threaded throughout this movie the cute blind guy screws around on his partner, in their own home, with one of their guests, then gets a phone call that his sister had died and launches into an overacted banshee like scream that makes you think he might also be mentally disabled. Then while his lover is comforting him due to the loss of his sister, the cute blind guy thinks it's the perfect time to be honest and tell his lover that he has been schtupping the house guest. And this is fairly routine for this script and this group of characters. And this is not treated like a plot development. It's just one of many random moments, clichés, and stereotypes thrown into this shepherds pie of undeveloped stories and characters. Uhgg...And as for the brain trust behind all this, if this is what passes for talented playwriting and movie making by the gay establishment, God help us all. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Often it is very tricky to adapt a play, especially one of a rather long length, to the screen and keep the story and characters intact.  Though I have not had the pleasure of seeing a theatrical production of this film, I do own the play and have read it numerous times.  Although the film did suffer a tiny bit from some things being edited out, characters speaking directly to the audience, further character insight etc., it is still a wonderful film, full of superb acting and characters that you fall in love with.The characters are brought to life with superb accuracy, due to the fact that all the actors, except Nathan Lane, reprise their roles that they held on the stage for about all of two years.  And it shows that they have bonded as artists with both each other and their characters.As with almost all films there were performances that personally stood out to me.  John Glover shows the audience why he won the Tony Award for his performance.  Playing twin brothers, 'John the Foul and James the Fair' showing the defination of range.  The other actor that really stood out was the always brilliant Justin Kirk, playing the young, blind Bobby Brahms, showing why he won the OBIE Award for his spectacular performance.  The cast also includes Stephen Spinella, two time Tony award winner for Tony Kushner's masterpiece Angels in America, Jason Alexander, and many other actors that deserve much more recognition and fame than they currently have.This is a beautiful film with precious characters that you will love.  "},{"Title":"A summer in the country","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing the fate the great play by Terrence McNally suffered on its way to the movies. The fact that it's basically the same team that produced this moving theater piece at New York's Manhattan Theater Club and later transferred to Broadway with basically the same cast, and with the same director, Joe Mantello, doesn't give the film viewer any idea of what Love, Valor, Compassion was so effective on the theater in comparison what one watches this version on the screen.First, and foremost, the replacement of Nathan Lane, the originator of the role of Buzz was the first mistake. In fact, Jason Alexander, a good actor otherwise, throws away the balance of the film as he portrays Buzz. Mr. Alexander is out of his element in the movie. He seems to be acting in a different film, rather on this one.The rest of the brilliant cast is repeating the roles they originated on the play.Love, Valor, Compassion deals with a lot of serious topics in a matter of fact way. AIDS is at the center of the story as this group is affected deeply in one way, or another, by the plague that is killing most of these men gathered at a summer house. There is also a subtext in the movie about relationships, friendship, and loyalty.John Glover playing the twin brothers, John, and James, gives one of his best performances in this picture. Mr. Glover is an actor who has a long background in both theater and films and he is a welcome addition to anything he decides to grace with his presence.Stephen Spinella and John Benjamin Hickey, are Perry and Arthur, a gay couple that has managed to stay together fourteen years, a record for this type of life where relationships tend not to last at all. Stephen Bogardus and Justin Kirk, are Gregory and Bobby, the host of the house and his sweet blind lover. Randy Becker plays Ramon, who appears to be a hustler and has been brought as a guest and ends up betraying his companion and the host.Finally, the fact the film doesn't work rests with the direction of Joe Mantello, an excellent theater director for casting the wrong man in a key part in the movie and perhaps his unfamiliarity working in films. "},{"Title":"Fine ensemble cast sparks dynamic comedy-drama","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION! Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalThis perceptive drama - written by Terrence McNally, adapted from his award-winning Broadway play - starts out as a warm-hearted examination of the lives and loves of eight middle-class gay men during three eventful weekends at the isolated country home of ageing dancer Stephen Bogardus and his blind, youthful boyfriend Justin Kirk (ANGELS IN America). As it progresses, however, McNally's snappy screenplay begins to expose the faults in his principal characters, as well as their virtues, leading inevitably to fireworks and revelations. Set in a beautiful lakeside house somewhere in upstate New York (filmed in Quebec, though you wouldn't know it), director Joe Mantello - also responsible for the original Broadway production - and cinematographer Alik Sakharov take full advantage of the area's natural beauty, moulding a defiantly cinematic template from the material's inherent staginess.All but one of the fine ensemble cast was culled from the stage version, including Stephen Spinella and John Benjamin Hickey as a staid yuppie couple, and Randy Becker (LIE DOWN WITH DOGS) as the handsome young stud whose overt sex appeal creates emotional tension in a household dominated by middle-aged men. However, the film is virtually stolen by Seinfelds Jason Alexander (in a role essayed by Nathan Lane on-stage) as the archetypal Broadway-loving queen who lives in fear of his HIV status and masks his anxiety with outrageous humor, and John Glover in dual roles as English twins, one of them noble and humane (and dying of an AIDS-related illness), the other a mean-tempered bitch of the highest order. McNally's script finds something deeper than mere stereotype in these disparate characters, and he examines the many ways in which they love each other, despite their differences. The full-frontal nudity which characterized the original stageplay (causing a minor stir at the time) has been toned down for the film, but not completely erased, and Becker in particular seems entirely at ease during his frequent nude scenes. "},{"Title":"Touching, often sad and thought-provoking","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not for everyone; not meaning that only gays should watch it. I watched it alone, I know that my husband would not like it. As a woman, I saw this movie about 8 men who I thought were good friends. Some of them have AIDS, some are married and some are exes. I was touched by it, but there was one element that I did not like. Some characters you could not get close to and it left you not caring about them. But I liked the movie. Like I said, mostly men would want to watch it. It is not a movie to sit around with my girlfriends and watch.  "},{"Title":"Dated, and better seen live--but still watchable despite a miscast Buzz.","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those stage productions that for some reason works best on stage and loses something when brought from three-dimensional live theater to two-dimensional cinema. It probably loses even more when seen on home video or (even worse) broadcast on television with commercial interruption. The intimate tone of the story requires the attention one gives to a performance on a stage.There is an advantage, of course, to filming The actual surroundings can be used, rather than the best facsimile that can be achieved on stage. So what the film lacks in intimacy, it makes up for somewhat with the realism of the location, which is practically a character itself.The cast includes most of the original play's New York cast, with one notable exception Jason Alexander steps in as the most broadly drawn of the eight characters, which makes his miscasting all the more obvious. I have often stated that it shouldn't matter if a gay man were to play a heterosexual role. If you're caught up in the story, and the actor fits the role, it works. However, the reverse it NOT always true--especially in this case. Buzz needs to be played by a gay actor, or it comes across as mockery of gay mannerisms. However well- intentioned Alexander was when he went into the film, the result is a cringe-inducing minstrel act. I have seen a live version of L!V!C!, and the actor playing Buzz nailed it, so having seen Buzz played well made it all the more obvious.That being said, the script is a good one. The story takes you back to the 1980s and a generation of men hovering around 40, and it was told from their point of view, not through heterosexual eyes. This was not common when the play premiered. So younger viewers may not appreciate how groundbreaking it was for gay male characters to speak openly and unapologetically this way. And AIDS was seen as much more of a terminal illness than it is now, with so many men you can see in a gym who could be HIV+ and still pictures of health. So take it for what it is and enjoy what still works. "}{"Title":"Don't judge a movie by its source","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The writer of the current featured review, jotix100, thinks this movie doesn't work. I beg to differ. What Love! Valour! Compassion! was onstage doesn't matter to this movie. The movie isn't being judged as a play. Those of us who never saw the play onstage could not care less how good or bad it was there. This movie does work. It's everything good jotix100 mentions and what he finds deficient from the play has no bearing, unless what you like to do is compare two good things just to discover which is the weakest. Enjoy this movie for the witty dialogue, the genuine rapport between all the performers, the beautiful setting and the magnificent John Glover. Whatever isn't there on the screen is irrelevant. "},{"Title":"A play to screen transformation","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a huge fan of much of Terrance McNally's work and I remember back in 1994 when this play was staged at MTC in New York. It was a compassionate ensemble piece with a group of gay friends, vacationing throughout the summer at their choreographer friends' lovely lakeside home. What you catch onto quickly as well is this is not just about these friends getting together for fun times during the major summer holidays, but by the end of the summer, they are to do an AIDS-benefit performance of 'Swan Lake' that the choreographer was to stage.Within this, you'll see the workings of the human opinion in this set of friends...or in one case, so-called friend. While the backdrop is about the staging and performance of these friends doing 'Swan Lake' for the AIDS benefit performance - tutus and all - you get to see the personalities of each about the subject. Buzz, opting to hide his HIV status while faced with one who could not.The character development is good in the play, and much transfers to film - the stand out brilliance is of the English twins - played both by John Glover - portraying evil twin and lovable twin. Both who are gay, one in the final stages of AIDS who came to America for treatment and is the most endearing person you ever could meet, and the other one you just want to tie in a sack and throw into an ocean because he's so mean and callous. The character of 'Buzz' who wants to ignore his disease and pain behind singing and quoting Broadway Musicials and being the life of the party queen is a stellar performance as well.What I found interesting was the competition level between two other characters in this work. There is the choreographer who is the host - he's older and he's staging the Swan Lake performance; and a young 'buck' (Ramon) who's a dancer as well thinks he's immortal and a bronze Adonis gift to the gay male, always providing house tension and competition - not just in dance, but with the choreographer's blind partner(Bobby).As with many Terrance McNally's plays and screenplays, what'll grab you are the mind and personal feelings of the characters that's projected to the viewer and how they are adapting to the current events of the day. This film is no exception. For example, I find a wonderful exchange between the characters about a certain famous photograph that made me feel like a 'fly on the wall' as I listened - And not just that, it also touched heavily on how EVERYONE who knows about this famous photo was feeling at the time.That's the beauty of this film - you can take out homosexual men and replace them with heterosexual women, heterosexual men, homosexual women or a mix of all....and there would be very little change in the actions. But this is about a group of homosexual friends, their fears, their loves, their anguish, their humanity which is why I think the title Love! Valour! Compassion! does say it all. "},{"Title":"Great plays","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am in the midst of directing a production of L!V!C!The play is among the great examples of neo-Chekovian form.The play does not rely on plot, but rather on character.  These men may be described as many things, but they are neither stereotype nor one-dimensional.Ramon is not just a pretty boy.  Why is he there with John?  Why does he come back?  For Bobby?  Hardly.  His ambition is for himself, and to insinuate himself with Gregory.Why the conflict between Gregory and Ramon?  Because of Bobby?  That is the most simplistic of interpretations--Gregory is the Alpha male and Ramon threatens his dominance not only of his home, but his craft.  Gregory only gives the dance to Ramon after he (Gregory) has reasserted his place in the pack.Where does John's verbal violence come from?  Were he so vile as Perry makes him out to be, why then would he be invited back?  A close reading of the script reveals that John invariably assaults when he has been hurt emotionally, or when he has shown his vulnerability.Every one of these men is complex and human.  The problem is that film is an apalling medium in which to portray this.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but lovely...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had the good fortune to see the play in New York, with it's almost original cast; many of the actors who appear in the film were still in the roles on stage when I saw it.  This leads to the film's only (in my opinion) flaw...it's not the play.  The theatre creates an intimacy that is perfect for the issues and performances in this piece.  However, we allow ourselves a detachment when seeing it as a film that really doesn't mix with the story. Here's the thing for those who have a problem with either the overt homosexual themes, or the stereotypical characters...imagine if half the cast were women and the other half were heterosexual men...would you feel different about the piece if Arthur and Perry were a hetero couple?  If Ramon was a female dancer instead of a male?  The thing is, the piece is not primarily about the fact that the men are gay, or about how gay they are. It's a love story, a story of friendship, and a story of loss.  The fact that all of them are homosexual is simply a backdrop to everything else going on. Excellent performances by John Glover, Jason Alexander and Steven Bogardus.  I see what everyone is saying about not being able to get Seinfeld out of their heads, but I didn't have that problem.  The rest of the cast is only adequate, but no one lets the ensemble down.There is a trend of making filmed versions of stage performances available to the public...this would be the perfect piece with which to do that.  The movie is good, and I very much enjoyed it...it just doesn't have the vibrancy and immediacy of seeing these characters live. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!!","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would die to see the play. I didn't want to see it at first because I'm not a fan of Jason Alexander but I must admit he did surprise me, who knew he could act (although he was trying a little hard to BE Nathan Lane).  I cried through most or it and I'm not much of a crier so BE WARNED! IT IS A CHICK FLICK! but a damned good one. "},{"Title":"Although somewhat theatrical due to its origin as a stage play, Love! Valour! Compassion! still successfully invokes its titular qualities on screen.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film engages its audience not only through its loaded theatrical dialogue, where every line delivered is a subtle new insight into the character speaking it, but also because of the poignantly-treated themes designated by the title Love! Valour! Compassion!  The intertwining relationships of eight gay men who retreat together to a summer house three times during the season illustrate their individual character quirks as well as their collective trials, such as the HIV virus that infects two of them.Love between various pairs in the film emerges as both an animal, lustful act that may transpire in a dark and frenzied moment, and as a more tender and fundamentally human interaction that takes years to cultivate.  Valour rears its intrepid head in the characters who deal most intimately with the virus, struggling to live gracefully even in the face of a painful and prolonged death.  Compassion repairs each man's petty differences with another, and binds these eight weary travelers together as they quietly help each other through difficult times until the end of the film.Performances in Love! Valour! Compassion! are generally well done, from John Glover's dual turn as the stiff, spiteful John and his dying and unconditionally loved twin brother James, to Jason Alexander's nuanced role as a flamboyant HIV sufferer doing his best to cope with the disease.  The often heartbreaking script is tempered by the alternately caustic and self-effacing humor inherent in a meeting of several strong gay personalities for extended periods of time. Visually, some scenes appear stagey, especially within the darkened summer house, but otherwise the play seems to have made a thematically successful and emotionally effective translation to the screen.     "},{"Title":"title says it all, plus friendship","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it's a story of 8 friends ,most  or all of whom have AIDS in some stage, but it's a story of,indeed a hymn to, friendship and caring. my favorite lines are ,when one of the twins tells another character that he's never gone skinny-dipping before Well, you only live once.  Some people never live at all. Acting is superb; the actor who plays the twins is particularly brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Lazy gays of summer...","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's see, does this film miss any gay cliché? Hmmm ... The singing of show tunes? Check. And the references to Judy or Barbra or Liza or Madonna or Ethel Merman? Of course, check. The promiscuity? Check. The gratuitous nude scenes? Check...and check... and -- oooh!, full frontal nudity! -- that'd be a big check again. The use of the term girlfriend when referring to a gay man? Ditto for the phrase bitch? Check and double check. Plenty of mincing and prancing around? Yeah, right there. Did we overlook that a least one guy should be a for-hire boyfriend? Nope, gay equals prostitute, ya know. Excellent, it's all here. Plus, a bit of S&M role-playing, just to spice things up.Oops! Almost forgot the totally unnecessary display of crossdressing. Oh good, here it is -- and in ballet tutus, to boot. Gotta make it clear that to be gay is to be nelly. Oh, they were out of politically correct minorities, but will a Hispanic do? If not, they've got a blind homosexual and can toss in a couple of brave and only slightly self-pitying AIDS victims.LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION! is one of those films where you may be at a loss to figure just why it exists. Eight gay men gather during three summer holiday weekends (Memorial Day, July 4th and Labor Day) at the New England country home of one of them, a successful choreographer. They bicker and banter, and fight and flirt; they bare the bodies while skinny dipping and bare their souls while trading cleverly rehearsed quips -- but, so what? As sort of a gay BIG CHILL or a homosexual FOUR SEASONS, the film really doesn't give any of them a chance to reveal themselves either politically or personally. There are a few pious monologues about love and life that are so generic as to be meaningless. If the point is to show that gays are just like everybody else, then why do all the characters seem so generically superficial and tiresomely stereotypical. If there is meant to be a message to the story, then why doesn't the film get to it? There are some nice moments here and there as two characters share an honest or intimate moment, but too often the dialogue is arch and too theatrical to be real. Other times, the material shows its theatrical roots with an out-of-nowhere dramatic moment where you can just see a character moving to center stage to deliver his big, important monologue in the spotlight. By the time you get to the end, where each character, in voice-over, reveals the circumstances of their way-in-the-distance death -- while dancing around in tutus, no less -- you just want to scream at the filmmakers. Here's a scene that totally trivialized these characters, showing them to truly be nothing but prancing fairies, yet begs you to see into the depths of their souls and weep for the fragility of their lives. The result is totally annoying, if not absolutely insulting. If it were not for the fact that many involved in the film are openly gay, you could just swear the film was trying purposely to be smugly homophobic.And you can't help but to groan at how needlessly self-important the material takes itself, even as it wallows in self-mockery. Too much of this is just pretentious, not the least of which is the three exclamation points in the title that just scream of announcing something of epic proportions; a false promise for a film with really very little to say.Three words Lousy! Vacuous! Condescending! "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am saddened by the number of negative comments about this movie.  Love! Valor! Compassion! is one of my favorite movies of all time.  Not every movie has to be full of action and deep thinking to be good entertainment.What makes this movie so enjoyable is the chance to see a gay men, who lead very different lives, interact with one another to build and maintain their friendships through good times and bad.  I hope that I, too, will someday have a group of friends like that.Jason Alexander is fantastic as the stereotypical Broadway play lover and his developing relationship with John Glover's English twin brother is precious.  The characters of Perry and Arthur show a normal, boring gay couple just going through life with each other enjoying growing old together -- a lifestyle many of us aspire to.  And, Randy Becker isn't too difficult to look at, either!Granted, there are places where the writing is uneven at best (the death of Bobby's sister, the hiding in the closet scene, for example), but viewers who enjoy a good story about friends who love and support each other without the expectation deep plot twists will enjoy this screenplay for what it is -- relaxing entertainment.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Odd!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was aired buy channel 4 last night and I just happened to tune in and starrted watchin it, And then I couldn't stop. I don't know if it was because I thought it was good....or it was bad, some parts of it I tohught was really pathetic and someparts was quite funny. But I liked it anyway. "}{"Title":"I have to hold my end on this . . . I love this film!!!!!","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie maligned so much in these reviews, I have to chip in my two cents.Yes, the characters are so stereotypical that it seems like a gay Breakfast Club.  I can see how people can be put off by that.  But I've known many gay men who fit very nicely into these stereotypes, either doing so naturally or appearing on the verge of straining themselves to do so for insecure recognizability.  Like them, don't like them, these are recognized stereotypes of gay men because many gay men are in many ways like them. Period.As far as plot development goes, don't even try to assemble a juicy through line.  Here it is  Seven gay friends meet for three weekends in a beautiful home outside New York City and talk about life and love and passion.  See? I told ya!  It's NOT about plot in any way whatsoever!!!!Sometimes a movie (or a play, for that matter) is more about the characters and their individual traits than plot.  You have to figure, if the play from which this movie is derived is a boring piece of junk, why did it win the Tony for Best Play?  There have certainly been many plays about gay life on Broadway, so why laud this one?  Because of the characters, because of their problems, because of their bond to each other, because of their interest in living life THEIR way, no matter how long they have to live, and the fear of dying all alone.The characters make this movie, brilliantly pulled off from the original Broadway cast (save Jason Alexander who fills in for Nathan Lane).  The strangeness and the beauty of the characters in this film, as well as the tone of the entire piece, is that the seven men in this film are defined largely by how they love.  Not simply by stereotyped personality, but by love.  Love of their partners (if they have them, and if their partner is still alive), love of their friends, love of their lives (two of which are going to be cut short by AIDS), and love of themselves.Standing out in this ensemble of Broadway veterans is John Glover playing the VERY opposite twin brothers John and James with equal intensity and compassion, and Jason Alexander, who surprised many cynics who only knew him as George on Seinfeld.SPOILER ALERT!!!!  There is a scene in this film when all the characters give voice-over descriptions of how their lives will end.  It is very touching to think that some of these men will die alone and soon, some at home with their partner like any other old married couple, and one man is left, sadly and with great loneliness, to see the passing of the other six .. . I bury all of you.  It makes you ask yourself, what would it be like to live longer than everyone you loved?The movie, trite as it sounds, is about life.  Life as a man with an illness no one can stop and can barely control.  Life as a man angry at the world for not accepting him.  Life as a man who's past his professional and creative prime.  Life as a man who is tempted to cheat on his loved one (haven't we all been there, seriously?)  Life as a man who wants all the pleasure in life with none of the consequences.  Life as a man who wants it all to happen like a musical so that words like AIDS are written out of the song.If you watch this film to watch characters instead of events, trust me, you'll enjoy it much more. "},{"Title":"Could barely sit through it","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I disliked this movie when I saw it in a theater, so I tried to watch it again recently when it was on cable to see if maybe I had just been in a bad mood.  It didn't seem quite as awful the second time, but it's still pathetic.  For a bunch of gay men, these guys aren't very interesting and don't have any of the wit gay men are stereotypically known for.  The S & M scene, with two of the men hiding in the closet, was the limit.  There are faults with the TV series Queer as Folk, but it seems like a masterpiece next to L!V!C!.  Even the much-discussed nudity is a bore. "},{"Title":"Small things and its sense","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" nothing new. and this fact is great. because is a movie about small things. love, friendship, spirit of group, fight against death, a form to survive and give yourself as root, power and beauty for others. a film far by great ambitions. with a wise script and a nice acting. with crumbs of hate, joy, hope, fear and desires. circle of interesting characters and a story with many velvet nuances. after its end - image of Jason Alexander as hero out of courage, fragile, fake but axis of his existence. image of ballet and searches behind it. image of days in which few people lives together far from real world but pieces of it. beautiful and touching. like an old toy of a lost age. "},{"Title":"What's the gay man's equivalent of a chick flick?","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Love, Valour, Compassion is a tear-jerker. No question about it, you'll get teary-eyed more than once before the credits roll. And it's worth it. This was originally a play and the film makes that fact apparent. Dialog is occasionally overly wordy and a bit contrived and most scenes play out in one place and from one angle. None of that hurts the movie but it's more noticeable than many other play-to-silver-screen adaptations. Jason Alexander pulls off a character I'd never have expected from him. Funny, sympathetic, and downright lovable. He also has one of the best lines of the movie. When asked what room he's staying in he responds . . .the Patty Hearst memorial closet. . . The film is packed with philosophical conversations about life, love, compassion and many subjects that don't get discussed enough in real life or on film. It also has its' share of full frontal male nudity. Refreshing given the fact that directors historically seem more willing to strip females naked but keep the fellas covered in bed sheets. This is the kind of movie that will get its' viewers talking after they've turned off the TV and wiped their eyes. "},{"Title":"Terrence McNally brings his play to the silver screen","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a wonderful character study - beautifully filmed, well acted, and nicely put together. Yet for all of that, in the end it lacked the depth - and more importantly, the tension - to pull off the story in a compelling way.The story, or perhaps more accurately, the situation is a group of eight gay men who gather on several occasions throughout the summer at the palatial of home of Gregory Mitchell (Stephen Bogardus) and his blind, and rather cloying, lover, Bobby Brahms (Justin Kirk), who live just outside of New York City. The guests include the hot-tempered, and occasionally politically incorrect, Perry Sellars (Stephen Spinella), and his long suffering lover, Arthur Pape (John Benjamin Hickey), who is occasionally embarrassed by Perry's outbursts; their campy friend Buzz Hauser (Jason Alexander), whose flamboyance hides his fears over his HIV positive status; the lugubrious John Jeckyll (John Glover), a man whose unexplained anger rules his every move; and John's companion for the first weekend Ramon Fornos (Randy Becker), a man who decides that he will have any man he wants regardless of the cost. Ramon's first conquest is Bobby which leads to tensions between Ramon, Bobby, and Gregory later in the summer. To further complicate matters, John's twin, James (again, John Glover), arrives from England midway through the summer. James, who is in somewhat more advanced stages of AIDS than Buzz, is as sweet as John is sour, which means that he fits in much better than his brother, much to John's chagrin. In addition, Buzz falls for James, which further complicates the already complicated dynamics of this group. As the summer progresses, each individual deals with his internal conflicts as well as his conflicts with the others, and at the end of the summer, they will resume their lives in the city.It's more a character study than a story, so it comes to a somewhat inconclusive ending, but along the way you do learn to care about all of the characters. Or at least you're supposed to. I never really cottoned to Ramon, and never developed much sympathy for John. Still, this movie does a good job of portraying this group as men who happen to be gay, rather than gay men. And there is a world of difference.The ensemble acting is excellent. All the performances are uniformly good. Alexander plays Buzz's flamboyance with surprising skill and tenderness. And Glover is masterful in giving the contrast between the two twins he plays. The rest of the cast does a fine job.The cinematography is gorgeous. The house and grounds are appealing, and you can almost feel the warmth of the summer as you watch.It's a very cerebral film, and for those who want more action and more story, it may seem a little dull. But it does present an excellent character study of many aspects of gay life, and as such, it is a rewarding experience. "},{"Title":"Still an excellent record of a great play","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having nearly all of the original cast in this film, makes it an excellent record of the Broadway production even if the powers-that-be decided to eliminate Nathan Lane and replace him with Jason Alexander. Alexander does a credible job although you do spend the film wondering what if.....? I'm sure now that Lane's name is bigger than ever, the producers must be kicking themselves. I have directed a production of the play and must say that although the essence has been retained, the film loses some of the stage version's heart. Must admit though some of the performances are excellent particularly Justin Kirk and Stephen Spinella. Terrence McNally is my hero so having anything of his on celluloid is worth cherishing. Now if they'd only make a film of Master Class............  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  great play transformed into a great film starring great actors. nothing more to add that others who enjoyed the film didnt say, but a response to those who complained of james confession that he took pills.that scene is not definite one way or the other. that scene is just what is in each persons head at the time. that is one way of seeing things. the other is that what they say is exactly what happens. the point is that it is a turning point where each person is contemplating their future. it should not be seen as a definite confession of what will happen. its meant to put things up in the air. "},{"Title":"There's a reason the play cleaned up at the Tonys...","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrence McNally created an award-sweeping play out of the interplay between 8 gay men over the course of a summer.  The director and 7 of the 8 original cast-members (with Jason Alexander substituting for Nathan Lane) recreate theatrical magic in this faithful adaptation of the stage production.The wonder of this story is that while viewers will recognize in these 8 men every gay stereotype imaginable (dancers, bitchiness, show tunes), they will also recognize every human characteristic imaginable these men represent different economic, social, political, and ideological stances, and all are examined.  What's more, for all the antagonism that crops up between various pairings at various times, one can't fail to recognize the genuine love and devotion that underlies these friends' relationships.The film will run you through the gamut of emotion, from giddiness to tragedy, to the final cathartic moonlight swim.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Yes","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie about three times and I can't believe that I never commented on it here on IMDB.  Well, this movie is really not about homosexuals (well maybe a little).  It's about the title of the movie - period.  Just think if everyone on this entire planet had all three of things - total.  This would be a wonderful world, and everyone would get along with each other.I just have to say - Justin Kirk, playing the blind guy.  OH MY GOD.  I totally fell in love with him.  His eyes were beautiful and that nose.  I just wanted to....... well you know what I'm getting at.  And then the final scene - ass city.  I almost passed out when I say his cute little behind. Just the icing on the cake for me. "},{"Title":"Character development lacking.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film could have been interesting, but I challenge you to find a film with less-developed characters.  Because of this flaw, it is very hard to stay with the movie, because we learn almost nothing of its inhabitants. Also, it is another stereotypical view of gays, which is a disappointment. "}{"Title":"Love! Valour! Compassion! Disappointment!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are three emotions surrounding this film.  Love and compassion are simply mentioned in the title.  The third is the disappointment you feel after watching it.The only consistent acting in the film is by Jason Alexander (Buzz). Unfortunately, even his acting seems to be only a poor interpretation of Nathan Lane's fabulous performance in The Birdcage.Eight men get together in a fabulous isolated mansion three times a year (Memorial Day, 4th of July, and Labor Day).  Some are single, some are with each other, some have HIV or AIDS, some are former lovers.  That's all we learn about them other than one is some kind of supposedly famous choreographer, one is a dancer, one has a professional job of some sort, and one of the couples own a Volvo.  Much of the film is spent watching them fight, have a little bit of fun, fight, tease each other, and take off their clothes.  It's really not much in the way of character development.The only little bit of feeling in the film is when Buzz, who is HIV+, is expressing his fears that he won't be there for his friends when they need him and that they won't be there for him when he needs them.  His newly found partner, James, is very sick with AIDS, so Buzz is concerned and emotional.  Later, we find out in narrative that James goes back to England and commits suicide.  So much for everybody being there for everybody else. So much for the one shred of feeling in the film.About the only humor in the film is the attempt at stereotypical gay camp. The little bit of fast name-dropping and teasing brings to mind really great camp movies and for a few shining moments the viewer can enjoy remembering those movies.There are better movies to watch after a nice dinner and wine.  This movie should be watched only after a 6-pack or two.  "},{"Title":"Character development lacking.","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film could have been interesting, but I challenge you to find a film with less-developed characters.  Because of this flaw, it is very hard to stay with the movie, because we learn almost nothing of its inhabitants. Also, it is another stereotypical view of gays, which is a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Dull! Boring! Inept!","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am rarely this severe. In fact, I usually am rather indulgent with movies dealing with gay themes, because there are so few of them. But this one takes the cake. I honestly haven't seen many films that bad in my life. Maybe The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen was this bad. Anyway, back to THIS story. Wait, sorry, there IS no story. No plot. This is just some days in the life of people we don't care about, we never learn to care about, talking about things we don't care about and doing things not even them care about. This film is like a pathetic mix between Longtime Companion (for the AIDS theme and the one day in the life of idea) and The Boys in the Band (because... You know. 8 gay men, talking). But it takes the worst of both of these fantastic films and makes a cliché-filled, boring, dull movie out of it. And there you really realize that it takes, indeed, a lot of talent to write (whether in a screenplay or staged play) about characters that the audience doesn't know and make them interesting without a plot. After all, in TBITB or in Longtime Companion, there isn't much plot either, but the characters are interesting in and for themselves. You want to know more about them, you are moved by them and by what happens to them. TBITB is about ONE night in the life of some people, and still by the end of the movie I felt like I knew them. L!V!C! is about half a dozen days in the life of some people, and still in the end I don't know anything about them. I don't know what unites them - they're supposedly friends but they don't get along with each other -, I don't know what drives them - but I know they drive a Volvo -, and I don't even believe them. It isn't funny or witty - though it desperately tries to be - and it's not campy - even if one of them like musicals -. It's just cliché and and boring. Anyway, I really feel like I've lost 2 hours of my life by watching this movie. Thank god I saw it for free! "},{"Title":"Banal characters in gorgeous setting...","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adapted from an off-Broadway play, the story has a dancer (STEPHEN BOGARDUS) inviting his friends to spend the summer at his secluded 19th Century mansion in upstate New York (with Canadian locations substituting for NY). The characters are stock gay men, the kind that exist in other plays like THE BOYS IN THE BAND--only this time none of them are quite interesting enough to care about.All of them, it seems, are living under the threat of AIDS, so we have reminders of LONGTIME COMPANION here too. Most of the performances are okay--nothing really subtle here--but JASON Alexander as the campiest one who hides his anxieties with an unflappable sense of humor seems a bit out of place when it comes to the serious scenes. JUSTIN KIRK does a nice job as a blind boy whose brief fling with handsome RANDY BECKER gets him into more trouble than he can handle. BECKER is the young Hispanic dancer who flaunts his sexuality at every turn.There's some casual frontal nudity for all the skinny dipping scenes, but the sentiment gets sticky whenever the serious aspects are touched. JOHN GLOVER, as twin brothers as different as night and day, gives the most professional performance.Not likely to appeal to a wide audience, it's got some good moments but the slim plot line wears thin after the first hour. The characters are all a bit too shallow to make a deep or lasting impression and there are too many mawkish and cloying moments in times of stress. "},{"Title":"Beautiful story about love and friendship!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful! Don´t we all love Jason Alexander!? Who knew he could act? Wonderful gay movie! - not about homosexuality, But about homosexuals!I loved it! "},{"Title":"one of my favorite gay themed movies","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" in any movie, no matter who the actors are, the script is very important to me , as it should be for everyone involved, especially the actors.This script, story, is so beautifully written..in the first linesthe sloping stairs  of that beautiful staircase..always takes me home to anytime in my life, when I felt safe, at home, wherever I was living or visiting at the time or whatever relationship I was in...it's truthful for most of the story...I just do not see a person with AIDS being accepted into the USA from the UK ..but all done for the story...and the stage version must have been just as incredible..it takes you from a beautiful summer, from several different couples, that have been invited to a a summer home in the wilderness(it seems), through several seasons and what happens at the end..allot happens in this story that spans lifetimes but done so beautifully "},{"Title":"Love! Valour! Compassion!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Eight homosexual men, with the fear of AIDS and the hope of refreshing their friendship, spend a summer in a country mansion.A gay twist on the familiar The Big Chill situation, based on a successful McNally play, that has a certain incisive wit and an odd charm, and generally entertains despite some overacting and too much opportunity for nude swimming. "},{"Title":"Boys In The Band meets On Golden Pond","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrance McNally's LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION! was a Tony-winning powerhouse on the New York stage--but the same cannot be said of the play's screen adaptation, which plays like a yuppie version of BOYS IN THE BAND that has unexpectedly collided with ON GOLDEN POND... but without much benefit to either.The story itself concerns a group of eight gay men who meet at an isolated but lavish country house for summer weekends and who thrash out their various hopes, desires, and relationships in the process. In this sort of ensemble piece, where the story is more about people than plot, the cast is key--and in truth the cast is quite fine, with John Glover a particular standout in the dual role of John and James Jeckyll.Trouble is, the gifts of the cast are repeatedly undercut by some of the most uninspired direction and cinematography going, and after a while it all begins to acquire a strangely superficial quality. I laughed now and then, I felt moved now and then, and I was occasionally impressed with some of the dramatic ideas involved. But when the final credits rolled I felt the film as a whole lacked any significant impact. The cast, however, makes it worth the effort.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Definitely missing a piece","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently saw this movie again since it hit DVD.  I'd seen it once at the theater and was less than impressed.  It seems to have aged well.  It was better than I remembered.  Most of the cast is excellent, given that they should know these roles pretty well after playing them night after night on Broadway.  One of the main problems is the absence of Nathan Lane.  The play was written for him specifically.  The role of Buzz is the center of the play.  While Jason Alexander is a capable actor, he is no Nathan Lane.  As it stands, this is a pretty good movie with most of the cast intact, but there is a substantial piece missing from the whole and it shows. "},{"Title":"A moving piece of film... (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film might have flaws, but it is a very moving piece of film. Jason Alexander might be playing the stereotypical gay man, but it is decently acted, particular the relationship he forms with John Jeckyll's twin brother. You can't help but feeling saddened during the scene where Buzz is on the landing talking, you realise then that his obsession with musical theatre is just his way of coping. He's going to die and nothing he nor anyone else can stop it. I have to be honest and say it was the relationship between John, James and Buzz that had me moved to tears, particular John's line I just want you to like me. The relationship between Bobby and Gregory is equally moving, especial as later in the film when either of the characters reveals their demise you discover that Bobby is not going to remain faithful to Gregory, and James' inability to cope with his disease. I have watched this film several times and still feel emotional during the later scenes, and I would gladly watch the play (and since I'm a technical theatre student I may even get to work on it!). It does remind me a lot of 'Bent' although I've only read the play. It's a film I would recommend you watch, and a play that would be worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Love's! Shallow! Repression!","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `This is my house.  I like to fill it up with my friends..  Sadly, I don't have any, so these are the miserable people I invited instead.'  So paraphrases the opening voice-over of the screen adaptation of Terrence McNally's off-Broadway play.  Better it had remained off-Broadway.LVC is a clear nod to Mart Crowley's 1968 off-Broadway `Boys in the Band,' likewise brought to the big screen in 1970.  Like its predecessor, LVC is premised on a gathering of eight disparate and self-loathing NYC gay men with seemingly no emotional bond between them.  Apparently the cultural stereotypes of the 1960's still live on in the 90's, as the updated group includes a choreographer prone to passive aggressive hissy fits, a bitchy theater queen, an air-headed pretty boy dancer, and a tiresome yuppie (yes, he DOES tie pastel sweaters around his neck).  Similarly, both films include most of their original theater casts.  Even BITB's scene of the partygoers line dancing to Martha Reeves and the Vandella's `Heatwave' is reprised in an oddly placed performance of the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairies from `Nutcracker Suite.'  So with all this in common, what makes BITB a classic of gay cinema and LVC so laughably forgettable?BITB, as repeated in so many gay retrospectives, hit the stage before the watershed Stonewall Riot of 1969.  It was a whisper before gay identity truly found its voice.  There is something compellingly sympathetic about this collection of men who hang together simply because they can be their uncloseted selves around each other.  Their bitchiness and self-loathing too must be viewed in the context of their repressive era.  This desperate need for camaraderie and acceptance, however, doesn't translate well to LVC and the 1990's.Or maybe it's the film direction that sets them apart.  William Friedkin, who directed BITB, is no stranger to the screen nor to controversy.  His credits include `The Exorcist,' `French Connection,' `Cruising,' and `To Live and Die in LA.'  Joe Mantello, by contrast played a couple bit parts in `Law and Order' in addition to directing LVC.  And LVC is hardly a groundbreaking movie.Or maybe it's the actors.  The miscast Jason Alexander (Nathan Lane wisely declined the chance to repeat his stage role) leaves the audience expecting George Castanza's parents and Kramer to barge in at any time.  And I would rather have the skin peeled off my still living body than see Jason Alexander in a tutu again.It's very likely that LVC stages much better than it screens.  McNally, after all, wrote `The Ritz,' `Kiss of the Spider Woman,' `Ragtime,' and `Frankie and Johnny,' to deserved critical acclaim.   Indeed, the forced dialect (including the sappy final voice-over) is far more appropriate to theater than to cinema.  "},{"Title":"A peek into the complicated and diverse lives of a group of gay men.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having no idea what to expect, I found myself entranced by this film's omni-faceted approach to dramatizing the lives of a group of gay men.  It seemed to cover all the terrain rather than any one aspect.  It's not a movie about homosexuality so much as humanity, and there is a certain provocative ease the characters display with each other that comes from a mutual sense of vulnerability and the need to have someone to trust. Visually, the film is both careful and challenging.  These men are all afraid of what they don't know, braced against the imminent, and yet essentially collected.  I found myself identifying with each of them through strengths and shortcomings that were not easily detectable from the first. The relationship nuances hint at so many more layers than this short vacation together can define.  I found myself feeling that I had had these same conversations in my life, that I was just as fearful, defiant, exuberant, resigned.  The highlight of the film, to me, came in dual performances by John Glover, who handled his roles with a supple elegance that left a poignant vision in my mind of two brothers, light and dark, resolutely at odds and entangled at the same time.  Overall, I found the watching enjoyable and liberating.  It was pleasant to actually feel like a fly on the wall in a place no female could ever really find herself (hetero or otherwise).  This film WILL put demands on you in areas of personal perspective.  If you feel for these men, then you must understand them. Getting there might be hard for some people.  For me, it was enriching and somehow intensely intimate.  "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Accidently I didn't turned off the TV set today, and so this film had the chance to appear on my screen. And I just loved it! I don't know why, but it was so touching (though I hated Jason Alexanders German dub!). Especially the yuppie couple Arthur and Perry captured my heart, they were wonderful together, with their cute little life as a gay role model couple.Personally, I don't think the characters were built badly, no, actually I really liked how they developed. You don't have to know everything about a person to know what his character is like, do you?  This film really made me laugh and cry, just adorable, and I recommend it to everybody (except those homophobes, but I don't think they would ever even think of watching it!) "},{"Title":"Well, I for one need an insulin injection!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do yourself a favor and rent the classic film adaptation of Mart Cowley's groundbreaking Broadway play The Boys in the Band (quoted above) which, though somewhat dated, is far superior to L!V!C! in almost every way. The characters have depth, the plot has suspense, the dialogue sparkles, and there's no treacly background musical score. "},{"Title":"Stage-bound stereotypes","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like the equally detestable Jeffrey (1995), Love! Valour! Compassion! (1997) is an insult to its target audience, whom I presume were gay men and perhaps some enlightened heterosexuals. This stage-bound movie tried to be too Hollywood in its sentimental and stereotypical treatment of a group of 8 gay men. As per usual in movies of this kind (i.e Jeffrey), AIDS plays a significant part, but there does not seem to be serious treatment of the disease and how it shaped the lives of the men involved. Jason Alexander is an embarrassment in this movie - he should stick to TV comedies. He spoils the dynamic of the ensemble, not that the acting is wonderful anyway. This play never should have been a film. It belongs on stage, or perhaps on HBO. "},{"Title":"Boredom! Clichés! Disinterest!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh it's a gay-buddy-love movie. A group of gay men meet at various intervals at a house and discover stuff about love, life, blah and rhubarb. Is it any good? No, not it actually isn't.Firstly we have the cast of characters. I don't care if this was based on a play or not, it still reeks of stereotypes, cramming them down your throat until you gag. I jokingly said there would the AIDS sufferer here. There was. There's the pretty boy. Yup. The camp one - check. The. I could go on but it's painful. I've never met anyone like these people - do they even exist? There's an attempt to flesh them out, by having them being ponderous and argumentative but it doesn't work. The actors are familiar faces from the TV, which prompted wry smiles from me when you see John Glover in a dress, after playing the almost-devil incarnate Lionel Luthor in `Smallville' and the actual devil incarnate in `Brimstone'. And that's George from `Seinfeld', not anyone else. It's a slight on the actors that they can't convincingly make me believe in their other roles. The pretty-boy, for example (whose name escapes me) seems to act only in the sense his body is without clothes for most of the picture. That's all well and good in some respects, but it doesn't engage the mind as such.So we've got weak acting and thin characters. Can the plot help it? Course not, this is a character piece that's entirely reliant on the characters. The characters have no depth so we can't care about them. Their lives, as they progress, mean little to me. Sure huge swathes of character development were cut to fit into a movie length. but it's at the expense of me giving a whit. It all builds up to a cloying (and vaguely insulting) ending, with the typical voice-over about the future. There doesn't seem to be a bit of originality here and the window we view on their lives is dull enough that it's presumably set in a plain white-square frame.`Love! Valour! Compassion' may be an Award-winning play. It's certainly not a good movie. I couldn't care less what happens to anyone, and never did at any stage. If you want eye-candy go rent porn. If you want character-dramas there's a plethora of others. If you want gay-interest movies check out something that doesn't grate and is more entertaining, such as `Queer as Folk' or `A Beautiful Thing'. Leave this to haunt the cable stations at night while you're asleep in bed. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Stop Making Sense","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best thing in this movie is the guy who plays the 'hustler' boyfriend - Randy Becker. He deserves success.The rest of the performances are contrived, unbelievable, stereotypical, overplayed, shallow, emotionally erratic, painful (not in a good way) ... and Jason Alexander is positively frightening! ... and then come the twins !! Yowza ! The only allowance is I can make for this is the year it was made, 1997 - the world was much different then. And, attitudes toward 'gay' and 'AIDS' were much more fearful.However, these people just don't make sense,... but the setting is nice!I can't recommend this movie to anyone. If you have any awareness of the real world, it will offend sensibility. If you are looking for role models to come out as, don't watch this ... it's complete misinformation and should not be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Well done....","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A surprisingly effective adaptation from the stage play.  The performances range from adequate to magnificent (John Glover, in the dual role of James and John Jeckyll, definitely inhabits the high end of that spectrum).  The confrontation between the Jeckyll brothers, which works well enough on stage, is much more effective here.One sour note  I could have lived without seeing Jason Alexander's bare butt, and I could have lived without seeing him in this film.  If Nathan Lane wasn't available or didn't want to do it, couldn't they have gotten Mario Cantone, who replaced Lane on stage? "},{"Title":"George Castanza? whaa? uhh???","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, Okay, mind you that Jason Alexander is a great actor it's just that... I couldn't help but thinking about Seinfeld while watching this film. I found myself laughing at innapropriate times and ruining the film. There were some emotional moments that are worth accolades but...George? Gay? Sadly it is because of this predisposition that I cannot rate this movie. So if anyone was or is a regular Sienfeld viewer please be warned!  "},{"Title":"Clash of the Nellies an 80s Time Capsule","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gay men have been around for years, in all forms, shapes, and sizes. Except on film. That was sacred ground where no sexual deviates dared rear their nasty head. And if they did, it was as the fall guy, the pervert, the weirdo with a lisp, the psycho-killer who had a thing for dresses. So when the zeitgeist of the 90s decided it was time to give the gays stories of their own, no one, it seemed, knew how to approach the material. It was all so risky, like walking on eggshells.It's so evident here as to cry for help. Setting myself aside from the praise pretty much everyone and their mother have given Terrence McNally for coming up with this un-fabulous story, I don't buy it. I don't get it. I don't even believe in it -- that's how strongly I feel against this movie that somehow became a hit if a dated hit. It reeks of fabricated fake. I can't identify with a story that whacks me on the top of my head like an angry stick trying to troll for prizes as it tries to let me in on the miles of angst these people spew out. Especially when it revolves on clichés and a predictable setup involving two of the most stereotypical characters ever to grace a story the Latino sex-bomb and the fey disabled man, so sweet you want to club him.Sure, the times gave it its importance, the people who saw it -- gay men among them -- were more than validated, and everyone was happy. I for one, was not. Not partaking in self-pitying, self-loathing, womanly emotions gone to hell, and the need for excessive, over the top drama, I saw it for what it was -- a dated story closer to the spirit of the 80s, i. e. LONGTIME COMPANION -- and moved on to the next flick. And hoped never to fall for manipulative melodramas such as this hypocritical, soulless, un-recommendable movie. "}]