[{"Title":"More than Mighty, it's great!","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"47 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a real sleeper.  I heard it was pretty good from a friend.  My friend really understated.Every thing about this movie is thoroughly enjoyable.  The story is enthralling.  The cinematography and special effects are wonderful.  The acting is, well Harry Dean Stanton and Gena  Rowlands do their usual great job and the two boys who play Max and the Freak (Kevin), Elden Ratliff and Kieran Culkin are impressive. Meat Loaf and Gillian Anderson are a trip to watch and Sharon Stone showed me acting that I didn't think she had in her. All in all a cast that does a great job.The sound track is really something.  I thoroughly enjoyed the music. If there was a small impediment in the film, it was a story that could of played on sympathy, but I don't think it was harmful.  I've seen this storyline before, but the way it was done I didn''t care.See it. "},{"Title":"Rent it. Buy it. Borrow it. SEE IT!!!!","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"39 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I heard about The Mighty after I saw The Battle of Shaker Heights and thought I'd find more movies with Elden Henson. I find that he has an ability to play the stupidest characters well (Idle Hands) and the most clever (Shaker Heights). Anyway, I rented The Mighty because of its good rating and strong cast.It was not what I expected.. it was so much greater. I have seen more than one's share of films and trust that the Mighty will not disappoint. A gem in the rocks? Much more. I have never read Freak the Mighty but this movie has me out seeking a copy.Of course, Rowland's and Stanton's acting was solid. Elden Henson's and Kieran Culkan's are stunning. I believe this is one of Sharon Stone's best performances and Gillian Anderson shows her ability and range. Gandolfini was also as strong an asset as anyone else. This movie was just filled with stellar performances and moments that just make the audience get into the scene.I really wish this movie had been advertised much more. I mean, my seeing it was quite an oddity. Makes me wonder how many of these great unseen movies I'm missing. Rent it. Buy it. Borrow it. You will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Loved every minute","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great and I'd encourage anyone to see it.  Both of the young actors are fantastic, especially Eldon Henson, and the adults in the movie are pretty good, too.  Gillian Anderson and Henson have a really beautiful moment at a bus stop near the end.  I also cried at one point quite a lot. It really was an amazing movie and deserves some praise. "},{"Title":"Sounds cheesy, but The Mighty is anything but.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes seems like the whole world has just seen me on America's Most Wanted. (Max Kane)So says the imposing gentle giant Max (the excellent Elden Ratliff). He is a 13-year-old with a murdered mother and murdering jailbird father (James Gandolfini), who has twice failed 8th grade and lives with disgruntled grandparents Gram and Grim (the particularly morose Harry Dean Stanton and Gena Rowlands). It's a wonder he isn't Mad Max. However, he has a saviour. A minor miracle named Kevin Dillon (Kieran Culkin). Sounds cheesy, but The Mighty is anything but.Peter Chelson, director of the inventive and original Funny Bones, has lovingly superimposed Rodman Philbrick's successful children's book Freak The Mighty to the screen. The result is as moving as any kiddies film you've seen in the last ten years.Kevin is suffering from Morquio's syndrome, a progressively degenerative disease that makes him unable to walk without leg braces. However, the boy is a considerable intellectual giant trapped inside a small, fragile body. As luck would have it he is consigned to tutor Max in remedial reading. In the words of Bogart it's the start of a beautiful friendship.Kevin introduces the big guy to Arthurian legend. Every word is part of a picture. Every sentence is a picture. All you do, is let your imagination connect them together. If you have an imagination that is, he says.Inspired by the knights in the book, the boys invent a fantasy world in which honour is everything. Together, Max and Kevin set out to battle their foes, both real and imagined.Do not be put off by the presence of a Culkin or the mention of King Arthur. The Mighty is sincere, without being turgidly earnest, and genuinely uplifting. Sharon Stone equips herself well as the distraught mother of Kevin, but can't quite convince us that she doesn't ooze glamour. The bad kids also do not quite fit, resembling the troublesome urchins in Bugsy Malone rather than vicious Cincinnati hoodlums. However, these are minor quibbles, for ultimately The Mighty is several notches above the average children's film. Ben Walsh  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Caught this one on late-night cable (where else) and just had it on in the background while I worked.... About ten minutes in it pretty much had my attention. About 30 minutes in, as the unique relationship between the two main characters comes into being, I was hooked.This thing fires on all pistons. Great story, great actors, intelligent humor, moments of genuine tension, and genuinely touching moments without a hint of sappiness. There's not a cliché' in site. The script is wonderful, and the director throws a few remarkable cinematic touches at us, despite this being obvious a lowish-budget flick.Did I mention that it's a wonderful, wonderful film? I'd give it a 12 if I could. "},{"Title":"A decent drama with a touching story, good cast and decent direction","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A touching story about a friendship between two middle school boys. Max(Henson) is a big kid who has a rough past, while Kevin or freak as they call him in the film is a boy with a physical disability that prevent him from walkin without stilt like crutches. Kieran Culkin was great in this film, very good performance early in his career. Elden Henson was not bad in a role that could have been played better, but he was decent, it was a bit of a hard role. Gandolfini was great and stole his limited number of scenes. Harry Dean Stanton was good as well, as was Gillian Anderson. The one disappointment was Sharon Stone who was very good in her scenes, but a bit wasted due to the screenplay concentrating mostly on the teenage characters. This film moves a bit slow, but is nonetheless a very heartwarming and touching picture. The direction is good, and screenplay is solid as well, acting is good for the most part. a Solid film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Mighty under-appreciated in 1998.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Granted,this film was no blockbuster when it came out in 1998. It did good business but after it's run,it was sort of forgotten. I have never even seen it on TV (to my knowledge). Thank goodness for home video rental & libraries! I just watched it for the first time in 7 years and it was still as great as it was then. Simple plot,a very large boy with a troubled family past,meets and makes friend with a young boy who,despite walking with two hand-grip crutches seems almost fearless and able bodied. As well as very able minded,a genius he is!I wont spoil this movie by going into too much detail except to say,watching these two young actors interact is what makes it such a triumph in film-making. Stone is great also as the little boy's mother and one would almost not recognize Gillian Anderson outside of the X-Files,I know I didn't! Buy or rent it. Good for kids,to age 8 and up I'd say!Edit  August 2010 , finally read the book! "},{"Title":"Friendship","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Peter Chelsom's The Mighty is a good way to witness the bonding between two young boys whose lives come together in the most unexpected ways. These two wounded souls see in each other what they would like to be. Max would like to be as intelligent as Kevin, and Kevin would like to have Max's health.Max's father having killed his mother, is serving time in jail. He is being raised by his aging grandparents. Max has withdrawn from the world. He is doing poorly in school having repeated the seventh grade and has no social graces. Kevin is a boy suffering from a debilitating disease that has made him walk with the help of crutches. Kevin is made Max's reading tutor. It's appalling to see a grown boy like Max struggling to read a book. With Kevin's help he not only improves his reading, but form a winning team in trying to defeat the bullies that make their life impossible. Max begins carrying Kevin on his shoulders all over the city.Eventually, fate intervenes in their lives. Max's father comes out of jail and he kidnaps his own son. Kevin, is instrumental in rescuing his buddy, but at the same time, his illness gets the best of him.This is a film that is deceiving. Judging by all the big names in the cast, one doesn't expect the movie to be basically about the two boys. Elden Henson and Kieran Culkin are Max and Kevin, respectively. Both do excellent work under the inspired direction of Mr. Chelsom, who gets also good ensemble work from his cast. Gena Rowlands, Harry Dean Stanton, Sharon Stone, Gillian Anderson and James Gandolfini play second fiddle to the two young actors, who steal the movie and make it their own.This is a positive film about how to overcome obstacles in life without fear. "},{"Title":"very well made movie about friends-beautiful storytelling","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    This is a great movie with great actors.  I really liked the two friends, especially the tall kid (I'm too lazy to look his name up again)...anyhow...he has done some good work in some very small films (mostly), and he always gets the characters he plays just right.  The movie overall is a very touching story, and it's hard not to get teared up every now and then.  The cast works really well in all the roles, and all of the acting is very good.  I really like the use of music in this movie, it goes a long way in making the story that much better...and it seems to lend a certain mood to the entire film.     It's refreshing to see feel- good movies like this, without all the pointless, useless violence and/or sex scenes.  It seems to be a movie made for one reason-  to entertain and enlighten (to a point)...not for cash, like most movies.  It might not have done a huge box office, but it's well worth whatever you spend renting it, or you might stay up late and catch it on one of the premium networks.  I would definitely recommend this movie, you won't be sorry.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was very good. I don't usually rate a movie a full ten. I believe that I have only rated maybe a dozen movies in my lifetime this high. The ending musical score will make one soar with the bird. It is an amazing final scene. Others I have scored high are Network, A Clockwork Orange, O Brother, Where Art Thou? The Long Riders and Cat Ballou. I believe that Harry Dean Stanton and Sharon Stone did not receive enough on screen time. The Mighty flowed pretty smooth and there weren't a lot of slow periods. I would have liked to have seen more action when the boys were bullied but then again that may have given younger viewers ideas. But beware..the soundtrack to The Mighty does not include the ending theme music which is the best part of the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wonder why this is not a global hit!? I love this movie It`s a wonderful story about the smart but weak boy and the stupid but strong boy, and together they make the perfect team! I cry so much when Kieran dies. Something I wonder is why there is five persons name before Kieran Culkin and Elden Ratliff`s name? they have the major roles? it`s always that when teenagers or kids have the leading parts, that the parents or some adults comes first...weird. Anyway It`s a great movie so rent it and cry! Love Sofia "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i have never cried for a movie i haven't cried in years this movie actually made me cry i couldn't hold back. great movie not a chick flick awesome movie. the plot was easy to follow. the youth concept in this movie was outstanding. definitely a family film but not to be used while on a date it would ruin romantic moments. I'm going out to buy the DVD just seen it on stars. you cant really guess the ending till it happens it keeps the suspense alive. you will definitely enjoy it no regrets. you cant really say anything more about this movie but for some reason they want you to just watch it. if your out on a Friday night just rent it its not going to hurt you. "},{"Title":"Among the very best.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has become one of my very favorite movies, though I guess it's a bit masochistic to want to sit and cry for 100 minutes every six months or so. Of course, if you're watching it for the first time, you won't have to start crying right away, but on subsequent viewings I advise getting the Kleenex box before you press Play. The performances of Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson are just superb, even allowing for their both being considerably older than their characters. It's so good to see an honest portrayal of the depth and sensitivity that young people are capable of in their autonomous relationships. As I have elsewhere, let me register my protest that the two actors who occupy at least 95% of this film's footage and its dialogue are billed I believe fourth and sixth in the credits. This discrimination by age would not be tolerated, either legally or by the guilds, if it similarly regarded for instance race or gender. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest and  most overlooked movies of the 90-s","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie yesterday and simply loved it. This is a great film, it is so beautiful, incredibly emotional and moving, simply without any major flaws.It's a brilliant, very unusual story about friendship and loyalty. Two boys are great. Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson both deserve at least nomination for best actor of the year, but you know Academy and others simply too conservative. The supporting cast also is fantastic (Harry Dean Stanton, Gena Rowlands, Sharon Stone, Gillian Andersson, James Gandolfini and others). Peter Chelsom's directing was outstanding. Now about sound. The music in the movie was great and emotional so like main theme Freak, the Mighty. I can't believe that this song didn't win best song award. Anyway, it is one of my favorite themes from the movies. All dialogs in the movie were strong and memorable, and some incredibly touching and moving scenes you will never forget. My grade 10 or A+++. It's a best film of the year and one of the best I've ever seen. If you haven't seen it before borrow it, rent it, or buy it as soon as you can.It's sad to say but I must say a few words about Miramax and it's marketing. They brought to us many great films but only strange and stupid marketing and publicity campaign didn't let many of these true gems become a successful box office hit also like didn't let win major awards.Thanks for reading and sorry for my bad English. "},{"Title":"Stand by me","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the mid 1990s, a streak of coming-of-age flicks were released, each trying to emulate the tone and style of Rob Reiner's Stand by me (1986). And so Stand by Me led to the TV series The Wonder Years (1988), which led to Woody Allen's Radio Days, Brighton Beach Memoirs, Radio Flyer (1992), Man in the Moon (1991), Jack the Bear (1993), This Boys Life (1993), King of the Hill, Now and Then (1995), Unsung Heroes (1995), The Mighty (1998), Simon Birch (1998) etc etc.These films all employed a rich and romantic visual style which recalled the paintings of Norman Rockwell. They featured older and wiser narrators who reminisced about their childhood days, revolved around small groups of young boys, largely took place in the 60s and early 70s, and oozed a sense of nostalgia.Significantly, all these films also yearned for escape. These kids (or rather their future adult selves) are all searching for a romanticised version of Americana. A forgotten, or perhaps nonexistent, age of white picket fences, carefree wandering, pop sodas and family dinners. Behind all this comfortable nostalgia, though, is a sense of menace. Abuse, suicide, murder, the lingering effects of the Vietnam war and drunken fathers, all linger in the background.Covertly, these films are also implicitly about how early circumstances influence a person's later identity. They're all told from the point of view of an adult, looking back at his past life.This trend started in the 80, by artists who were born post WW2 and became young men in the mid 60s. By the late 90s the unseen enemy of these films stopped being about war, poverty, absent fathers, abuse and alcoholism, and started to be about disease and genetic disorders. The idealised Norman Rockwell version of Americana was still there, but now Generation X seemed to obsess over diseases and genetics. For Generation X, misery seemed to be all about ailments and genetic predisposition, like the kids with Morquio's syndrome in The Mighty and Simon Birch or AIDS in The Cure. Stand by Me- 8/10, The Mighty- 7.9/10, Simon Birch- 7/10, The Cure- 5/10, Radio Flyer- 4/10, Jack the Bear- 7.5/10, This boys life- 8/10, Now and then- 3/10, Man in the moon- 7.5/10I think these films are interesting if you treat them as a single batch. Stuff like Radio Flyer and Now and Then have that whole kitschy Spielberg vibe. They're pretty worthless. The Tom Hanks cheesefest Radio Flyer and the Rosie O Donnell travesty Now and Then are pretty terrible. The Mighty's somewhere in the middle. "},{"Title":"There have been very few films that have made me cry.  This one made me weep.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every single cast member gives a riveting and moving performance in The Mighty, a beautiful film about the power and strength of friendship and imagination and especially faith. Max is a giant stuck in 7th grade because of his low IQ. He forges a very close friendship with newcomer Kevin, a tiny scientific genius with a severe back deformity. Max protects Kevin from bullies, and Kevin teaches Max about the Knights of the Round Table. With Kevin on Max's shoulders, they go around on adventures and doing good deeds like their heroes, the Knights.My only problem with this film is that I think Sharon Stone gets way too much credit. Don't get me wrong, she does an amazing job. It's just that I don't think her role is that big compared to the rest. Other than that, it's AMAZING!!!!!In the words of another enthusiastic commenter Rent it, buy it, SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"The Mighty-King Arthur To the Rescue ***","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two outcasts find friendship and a way out of their difficult lives in 1998's The Mighty.A young lad with a physical problem befriends a learning disabled young man whose mother was killed by an insane father. They live through the book of King Arthur and the knights of the round table.This book enables them to win out over a gang of school bullies and rescue the learning disabled youth when his father suddenly reappears and kidnap him.When our sickly youth succumbs at the end, his friend is able to go on and write a book.This is a warm story that carries us through adversity.Nice to see that Sharon Stone sacrifices her usual sexy roles to portray the mother of the ill youth. "},{"Title":"The movie spoke to my soul.......","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie spoke to my soul like nothing else. The story was A+, The Actors was A+, the site where the movie was made........ eh, I have to give it a C. I can think of a few better places where I could make it, but It is a great movie.I would wish that they would make a movie like that one or remake that one, and make it for a bigger crowd. (Thats not a Spoiler, it is just a wish from an disable movie lover.)If the two main people (the people that the actors play, not the actors.) was here, I bet ya that they would smile and say, now thats a good movie.. "},{"Title":"Cute and heartwarming, yet deep","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the book that this movie is based on in English class and we were required to watch the movie. Well, I missed a lot of class and ended up seeing only bits and pieces of the movie. Well, I just had to see the movie in full, because I liked the book so much, so I rented it.What can I say? I LOVED IT! Kieran Culkin was outstanding, as was Elden Henson. Ah, heck, everybody in this film was outstanding. The only complaint I have is that I felt that the death scene wasn't dramatic enough. I cry a lot in movies, even when no one dies, and this was probably the only movie involving death in which I DIDN'T cry. All in all, though, this was just so great. See it. It's one of the best movies I've seen in my life and it takes a lot to impress me.A true 9.5/10 film.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is such a good movie, made out of an awesome young adult book. Two unlikely friends combine to make Freak the Mighty , which doesn't exactly make sense unless you've seen this movie. They have many adventures and quests along the way. Very good acting, good plot, and everything combines to make this into a very good film!  "}{"Title":" A Wonderful Story That Will Capture Your Heart ","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Everyone in this movie were wonderful. From Sharon Stone's part to Gillian Anderson's. This movie was sad but teaches some people in the movie a lesson. Lessons that people who watch should know too. I thought this movie had a sad ending, but beautiful in its own sorta way. Someone learned a lesson in this movie that he could use and needed. BUT BEWARE KEEP A BOX OF KLEENEX CLOSE>. "},{"Title":"Moved to tears...","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps I'm a wuss for admitting it, but I blubbed at the end of this movie, even though I should have known what to expect. I guess I'm just a sentimental kind of guy, but this movie does have the power to move - unless you have a heart of stone, or are so taken up with 21st century 'cool' that you don't feel anything anymore!This is a beautifully acted, unsentimental piece that is principally about friendship. But it also deals with finding hope where none exists; a desire to reach out for the stars that is fuelled by hopelessness and loneliness.Perhaps billed as a children's film, this is one for any adult seeking inspiration.But beware have the Kleenex close at hand! "},{"Title":"Best movie of the year!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My first incentive to watch this movie was an actress I admire very much and, to be honest, that is Gillian Anderson. I was eager to see her performing a different role from her Agent Scully, but at the end of this movie, I walked out and understood, that I have just seen one my favourite movies ever. I was affected by the story in a way I never would have believed . Beyond that I have to mention the great direction by Peter Chelsom - don't miss Hear My Song and Funny Bones - and the awesome performances by all the actors, especially the two young protagonists Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson. Finally I cannot leave you without a comment on Gillian Andersons performance. ISN'T SHE GREAT? I think there will be a career for her after The X-Files. So watch out for this exceptional piece of magic moviemaking!Carpe diem "},{"Title":"The most touching film ever made.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a unusual story of the friendship between a small disabled boy and a strong yet placid boy (maybe even a social outcast)! I laughed, I cried and I walked away with a different view of people, even the most shallow people in the world will look a tad deeper after watching this! Kieran Culkin is excellent and his co stars are great to! Definitely one to watch!  "},{"Title":"A mighty good movie","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talent must run in the Culkin family because Kieran shines in The Mighty.As I sat through The Mighty, I kept thought to myself how it resembled another inspirational film; Simon Birch. This was a clear indication that I would enjoy The Mighty.Elden Henson who played Max Kane was a good choice to play the friend of Culkin's character, Kevin Dillon. I say this because it is based upon how much each have in common including the fact that they seemed to click well together.I can't forget to mention the superb supporting cast that included Sharon Stone, Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton. Stone pulled off a performance that could have been done in her sleep. Rowlands and Stanton provided support at just the right times to make this film worthwhile.The Mighty immediately brought a smile to my face because it told the story of two people who were isolated until one day they were brought together, which made a perfect fit.  "},{"Title":"It's a very touching drama.....","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I find this movie to be very good, it touched me in many ways.... The main thought I got is that if more people where trying harder to be nicer and more helpful and stood up for the once that where weaker we would live in a much much nicer world..... It showed that one nice deed can improve a persons life a lot! It's definitely worth to see this movie...  "},{"Title":"Amazing film, beautiful and moving","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't expected to enjoy this drama so much, when I heard the basic premise; two kids who both have just what the other lacks decide to help each other out. It may sound simple, but it is a beautiful film, and a very inspirational one. I think one of the things that made it so great was the many references to the tale of King Arthur and his knights of the round table. The two kids both have a great charisma and personality too, and great on-screen chemistry. The plot is very good, something that anyone who has ever felt like an outsider can relate to. It takes off from the very first frame and continues at a good, steady pace, that won't skip any details, nor leave you bored for a second. The acting is excellent, especially by the two child actors, Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson. Both pull off fantastic, believable performances, and really makes you care about these characters. The adult actors also portray their respective characters well. Every single character is credible and well-written, in just about any of the scenes. I really liked the way the two main characters, Kevin and Max, complete each other, the way they are more or less weak separately, but together they are strong and powerful. They make up for each others weaknesses, and their strengths complement each other. The film is very moving, a scene near the end nearly brought a tear to my eye, something very few movies do. The very end is the ultimate development and the perfect ending for the film; I won't write it here since I wouldn't want to spoil the film for anyone, but I can say that it was a very beautiful, almost poetic ending. I've seen a lot of movies in my life, but few dramas have moved me as much as this did. Excellent script, excellent acting, excellent cinematography... the film has everything a good drama needs. I recommend it to pretty much anybody who has an even mild interest in seeing dramas, and to anyone who's ever felt like an outsider, at one point in their life. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A mighty good film","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talent must run in the Culkin family because Kieran shines in The Mighty.As I sat through The Mighty, I kept thought to myself how it resembled another inspirational film; Simon Birch. This was a clear indication that I would enjoy The Mighty.Elden Henson who played Max Kane was a good choice to play the friend of Culkin's character, Kevin Dillon. I say this because it is based upon how much each have in common including the fact that they seemed to click well together.I can't forget to mention the superb supporting cast that included Sharon Stone, Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton. Stone pulled off a performance that could have been done in her sleep. Rowlands and Stanton provided support at just the right times to make this film worthwhile.The Mighty immediately brought a smile to my face because it told the story of two people who were isolated until one day they were brought together, which made a perfect fit.  "},{"Title":"Gandolfini rules!","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Personally for me, there's one big main reason to watch and like this interesting movie James Gandolfini. He is a real talent - an excellent, charismatic actor and his role certainly was the key thing that made The Mighty work for me. Most of all I loved to watch his performance. I'm also used to see Gillian Anderson almost only as Agent Dana Scully so it was refreshing to see him in a completely different role. Fabulous Meat Loaf didn't have much of a part in The Mighty but it's always so nice to see him on the screen I simply can't help of pointing him out in the cast.I know I would have watch this film with or without these three actors (actually I didn't even know about Gandolfini and Meat Loaf until I read the opening credits) but they had a great role of creating me an enjoyable movie to watch. Naturally it goes without saying the kiddies in the leading role were fantastic. Story is something I've seen many times before. For example the bullies were - once again - the comic relief they usually are in the films like this. This is hardly a bad movie, actually it's quite perfect in its own league. But still, I got my kicks from Gandolfini. "},{"Title":"Another POWERFUL Movie...","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm one of those guys who just does not cry at movies. There are 5 films powerful enough to bring me to that point Saving Private Ryan, The Green Mile, Pay It Forward, Copland, and Ladder 49.Now there are 6. Add The Mighty to that list. I happened on this gem, this diamond in the rough, on KTLA this afternoon. I had never heard of it, but the first few scenes I saw were enough to tell me it would be heartwarming, so I kept watching. That time was NOT wasted. This is a movie well worth watching... repeatedly.Everything about it (writing, direction, acting, story, the whole ball of wax) fairly screams quality. Yes, it's a family movie. Yes, it's a kids-buddy movie. Yes, it *could* be considered sappy (though it doesn't come off that way). Yes, it will take you by the heartstrings and lead you out on the floor for a waltz (*especially* if you were ever bullied when you were a kid). Short version This flick is worthwhile. Period. No matter who you are.It takes a lot to get me to give a good review (I'm usually pretty savage), so this speaks volumes Why this film was not HUGE is beyond comprehension. Why it didn't get the promotion it patently deserves is unfathomable.Why are you still sitting at your computer reading my review? GO RENT THIS MOVIE!! Better yet, BUY IT!! Go! Go! Go! "}{"Title":"How i feel","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I watched this film i was amazed at how the bond really shapes between the two boys and how they can become the best of friends. There is only one other film that has ever made me cry and that was Titanic. However, i didn't cry as much then as when i watched th last fifteen minutes of this film. It is so amazing how i felt like it was real when the one with the disease died and it felt so real that i cried so much. The tears are really made when Max finds out that what Kevin said about having a new body was all a lie so not to hurt Max. That was a real tear-jerker. To sum-up, this will remain one of my all time favourite films and i don't think i'll watch it without crying ever again! "},{"Title":"I only saw the movie once, it was a good movie.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie only about a week ago.  I loved the movie, it had great meaning to it, and it wasn't like most movies.  The two boys were great. They showed people that you can become anything.   It was a powerful and heart warming film.  I will always remember it and think about it every time I tell myself I can't do it.   "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Soundtrack was perfect, the script was crisp and touching, the acting, including the supporting cast, was extremely well done.  Walk away from this movie and feel very alive and good.  I can't believe it never went anywhere in the theaters.  "},{"Title":"First of all...I really liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all...I really liked it. If there is one film I would highly recommend this year, this is it. Sharon Stone is a mother of a son with a physically disabling and potentially fatal disease. The son doesn't let this disease slow him down and he goes off facing the challenges of everyday life that lay ahead of him. Unfortunately, not everyone understands his disease or shows sensitivity to his physical condition. He is abused by classmates and has no friends until he meets the kid next door. The neighbor kid has a learning disability and through a variety of situations, the two become friends. Together they go out and face the world as if they were knights in King Arthur's court. The film has some great messages of friendship and understanding. While the film shows the difficulties of living with a disability it shows strength and courage in dealing with it. A few scenes were extremely emotional in nature and only the most hardened-heart would not be moved or touched by them. To this end, the Director should be commended. One review (even I read other reviews) describe this film as being emotionally-manipulative, but I say...who cares? Any time a Driector is successful at causing an emotional response from the audience...I consider that a positive sell-point of the film. Bottom line....while I haven't said much about the actual content of the film...I will leave that for you to experience on your own....go see it...you will be glad you did....this film can touch and inspire you in a world that sometimes doesn't.  "},{"Title":"Watch it !!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a sorely neglected masterpiece . Anyone who missed this on its limited exposure in the movie theatres should grab hold of a video , vcd or dvd and enjoy it to the full . A beautiful little movie about the wonder of friendship .  "},{"Title":"a surprisingly good film","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just because I gave it an 8 doesn't mean it's not a good film.  I rarely give movies more than an 8, even when it's Oscar-studded.  This film was surprisingly good in that it had a good plot line and the actors managed to read the cheesy lines with intelligence.  This is a great movie to teach all of us what friends should do for each other, and how we should treat all of those around us.  It didn't move me to tears, but it DID move me to think. All around, it's a film worth watching more than just once.  "},{"Title":"An Absolute Gem","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this one with my wife on a Sunday afternoon.  All I can say is that it is a fantastic story portrayed by an excellent ensemble cast. Culkin is wonderful (and yes, very talented) however, he is clearly overshadowed by Elden Ratliff.  Where has this kid been???  A fantastic actor!  If you read any of the following reviews, they can fill in the story for you, but if you can.....avoid hearing anything about the film and just watch it.  As stated previously, the cast is superb.  Old pros like Harry Dean Stanton and Gena Rowlands (as well as a very able Sharon Stone; who makes quite the departure from her usual film fare as the not very glamorous mother of Freak), frame this wonderful film. But Culkin and especially Ratliff easily carry this film.  If you come away with anything after watching this film its that everyone deserves a chance, and that the human spirit can always triumph.It makes perfect sense to me why this film did not fare well at the box office.  Because its really really good!   There's no violence (in the Action movie sense), no high profile sex and no teeny-bopper high school angle.  Just an excellent story, two fantastic leads and a wonderful supporting cast.  Its a darn shame that there are not more quality films like this being released today which gain the good graces of the entertainment marketing machine.  If its on cable, watch it.....if you see it in the video store....rent it.  Its upsetting at times (just like life) but overall, it makes you feel good.  There aren't enough films released today that touch its audience in a real and emotional way.  Do yourself a favour and make the time to see this screen gem.SSB - New York City "},{"Title":"The Mighty is mighty","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Normally, I don't compare movies. It's like trying to compare apples and oranges. Both are food, yet are different and must be judged accordingly. However, in this case I will make an exception. I will compare this movie with the movie 300, which I also critiqued. This movie has a story; 300 is a special effects cartoon; this movie contains character development; 300 has violence; this movie has excellent acting; 300 has acting out; this movie dramatizes the power of friendship; 300 dramatizes duplicity; this movie is special; 300 is mere noise; this movie is about people who transcend their disabilities; 300 purports that the disabled are to be discarded (there is no way that I will ever believe that the Spartans deliberately killed or exiled their disabled); this movie portrays ordinary people who are heroic; 300 portrays soldiers as being little more than disobedient ruffians dressed in robes. This movie rates a 10; 300 rates a 4, and I'm being charitable. "},{"Title":"Corny but it worked","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a somewhat traditional corny Hollywood movie, designed to pluck your heartstrings. It succeeds admirably making you weep both with joy and sorrow. If you don't want to be seen teary-eyed, don't watch this with others.If you were a kid who was beaten up every day of your life at school, or or had an abusive parent, this movie is a triumph fantasy.The hero of the story is really the secondary Kieran Culkin character the cripple who simply does not let his handicap slow him down for a second. He displays not the tiniest scrap of self pity.It is a love story of sorts, without any sexual overtones, about two misfit kids getting together and by combining talents enriching both their lives. "},{"Title":"Very Heart Warming","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On the surface THE MIGHTY is yet another of those TVM schmaltz-fests with its disease of the week story lines featuring dying children and kids battling against physical and social adversity but give it a chance and you'll see beyond the clichés The story starts with Max , as a kid from the wrong side of the tracks whose father is serving serious time for murdering Max's mother getting picked on by the local gang ( Yes it's a multi ethnic gang as always )but as the story goes on he strikes up an unlikely friendship with a crippled kid called Kevin . I say unlikely and the more you think about it the more unlikely it becomes but both Elden Henson as Max and Kieran Culkin as Kevin act convincingly enough to compel you enough to believe this is entirely genuine Both Henson and Culkin carry the film but they're ably assisted by big name actors namely Sharon Stone , Gillian Anderson , Harry Dean Stanton , James Gandolfini and Meat Loaf so you can't fault the acting especially if the story could have descended into overly sentimental schlock . My only real complaint is that the production values make it feel like a made for television movie ( As does the storyline ) rather than the cinematic production it actually is "}{"Title":"Very touching movie about the quest for friendship","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE MIGHTY, in my opinion, is a very touching movie about the quest for friendship. I thought that Kevin (Kieran Culkin) was a very smart boy. When Max (Elden Henson) and Kevin were being pursued by the Doghouse Boys (Joe Perrino, Dov Tiefenbach, Michael Colton, Daniel Lee) I got really scared. This was because Blade (Joe Perrino), the leader, had a very sharp knife! The other thing that really scared me was Mr. Kane (James Gandolfini). This was because he kidnapped and tried to murder Max. Other than that, this was a really great movie. In conclusion, I highly recommend this touching movie to those of you who like movies about friendship. "},{"Title":"A mighty movie about a mighty friendship","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was a mere accident that I saw this movie. I was just flipping through the channels and just happen to stop at Star Movies. It was the scene where Kevin is introduced as a tutor to Max. I don't know what was it, but I bought the DVD of this movie next day.Kieran is has done an excellent job as a handicap boy. I sincerely feel that he is the one who is actually the sole of the movie. Sharon stone is perfect as a mother. Frankly I was not so impressed by Elden Henson as Max in the first half of the movie. But during the later part of the movie I realized that the movie was actually not focusing on him in the first half. He actually takes all the credit away in the last scene where he runs after the Ambulance and reaches that medical center about which Kevin lied. A lot of credit goes to the music of the film, which is the essence of the movie. I usually don't watch drama, but after American Beauty, this is the best I have seen. "},{"Title":"Possibly better every time?","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, The Mighty was one I first was exposed to one Sunday Afternoon as I had the TV on for background noise. I don't remember how much of it I caught, or my first impression of it, but a year later I moved and started seeing this VHS on the shelf of the library where I now live. I eventually was curious enough to look at the case and figured out it was that movie I'd seen on TV. I rented it... again.. and again..I just watched it for probably the 5th or 6th time last night. Really, I think this movie touches me more strongly every-time I see it. I was as amazed and bowled over by the sheer emotions and inspiration of it all, just as if it had been my first time watching it. I think a lot of it is due to the young man (also in the Mighty Ducks movies) that plays Max Cane, the large, allegedly slow-witted young man. I think it's his performance, his emotions and his character development that make this such a touching movie. But the other actors are great too. I think Kierran did a great job, despite not having Dwarfism like his character is supposed to have. I think they should have found another condition that cripples and limits lifespan, and said THAT was what Freak had.. because (from what I understand) Moqurio's is a form of Dwarfism, and Kierran doesn't come across that way, despite being thin and not a big boy, and their efforts to make him hunchback... Other than that very forgivable flaw this movie is definitely FAR superior to Simon Birch, both in story, acting, inspiration, and heart. Definitely check this movie out if you like movies that make you believe in the power of friendship, and it's ability to change your life. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies that no one has ever seen!","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I discovered this movie while on a flight home from Germany. I was so impressed I came home and told everyone I knew to find it and watch it. It is not an easy movie to find but it is so worth the search. We've used it in our youth groups several times over the years. People borrow my DVD all the time to see it again. This movie bombed at the box office, but most critics have said that it failed because it was so poorly advertised. I have to agree. Excellent cast, very good acting, and an great storyline. It is a crying shame this movie was done in by a pitiful advertising campaign. Don't let this one slip you by. Make the effort to find it and watch it. You will not be disappointed. In fact, don't be surprised if you too find yourself adding this one to your library. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this film. It is so great. I think it's much different than most other movies, especially like how it breaks the movie into multiple different titled chapters. I have read the book and it is just brilliant. It's so sad how Freak died at the end and Max was running barefoot into the research center and then just got down and started crying after he found out it was a laundry place. It is a brilliant movie. I did not cry, but there were probably a lot of people who did. I love this movie. I don't know what my favorite part was. I liked the fireworks part when Max picked up Freak and put him on top of his shoulders because Freak had trouble seeing the fireworks. I also liked when Blade and his gang attacked Freak and Max took the manhole cover and used it as a shield. I especially loved when Freak was playing with his chop suey. You really have to see this movie because it is brilliant, great, touching, and you would just love it. "},{"Title":"READ THE BOOK, WATCH THE MOVIE-THEY ARE BOTH ENTERTAINING!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read the book for English class and I got so hooked on it, I finished the book ahead of the others! When we watched parts of the movie, I thought it was really cool so I rented it and I LOVED it! It is a good movie and it sticks to the book, even though there are some parts that differ... but its still cool! The actors who played Freak and Max were stunning, and all the scenes are beautiful. I would give this a 9 out of 10, since nothing is perfect(!). "},{"Title":"Great actors, great movie!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WOW! Once in a while, from Hollywood their comes a real gem, succeeding in getting famous names like Sharon Stone and Harry Dean Stanton (although the latter is not a star, he's strong in characters). The film deals with the friendship of two boys, one of them (Culkin) handicapped. The neighborhood boys like to make fun of him, until he gets to know his friend, a loner like himself, who helps him. Both guys are quite the opposite of each other the one is clever, and quick at inventing things, but handicapped, the other a little bit slower, but has his heart at the right place. Both can learn from each other that tolerance is very important in a friendship, and, above all, a good friend should be counted on, whatever may happen. Unfortunately, at the end of the film, The Mighty has to die, due to a long sickness. The end is therefore very heart-rending, and even I was lucky to had a handkerchief at reach. So what makes this movie recommandable? First of all, it can put its strengh from marvellous actors like Sharon Stone, that gives a very good performance as the sick boy's mother. Harry Dean Stanton, the alcoholic father of the other friend, in not so bad at all, but he simply has no patience and cannot keep apace with his son. The second point is that the film mixes reality and fiction, a good example of this the two boys going on a stroll, being accompanied by knights. The wonderful soundtrack from Sting does the rest. Taken all in all, a film for the whole family, and a film that is worth being watched over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is great! Kieran Culkin and Elden Ratliff shine in the leading roles. Sharon Stone, Harry Dean Stanton, Gillian Anderson and James Gandolfini provide good supporting roles that add to an enjoyable film.One note though, there seems to be two pages on IMDB dedicated to this film, the other being the 'Freak the Mighty' page, which hasn't got a cast list. Actually 'Freak the Mighty' is the novel that 'The Mighty' is based upon! This is a bit confusing for people because both pages are about exactly the same film!Anyway, that aside, The Mighty proves to be a heart-warming film about friendship and life. A feel-good movie for adults and children! **** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Discovered by channel surfing, it hooked me","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd never have known to check this film out, so it was pure luck to find it by channel surfing on a slow TV night.  I remembered seeing a Sharon Stone interview back when it was coming out, and she seemed very passionate about it, but I had no idea what it was about.  I didn't really intend to sit and watch a movie at that time--just keeping my husband company for a bit, and we debated whether to watch it, but couldn't quite tear ourselves away and enjoyed every minute, probably more because we didn't have any expectations and were able to be carried along freely by the story, the music, the whole thing--a very well-made film that we taped later and will keep in our collection.  It had the good feel of Radio Flyer and Sandlot, better than Simon Birch. "},{"Title":"The Mighty was a great film. I'll recommend to many.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly enjoyed the film, the Mighty.  I always enjoy a well told story that has something worthwhile to say, and says it in a captivating and creative way.  The movie made the values of honor, friendship, bravery, helping others, and accepting yourself something very appealing and exciting to watch. It made you feel such a great diversity of emotions, from humor, compassion and excitement, to deep sorrow.  My husband and daughters were glued to the movie.  My neighbor and I sat for awhile after the movie to discuss what had effected us and what we had learned from the movie.  It was one that made you think and feel long after the movie.  We need more movies like this, that make you happy to be a part of the human race, and encourage you to better yourself, form deep friendships, and to help others.  It's a movie that would appeal to all ages and has something to say on many levels. I'll be looking forward to seeing it again, and hope many people get a chance to see it. "}{"Title":"The Mighty; a glorious film","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone has been subjected to a boring, about-yourself survey at one point in their lives, usually in a vain attempt to indroduce you to the person sitting next to you and maybe cause the two of you to bond in some silly, contrived manner, as though you'll know this person after tonight, and reminisce on it 20 years down the road and laugh.  What do they ask you? What's your favorite color, your kid's name, where you grew up, your favorite food.. your favorite movie.I was never able to answer this question easily.  In fact, I never did. There are too many great movies out there to put my finger on one and single it out as my favorite of them aaaaaall.  Until now.'The Mighty' is not a great film, such as Citizen Kane or Gone With the Wind, but never-the-less, was one that touched my heart.  I grew up being made fun of on the bus on the way to school - it was a way of life for me. I felt that this movie pulled the sorry from my eyes and put it into the characters, for me to see.  I did not weep during this film, but after it was over, processing it and remembering.  The Mighty is a film that will forever be with me, while it's not the greatest, it still clinched my heart and I will hold it dearly. "},{"Title":"The sky's like a photograph from a billion years ago-Kevin Dylan","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie back in 8th grade, my school made us watch it on Diversity Day. I loved it then, I love it now. I haven't seen it in a long time, being in my senior year of high school now with less then 20 days till the last day of school & only a little longer till graduation. But I saw it today, on the WB2. I watched it, & I cried as I did when I first saw it, yes I cried freely when I first saw it in school. It is simply put a beautiful film. It's inspiring to all those who have ever been picked on, called different or have disabilities. It's moving & powerful & I don't really consider it a kiddie film. I think of it as an everybody film, a family piece. Anyone can watch this movie & it will touch you, move you. You WILL remember it. It's been 5 years since I last saw it till today & I remembered it. Anyone who thinks its sounds cheesy because of the title or because it's typically called a kid film or for whatever other reason, they're dead wrong. The actors performances are excellent, the story superb!! I highly recommend this film to absolutely anyone. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A well done film that didn't get enough acclaim.  If you don't have explosions or huge special FX or whatever, nobody even hears about a film today.  Excellent acting especially from the boys.  It is a little predictable but very touching and humorous nonetheless.  It reminds me of an old favorite, My Bodyguard  Check them both out. "},{"Title":"Emotional for me, personally.","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I stumbled upon the book The Mighty as a child. I later found out there was a movie done. I am now 24. As I watched this I obviously reflected on it differently as it has been between 10-15 years since I first saw it.The acting is excellent because you have all imaginable emotions being done. Happiness, sadness, confusion, frustration, anger, rage, desperation, despair, etc.I have friends but no one that I hang out with. No one that I really know inside and out to the point where I could protect them from themselves without feeling nervous about which boundaries I was comfortable with crossing.I could not watch this straight though. I had to watch it in two shots because I could not help from crying. It touches me on that personal of a level.I hope others stumble on this movie and find it similarly if not equally enjoyable.Cheers, Jeremy "},{"Title":"A Film for Children of All Ages","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In this instance, the mightiest actors are billed below the supporting stars Elden Henson (as Maxwell Max Kane) plays a learning disabled young man, who has twice failed the seventh grade; and, Kieran Culkin (as Kevin Freak Dillon) plays a chronically crippled boy genius. Mr. Culkin is assigned the unenviable job of tutoring Mr. Henson in reading. A child of unending imagination and unnerving confidence, Culkin begins by teaching Henson about King Arthur and His Knights. It turns out to be the perfect choice.You should figure out, very quickly, where this film is headed. A couple of the supporting performances are overdone, the spaghetti looks fake, and the border between fantasy and reality seems broken by an almost impossible to believe event.STILL, the film scores highest where it counts most importantly, Henson and Culkin are outstanding; their relationship, and performances, ring jarringly true. They slay dragons, save maidens, and walk high above the world. Director Peter Chelsom guides the two young actors well, and John de Borman photographs the locations beautifully. Significant supporting players include Sharon Stone, Gena Rowlands, and Harry Dean Stanton. For the record, children like those characterized in Rodman Philbrick's novel Freak the Mighty do exist. An excellent film for everyone who is a child.******** The Mighty (1998) Peter Chelsom ~ Elden Henson, Kieran Culkin, Sharon Stone "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is so, so beautiful and emotional without falling into the trap of sentimentality. I burst into tears when i first saw it, and have done every time since, something i haven't done with any other film. I can't describe it, it's a great film, please, please get the tape and watch it. "},{"Title":"Really well done!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie really enjoyable in every way. There was just enough of a twist on a common plot to make it fresh.  The characters were real and, of course, that means the acting was good.  If they had pushed a little more they could have made me cry instead of just tear up several times! Freak & Max (the two boys) will win your heart though!  A sleeper for sure! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Mighty is the best movie I've seen in a long time... beautifully written, with some incredible acting.  Definitely a must-see.  The story moves along at an well-timed pace, and builds up to a truly touching ending, the kind of ending people talk about and just say Wow... "},{"Title":"A Beautiful, Sweet Film","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The downsides first Sharon Stone seemed out-of-step through most of her scenes; Stone, Anderson, Stanton and Rowlands should never have beaten the two kids for top billing; and it stars the brother of that Home Alone kid.And that's it.  Overlooking those exceedingly minor peeves, what you see is a delightful, poignant movie.  Always hard to believe that such things are made in America these days (shot mainly in Canada, I understand).It tends toward the Disneyfied, canters over toward the saccharin, meanders near the cliche--but never quite falls in.  The dark basic subject matter--a doomed and obviously precious child and relationship--is taboo for the usual Disney kid fare, but this is the kind of film studios should be making in greater quantity. "},{"Title":"How to manipulate the emotions of the audience","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am sure that director Peter Chelsom isn't in the same league as Steven Spielberg. Nevertheless, he almost equals the master in the art of manipulating the audience into whatever emotion he deems appropriate. Time to weep? Chelsom makes us weep. Time for an outburst of laughter? Everyone is laughing madly. I would have to watch the movie a couple more times to be able to analyze what does the trick, and I don't either have the time nor the motivation to watch this film once more, let alone three or for times. Even while shedding a few tears or laughing aloud I was very much aware of being manipulated, but that didn't prevent me from behaving in the right way. This is not to say that The Mighty is a worthless movie. The two main characters (Elden Ratliff as the dumbest kid in town and Kieran Culkin as the paralyzed and soon-to-die genius) do some great acting, and some of Culkin's wisecracks are hilarious, as are his impersonations of Groucho Marx and Marlon Brando. A less Spielbergian approach might have resulted in a really great film. As it is, The Mighty will reinforce the point of view shared by many European critics (not me) that every Hollywood production is an all too obvious vehicle to make a lot of money, while furthering the corruption of western culture.  "}{"Title":"Thank you to 'Kevin' and 'Max'...","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If there's ever a chance for me to write to the actors 'Kevin' and 'Max', I want to say 'thank you' to them and the producer.I chanced upon this movie, and was swept over by the story....The whole movie is about the friendship between Max and Kevin. It's a movie that springs forth love, hope, and faith in this chaotic world. To have this in real life is rare, but I hope that my life can be true and be like Max, to have courage and do to the good deeds, to be like Kevin, to give hope to others.The first scene that moved my heart is when Max carried Kevin on him for the fireworks. It is a beautiful scene where self-giving and love are shown.The music in this movie plays a very important role. The songs and music are very well chosen for the movie. They are also played at the right time during the movie to bring out the spirit.Thank you and well done! Let's be a channel of love, hope and faith to others in this chaotic world. "},{"Title":"Pretty good film","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Mighty is a pretty good film about two young boys who do not fit in. One of them has a weak body, while the other has a weak mind. However, they believe in fairy tales and fill their days with quests. Now, this is the type of film that could easily end up a sugary fairy tale, luckily The Mighty stays clear of that, most of the time at least. It gets too sentimental sometimes, but then it gets more serious. I guess the weakness of the film is that it never decides what it wants to be. Sentimental drama or serious drama. It's kind of confusing, but I would say that overall it is a rather nice film and the two leads (Kieran Culkin and Elden Ratliff) are magnificent. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Caution tears will drip","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Truly, one of the most tenderhearted movies I've seen. If you like to feel pure goodness and deep friendship, this movie is for you. It contains the hardships and achievements of two young teenage boys, one, a big, lonely slow student, and the other, a little handicapped genius, who, despite their barriers, show to us and themselves the possibilities of positive fantasy role playing.At first, they are neighbors who don't really know one another. Soon, they become inseparable, joined by a deep brotherly love.Through a series of events away from home, their attachment and dependence deepens. Unavoidably, there are realities that come into play for both of them, the last of which will cause tears to run down your face. Your feelings will surface, so keep the Kleenex close by.Sharon Stone, in 1998, was without question easy on the eyes, and although this movie doesn't set out to display that unquestionable fact, the camera is completely unable to free us from the truth. As a caring, loving mother, she shows an understanding and sensitivity both to her son and his condition, inventiveness and intellect, responding with loving words, even while she takes risks. "},{"Title":"Culkin is Mighty.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Mighty (1998) Dir Peter Chelsom / Cast Kieran Culkin, Elden Hensen, Sharon Stone, Harry Dean Stanton, Gena Rowlands Filled with enchanting images and a theme regarding the strength of two whom are limited without each other. Elden Henson failed seventh grade twice making him the target of mockery. Kieran Culkin is new to the neighborhood and lives with his mother. He is also a hunchback who uses braces to walk. They are fascinated about the story of King Arthur and several sequences feature knights and horses in relation to the two friends who imagine themselves in such a way when Culkin mounts Hensen's shoulders as one strength. Director Peter Chelsom goes inside the imaginations of these boys. Culkin and Hensen make a remarkable pairing but the ending is depressing. The images of their adventures are enchanting and add both fun and tension. Sharon Stone plays Culkin's mother in a somewhat standard role but believable nonetheless. Harry Dean Stanton and Gena Rowlands are also featured as relatives who knows of Hensen's father's past and seek to prevent it from ever crossing them again. Viewers may be divided since the imagination material is aimed at children while the suspense is aimed at adults but it might make for a discussion if viewed together. Theme of friendship gives the film meaning and a sense of might. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"like the general idea of the story","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maxwell Kane (Elden Henson) is a quiet giant kid in Cincinnati living with his grandparents (Harry Dean Stanton, Gena Rowlands). He fears the return of his imprisoned killer father (James Gandolfini). He is hounded by classmate Blade and his Doghouse Boys. Kevin Dillon (Kieran Culkin) is his cripple next door neighbor with his mother (Sharon Stone). Blade bowls Kevin over and blames it on Max. Max gets detention and Kevin starts tutoring him. They become friends imagining themselves as a Knight in King Arthur's Roundtable as Freak the Mighty.The movie starts off poorly with the school bullies. They are very much two dimensional cartoons and played by weak kid actors. Elden is basically silent except for his narration. Kieran Culkin does a good job with a nice performance and has nice chemistry with Elden. The movie starts off weakly. Then the kid bullies take a backseat and Gandolfini makes a surprise appearance. He shocks the movie into another gear despite the odd accent from Gillian Anderson and the outlandish journey of Kevin. This is hardcore sentimental. I like the idea but the execution isn't the best. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of all time. Poignant, funny and sad. All around great.","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Mighty is a relatively simple film. It involves the strong friendship between a small boy with Morquio syndrome and a large boy who had a killer for a father. Together the two grow in friendship and empathy for one another. I could go on and on for the specifics of the plot but I don't really need to. The plot is simple but complex. Here that is a good thing. It's about two misfits that go through good and bad times. This film is truly marvelous. It's a rare film that can touch your heart in a way that most cannot. Really The Mighty is just about life and what you make it. The Mighty is based off one of my favorite books Freak the Mighty by Rodman Philbrick which got an adequate sequel, Max the Mighty. I honestly think the movie is superior to the book. The film has a fantastic script and an amazing cast. What really surprised me was Sharon Stone's performance. She really can act and it's a shame that she isn't in more films like this. Anyway, just find a copy of this film and check it out. It's a truly great movie. Every time I see it I laugh, I cry and I learn what it means to live. I think that this and 2004's Man on Fire are two of the most underrated movies of all time. This film is truly great and one of my favorite movies. Just find it and watch it. "},{"Title":"The Book Is Better","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I read the book Freak The Mighty, then watched this movie. I was not impressed at all. The movie jumps around the book,with events happening out of order, and most viewers wondering what they missed. The only part that really remains true to the book is the last ten minutes or so after Freak dies.The chapter names stay true to the book except for one, and the actors are mostly believable in their respective roles. Whoever plays the big kid does a great job as well. The film can remain emotional when needed, but it's just not enough justice for the book's fans, as it won a literature award when it was published. If you want to see the movie, go ahead, but read the book for comparison first. "},{"Title":"A sweet little story","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's not much I can say, other than the fact, that it got me crying just a bit. And I love when the emotions beat reasoning. Worth watching (and crying to) "},{"Title":"A surprising success...","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only picked up this film from the video library as they didn't have another film I was looking for, but was pleasantly surprised by it.It instantly strikes you that the film isn't your standard Kid's film. It's about smart kids, who don't play computer games, but read books.  It deals with disability, and really delivers a message.The acting on all fronts is fantastic, Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson are fantastic as the two leads, and the stellar supporting cast are perfectly understated, and don't overpower the 2 young leads.  Sharon Stone is convincing as the mother of Kevin, the boy with a spinal defect, and Gillian Anderson stands out in an unconventional role as Loretta Lee, the hooker with a heart.All in all, it's a real tearjerker at the end and is definitely worth a watch.  If Miramax hadn't tried to make it a word of mouth success, and put some money into marketing it, this film would have been an enormous box-office hit. "},{"Title":"Good movie (Careful, possible spoilers)","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching the great movie The Cure, I went on a binge of emotional, tearjerker movie. The Mighty, by Peter Chesolm and starring Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson, was one of the best.Yet it follows a relatively common formula Max Kane (Henson) is a slow-witted giant of a boy who is frequently bullied at school. He lives with his grandparents (Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton) in a poor part of Cincinnati as his mother is dead and his father's in prison. He leads a stable yet unhappy life, picked on by Blade and the doghouse boys because he can't read. Then Kevin Dillon (Culkin) moves in next door. Kevin is immensely bright and has a loving mother (Sharon Stone in a rare low-key role), but he is crippled by Morquio's syndrome, a disease where his bones stop growing but his internal organs continue to do so.He is hired as Max's reading tutor and soon initiates a friendship. He introduces Max to reading and to the imaginary world of King Arthur and the Knights of the round table, effecively lending him his brain. In exchange, Max carries Kevin around on his shoulders, effectively becoming his legs. Together they roam the town as the knight Freak The Mighty, going on quests, doing good deeds and getting into trouble. Yet throughout their adventure, Kevin's disease and Max's recently paroled father loom over them like shadows.I won't tell anymore, but the end result is an extremely uplifting story about the value of friendship and the human ability to overcome hardship and sadness with the powers of love and caring. The Mighty is thus in the same league as The Cure, although it doesn't quite hold the latter's magic, maybe because it was made later.Yet it is in no way without qualities. The acting is impeccable. The supporting cast is fantastic, my favorites are Harry Dean Stanton as Grim and Gillian Anderson (not usually my favorite actress) as Loretta Lee, one of Kenny Kane's (Max's dad, played by James Gandolfini) old friends. Stanton has his usual charisma and Anderson's character is quirky and amusing. But the others are good as well. I mean, it's a stellar cast! But the real stars are, as is often the case in this kind of film, the kids. Elden Henson has the ever-important expressive face and gives a mesmerising performance. The end scene when he runs barefoot through the town is made spellbindingly emotional thanks to him. And Kieran Culkin is great as Kevin, he is smart and funny yet also encourages our sympathy and our emotion.Much better than Macauley! Together, Culkin and Henson rival Joseph Mazzello and Brad Renfro from The Cure in terms of acting talent. Yet one of The Mighty's problem lies with the actors, or more in their presentation. It has often been remarked that Miramax showed unbelievable incompetence when it came to the publicity and I would just like to add my own indignation to that of other viewers and of the cast (Culkin was annoyed that Miramax pushed back the release date, allowing Simon Birch to be released first). To advertise The Mighty as a Sharon Stone flick was a disaster. Too many studios undermine the young stars in favour of promoting the more famous supporting cast. It happened with Radio Flyer, yet The Mighty is ridiculous. Culkin and Henson's names appear after the movie's title in the opening credits! Anyway, ranting finished. Back to the positive stuff! Apart from the acting, the direction is good as well. Chelsom's camera is fluid and there are no goofs and the whole film is very pretty to look at. I would reproach a slight overdose of colour, it tends to detach the viewer from the reality of the picture, making it seem less real. But I suppose that it's to put an accent on the imagination side of things.The music is great as well. Trevor Jones' score has the right feel for the movie, with very medieval tunes and some very emotional melodies. It's up there with the scores of The Cure (Dave Grusin-fabulous) and Stand By Me (Jack Nitzsche-ditto). I also love the theme tune, 'Freak The Mighty', by Sting.All in all, this is a pure, unadulterated emotional movie. The characters are endearing, the music is touching and the story is at times humorous yet fundamentally designed to provoke thought and a few tears. Again, it's a film about friendship, which is a sacred value. It's up there with The Cure, stand By Me and The Straight Story. In fact, here's the list of my favorite emotional movies 1)Stand By Me 2)the Cure 3)=The Straight Story 3)=The Mighty 4)Central Station 5)Elephant Man 6)Simon Birch 7)Radio Flyer (I could've included the Spielberg greats, Empire of the Sun and Scindler's List, but they are part historical dramas. Also note that Central Station, Elephant and The Straight Story have more artistic value than the others, but that I'm just taking their emotional value into account.)Enough competition. The Mighty is a fantastic movie that all ages can enjoy. It is smart, funny, profound and infinitely touching. I recommend for anyone who enjoyed The Cure or Stand by Me. The acting is teriffic! 8/10Uppers 1)The acting, especially  from Kieran Culkin and Elden Henson; 2)Chesolm's direction; 3)The music; 4)Sting's song; 5)The scene where Max runs through town at the end; 6)The dialogues and the humour; 7)The fireworks scene; 8)The very last scene with the book and the ornithopter; 9)It's incredibly emotional; 10)The scene where they walk high above the world; 11)Great chemistry between the two boys.Downers 1)Miramax's bungled publicity; 2)Why isn't it called Freak the Mighty like the book?; 3)Jingle Bells scene is a bit twee; 4)Maybe just a bit too much color. "}{"Title":"VERY touching movie about the quest for friendship","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE MIGHTY, in my opinion, is a VERY touching movie about the quest for friendship. I thought that Kevin (Kieran Culkin) was a VERY smart boy. When Max (Elden Ratliff) and Kevin were being pursued by the Doghouse Boys, I got REALLY scared. This was because Blade (Joseph Perrino), the leader, had a VERY sharp knife! The other thing that REALLY scared me was Mr. Kane (James Gandolfini). This was because he kidnapped and tried to murder Max. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this touching movie to those of you who like movies about friendship.  "},{"Title":"Why was this movie un-noticed?","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This little movie was well made, it has a beginning, a middle and an end. It has no special effects, it has no violence, it has no abusive language, a rare breed indeed these days. Make sure you have tissues at hand before watching. If you enjoyed Simon Birch, you'll love this. Well done to all concerned. a cracking little movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"sad,happy,funny","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i rented this movie for the fact that Gillian Anderson was in it. i was very disappointed that she did not have a big part, but this movie was  very good anyway. it was your typical coming of age movie, but it was also different. i was very impressed "},{"Title":"makes even the most stoic movie go-ers cry","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only real reason I wanted to see this movie was because gillian anderson was in it, but as soon as the movie started, her role started to seem less and less significant (she has about 5 minutes onscreen time, 10, tops). I don't know how to describe this movie without spoiling it, but let's just say it is only the 3rd movie that i've ever cried in, and yes, I have seen Life is beautiful, and this movie may be more touching. Despite a lot of cliches, such as big bad bullies threatening the two heroes of the story, and the boys becoming more popular because of their friendship(i very much doubt that would happen) and obviously, you don't have to be a genius to know how the movie will end, but it still made me bawl like a baby. I really think that kieran culkin and henson, the one who played max, should have got top billing, however, instead of gillian anderson, sharon stone, etc. See this movie, it is definately worth it.  "},{"Title":"A touching and beautiful film about the real qualities of people.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a roughneck in my opinion, but I was in tears at the end of this movie. Touched by its story and message.  It is a flawless movie technically and the acting and direction is perfect.  Nothing is bigger than life as often in american films and everything is subtle and true to the tale its telling.  I am amazed that even here on the database, nothing can be found about its makers.  Its truly a perfectly crafted film where everyone with any experience in life can relate to. It is a modern story about the triumph of the spirit and about not giving up in life's struggle.  Life is and will be struggle and struggle is to make one stronger. So Freak the mighty is a good example about how to tackle life. With smile and hope, taking every day as a puzzle, a task, a mission.  All of us are mortal, make the best out of your days by helping and bringing hope to others.  That is the true value of life.This film delivers its message effortlessly and without preaching and is a wonderful thing "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL!JUST WONDERFUL! I CAN'T RESIST THIS MOVIE. I WATCH IT EVERY MONTH","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so great, no one notices it. It's similar to SIMON BIRCH,but it's better. I thought THE MIGHTY is just a great movie that'llmake you laugh and cry. Culkin and Henson are wonderful actors. AndSharon Stone does really well as a mother. And I've never seen anyone(let alone Gillian Anderson)play someone like Loretta, she's hilarious.This is one role I thought she'd never do. If you haven't seen it headto the video shop now. AND I MEAN NOW! "},{"Title":"best friends","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this was one of the best friendship and loyalty movies yet. I feel everyone should watch it. All of the actors were excellent. I really felt the movie. As hard as I act I was very surprised that it made me cry and feel the emotion in it. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT...THE MIGHTIEST FILM EVER.","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Mighty,Well what can I say it was a very moving, inspirational film. With great actors Kieran Culkin and Elden Hensen who play 2 young Elementary School children who have been both mentally and physically challenged backrounds. Both however find eachother and are on a quest, well several quests to bring shivalry back in style and prove that courage comes in all shapes and sizes. This film is superb, I recommend anyone that reads this comment to see it. "},{"Title":"An inspiring must-see","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw -The Mighty- on TV one night and was immediately sucked in to it.  The basic idea of it is that two young boys, different in almost every way, come together one year to form a friendship.  Kevin Freak Dillon is a physically-disabled genius who loves quests, knights, etc... Maxwell Kane is a quickly growing learning-disabled boy who lives with his grandparents because his father is in prison.  Freak rides around on Max's shoulders, calling them Freak the Mighty.This movie made me cry and it made me laugh.The only thing I don't like about it is that the title was changed from the original title of the book by Rodman Philbrick, -Freak the Mighty-.  I think that title is better since that's what they called themselves.  But anyway, it's a great movie and all the actors did a nice job.  ********  "},{"Title":"A Lot of Depth","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a lot of depth and Sharon Stone is excellent in her role as the mother of a physically disabled but very smart kid who makes friends with another kid with a tragic past. The movie treats a serious subject with a dose of sensitive humour and makes one realize that usually those with poor bodies are given extra mental abilities (consider people such as Stephen Hawking). The mood of the movie is not depressing but uplifting and everyone should try to see it. "}{"Title":"A film that will warm the heart on a cold day","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talent must have skipped a generation in the Culkin family because Kieran has more than MacCaulay.As I was watching The Mighty, I kept thinking that I was watching Simon Birch all over again. Since I enjoyed Simon Birch I knew I was going to like The Mighty.From start to finish, it had similar elements. For example, the mother figures in both films took the friend in and take care of him as well as the tight knit friendship they share in both films.Elden Henson who played Max Kane was a good choice to play the friend of Culkin's character, Kevin Dillon. My reason for saying this is based upon how much each have in common including the fact that they seemed to click well together.I can't forget to mention the superb supporting cast that included Sharon Stone, Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton. Stone pulled off a performance that could have been done in her sleep. Rowlands and Stanton provided support at just the right times to make this film worthwhile.This film immediately brought a smile to my face because it told the story of two people who were isolated until one day they were brought together, which made a perfect fit. "},{"Title":"Don't pass this up because it has a 'kids & family' theme.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I nearly passed this movie up since it seemed to be yet another American sentimental family movie. Well maybe it was, but what a good film!  I did not find that the sad ending (as noted by another comment) detracted from the film's greatness.  The two lead roles (the boys) were terrific, with Gillian Anderson and Sharon Stone adding 'nice spice'. As a 50 yr old father of two children, I can recommend this film. See it - you will feel great. "},{"Title":"This movie is a timeless and classic tale of true friendship","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a college student, I barely have time to watch T.V., much less movies. But after seeing the previews for this movie, I knew it was a must see.  It was everything I thought it would be.  It had a great plot and unfolded beautifully.  The characters were fully developed and were easy to identify with. Kudos to the whole team for putting together such a great film.  I walked away from the movie with a whole new meaning for friendship and life itself.  Every once in a while, a movie comes along that is timeless and classic.  I feel this movie is one of those.  "},{"Title":"This is one of the very best films of the Nineties, and sadly overlooked...","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Mighty is just a brilliant film which really does defy description.  This is a film which the viewer should approach without preconception, and any description of the plot or action would fail to capture its originality, heart, quirkiness, humanity, intelligence, imagination and above all, its tremendous emotional power.  Just absolutely wonderful in every respect.  This is available on DVD and VHS and should be seen by anyone with a heart, a mind, and a love of film.  This one gets 9.75 on a scale of 10.  See it.  If you have kids, watch it with them.  If not, no problem, because this is an adult film which kids enjoy, not the other way around.PKL "},{"Title":"One of the best...ever!!!!!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know a thing about this movie before seeing it on the big screen. Didn't know what to expect.  This is a movie that parents and children should see together and talk about.  It is a fairly simple theme...how we are, how others see us, how others treat us, and how are we going to treat others.  The two young men portraying the lead characters created intelligent, humorous, and tragic youngsters trying to cope with being different.  There is one scene in the movie, however, that deserves a special Academy Award, and hopefully if you have not seen the movie and are reading this and want to be surprised you will quit reading right now.The theme of the Knights of the Round Table is prevelant in this movie and the great care given to not overuse this theme is absolutely genius.  One of the greatest heartbreaking scenes in movie history when the camera pans down the street and a fallen Knight lies in the doorway. I experienced profound shock, sadness, and humbleness when the image came on the screen. It is permanently in my conscience.  I don't know whose idea that scene was...who thought it up...who filmed it, but it is absolutely beautiful and tragic at the same time.  It is a commentary on our society that should not just exist in this one movie. "},{"Title":"Don't miss the opportunity to see The Mighty","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen.  If you have the opportunity to see The Mighty, don't miss it; it's an extraordinary movie, a real gem.We need more movies like this one, it has so much to say and knows how to touch the audience's heart.  You become part of the movie, you laugh and cry, you feel that there is nothing more important than honor and friendship, and that your imagination is the most powerful tool you have in this life.Rent The Mighty today, don't wait any longer. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was totally great! I happened to read the book before seeing the movie, and the movie followed the book almost exactly. It was very good and had a great cast! Kieran Culkin is very cute and played Kevin(Freak) very well. "},{"Title":"A truly touching story of the power of friendship.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a phenomenal movie. Words are not sufficient to describe the beauty and passion of this movie. The Director Peter Chelsom uses music superbly to enhance an already brilliant movie. The acting is superb and the entire movie rests on the 2 young actors who do a spectacular job. If you like to watch really great movies then do not miss this. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Take a cast with Sharon Stone, Gillian Anderson, James Gandolfini, Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton and you will probably get a decent film. In the case of The Mighty, you get a great film, but not simply due to the aforementioned cast. Rather the credit for making this film extremely entertaining goes to both Kieran Culkin and Eldon Henson. Culkin is a teen afflicted with a disease that slowly makes everything more difficult for him to accomplish from walking to eating. Henson is the gentle giant who isn't overly smart who gets Culkin assigned to him as a tutor. From this begins a friendship that grows stronger and stronger even as Culkin's character gets weaker. Henson serves as the narrator for this film told as if it is all flashbacks to him. A truly great film and one where it wouldn't kill anyone in a family to watch. "},{"Title":"A film about special kids that doesn't patronize","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film from start to finish, and was bowled over by the performances of the young actors. Based on a children's book, 'Freak the Mighty', the film manages to portray the challenges and and friendship of two special young people without being patronizing.Max, played brilliantly by Eldon Ratliff, is a slow boy, big for his age, whose mother was killed by his father, who is now serving a prison sentence. Max is being raised by his grandparents, the appropriately weary Gene Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton. Max has failed 7th grade twice, and is the butt of teasing and jokes. His life is changed when Kevin, played by Kieran Culkin (Macauley's more-talented younger brother) moves next door with his single mother, well played by Sharon Stone. Kevin is physically disabled, with a degenerative bone disorder. He has compensated for his disability by being a genius. He is also stronger than Max, the only thing he lacks is Max's physical strength. The two work together, with Max being Kevin's legs, and Kevin being Max's brain.The world can be an empty place for people who are different, and Max learns and grows from his friendship with Kevin. The movie never resorts to cheap sentimentality, and this was one of the first films to make me cry in a long time. I don't agree with the criticism that Sharon Stone is too attractive to be Kevin's poor mom. All kinds of people have children with disabilities. There was no need to make Sharon Stone less beautiful, since this film is about the boys, and she is the mom, a supporting role, and her good looks are not really an issue.I was disappointed in Gillian Anderson's performance as a white trash biker chick. She seems to be borrowing from the Sandy Dennis school of facial twitches, and feels a need to resort to a southern accent to emphasize that her character is from the wrong side of the tracks. Other than that, the movie is excellent, particularly the performance of Eldin Ratliff, who has a great future ahead of him. "}{"Title":"touching and complete","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember being a child and reading King Arthur for the first time. I must have been in 7th grade, and like freak and max, I wished that I had lived in that world and not the urban sprawl that I did live in. I used to think that my school was a castle and my apartment was a cottage. In reality, my school was a hellhole-with just a faint glimmer of good, and my home was ramshackle at best, but there was enough goodness in my world that I was able to identify with the goodness that king Arthur presented me. And then I grew up, forgot about my daydreams and started thinking about real life. Until today that is. While watching The Mighty I was struck by the imagery. There is nothing quite as touching as the image of a small kid on a another kid's shoulder, rising him up to see the fireworks. You would think that Max's move could be seen as patronizing and full of pity, but it isn't shown that way. It is shown for what it really was and what the movie proved later, that though Max might have looked like a Frankenstein, he had a heart inside him. The next motif that struck me was later in the film were a building important to the plot was made to look like a tower.This movie went all the way towards making us believed that the world that Max and Alex built was real, just as real as the world grownups inhabit. Also let me not forget the use of Elden Henson figure expression. Though he has only been in a few movies, he really showed me something, reminding me of another big kid with talent, Charlie Talbert from Angus. Both have the ability though Henson may be the better actor. The way he walked, talked, cried and just was, made me believe everything else the movie was telling me. The strongest image and the one that I plan on taking with me, among many others, is Max's face with his eyes closed, deep in thought, mind racing and. we see the struggle that he is making but we also see the peace that he feels. I really look forward to seeing Elden Henson (Elden Ratliff here) in anything else he makes, he was good in idle hands but I think that his strong suit will be dramatic roles.  This movie was perfect visually the script was good, but the story was so well presented that the lack of real throat grabbing dialogue can be de-emphasized.The casting was also great, besides Henson, Kieran Culkin is so charming (more so than his brother) that he pulls off the hard job of making someone so physically vulnerable also so tough and gutsy. Sharon stone surprised me in that she played the role well, but overall her glamour was wrong for the role, the grandparents are good but those are small roles. Gillian Anderson is unrecognizable but her role and her motives are also not well documented. This vagueness concerning adults is exemplified in Kenny Kane who was played woodenly.  But it works cause the movie is about max and Kane and their world not the adults. Like all good teen movies, the adult world is declared separate and pushed away in favor of the child's view. In conclusion, great film great performance by Elden Henson and just a great experience. Here he lies the one and future king "},{"Title":"A movie fit for King Arthur Himself.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably the best movie I've seen all year.The Mighty is the recollections of a slow witted, yet growing young man who owes a new sense of intelligence and imagination to his crippled friend.A partnership born of necessity turns into the strongest of all friendships. Although amazingly gifted mentally, Kevin is left with a contorted spine and nearly useless legs due to a birth defect.  Max, on the other hand has too much body, and not enough brains to match.  Kevin offers to pay Max to take him to a fireworks show, and during the process, they bond.  Quite literally.  Sitting on Max's shoulders, Kevin now has a new set of legs, and in returns, gives the larger boy what could only be describes as a lightning bolt jump-start to his imagination and mind.Basing their mutual friendship and partnership on the tales of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round, they are much more than Knight and Steed. Together, they form an entity better than the sum of their parts, each growing from their experiences questing together.Very emotional, kind, and entertaining, this movie also teaches what so few movies have ever done with any effort.  Honor.  In leading a just and true life, seeking noble causes to fight for and needy people to defend.  Where courage and excitement are your rewards and the armor you put on and the sword you fight with are a part of your soul and spirit.Perhaps that is why I loved this movie so much, is that it was able to convey that message of honor and justice so well and without slamming it down the throat of the audience.  Truly a wonderful message, and one I know will help one or two kids lead happier, better lives.I'm going to buy this movie for my kids...just in case no other movie like this one is around when they grow up.10/10! "},{"Title":"Touching and funny","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I came to this because I really liked Freak the Mighty, the book this was based on, and I wasn't disappointed.  Eldon Henson and Kiernan Culkin(who shows signs of being much more talented than his more famous brother) are both excellent as the two heroes of the story, and for the most part, director Peter Chelsom avoids easy sentiment.  James Gandolfini overplays a bit, and Gillian Anderson relies too much on screwing up her face in playing a biker chick, but the other adults(Gena Rowlands, Harry Dean Stanton, and Sharon Stone) acquit themselves well.  They don't have big parts, but they understand the movie belongs to the kids, and they don't get in their way. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No one hears about this movie, the advertizing campaign was terrible, but if you ask me to recommend one movie to everyone, any age, I would recommend The Mighty. Wonderful acting. Enthralling storyline. Touching to anyone of any age. Sad, happy, a great change of pace from other dramas only reflecting romance. Captures the true spirit of a great friendship. "},{"Title":"Surprise Surprise","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so shocked about how much this movie captivated me!  Iusually go for the action/adventure type movies, so I wasn't too eager to see it.  Yet, I realized that this movie had a little bit of everything, which would be able to please everyone.  It had comedy, drama, action, etcetera. Two thumbs up to Culkin, who really surprised me with his superb acting ability.  As for Gillian Anderson (of course, I'm going to mention her,) I expected her to be more of a Scullyish character.  But she turned out to be an excellent choice for Loretta Lee.  I loved the expression on her face when she opened the door for the first time!  A+ "},{"Title":"Film of the Year 1997","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A couple of years ago I read Freak the Mighty, and it had to be one of the greatest books I have ever read. And when the film was announced I waited and waited for a long 10 months from its announcement to its release to go see The Mighty and I was shocked. This movie was hardly advertised! And yet it was so good! The Mighty is about Max and Kevin A.K.A Freak. Freak and Max met each other in a reading class (in the book it was in Pre-school) and they became great friends going on quests such as running from Blade and his gang of thugs and fishing a purse out of a storm drain. Together they form an amazing relationship which puts you in either Freak or Max's shoes. The movie is just incredible and has to be the sleeper hit of 1998 even though it will never crack into 100 million dollar sales. The Mighty is a well done film, see it, you'll thank me.  "},{"Title":"I LOVED this movie!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was terrific! I was already a big fan of the excellent book. Both the kid actors did a wonderful job. The only thing I can say against the movie is it was gone from theaters too soon, I only had time to see it once! Sharon Stone received top billing, which she didn't really deserve for her extremely small part. Gillian Anderson's name was also a way to get people in, but I think she did a wonderful job with this character proving she should not be type-cast to just Scully-type parts. Now I'm waiting for the video. "},{"Title":"One of the better films for the year.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought the two guys that played Max and Kevin were super. In the story, their teamwork let them get up with and maybe a little ahead of their class.I don't get to see very many movies that completely please "},{"Title":"Sharon Stone gets the credits but doesn't deserve them","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What most annoyed me was that Sharon Stone got the most credits while she is not the main acting pesonality and when she shows up she completely blows it. I've seen you a lot better but your career gets worse every time.Also the movie is over-sentimental (a minimum amount of tears is required to go to the next scene), and over-all it's more something between Good Will Hunting and Dragon Heart.To end with something positive Elden Ratliff and Kieran Culkin did a great job at saving the movie a bit. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully excellent!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen in my time.  From the very beginning I was totally captivated and I didn't look at my watch once during the movie.  The acting was superb as well as the soundtrack/score - a definite must see. "}{"Title":"Magical Mighty","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I urge everyone to see this movie. It is one for all ages. I laughed a lot and cried a steady stream of tears. Had I been home, I would have used up a box of tissues. The entire cast is perfect and the two boys are absolutely magical. May we all learn to have their courage and to remember that our deeds define who we are. Thank you so much to everyone involved in the making of this beautiful film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful, touching and just great, 3 cheers to Culkin who I didnt give enough credit to before, he pulled it off nicely, and Sharon Stone, well, she's just a classic, and she looks very good in this "},{"Title":"An honest, touching portrayal of the bonds of friendship","Date":"3 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on Rodman Philbrick's novel, Freak the Mighty, this is a funny and moving tale of the adversities of youth. On the surface, it may seem somewhat similar in concept and themes to Simon Birch. Both films concern the friendship of two adolescent boys who are outsiders, with one of whom possessing some sort of medical condition. Together, a diminutive brain and a husky brawn team to form Freak the Mighty, with the smaller lad perched upon the larger's shoulders. They bond over the ideal of chivalric knights and embark on noble quests with their imaginations revolving around the King Arthur mythos. The movie generates genuine emotions and doesn't resort to the trickery employed by mundane Hollywood-ized stories (see Simon Birch). The situations aren't played for cheap laughs, and the film takes a turn into darker territory when one character's convict father shows up, threatening dire circumstances. All of the leads give above-the -mark performances, especially the two younger actors. Kieran Culkin displays more range in this one part than in his elder sibling Macaulay's entire career. Sharon Stone is superb in a winning, heartfelt appearance. Fans of The X-Files may want to tune in to see Gillian Anderson in a brief role that is about as far as Agent Scully as one can be. Trevor Jones contributes an inspiring score that reflects a Celtic-influenced medieval motif that mixes with the urban realities of modern day Cincinnati, Ohio. This is a smart and thoughtful film that, while containing some deeply sad moments, is no tear-jerker. It manages several touches of humor including a very amusing Star Trek reference.  "},{"Title":"Overwrought tear-jerker with great actors","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Was this a Sharon Stone film?  Or was Miramax angling from the start to throw an Oscar-worthy contender into the role of the mother and market the film as a best-supporting-actress vehicle?  It's only too bad that all the other supporting characters, played to perfection by James Gandolfini, Jillian Anderson, Harry Dean Stanton, and most especially Gena Rowlands, were simply not fleshed out enough in the script to merit award status.  I was thoroughly impressed with the child actors, whose names should have received top billing.  Meatloaf, as always, is fun to watch.But acting aside, this film was sheer crap, wrought with cliche, sentimentality, and oh-so-pretty music to disguise the fact that this is a really lame story, re-told ad nauseum, which had nothing new to offer. Loved the music!...  From now on when anyone tells me they loved the music from a movie I will refuse to watch it.  Directors tend to use the musical score as a crutch to paint over their mistakes.  When the entire score is THAT good, clue into the fact that he's blowing smoke in your eyes to hide the inherent flaw of the movie that the story itself, from beginning to end, is flawed.7-out-of-10, for acting alone. "},{"Title":"Did everyone like it?","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading the reviews this movie is getting, I see that it is just another example of how culturally bankrupt our society has become.Didn't you see everything coming a mile away!? I haven't seen so many cliche's and lame tries to make you really ...feel ...something, since 'Rudy'. A very good example is the scene where they are playing basketball, and Max holds Freak on his shoulders, allowing him to dunk. Gawk!But many thanks to Gillian Anderson for her extremely unconvincing and funny acting as some southern tramp. The only light point of the film.So in summation Yet another lame movie which message is that you shouldn't discriminate against people that are different. A good message, but since I already knew that, I wouldn't recommend this to anyone with an IQ higher than their shoe-size. "},{"Title":"Freak the genie","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Growing up as one of two physically challenged children in a loving home, I look forward to good movies about outcasts who are described as normal human beings.  Not saints, or evil, or necessarily compensated by some genius, they are just ordinary people trying to work their way through their problems.  I wanted to like The Mighty for an honest portrayal of misfits finding their way, but ended up resenting the noble extraordinary dying child as a new Hollywood archetype.  I still gave the film a 9 out of 10, but hope the film industry can develop new stories that avoid this theme. Passion Fish and Lorenzo's Oil explored the challenge of coping for those who lost their physical well being, it shouldn't be that difficult to portray the mundane humanity of those who take their physical problems for granted.  Every individual finds his or her own way to relate to the world. So long as films describe the physically challenged as special rather than merely human they are still classifying them as freaks/genies and failing to tell the simple truth. "},{"Title":"What movie were you people watching?","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I read through the reviews for this film, and I honestly can't understand why anyone would be taken by such nonsense.  People, this movie was terrible!  From star to finish, I felt sickened by the silly ploys that attempted to make us like these two dunderheads.  I don't know which one I like least.  Was it the scene where Kevin discovers that can ride Max like a horse just in time to get away from the bullies (which is a blatant ripoff of Masterblaster from Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, by the way), or the scene in the gym where they dunk the basketball (and this one is done in slow motion!!!).  God, this movie made me want to vomit!  I don't understand how any of this could seem believable, or even entertaining.  Kieran Culkin came across as a patronizing little rat, and Elden Ratcliff managed to turn Max into a two-dimensional mongoloid.  Not that I think acting could have saved this rubbish.  This story was terrible the day Charles Leavitt finished the claptrap script.  I will say this Sharon Stone and Gillian Anderson managed to shine through this terrible film with good performances, but that didn't change my opinion of the movie.  Rarely do I dislike a film this much. Watch it if you want a good laugh, or an excuse for bulemia. "},{"Title":"Just a tear syrup","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've got really disappointed with this film. I thought I would see an honest human drama but all I've got was the feeling of being manipulated all the time. If it was meant to be a Stand by Me of the nineties it failed completely.The story is a tear syrup about a young boy physically deficient but with a great brain and another one who is strong but with no brain at all. Guess what? They'll meet and help each other to overcome their deficiencies.The only difference between this movie and lots of others in the same (low) range is the cast. They're all very good. Gillian Anderson was a nice surprise! Sharon Stone had already shown her acting skills in Casino and here she did a correct work in a small - but made-to-fit - role. The boys (Kieran Culkin and Elden Ratliff) are all right and so are the older ones (Gena Rowlands and Harry Dean Stanton). It's a shame that a cast like this is not enough. You can be sure you've seen this film a thousand times before. "},{"Title":"Paint by numbers but missed a few sections","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, I'm biased, I have taught the book (Freak the Mighty) this film is based on to my 7th Grade students for a few years. The book is beautiful as it focuses on the friendship between Kevin and Max that was initially borne out of necessity, and eventually cemented by their unspoken empathy for one another.This film fails to capture that dynamic, which ultimately is essential for the viewer's attachment to the perils of the plot that binds the two juvenile heroes together.What surprises me are the A-List actors who signed onto the film whose well documented brilliance was diluted and inconsequential; mere sections of a story, blandly brushed by the Hollywood machine of faceless screenwriters and a director acquiescing to a script that faintly resembles the original story that has inspired many before it. Don't waste your time on this imposter. Read the novel instead. "},{"Title":"Too sad in the end","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We see it coming, but the end made me cry uncontrollably.  I didn't like that they had to end it that way.  The whole movie is about being bullied around and how to stand tall and try to fight back.  There is suspense but too much cruelty and too much reality.  Don't expect a happy ending. "}{"Title":"How Far Will the Calkins Go in Exploiting their Kids?","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We rented THE MIGHTY after doing a JAMES GANDOLFINI search. Big T is in this picture, as is Sharon Stone. Both play excellent supporting roles, but the focus is not on them, but on two kids and the drama of how an overgrown hulk and a smart squirt on crutches team us to overcome the bad guys and be pals for lifetime is exceptional and real. If you like true life stories about real kids --- not Hollywood style smart mouths, it's hard to imagine a better recent film.One of the kids is played by Mccauley Calkin's kid brother and it just brings to mind how Mack's real life never-married parents brought 7 kids into the world, apparently raised with no values and bled dry. Mack Calkin had no talent to speak of when he was luckily tossed into the Home Alone series. With that and Columbia's charmless My Girl Mack (or his unmarried child-breeding parents) grabbed up $17 million and Mack was burned out at age 14. Then he gets involved with Michael Jackson; but before that happened the parents are hawking the younger kids trading off Mack's star power. Gag me, please.A $17 million income by age 14 might be nice, but is no guarantee of a full life. Of all the rotten parents in Hollywood, one might be hard pressed to name worse than those of Drew Barrymore, Maccauly Calkin or Winona Ryder. Drew bottomed-out by age 12 and raised herself up on her own mettle; Winona had LSD guru Timothy Leary as a godparent and is still clueless about her shoplifting downfall, then there's the Calkin kids. God help them. "},{"Title":"over-dramatic","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Less importantly, I can't figure out why Sharon Stone is the number one credit when the story isn't really about her character. Other than that, this movie has good intentions and a great story. However, there were a few scenes that just felt overly tense, such as when--possible spoilers--Kevin begins choking on his food and loses consciousness, as well as the scene where Loretta is strangled (but not killed), which is otherwise understandable. This seemingly is supposed to be a family-friendly film, but with these scenes the filmmakers make it look more like a thriller. If the filmmakers had not done this, I believe this film could very easily have been given a PG rating. -6 stars for the tension. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Film.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1998 two sentimental movie so alike was make one is this and the other is Simon Birch. Both are about the boy tried to make a different in this world despite the fact that they are disable. This movie star Elden Henson as the boy with disturb past and Kieran Culkin as the disable boy, they two become friend and that when imaginary adventure begin.The movie also consist of many A lister star such as Gena Rowlands, Sharon Stone, Gillian Anderson, Meat Loaf, and James Gandolfini. Yes, that is one hell of a cast but that doesn't really save this film anyway. The movie is dreadful, because by the end of the movie you'll wish you never seen it cause it is too slow and boring.The script wasn't that bad at all, the character is well written but the situation is boring and dreadful and the sentimental stuff was overdone that it end up being really cheesy. The acting wasn't all bad but the set was boring and unimaginative. And the lighting and cinematography didn't do a good job, it as if the film was shot 3 decades back.Reason To Watch Better Not Watch It.Reason Not To You Won't Miss A Thing, Feel Like Waste Of Electricity Watching It.Rating 3/10 (Grade F).Please Rate (Y/N) After Reading, Thanks. "}]