[{"Title":"Waterlogged","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** Film Noir type movie set in Savannah Georgia that tries hard to stay afloat but it's waterlogged plot sinks it in the last fifteen minutes. The Gingerbread Man is not at all a boring or bad movie it really holds your attention and you want it to deliver the goods via a surprise and film noir like ending. The movie like Hurricane Geraldo that lashes the Georgian coast during the entire film instead just sinks under it's wind swept waves. Gingerbread Man has all the right ingredients for a film noir classic. It's directed by legendary director Robert Altman but it's story gets so muddled and confused that by the end instead of packing a wallop it just fizzles out like a balloon with a hole in it. The chance meeting and later relationship between Rick Magruder, Kenneth Branagh, and Mallory Doss, Embeth Davidtz, at the start of the film is incredibly unconvincing and contrived that you can easily sense that Rick is being set up to be used for some unknown purpose. You can see Mallory constantly staring and trying to get close to Rick at the party before they meet outside in the rain.Mollary's crazy and religious father Dixon Doss, Robert Duvall, who is being manipulated to be the villain in the film also doesn't seem at all that convincing of a being a heavy. If anything Dixon seems to be more normal then most of the people in the movie, like he so perfectly made clear to the court at his sanity hearing. And it doesn't surprise anyone that he like Rick is being set up for some reason known only by the villain or villains in the film. Kenneth Branagh is very good as the person who's being used to unwittingly do the dirty work to clear the way for a 10-15 million dollar grab of fifteen acres of valuable black walnut trees. So is Robert Duvall as the person who they belong to and are the main reason for the crimes being committed in the film. Besides the top stars in the movie there are also very good performances by Tom Berenger, Pete Randel, as Mallory's ex-husband and Famke Janssen, Leeanne, as Rick's ex-wife as well as Daryl Hannah, Louis Harlan, as Rick's law partner. Robert Downey Jr.,Clyde Pell, sparkles is a small but important role as the detective that works for Rick's law office. Still the illogical and contrived ending in the movie as well as some of the sub-plots that lead to it wastes their efforts and spoils what could have been a very good crime/mystery film. "},{"Title":"A well-made, very underrated film","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  With this movie, it's all about style, atmosphere, and acting. True, I didn't believe all of the plot developments, but it didn't matter- the terrific acting, the unexpected plot twists, and the wonderful atmosphere sucked me right in, and carried me along for the ride, and I had a great time. Kenneth Branagh is not only a great actor but a master of accents, and he proves it once again with a flawless Georgia accent. He's surrounded by so much talent in supporting roles (Robert Downey, Jr., Embeth Davidtz from Schindler's List and Fallen, Tom Berenger, Daryl Hannah, and Robert Duvall) that I was simply blown away. I recently bought a copy of this movie, and I never tire of watching it. Simply one of the best thrillers of the year. If you've ignored this movie (and chances are you have), then I suggest you check it out.  "},{"Title":"Appalling waste of talent in dim flick","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"31 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It takes real talent to make a real lemon, and Robert Altman, a most talented director, has succeeded brilliantly here. He made things difficult for himself miscasting Kenneth Branagh as a boozy Savannah lawyer but the attempt to replicate the feel of a town in the grip of a hurricane really finishes things off. The last 20 minutes in the rain is truly appalling, with the audience reduced to guessing about what is going on. The lighting is awful throughout, the more so that it was done on purpose. Maybe we were supposed to experience the confusion of the lead character as he stumbled towards an answer but this does not make for entertainment. In this film noir genre to achieve tension at crucial moments the audience must know just a little more than the protagonist, not a lot less. The story, though completely derivative, is actually quite tight, well plotted, and has a convincing resolution, but the lack of light and general confusion make it difficult to follow. Anyway, an absolute shocker, gross waste of talent and apparently a box office flop (there's some justice). Altman has since put this turkey behind him with the luminous Gosford Park but I am left wondering why on earth he did it.   "},{"Title":"Altman's strong suit usually isn't plot, and this shows why","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman shouldn't make a movie like this, but the fact that he did- and that it turns out to be a reasonably good and tightly-wound thriller in that paperback-tradition of Grisham thrillers- shows a versatility that is commendable. In the Gingerbread Man he actually has to work with something that, unfortunately, he isn't always very successful at, or at least it's not the first thing on his checklist as director plot. There's one of those big, juicy almost pot-boiler plots where a sleazy lawyer gets caught up with a desperate low-class woman and then a nefarious figure whom the woman is related with enters their lives in the most staggering ways, twists and plot ensues, yada yada. And it's surprising that Altman would really want to take on one of these I saw that coming from back there! endings, or just a such a semi-conventional thriller.But it's a surprise that pays off because, oddly enough, Altman is able to catch some of that very fine behavior, or rather is able to unintentionally coax it out of a very well-cast ensemble, of a small-town Georgian environment. The film drips with atmosphere (if not total superlative craftsmanship, sometimes it's good and sometimes just decent for Altman), as Savannah is possibly going to be hit by a big hurricane and the swamp and marshes and rain keep things soaked and muggy and humid. So the atmosphere is really potent, but so are performances from (sometimes) hysterical Kenneth Branaugh, Embeth Davitz as the 'woman' who lawyer Branaugh gets caught up with, and Robert Downey Jr (when is he *not* good?) as the private detective in Branaugh's employ. Did I neglect Robert Duvall, who in just five minutes of screen time makes such an indelible impression to hang the bad-vibes of the picture on? As said, some of the plot is a little weak, or just kind of standard (lawyer is divorced, bitter custody battle looms, innocent and goofy kids), but at the same time I think Altman saw something captivating in the material, something darker than some of the other Grisham works that has this standing out somehow. If it's not entirely masterful, it still works on its limited terms as a what-will-happen-next mystery-Southern-noir. "},{"Title":"Good dark suspense","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand the low 5.7 rating on this film.  It's a delight for people who like a strong suspense plot and dark atmospherics.  The tone is reminiscent of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, down to the locale (Savannah).  The acting is strong, and I was amazed at the verisimilitude of Kenneth Branagh's southern accent.  Famke Jansen is great, Robert Duval is effective in a small part, and Embeth Davitz is the BOMB.  Great full nude scene of her,too.The plot is fairly standard but effectively executed.  "},{"Title":"Branagh, Berenger, Downey, Jr., Duvall & Hannah Thrill in a Southern Noir","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A Savannah, GA attorney, Rick Magruder (Kenneth Branagh), has a partly accidental one night stand fling with a rain-drenched caterer, Mallory Doss (Embeth Davidtz). Immediately, he becomes infatuated with her & simultaneously aware that her violently psychotic father, Dixon (Robert Duvall), is terrorizing Mallory. Magruder calls in his private detective, Clyde Pell (Robert Downey, Jr.), to hunt down the extremely deranged Dixon (Duvall). However, both Magruder & Pell soon realize Dixon is so cunning that even Magruder's law partner, Lois Harlan (Daryl Hannah), will be involved to the degree of risking her own life as Magruder extends the full force of his law firm in defense of his under-statused mistress Mallory.Once Dixon is arrested, the law firm subpoenas Mallory's ex-husband, Pete Randle (Tom Berenger), to testify, as a very reluctant witness, against Dixon. Dixon is ordered into an asylum, then escapes, fueled with more fury for violence against everyone involved. The thriller doesn't stop there, but my summary does! The Gingerbread Man is a Southern Gothic Thriller par excellance. Clyde Hayes rewrote John Grisham's novel into the screenplay that Robert Altman aptly directed. The cast is too experienced & talented to fail either the novel or the screenplay. Branagh, who usually plays in more classical roles, like Shakespearean characters, quite capably takes the leading role & steals the show with it.Due to depictions of violence, terror, deranged psychosis & adult language, this motion picture is not suitable for children or the faint at heart. It will keep a lover of Gothic thrillers on the edge of their seat, time & again. Plus, when you believe it's over, it's not. "},{"Title":"A Savannah GA lawyer misjudges a situation, and a girl, and finds himself in deep trouble.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I expected more of Kenneth Branagh.  It is a decent movie, on the low side of watchable.  I prefer my suspense movies not to be predictable from the outset, which this was!  We saw it for two reasons--Branagh and John Grisham.  My final opinion was that Grisham wanted to try his hand at writing a screenplay, and he had the clout to get it produced.  I hope his next screenplay will benefit from his first errors, as his subsequent novels have gotten better as his experience as an author grows. "},{"Title":"Well-made, but thrill-less thriller","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The promising first half-hour is let down by the failure to develop the characters and thus waste a great cast. Downey Jnr is a fantastic actor but is given very little to work with, same goes for Hannah, Berenger and Janssen (who seems to have no purpose in the film whatsoever). Davidtz would've been great if her character had grown, but instead all she got to do was mope around for the whole movie. Majority of the bog-standard material here is given to Branagh, and although he is by no means poor, he just does not get the viewer involved in his battle.The direction, for me, was the film's only virtue. Altman creates a wonderfully dark and intriguing atmosphere, it's just a shame neither the story nor the undercooked characters are equally dark and intriguing.With more complex characters, more of Downey Jnr and Jansenn, and more explosive dialogue, I could've easily overlooked and forgiven the silly plot turns and contrivances, but sadly they stick out like a sore thumb.Disappointing sub-noir thriller. 4/10  "},{"Title":"A great and underrated film!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a wonderful Film Noir thriller, liked by the critics but hated by the public (as often with Altman). One of the reason people don't get it might be because they don't know film noir well enough and therefore miss the wonderful homage Altman makes in this film. I have also seen people complain that it is too slow to be a thriller. Well, I like my thrillers that way. Enough time to get to know the characters and the setting, and a slow built up tension. It does not harm that the film is also well acted and has a beautiful cinematography.This is one of Robert Altman's most underrated film, along with Popeye (1980). We can only hope that time will correct the harsh judgment this small gem got from the public. Who knows, maybe the rising star of Robert Downey Jr. might help to get a little re-appreciation of The Gingerbread Man. "},{"Title":"Great acting, bad plot","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The plot of this film was only bad in the last section of the film. Before that it builds up to something good that never comes. I had to learn a Southern accent for a play (being from Kentucky and not having a Southern accent of course) so I rented this movie and learned one. Kudos to Kenneth Branagh and Robert Downey Jr. Watching this film it seemed like there was about 45 minutes worth of plot missing that would have made this a good movie. IF you have the missing 45 minutes please send it to me. "}{"Title":"Intrigue and atmosphere in Georgia!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Another underrated gem!  The Gingerbread Man taken from a Grisham novel is better than the book.  Kenneth Branaugh is excellent is as the supporting cast including the great Robert Duvall.  Accents and atmosphere are realistic and the suspense is great even if the story line is somewhat predictable. "},{"Title":"Altman uncovers Grisham","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman is my favorite American director. I must admit that I have enjoyed the films that are usually scorned Quintet, if only for giving me the pleasure of seeing a grown-up and beautiful Brigitte Fossey, who was unforgettable as the little girl in Forbidden Games; HealtH, for having Lauren Bacall, Carol Burnett, Alfre Woodard and Glenda Jackson, all in the same cast; Popeye, for that splendid and surreal world, Shelley Duvall's Olive Oyl and the wonderful Malta locations; O.C. & Stiggs, for its proposal of an anti-adolescents flick; Beyond Therapy, for all its lunacy and for the presence of Genèvieve Page, who for all her effort to look Parisian chic is taken for a travestite... I have even enjoyed his one-act TV movies, like The Dumb Waiter and The Laundromat. When there is not much plot to develop in his films, you have wonderful performances, from Burnett, John Travolta, Kim Basinger or Jane Curtin. I perceive and enjoy the different approach and description he makes of the many different cultures of the United States. It is a pity that his genius is seldom appreciated, and that he is always forgotten when the time comes for giving out American prizes and awards. He is not your typical mainstream purveyor of fantasies. He is more of a maverick. So it is not surprising for me to find so many bad comments posted here about The Gingerbread Man, his most 'mainstream' effort to date and to my knowledge. I did not know there were so many people who thought like Leonard Maltin, who does not like Altman at all. In this case, one may dislike The Gingerbread Man, but for me the reason has more to do with Grisham than with the director-screenwriter. Some of Altman's trademarks are here improvised dialogue, great performances, a funny lawyers' office with typical irreverent receptionist and secretary. While some people find it boring, I found the first act fascinating, thanks also for the great cinematography by Changwei Gu, the man who shot Red Sorghum, Ju Dou and Farewell My Concubine. He has a way of showing us the same things we see in other American movies, but under a different light. Through his foreigner's gaze, almost everything seems new and different. In this first act, things were so logical and true! Wait until you get older. You may get in trouble if you fall under the spell of someone younger and beautiful as Embeth Davidtz. I know for myself what I have done fascinated by someone who is younger than I am! Then you have Robert Duvall's repellent, menacing and mysterious character, while that Geraldo storm is threatening Savannah. The second act gets a little phony and even funny, because Altman may have conducted it with a grin. I remember laughing aloud in several instances with his ironic remarks. I think he was applying a bit of Brecht, distancing us, preparing us for the third act, which is plain Hollywood pastiche. Altman does it with expertise. Being a wise man, and an intelligent director, luckily he did not fall into the traps of today's action movies. He was directing a tale of lust, greed and death. I was not disappointed a bit with the movie. If I give it a nine instead of 10, it is because of Grisham. The American reader has turned him into a best-selling author. So why complain? Maybe we should thank Altman for showing us the seams in his stories, the dullness, the flatness and the silliness of them all. However, he does it with so much gusto and humor, that I cannot but disagree with the negative comments. For me, these persons saw another movie... And vice versa. "},{"Title":"A Decent Grisham Manuscript Film","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Gingerbread Man was based on an original story by John Grisham that was subsequently adapted into screenplay form. The film stars Kenneth Branagh, Embeth Davidtz, Robert Downey Jr, Tom Berenger, Daryl Hannah, Famke Janssen, and Robert Duvall.The screenplay was written by Al Hayes and directed by Robert Altman. This tale that begins at a party where Savannah attorney Rick Magruder celebrates his successful defense of a man who shot a local cop. The party-goers include his ex-wife Leeanne, the mother of his two children; his law partner Lois Harlan; and caterer Mallory Doss. After Mallory finds her car stolen, Rick gives her a ride home where things turn sexual. Attracted to Mallory, he learns that her crazed father Dixon Doss has been threatening her. Getting too closely involved with this woman he hardly knows, Rick has the police round up her unstable father, and he next subpoenas her ex-husband Pete to testify against Dixon, who is institutionalized. The crazed Dixon manages to escape from the asylum, intent on revenge against all his betrayers and enemies. As a potent hurricane blows into Savannah, Mallory's car is torched, and Rick receives threats. Believing his children are in danger, Rick removes them from school, prompting a warrant for his arrest. When his children disappear, Rich goes on the counterattack against Dixon.The movie is a decent story but Robert Altman and his great cast make the most of the material and deliver a solid movie.They took what could have been a generic and ordinary movie by investing artistry and effort, he made it into something more despite of it being uneven and predictable.As for the performances,Kenneth Branagh that holds this film together and does it well. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing but don't try to follow the plot","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  For at least two-thirds of its time I found this a superior, intriguing thriller, which isn't surprising as it's written and directed by Robert Altman, based on a John Grisham novel. As well as attracting a quality cast and crew, Altman invests the movie with some of his trademark overlapping sound, possibly some improvised scenes, and of course inventive visuals. The opening aerial shots of rivers winding through a delta predict the labyrinthine plot; and the occasional red cars and red umbrellas punctuating the generally drab and rain-sodden exteriors are portents of later violence. (There are also some felines, though no cat scene as memorable as the one with Elliott Gould in The Long Goodbye!)When first introduced to us, Rick Magruder (Kenneth Branagh with a convincing Southern accent) seems the epitome of a successful criminal lawyer, but we soon learn that he has a flakey side, when he becomes overly interested in a needy, waif-like waitress (Embeth Davidtz) he drives home. He is soon involved with committing her oddball father - a rather minor part for Robert Duvall - to an asylum; and from then on Magruder goes downhill, while we try to follow an increasingly baffling plot. Daryl Hannah plays Magruder's chic associate; and Robert Downey Jr is a private eye with a drink problem. Sadly, for its last 20 or 30 minutes, the movie becomes bogged down in the tropical storm, before reaching a fairly clichéd Hollywood climax.      "},{"Title":"*** out of ****; Grade B","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Unexpected film from Altman - very mainstream, twisty and turny but enjoyably so. Branagh is a lawyer trying to figure out what is tormenting Davidtz, both internally and otherwise. Cheerily atmospheric, with a wonderful ensemble cast and a nicely American turn by Branagh. The script goes a little crazy in the last hour, but retains its integrity.  "},{"Title":"Easily the best John Grisham adaptation.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Of all the films from the John Grisham courtroom genre, this one features the best acting.This is, of course, due to the wise and experienced direction of Robert Altman. What I can't understand is why Polygram didn't release the picture on a wider scale.It could have done very well if it were given half a chance. "},{"Title":"Intricate, intriguing and suspenseful.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is a great ensemble piece with great actors, a great director and a great story line to draw us in further. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"26 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you have read any of John Grishams books, and liked them, than this film will go down well. Definitely as good as any of his books, and added twists work well on screen. Very good.  "},{"Title":"Suspense thriller","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  'The Gingerbread Man'(1998) Kenneth Branagh( with a very convincing southern accent )stars as a hotshot Savannah lawyer who gets more than he bargained for after a one night stand with a seductive waitress played by Embeth Davidtz. After returning to town after winning a case and a hurricane fast approaching Savannah, Branagh hooks up with Davidtz after her car is allegedly stolen  by her nutcase father played by the great Robert Duvall. Branagh uses his legal clout to get Duvall admitted to the looney bin only to have him escape with the help of several of his equally off the wall buddies and suddenly Branaghs family is put in harms way.This is a stylish thriller directed by Robert Altman based upon the John Grisham novel. Strong support by Tom Berenger, Robert Downey Jr and Daryl Hannah. rated 4 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Plot made no sense","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film the first time but only got to see the first 20 minutes. I finally got a chance to rent it again and really wish I hadn't. The plot made absolutely no sense and as for the ending...*** Spoilers ahead ***Surely they would have found out that Berenger and Davidtz were still married when investigating for the hearing for Duvall.If the whole thing was an elaborate set up by Berenger and Davidtz they could have found out about the will before hand.There was no proof that either Davidtz or Berenger did actually anything wrong. So why would they kill Downey Jr? Why did Davidtz kill Berenger (did she mean to?, if not why would she risk it?).  "}{"Title":"good suspense but sometimes hard to swallow","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I give it a solid 7. The acting was good and the story was good, to a point. Some of the actions of the criminal did not make sense, but I guess there are a lot of real criminals in prison that also ran a little short in that area . I can say the same thing for the lawyer. One minute he is brilliant and the next he does not know what is going on. Real people many times do the same. Fact is stranger than fiction. As an arm chair director I think this movie could have been better. Its worth watching. "},{"Title":"A dim thriller","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" For starters, I cannot fathom why Downey accepted this role of Clyde Pell, a private detective. Granted, those were troubled times for him on a personal front but roles like this do no justice to his immense active gift. This movie, although being claimed as a thriller, does not give you a feel of one. The story is about how a lawyer, who has everything going for him, is played by an unassuming woman into taking his case. From there on his life turns upside down. The story is about how he gets out of this mess and pieces it back again. A lot more could have been done to make it interesting and gripping but the movie shows the lack of direction & interest. "},{"Title":"Just a potboiler, despite Altman's involvement","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Robert Altman was one of the most famous, respected and prolific American directors; I have yet to see a lot of his output, but Short Cuts is one of my all-time favorite movies. Sometimes, however, he took on film projects as a hired hand, and The Gingerbread Man is clearly one of those cases. Obvious (at least as far as its most important twist is concerned), unconvincing (Kenneth Branagh is ludicrously - and doubly - miscast as a Southerner, and as a ladies' man, Embeth Davidtz's femme fatale lacks magnetism and Robert Duvall's character is more like a cartoon with that hair), overlong (nearly 2 hours) and mostly dull, this is probably not a high point in Altman's career. At least he cranks up the luridness to an entertaining degree in the last 10 minutes or so. ** out of 4. "},{"Title":"The Gingerbread Man","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" From director Robert Altman (MASH, Nashville, Gosford Park, A Prairie Home Companion), the title I knew wouldn't be anything to do with the fairytale, so I was intrigued to try it. Basically Rick Magruder (Kenneth Branagh) is the divorced lawyer in Savannah, Georgia who stumbling out drunk from a party has a chance meeting with waitress and caterer Mallory Doss (Embeth Davidtz) who has apparently lost her car. So he drives her home, where seemingly her father has parked the car, and after a small argument she innocently undresses in front of him, and they end up kissing and spending the night together. He rushes to work after the one night stand, but he can't stop thinking about her, and he is surprised and glad to see her again at his office, she is asking to file a suit over her abusive father Dixon, nicknamed The Gingerbread Man (Robert Duvall), after he has been threatening her. Rick manages to indeed take Dixon to court and have him put on trial to prove these accusations, with the help of witnesses such as Mallory's ex-husband Pete Randle (Tom Berenger), and he is sentenced to a mental institution. But Dixon has a small group of friends who go to the institution and break him out, as well as a few other inmates, and of course he is after Rick and Mallory. Together, with his children Libby (Independence Day's Mae Whitman) and Jeff Magruder (Jesse James), their lives are in danger and they must find places to hide and people to help catch the nut-case again, and put him back where he belongs, or maybe even kill him. Also starring Robert Downey Jr. as Clyde Pell, Daryl Hannah as Lois Harlan, Famke Janssen as Leeanne Magruder, Clyde Hayes as Carl Alden, Troy Bailey as Konnie Dugan, Julia Ryder Perce as Cassandra and Danny Darst as Sheriff Hope. Branagh gives a not too bad performance putting on his Southern American accent he brought to Wild Wild West, and Duvall is fitting a psychotic father to the innocent Davidtz, I will admit the story went slightly downhill after halfway through, but all in all it isn't a boring thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"Altman's variety makes for interesting but not quite great.","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The film version of John Grisham's The Gingerbread Man is an entertaining thriller that is tight, visceral and never stops to take a breath. This has to be one of the tightest scripts ever written; so tight that the ending is too abrupt. That would be a problem if not for the way director Robert Altman paces the film so nicely that we don't have time to react to what is being shown on screen before something else sinister and important occurs.All across the board, the acting is quite terrific with Brit Kenneth Branagh giving a strong performance as Georgia attorney Rick Macgruder, who falls for mysterious woman Mallory Doss (Embeth Davidtz), and ends up mired in her dark and convoluted family involving her ex-husband (Tom Berenger) and crazed father (Robert Duvall). All this combined with Rick's divorce and attempt to father his two children leads to conventional endings but I still was utterly involved and entertained by all that happened in this movie.At it's highest level, The Gingerbread Man can work only as a stylish law drama and it does exactly that very well. Branagh and Davidtz are very good together and Robert Downey Jr. is brilliant as a womanizing, alcoholic private eye who has little to do but does it very well. This is the most un-Altman of all of his films yet he makes it work with his constant moving camera and zooms and by sticking to the script and keeping the character's quirks and idiosyncrasies to a minimum, I have to admit I really enjoyed this movie even though I know deep down that it is only a mildly entertaining film with nothing else to it. Still, sometimes it's a good reminder to know why movies are so popular after all these years. "},{"Title":"Had some problems but still enjoyable","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie was, well, entertaining, is that so bad?  There were some problems with the plot by the time the movie wound itself up (a little confusing, with a good shot of Body Heat).  I really enjoyed Kenneth Branagh's performance.  I'm not from Georgia, but he put together one heck of a southern accent for being a Brit.  Embeth Davidtz was enjoyably strange.  To me, these actors (including Robert Downey Jr. Gee, I hope he doesn't kill himself) fabulously disappear into their roles.  Robert Duvall was up to his normal high standards.  Also, this was one of the least strange Robert Altman movies I think I've ever seen.  Although not completely satisfying, it's worth the view for the top-notch acting. "},{"Title":"Ok, do you want something simple?","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  You got it, even though this movie is from director Robert Altman, he has managed to produce a very average thriller here, which is raised a few bars up by the cast, which takes the movie with ease. Robert Duvall is underused (he only has three or four lines of dialogue), and Robert Downey Jr. performs his usual wisecracker role. The treat here is seeing Kenneth Branagh on one of his non-Shakespeare incursions and stepping into the skin of a workaholic, stressed-out, mundane lawyer which bumps into a woman that will change his way of life. Altogether it is rather watchable, but doesn't bring anything new to the genre, and one thinks if the names involved aren't just a way to promote such a standard script. Anyway, it has some fun in it, despite the clichés.  "},{"Title":"Great movie, it all makes sense in the end","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Gingerbread Man was a great movie. At first it took some sheer will power just to stick with it's perceived flaws. But with such a great acting crew, I just had to keep with the movie, and I was rewarded with aces in the end.All I can say is that some things just didn't make sense to me. But as the Gingerbread Man developed, I began to suspect something wasn't what it seemed. And in the end, I was very happy that I stuck with it.Please bear with any perceived inconsistencies that this movie may have. You'll be rewarded in the end. It was well worth every minute-. I wish I could tell you more about the movie, but I can't. I don't believe in putting in spoilers. Even if I were to put a warning.Looking back on the development of the movie, I think it was done perfectly. Give the Gingerbread Man a try, you're in for a treat!!! "},{"Title":"Very unique and real at the same time.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Well, lets see here. Here we have a lawyer (Branagh) who falls for a very attractive waitress (Davidtz) who is unfortunately being stalked by a criminally insane father and poor Branagh is dragged into this all because of what was supposed to be a meaningless one night stand. Great plot. There is a lot to say for this movie. For example, its edge of the seat thrills are very entertaining. Another example is just the right amount of romance. Just right.  This film deserves 3 stars and a rating of 8.5. "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It wasn't so bad. Had some redeeming entertainment values a good plot but was probably too long. It has that steaming sex scene at the start. Kenneth Branagh is a fine actor but somehow he doesn't seem to fit into this role. Duval was stunning as always. It's a well crafted movie but it doesn't grab you. "}{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of Grisham novels.  Seeing this, I thought the movie would be terrific, especially with the cast.  However, I was so disappointed.  Much more could have been made of this and while suspenseful, it did not quite produce at the end of the day.  It was entertaining without being dramatic. Could have been better! "},{"Title":"Altman, muzzled, falls short of greatness this time.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I found myself at sixes and sevens while watching this one.  Altman's touch with zooms in and out were there, and I expected those devices to comment on characters and situations.  Unfortunately, as far as I could see, they sometimes were gratuitous, sometimes witty, often barren for failing to point out some ironic  or other connection.  In particular, two zoom-outs from the gilt dome in savannah merely perplexed.  To be fair, though, a few zooms (outs and ins) to Branagh heightened his character's increasing bewilderment, a la Pudgy McCabe's or Philip Marlow's.  On the whole, the zooms were, well, inconsistent, and sometimes even trite.Other Almanesque devices, such as multiple panes of glass between camera and subject, succeeded in suggesting characters' sollipsism or narcissism or opaque states of knowledge.  Car windshields, house windows, and other screens were used effectively and fairly consistently, I felt, harking back to THE PLAYER and even THE LONG GOODBYE.  A few catchy jump-cuts, especially to a suggestive tv commercial, reminded me of such usage in SHORT CUTS, to sardonic effect.But finally, the mismatch between Altman's very personal style and the sheer weight of the Grisham-genre momentum, failed to excite me.  This director's 1970s masterpieces revised and deconstructed various classic genres, including the chandler detective film which this resembled in some ways; this time around, the director seemed to have too few arrows in his analytic quiver to strike any meaningful blow to the soft underbelly of this beastly genre.  Was he muzzled in by mammonist producers, perhaps?  Or am I missing something, due to my feeble knowledge of the genre he takes on here?Nonetheless, the casting was excellent all around  Tom Berenger (for his terrifying ferality), Branagh for his (deflated) hubris, Robert Downey Jr's pheromonal haze, Robert Duvall's method of trash, and Davidtz's lurking femme-fatality were near perfect choices all.  And except for a few slips out of Georgia into Chicago on the part of (brunette?) Daryl Hannah, accents were convincingly southern.Suspense and mood were engrossing, even if the story didn't quite rivet viewers.  The moodiness of a coastal pre-hurricane barometric plunge was exquisitely, painstakingly rendered--I felt like yelling at the usher to turn on the swamp cooler pronto.Torn, in the end I judged it a 7. "},{"Title":"A great performance by Daryl Hannah","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The biggest surprise in this movie was the performance of Daryl Hannah.   Rather than playing the stereotypical ditzy blonde roles that she usually  does she plays a street-smart, intelligent, world-weary character.  She  doesn't have a huge role but she does a great job portraying Lois Harlan as  a woman tired of, although used to, covering up for her boss' indiscretions.  "},{"Title":"Foxed Out.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It's good to see Robert Altman make a relatively straightforward, though not simple, story rather than a conglomeration of overlapping improvisations. And John Grisham may have been the right writer for him. Grisham is no artist. He doesn't lay waste the kitchen midden of the mind. He never digs much deeper than he finds necessary to uncover a little guilt or a bit too much confidence in one's self.Kenneth Branagh is a Southern lawyer (what else?) separated from his wife (Famke Jenssen), seduced by the abused daughter (Embeth Davidz) of a lunatic (Robert Duvall). She's also the abused ex-wife of the meanly murderous Tom Berenger. Branagh is attended by his PI assistant (Robert Downey, Jr.) and his concerned partner (Daryll Hannah).What a cast, eh? Take the girls alone. All three of them -- Davidz, Jenssen, and Hannah -- are tall and sinewy and sexy. If Altman could have made room in the cast for Uma Thurman he'd have had the core of a perfect girls' basketball team right there.I can't imagine how I could spell out very much of the plot without winding up with something a French philosophical treatise. It's too long and complicated, and there are twists and turns that would require explanation before comprehension. Let's just say that, if he were as smart as he thinks he is, Branagh would have learned to trust only his secretary, as everyone should. Granted, it's a little hard to ignore Embeth Davidz in distress, all dripping wet, wearing fishnet stocking, and slowly fanning her knees open and closed as if in anticipation of an embrace. That's aside from the temptation nobly to rescue a beautiful woman who happens to have a butterfly tattooed just above her pipick.The story's pretty good, too, and Altman handles it nicely. Imagine a scene in which Branagh and the local Savannah cops raid a tumble-down shack in the dense forest at the end of a five-mile dirt road, looking for Duvall, who has been described as a guy who is a little crazy, dresses oddly, and wears no shoes. And what they find is an entire house full of raggedly dressed, shoeless oldsters, scurrying like silent cockroaches from room to room, passing each other on the run, trading hats like Laurel and Hardy. It's confusing as hell and for a moment we might be tempted to think that Altman's head has finally exploded but when we realize what's going on it's quietly funny.The script has these characters wrong though. Downey describes Duvall as being one beer short of a six-pack. And later on in the narrative they seem to have become evil and organized a kidnapping of Branagh's children. Like hell. Schizophrenics aren't evil or organized. They aren't anything. They don't do anything more evil than collect tatters of cloth or old newspapers. And they couldn't organize a trip to the toilet. In the late 1960s rebellion and new identities were all the rage. Everybody discovered there was a Cherokee, a Jew, a woman, or some other minority in his family tree. And they organized into collectivities designed around identity assertion and self defense. Except schizophrenics. A psychiatrist named Sugarman investigated this complete lack of interest in the formation of social borders or self promotion and uncovered the schizophrenic No Society. They ended the rebellious decade as they began it, as flat as road kill.I'm afraid I didn't get the photography. The location shooting is thick with atmosphere and very effective. But why is it so dark? It's dark all the way through, inside and out. And it's not chiaroscuro. We don't see Branagh contemplating the bust of Oliver Wendell Holmes or anything. It's just dark. And this is Georgia in the summer. A logical progression would be from steaming sunlight to turbulent night, but no. It's just dark.Well, dark or not, and sometimes confusing or not, this is a pretty interesting film. A generally good job by all concerned. "},{"Title":"Could've been so much better","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a lot of promise, but never really went anywhere with it. Early on it's kind of an interesting mystery, and you never quite know what's going on, but once all is revealed it's really not much of an ending. Plus, once you know what happened, it really doesn't make a lot of sense. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"One Good MOvie!","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  You have to understand that I rented a peice of rubbish like Hard Rain the same  day I rented this. However, Kenneth Branaugh was excellent in this. A far  cry from his roles in Frankenstein and Hamlet, etc. He was convincing as a  savannah atty. and Robert Duvall as white trash (Not quite a stretch).  Great plot, and excellent acting. I definately recommend this one, I hope  you enjoy.Mr. Hipp "},{"Title":"Grisham strikes again, unfortunately.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" While it's true, as others have noted, that this movie succeeds on style (acting, direction and cinematography are all first-rate) a thriller must have a compelling plot, and that is something that Grisham's paint-by-numbers approach consistently fails to deliver. There is a bit of a zig and a zag at the end, but it remains utterly conventional and unsurprising, and while it's watchable one can't help but feel cheated. All that talent and atmosphere, and whiffs of tantalizing plot developments that never amount to much, make this movie one long tease.  "},{"Title":"Not as ambitious as usual for Altman, but works well on it's own terms","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is sort of 'Short Cuts' correlative opposite. That was a movie with great ambitions, that &#x96; while good &#x96; fell just short. This is a movie of much lesser aim (just a good tense thriller/mystery), that's much more successful on it's own terms. The acting is very good throughout. It may be my favorite Kenneth Branagh performance; understated and subtle. And a number of the scenes really are tense. Altman finds some clever ways to create suspense with sound and image that aren't just retreads of what we've seen before. Admittedly, some of the twists are pretty creaky and predictable, the logic sometimes questionable, and the moral POV of the film is a bit confusing. But this still blows most modern Hollywood thrillers out of the water. "},{"Title":"Southern Pastry","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The Gingerbread Man is the first thriller I've ever done! &#x96; Robert Altman In 1955, Charles Laughton directed The Night of the Hunter, a spooky slice of Southern Gothic in which Robert Mitchum plays a spooky serial killer. One of that film's more famous sequences consisted of two kids escaping from Mitchum on a rowboat, the kids frantically paddling whilst Mitchum wades after them like a monster. Seven years later Mitchum played an equally creep killer in Cape Fear, another film set in the American South. That film featured a local attorney trying to protect his family and likewise ended with Mitchum terrorising folks on a boat. Now we have Robert Altman's The Gingerbread Man, another slice of small town Southern Gothic. Altman says he consulted The Night of the Hunter for inspiration and tackled such a mainstream film purely because he wanted to spread his wings and try a popcorn picture, but what he also seems to be attempting is a deconstruction of the canonical films of the genre.So instead of a showdown on small boat, we get a showdown on a giant ship. Instead of two kids being kidnapped, we get two kids being safely returned to the police. Instead of money being hidden, we have money being readily given via a last will and testament. Instead of the righteous attorney of the 1961 film (and the deplorable attorney of the 1991 remake), we get a rather three-dimensional lawyer played by Kenneth Branagh. Instead of the monster chasing the family we get the hero chasing the bad guys. Instead of the monster breaking into the family's house boat, we have the hero hunting the monster on board the monster's house ship. Similarly, instead of a murderous serial killer we get an innocent weirdo played by Robert Duvall. . .etc etc etc.Altman goes on and on, reversing everything just a little, pulling at the edges and doing his own thing. His touch is most apparent during the film's first half-hour, the film existing in an uneasy space between conventional plot-driven storytelling and Altman's fondness for overlapping dialogue, narrative lethargy, prowling camera movement and the way that characters aren't so much introduced as they are simply part of what's going on.Still, despite Altman's best intentions, The Gingerbread Man never rises above mediocrity. Altman's too bound to the conventions of the thriller format to do much damage, his style is too slack to generate tension and the film is simply not radical enough to counterpoint other canonical films in the genre. Gingerbread Man is thus too mainstream to work as a more pure Altman film and too Altman to work as a mainstream thriller.The film's not a complete waste, though. Robert Downey Junior, Kenneth Branagh and the usually intolerable Daryl Hannah all turn in juicy performances. The film also has a nice atmosphere, set against a approaching hurricane, and the final act contains some interesting twists and turns. While it's not the complete hokey disaster that Scorsese's Cape Fear was, the film still never amounts to anything memorable.Incidentally, in the late 1990s Altman made 3 successive films set in the American South Kansas City, Gingerbread Man and Cookie's Fortune. With its hierarchies of class, politics and crime, and its desire to break radically away from your typical gangster narrative, Kansas City is the more important of these three films. That said, Cookie's Fortune, whilst a much slighter tale, is perhaps the better picture. 7/10 - Altman claims that this is his first thriller, but he directed Images, an art house thriller, in 1972. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"An unwise change of pace for Robert Altman","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Hot shot Savannah lawyer Rick Magruder (Kenneth Branagh) sleeps with strange Mallory Doss (Embeth Davidtz) the first night he meets her. He quickly becomes involved with her and her mentally ill father (Robert Duvall) and it leads to murder.Robert Altman decided to do this because he had never directed a legal thriller before. He should have stayed away. For starters the plot is overly convoluted and has some real questionable legal points. It was written for the screen by John Grisham--he's a pretty bad writer to begin with. Like his books this movie has characters reacting strangely with no rhyme or reason. Also the plot twist at the end was highly unlikely. Altman (a great director) does horribly here. He overstates everything! Most events take place on dark and stormy nights (I'm not kidding) with a bombastic music score outlining it. Also we have his trademark sexism creeping in. Within 15 minutes Davidtz strips nude (for no reason) and, the morning after, we get a nice clear view of her nude body while Branaugh is covered up.Good acting does help. Branaugh fakes a convincing Southern accent and is very good. Daviditz, Daryl Hannah, Tom Berenger and Robert Downey Jr. are good in supporting roles. Only Duvall disappoints but he's given little to do. This is an overbaked, overlong and downright stupid thriller. Right down there with Ready to Wear as one of Altman's worst movies. I give it a 6 and that's mostly for the acting and the beautiful Savannah locations. "}{"Title":"Fine ingredients yet leaves a bad taste","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Gingerbread Man has all the ingredients of a fine movie.  A respected director, a script by a best-selling author, and a well-rounded cast, all of whom succeed in stretching their abilities.  The question of why the movie crumbles, seeming more like a mediocre television show than a movie, lies with Grisham's set of unlovable characters and a director who, disrespectful of his audience's intelligence, gives away the entire pending two-hour plot within the first ten minutes of the movie by his choice of camera shots.The cast, each out of the respective genres that made them famous, deliver unexpectedly fine performances.  Yet their characters suffer from existing as Hollywood stereotypes of Southerners whose greed, stupidity, and amorality are not grounded in the audience's reality.  The movie does manage to attain a high level of suspense, yet it is difficult to muster any compassion for a sleazy dolt of an attorney, his obviously manipulative one-night stand, and a uni-dimensional supporting cast.  After viewing The Gingerbread Man you'll want two hours of your life back. "},{"Title":"Fluffy Pastry","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  With house architecture, gingerbread is the decorative, fluffy lace that is put on a Victorian house. Most Victorian masses are really ugly, clumsy, incompetent -- and that's why gingerbread was developed. The reason behind all this was the rise of the carpenter-designer. Victorian architecture is a product of the industrial age. Everyone wanted such a house, and with few skilled architects around, some blunt conventions were developed that any craftsman could use. And then dress up the horrendous result with gingerbread.So it is with this film. The key problem here is that it has no master designer. The script was rather developed on the spot in Altman's famous `let's improvise' method by the rude mechanicals involved.This film was made for one reason Branagh had a Clinton impression he didn't want to waste. And at least his contribution is all built around his singular idea of the man, using the blunt conventions of the `thriller.' Altman is just along for the ride.In comments on Branagh's Shakespeare (and the Shakespeare of others), I've noted the pitfalls of putting an actor in charge. Actors are very late in the dramatic food chain, and just cannot understand bigger picture dynamics. Branagh himself has escaped these limitations (when he has) only because he is adept with Shakespearian conventions. (His acting always is remarkable, but that's another issue.)See this film. It really helps to put perspective on the very interesting adventure of Branagh's trying to grow Shakespeare from the actor's eye. And it helps one understand why his `Love's Labor's Lost' is as it is. "},{"Title":"Altman's Artistic Touches Overshadow Grisham's Lackluster Style","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" It was a Very Odd Collaboration. Director Robert Altman who Never Made a Mainstream Movie and John Grisham who Never Wrote a Novel Made into a Movie that wasn't Mainstream. This Uneasy Fit Managed to be Overshadowed by Altman whose Quirky Style and Mannerisms Knocked the Laziness and Pedestrianism of Grisham's Storytelling Every which way and then some.It's a Dark and Wet Neo-Noir with Strong Characters some of which are A few beers short of a six-pack! These are Southern White Trash Eccentrics and Fast Talking Lawyer Womanizers Spinning Around in a Web of Sultry Savannah Moss. Trying to Stay One Step Ahead of the Plot, the Audience is Given a Thick Atmosphere of Weather Bearing Down on the Climax.Robert Altman Fans might be Disappointed and John Grisham Fans might be Disappointed, but the Film is Less Than Disappointing and is a Fun, if Murky Movie that has Enough Colorful Characters Played by Big Name Actors. There is Kenneth Branagh Driving this Thing with Both Hands along with Robert Downey Jr., Robert Duvall, Darryl Hannah, and others. A Movie that was Abandon by the Studio and Shoved Disrespectfully on the Circuit with Bad Publicity and Little Regard. It Ended Up being Critically Accepted if not Acclaimed, but it Really is a Better Film than its Reputation and is Certainly Worth a Watch, for if Nothing Else its Artistery. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but it could have been quite a good film","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This is a good example of a film that had potential...that went wrong. I understand that director Robert Altman blamed the studio for severe post-production editing. Sorry, but the problems this film has are far deeper than post-production editing. In fact, I have an idea the editing helped.However, this is not a bad film. This is a film you want to watch if you like suspense. It has it, and it is the one thing in the film that really works pretty well. Even there, however, there are a couple of flaws. Within the first 15 minutes I concluded that Robert Downey's character -- a private eye -- would end up dead before the film was over; very predictable. Within the first half hour it was pretty clear that Tom Berenger's character had some further use in the film -- perhaps as the bad guy -- when his early scenes gave him almost no screen time...something an actor who was doing pretty good at that time in his career wouldn't accept; so, clearly, his character was being saved for the climax.Another plus here is the setting -- Savannah, Georgia. It's different, even a bit exotic, although I'm not sure we needed to add in a hurricane.In terms of the acting, very uneven. I've always thought Kenneth Branagh was a very good actor; here he gets by. Embeth Davidtz is quite good as the daughter who is knee-deep in conspiracy; probably the best performance in the film. Robert Downey, Jr. was sleepwalking through this film; or perhaps staggering through it, since this was made during that low point in his personal life. I've always liked Downey, but here he's very disappointing, though it could have been a very good role for him. Tom Berenger has too little screen time; more of him would have been preferable, although plot-wise it works. Daryl Hannah...well, suffice it to say that this film highlights her limitations as an actress. If you're a Robert Duvall fan, here's a role (as a nut) he could have really sunk his teeth into...but he also seems to sleepwalk through the part.The suspense factor here makes me give this a 7, but it's very borderline. Not a bad film, but a definite disappointment. Watchable once. John Grishom...what have they done to you? "},{"Title":"This whole story was because of some...trees?","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Being that this was an Altman and it was Grisham related, I thought, why not? Well, I'm glad I watched it because I finally got to see one of Altman's and Grisham's mulligans/duds. This story never should have been put out. So many great actors on a really non-thriller like dumb story.Branagh was pretty good, Duvall was wasted and Downey, well his role was so stereotyped, with the seriously fake southern accent. This was one painfully bad watch.*Spoilers why does the poor put upon girl pick the Branagh character to do the deed? There's no mention of why she picked him. No reason/back story.What was the symbolism of the ashtray or glass she stole in the beginning? I mean she shows it in the car ride home and then it just disappears. Why even bother to show this if it's meaningless? Why did no-one check out that the girl wasn't really divorced from her husband? I mean don't you do background checks on all your clients? Why would anyone take a plea deal at the end of this to be dis-barred with community service when it was so clear he was framed into doing what he did?. He could have easily beat this in the courts.This entire story came down to trees, and this girl and her so called ex husband wanted em. $15 million dollars worth and we get a really dull watch. This story really needed less characters and a more detailed story. Wow this was a dud. "},{"Title":"It bites","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This was purchased for me, on account of it being based on a Grisham novel. I'm afraid that between this and Gosford Park, the only things directed by him that I've seen, Altman remains underwhelming to me. Hey, if someone points me to a specific one of his that is superior to these, then I might give it a chance. And I can definitely imagine that the books these two are based upon are far better than the adaptations, in spite of not having read a word of either. With that said, this is fairly engaging, and the mystery is OK, though the ending is rather anti-climactic. This builds suspense and tension reasonably well, if it doesn't feel like it ever amounts to all that much. The plot is good and keeps your attention nicely. Editing and cinematography aren't bad. The acting performances are great. Casting is mostly solid; obviously Branagh deserves a smarter script, and I have to wonder why they put Hannah in glasses and locked her in the stuffy secretary role. She's curvy and can be an imposing screen presence. What gives? Also, note that Janssen is barely in this. Downey Jr. and Duvall are great. There is a lot of strong language, half a minute or so(!) of female full frontal nudity, a bit of disturbing content and some violence. I recommend this to big fans of thrillers, especially those who enjoy the journey more than the destination. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This one will grow on you.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie a bit slow starting. It seemed somewhat hard to follow at first. Too much going on at once for this simple mind. The storm and the noise kept me from figuring out who the characters really were until about a third of the way through the movie. All of a sudden though, I found myself in the grip of it. Now, thinking about the movie, I want to watch it again to fill in the missing pieces. "},{"Title":"Southern-Fried Pot-Boiler with a Little Altman on the Side","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Any screen adaptation of a John Grisham story deserves a mainstream Hollywood approach, and Robert Altman is about the last director I would go to for a mainstream take on anything. But this southern-fried pot-boiler is pretty good. While it's not among Altman's best, it certainly isn't among the films he's made that leave you scratching your head and wondering what he was thinking.Altman had tipped his hat to the mystery thriller with noir overtones before, in his 1973 film The Long Goodbye. The Gingerbread Man is nowhere near as good as that film, but it holds up fairly well on its own. Kenneth Branagh is a cocky attorney who finds himself framed for murder after he gets involved with a client (Embeth Davidtz) who has enlisted his help in protecting her from her cuckoo father (Robert Duvall). The film is set in Savannah, Georgia during the approach of a tropical storm, which lends the film an oppressive atmosphere that I very much liked. The twists and turns toward the film's end become clunkier and clunkier, and Altman proves himself to be not all that adept at staging shootouts, but overall the film is not a bad addition to Altman's canon.Also starring Robert Downey, Jr., Daryl Hannah, Tom Berenger and Famke Janssen.Grade B "},{"Title":"to use the vernacular, it sucks.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie is puzzling, and comes off like it was hastily thrown together the night before the first day of shooting, like too many college term papers. Other comments have been made about the film's atmosphere, and rightly so, as it is almost always raining in the film. If you were to point out the running in the rain scene, you would have to be more specific. Branagh pulls off a convincing accent, which is interesting, but as far as dialogue goes, there is much weirdness. Odd silences everywhere (Berenger on the stand, Duvall as Defendant), and the characters act seemingly without motive. Why are Duvall's followers following him? They never speak! Are they just hillbillies who are loyal to their friend? The plot isn't hard to follow, it's just not done well enough to make sense. Also, there was a point at the beginning of the film (for a minute) where I could not differentiate between Famke Jansen and Embeth Davidtz. I guess it isn't very melodramatic like some of Grisham's other tales, which is good. But there is almost no drama at all. The scene in which Branagh is supposedly enraptured by the sight of a nude Davidtz in the time span of three seconds comes to mind...Rent this if you have time to kill... "},{"Title":"Grisham gets worse.  Honest.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Seeing John Grisham in the credits for this one set off the usual Poorly-Written Crap alarm bells, but I soldiered on nonetheless.  My mistake.  The plot, when not laughable, makes you wonder how long Grisham can continue to write this sort of garbage without getting stoned by the reading public.  No character seems to have any motivation for their irrational behavior, nor do any of them present us with a reason to sympathize.  Branagh is obviously here solely to make money to pay Emma's alimony.  And while he may have been able to pull off a decent neutral American accent in Dead Again, his attempt at a Georgia drawl here is painful.  More lowlights a set-up Helen Keller could see coming, Robert Duvall leading an army of Abe Simpsons, Embeth Davidtz making you wonder if Army of Darkness really was her finest hour, and if that wasn't enough, Robert Downey Jr. as the Burned Out Investigator. It is entirely possible that the second half of this movie is one of the finest achievements in American cinema, redeeming all that came before, but I wouldn't know.  I put in Henry V instead. "}{"Title":"One for the money.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I've never been a great John Grisham fan. The only reason for watching this is because Altman directed it and he at least made an effort with his usual long takes, camera zooms and dialogue over loud background noise. I'm sure Altman, Branagh and Duvall got paid well, enough to finance their own projects. As for Duvall, a talent wasted in a small but effective role.  "},{"Title":"Waste of film","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A waste of film on a good cast, which deserved better.  The movie had several flaws which should not have gotten by in a solid production.  Kenneth Branagh is a fine actor but was definitely miscast in this picture.  The script was at best poor, and the reactions by the characters to crisis situations not particularly realistic.  All in all a bad effort.  Worth a one time look.  I rated this a 6. "},{"Title":"So banal !","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A very commonplace movie with a predictable scenario. ( by the way how a attorney can be so naive ???? ) An heavily disappointing Robert Altman work. Spare your time without seeing it ! Try  "},{"Title":"Disappointing film....","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  It has the right mix.  Robert Altman, while often hit and miss, was sort of on a streak.  Kenneth Branaugh, Robert Duvall and Robert Downey Jr, are some of the best working actors in film and Grisham has made some good legal thrillers like The Firm and The Client.However, this movie was a disappointment from the get-go.  The characters were boring and underdeveloped and the twisting story had so many holes, that no way could it have happened in real life today.  The pace is plodding and the dialogue is poor.  Avoid this one if possible. BTW Why is Tom Berenger only playing bad guys nowadays? "},{"Title":"A FAIRY TALE  ALTHAM & GRISHMAN","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  THE GINGERBREAD MAN is a very good movie, one of the best of Robert Altman's fluctuant career.The big question was  How an independent filmmaker such as Altman would cope with a John Grisham script ? No problem at all, in fact.I don't know from which one came the idea to create a fairy tale world around a southern lawyer story, but it was a great idea.So we have a lawyer which drives a red car and goes by night in a forest to find a very mean ogre who doesn't wear shoes. Doesn't this story remind you something ?You can have fun to count how many tales's plots Altman and Grisham have used in this story. Believe me or not, there are a lot of them.A DVD for the child in you.  "},{"Title":"The best film of the Grisham stories","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Robert Altman has succeeded where other directors have failed he has taken a John Grisham story (writing the screenplay himself under a false name) and made it a truly entertaining, engrossing and evocative film. The Altman/Grisham Savanna, GA locale is thoroughly believable. I came out of the viewing of this film feeling that I had actually been soaked by Hurricane Geraldo. As the movie storm intensifies, so does the intrigue and suspense. Great casting. Kenneth Branagh's Georgia accent is right on (I know, I'm from South Alabama). Robert Downey's is just as good. If you've seen other Grisham based  films and come away empty. This one will fill you up. "},{"Title":"A truly awful film","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I think I've seen all of the Grisham movies now and generally they're all very poor, except for The Rainmaker, but this one is so bad it's unbelievableWARNING SPOILERISHIt's one of those movies where the character does the stupid irrational things that no one would ever do.  He's a lawyer for Christ's sake.  Why when his children go missing does he not call the Police.  Oh yes it's because all the Police hate lawyers so they're just ignore him and let him be attacked.When he's arrested for murder they just let him go free, he would be locked up in a cell pending a bail hearing.  Why would you drag your kids halfway across the country when you could easily protect them at home.The Police don't bother to try and find an escaped mental patient, they don't bother to interview his daughter.As for the ridiculous ending&#133;.In summary, silly, very unrealistic and a complete waste of time.0/10 &#150; One of the worst films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Okay, I suppose","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Watched this movie not anticipating a whole lot, and rightfully so. Sure the cast was great, but most of the movie didn't make much sense. Even though it had some tense moments, it's hard to enjoy it when you keep wondering why people are acting so irrationally. The storyline itself was also quite average... "},{"Title":"Film noir fiasco","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" How bad can a movie directed by Robert Altman from a John Grisham story starring Kenneth Branagh, Robert Downey, Jr. and Robert Duvall be? Surprisingly bad. Grisham's tale of a cocky southern lawyer, the disturbed waitress he beds and her nutcase father requires a filmmaker with a sharp sense of storytelling, the ability to make a twisted murder mystery make sense. That ain't Altman. He's at his best ambling through a yarn, whimsically viewing it through a skewed lens. The performances are all first-rate. But by the climax, as the characters race through a raging hurricane, you can't tell who's doing what to whom and whether it's worth killing for. Worse yet, you don't really care. "},{"Title":"A real let-down","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some suspenseful moments, especially toward the middle, but in the end the movie was a big let-down.  There was no surprise twist and no element of irony.  I found it to be predictable and much of the storyline was not convincing as even being realistic.  "}{"Title":"Is this movie worth watching?","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I rated this just below my recommended rating. I really struggled with this, but it just was too disappointing to give it a watch recommendation.First, you have seven-time Oscar-nominated Robert Altman directing. It was a screenplay written by John Grisham (Runaway Jury, The Rainmaker). And the cast three-time Oscar-nominee Kenneth Branagh in the lead as a Southern lawyer who gets mixed up with a supposedly traumatized woman (Embeth Davidtz) with a real whack-job for a daddy (Robert Duvall). Throw in Robert Downey Jr., Daryl Hannah, Tom Berenger, and Famke Janssen, and you think you might have the makings of a good thriller in a Southern locale. Oh, yes, add a hurricane just to give it the right atmosphere.Unfortunately, the characters just never seemed to come to life. Everyone outside of Branagh just seemed to be going through the motions. Branagh was in a constant state of mania, and he wore me out.Add to that the fact that the lighting on the last 20 minutes was so dark it was impossible to see what was going on.It had promise that wasn't delivered. "},{"Title":"Why Mr. Altman?","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I'm curious. Why would an acclaimed director such as Robert Altman would pick a plot like this? Of course the cinematography, editing and other technicalities are good. But the story... It is too obvious at the beginning of the film that the whole thing is a trap for the attorney.I was hoping for some kind of twist that would surprise me. But no. It keeps getting worse. And I kept going trying to understand why someone with so many original ideas would dig such a hole. I don't know if the original story by John Grisham is that bad, but the movie is. I just give it a 6 because of the cast and because of some fine work of the technical crew. "},{"Title":"awful, what a waste","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This film should be great, unfortunately it isn't. Wonderful actors, a fine director, and John Grisham, all these elements combined drew me in, but the sum of the parts,left me cold. The plot seems to adhere to the modern film noir stereotype, dizzying twists and turns, but it just fails. The story hints at something dark and sinister behind the drama, but it does not deliver. Robert Duvall's character is left half finished and he and his followers are not scary enough to justify the plot line. What a waste of talent, you have to work hard to make a bad film with this group of terrific actors and alas the filmaker succeeds. The Emperors New Clotheswould have been a better title, because it sounded like itshould be something good, but it's nothing after all. "},{"Title":"Very boring movie","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I have several directors whose movies I have trouble to enjoy and Robert Altman is one of them. I gave this one a chance but this was no different. I see no reason why every scene in the movie from the opening credits on should be so dark. Even in the lawyer's office it looked like they were working by candlelight.  I had to watch this in a totally dark room or the scenes would be washed out. The storyline I hoped would make up for the darkness but it did not. My wife went to bed after the first 30 minutes and I struggled to the end hoping that it would mean something but it didn't. This is the last time I waste 2 hours of my life on an artsy Altman film.   "},{"Title":"A monstrous piece of trash","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" How a director of Altman's experience could ever expect us to want to spend time with, or to care about what happens to, a lead character who is neurotic, a whiner, a jerk with no redeeming qualities -- that is the central puzzle about this profoundly confused piece of work. A monstrous piece of trash. In addition to this crippling flaw, the plot line requires serious concentration to follow. The setup that the Branagh character walks into is so obviously a setup from the start that we are inclined to wonder whether the writer and director have totally lost respect for their audience. This latter issue is at the core of the film it represents directorial self-indulgence with profound contempt for the taste, values, and intelligence of the viewer. Very unusual for Mr. Altman.Patrick Watson "},{"Title":"Good Atmosphere, Weak Script","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" A lawyer is drawn into a deadly game of cat and mouse when he becomes involved with a femme fatale in this adaptation of a Grisham novel. Altman creates a suspenseful, Gothic atmosphere but the script is weak. Sporting a Southern drawl, Branagh is convincing as the lawyer, and Davidtz is alluring as the object of his desire. Downey is likable as a private detective. Duvall has a small role, which does not allow him to do much with his weird character. Hannah and Berenger round out the impressive cast. After an interesting setup, the film bogs down and does not really deliver on its initial promise, but Altman is always worth a look. "},{"Title":"If this was made by a bunch of unknowns, I might have been kinder","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Did anyone who was making this movie, particularly the director, spare a thought for the logic of the story-line? These are not mere plot-holes, but plot graves, that become ever deeper as we lose any sympathy for the main character and his plight. That is, if you are kind enough a viewer to valiantly ignore the fact for most of the movie that the characters are either servants to the grave-hole plot, or boring and unlikeable. Or, in the case of Downey's & Hannah's characters, apparently superfluous. In pondering the reason for existence of Downey's character's significant screen-time in the movie, I decided that either the director had liked his character and unnecessarily increased his screen-time (unlikley, as the director didn't change anything else about the script he actually needed to) or that his character was going to be sacrificed on the altar of bad plotting. I'll leave you to guess which one it was to be.I had to keep checking the cover of the DVD to confirm that this really was made by credible talents. I cannot understand why Robert Altman would take this job. Surely he has some power to pick and chose. Actually, I can't understand why anyone would take this script on, except a first-time director looking for the experience.I suppose Robert Downey Jr. needed the money for his habit. I suppose Kenneth Branagh wanted to try a southern accent. I suppose Robert Duvall was only given a few pages of the script and thought the role in isolation sounded intriguing. These are the only motivations I can see that would coerce good actors to take on roles in this movie. As for Robert Altman, plenty of effort has gone in on his part to making the movie look fantastic. I found myself noticing how he had framed such and such a scene, or used the bright orange float vests in another scene to draw the eye's movements, or imposed a beautiful filter to create a particular mood. I do not typically notice such things in movies, since most movies I bother to watch to the end actually engage me for reasons of good story-telling and interesting characters with understandable motives. I watched this to the end only because some ridiculous element of optimism in myself kept looking at that DVD cover and being convinced that, due to the talent involved, there had to be some redeeming factor in this movie.Nice direction. But that's not why I watch movies. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A disappointing film because its all too predictable! The film never really got going in the first hour, it all seemed a bit lazy. The photography is superb, good use of colours and some very nice aerial shots. The film fails in the story and sometimes the execution. The finale is rather lacklustre and I didn't really care.The acting saves the film from further disappointment. "},{"Title":"Too Far-Fetched","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  A very weak movie, mainly because of a poor story, but also poor acting in the case of Robert Downey Jr., and irrational behaviour by many of the characters. If you are someone who likes to switch your mind off and simply watch a movie for it's creativity or acting criteria, then you may like this movie. Personally I can't do that with a drama and found this too far-fetched.I'm particularly annoyed when a main character, that is supposed to be an intelligent person, continually acts like a complete imbecile. In this movie, if the main character acted the way a person would normally act in these situations, there would be no movie.The first highly unlikely act is when the main character, a successful attorney named Magruder, played by Kenneth Branagh, is leaving a party and happens upon a girl, Mallory Doss played by Embeth Davidtz, who is screaming that her car has been stolen. They are standing around in a tropical rainstorm as he badgers her into accepting a ride home.She tells him about her weird father who belongs to some kind of weird sect and does crazy things. When they arrive at her dilapidated shack in the poorer part of town, they notice that her car is in the driveway. Also the house lights are on and some objects in the house have been broken.Things are very odd, she's weird (looking like a tramp, she undresses in front of him until she's completely naked &#133; oh yeah!). Also, the father's strange, the house is a wreck -- everything should have told Magruder, hey this is too weird for me, I'm out of here!' But not Magruder, he sleeps with her and then, motivated by her story and sex, takes up the case of trying to have her father committed. It all screams set-up!Then, being the top-flight attorney that he is, he arrives late at the office wearing the same shirt he had on the night before, (a fact that all of the women in the office notice). Is it likely that a successful attorney would act like a 16-year-old? Magruder has upset the police in some of his cases so when he goes to the police claiming, with ample evidence, that the father is terrorising them, the police ignore him. I could have believed begrudging assistance. But no help at all -- not likely!It's just too unlikely.  "},{"Title":"a very disappointing movie","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Coming from both a fine director like Altman and a writer like Grisham I certainly expected something better than this.From the beginning you guess who sets up the conspiracy again the main character MacGruder.Being everything so predictable is an unforgivable sin in a good thriller.An interesting character like the one played by Robert Duvall could have received a better treatment.Certainly this is one below average in the genre.  "}{"Title":"Gingerbread Man is Crummy","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" In spite of its impressive cast and crew pedigree Gingerbread Man crumbles early and often. The plot is unrealistically convoluted, the actors sport bad accents and director Robert Altman's participation amounts to collecting a pay check. Once again he has assembled an impressive cast (Like Woody Allen, everyone wants to work with Altman)that this time around to the letter is miscast. But that's only part of the problem.Kenneth Branagh is Rick Magruder a high powered Georgia lawyer who in the film's heavy handed opening scenes manages to get himself preposterously seduced by a mysterious catering company waitress who convinces him she is in grave danger from an ex-husband and a loony dad. With red flags everywhere the astute lawyer plods on even managing to get his children in harms way. Fights of gun and fist follow along with a requisite car chase and if that's not enough there's a hurricane thrown in for the ridiculous finale.Branagh plays MacGruder with a mealy and unconvincing Southern accent. Running around in a trench coat in all kinds of weather he's blind to the obvious in order to keep the story going. Hipster Bob Downey Jr. is every bit as bad as a P.I. but with a little more emphasis on the bad accent. Robert Duvall as the old man is Boo Radely all growed up en crazier than a bed bug serving some thick slices of ham but at least his twang is plausible. The female leads (Embeth Davidtz, Darryl Hannah, Famkhee Jansen)are lean leggy and unemotive. Even the celebrity lawyers doing cameos (Vernon Jordan) are wooden with the few throw away lines they have.In addition to paying little attention to his actors, Altman's mise en scene dripping with Spanish moss is murky and shapeless, his action scenes comic book. It lacks his offbeat touches and observations (he does inform the viewer that the Stars and Bars still wave in Georgia)that make a well done Altman so unique. Unfortunately, Gingerbread Man is Altman at his worst, even if the pay is the same. "},{"Title":"The reason this movie gets low ratings","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" There is not a single sympathetic character in this entire movie. Is it the lawyer played by Kenneth Branagh that we're supposed to be pulling for? Well, let's see -- we learn he's a sleazebag defense attorney who gets criminals off on technicalities. He treats his coworkers like cattle, gets them involved in his own personal crisis (in the process, getting one of them killed), jeopardizes the safety of his kids, threatens his ex-wife's new boyfriend, tries to strong-arm the police and school administrators -- and all this for what? Because he was THINKING WITH HIS LITTLE HEAD! I was really pulling for the father and his gang to beat the stuffing out of the lawyer and drown him in the swamp...it would have made for a far more satisfying ending. "},{"Title":"Dull and predictable","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I rented this DVD for two reasons.  A cast of great actors, and the director, even though Robert Altman can be hit or miss.  In this case, it was a big miss.  Altman's attempt at creating suspense fell on its keester.  After seeing Kenneth Branagh in a good film like Dead Again, I didn't think he could possibly contribute to such a turkey, and I hope it didn't ruin his reputation.  Robert Duvall seems to have fallen the way of most one-time Oscar winners.  On a downward spiral that includes acting in eating-money films such as this one.  Duvall was once a great actor in excellent films, even though his best performance was not Tender Mercies, but The Great Santini.  This movie was truly a big waste of time.  I give it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A dumb story about a stupid lawyer, ..however...","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a good movie don't rent or buy this one.HOWEVER, if you want to see Kenneth Branaugh acting in a movie that is not a Shakespeare play then rent this one.There is a beautiful photo of the county courthouse in Savanna Georgia,outside and inside ,  but it is too bad that with all the intersting houses and buildings in Savannah tht might have been put in this film,  this is the only one taken when it was not raining.Many questions are raised  and few are answered.SPOILERs How were the children taken so quickly when the lawyers view is blocked for a couple of minutes and  if he is hiding the children why would he leave the windows lighted up  at night and infull view of anyone? And who took them. How did he put the gun in the back  of the truck of the man fleeing from the storm and then have it in his pocket later on?A lot more questions but  why bother .  just look at Branaugh and forget the  story such as it is. "},{"Title":"Tedious and Incomprehensible","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" This movie is like real life, by which I mean - not a lot happens in the available 2 hours or so, and not much game plan or plot is evidenced by the frequently invisible cast (their invisibility being due to the experimental lighting as mentioned by many reviewers). A big bore. No big surprise that Altman helms this - he is a very variable performer (yes we all loved Gosford Park, but Pret A Porter anyone? Kansas City? Dr T. and the Women? Aaargh), but the fact that the raw material is a John Grisham tale, and the excellent cast that you will perceive through the gathering gloaming of your insistent slumber - makes this truly a masterpiece of bad film. And no, it is not so bad it's good.It's just bad. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Waste of Talent","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The Gingerbread Man is one of those unfortunate films that throws together premium talent and then asks nothing of it.  Based on a story by John Grisham, directed by Robert Altman and starring Kenneth Branagh, one would be hard pressed to find a drama with better credentials.  However, in this instance, those credentials don't translate into sucess.  The film is not horrible, merely laughably implausible and a huge letdown. Branagh (complete with a convincing Southern accent) plays a divorced lawyer who gets mixed up with a mysterious woman (Embeth Davidtz, whose only success has been in Schindler's List) and her dangerously wacked out backwoods father (Robert Duvall, in an intriguing performance).  One thing leads to another and he's on the run to protect his kids.  The Gingerbread Man raises many questions but answers few of them.  If you like Grisham, stick with The Firm or A Time to Kill instead.5.5/10-Zac "},{"Title":"Not even Kenneth can save this sinking ship","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Every actor is allowed a few bombs. The actors in this film are usually surprisingly wonderful and sadly underrated. This movie's downfall comes through it being hard to see much of the action. I am young, but felt like I was ninety years old, straining to see what is happening. The perpetual precipitation could have made a nice touch for the film, but the fact that this film employs a grand total of four twenty watt light bulbs proves exhausting. The largest light source comes from the not-so-exciting flare gun finale. Even the police cars seem to use 1920s light bulbs wrapped in colored Reynold's wrap. The story follows one plot that takes forever to wind up, and then suddenly, a fun twist occurs. Only the audience has already tried to commit suicide twice sitting through the first plotline. The second is just overkill. Plus the characters seem to see the underlying plot and don't let anyone else (i.e., the audience) know what is happening. Deaths happen suddenly and unexpectedly. Branagh's character changes suddenly and too conveniently. Plus, there is a little bit of a Father vs. Step-Father like tones. Why? I don't know. I was tempted to fast-forward through the last twenty minutes.I think the problem is in the production and the story. What do you expect with a John Grisham story? An innocent Southern lawyer under horrible odds? How original! The acting is lovely. See this only when you are in a Mystery Science Theatre 3000 sort of a mood. "},{"Title":"A Murky, Pointless Mess.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Rarely have I witnessed such a gratuitous waste of talent. There is almost nothing constructive to be said about this hopeless swamp of a film. What few interesting strands the film seems to promise initially turn out to be little more than red herrings. Actors of stature - Robert Duvall, Robert Downey, Jr. - are deployed in roles which go nowhere; a director of occasional genius produces a film which looks like it is filmed through a coffee-stained camera lens; a writer (John Grisham) who has never produced anything of merit, discovers new depths of under-motivated incoherence. The film has a cheap, lecherous feel about it - but barely at the level of commentary  - its really part of the aesthetic. Normally, I come on to the IMDb to write balanced, generally appreciative comments. This egregious disaster of a film just makes me want to produce an endless, bilious rant. I won't, but only because I no longer want to occupy my mind with this trash. "},{"Title":"awful film.","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" this was the most pointless film i have ever seen as there was no plot and the actors did not seem to care. 90% of the film had absolutely no plot whatsoever, i laughed so much my ribs began to ache. the bit where the old men when to capture Robert Duvall was ludicrous. on a directorial level making a noir film does not involve lots of raining sequences and pointless closeups on the main character. this is a failed attempt to create a noir thriller and instead alienates the viewer with incoherent scenes. seeing as this was based on a 'manuscript' by john Grisham i do not count this as one of his book to film adaptations as it displays none of the suspense and engaging storyline as films such as 'the firm' or 'the rainmaker'. "},{"Title":"Very boring movie","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. While featuring good actors the movie doesn't live up to the expectations. The most dramatic thing about this movie is the music, which pretty much sums up the movie compensating for a bad and confusing storyline by having known-good actors, loud and dramatic music. It doesn't change the fact, that this is a very boring movie to watch. Earned itself a score of 1. "}{"Title":"Disappointing for both Altman and Grisham fans","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Story about a successful lawyer (Kenneth Branagh) who is divorced, and whose two children live with their mother (Famke Jamesson), at a party to celebrate a recent legal victory he chances to meet a young woman (Embeth Davidtz) employed by the caterer who is being harassed by her father (Robert Duvall). Feeling compelled to help her he brings in a private detective (Robert Downey Jr.) and his legal assistant (Daryl Hannah) to investigate and eventually bring about a competency hearing so that the father can be hospitalized for his acute Schizophrenia. At this point the story changes direction and becomes more of a thriller.The movies primary strength is a nice natural feel to the environment, but this alone does not compensate for a fairly routine story. Also despite the abundance of talent featured here, there are no memorable performances and in fact the talents of Robert Duvall are largely wasted as is Robert Downey Jr. to a lesser extent. The films excellent cast also included Tom Berenger.The film is amongst the most disappointing from both John Grisham and Robert Altman. As a result of changes to the script allegedly by Altman, John Grisham would have his name removed from the credits. The story was originally a discarded manuscript (never published as a novel) that was adapted as a screenplay by Grisham himself. As a result of supposed studio interference Robert Altman would also petition to have his name removed from the credits for awhile. This is yet another example in Hollywood that despite all the best ingredients the result in not necessarily a great film or even a good film.The film was only a few months removed from another failed Grisham adaptation The Rainmaker by another great director Francis Ford Coppola. "},{"Title":"Stop the dang rain...","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  If it weren't for Tom Berenger being in this film, I wouldn't have made it through. And he only had 3 scenes.The background noise was incredibly distracting and annoying in this film and made it very difficult to hear the actors and to settle into this movie. I understand the whole artistic reason for this kind of effect, but in this case it didn't work. Robert Downey and Tom Berenger were the two bright spots in this film..and Berenger especially has some great lines. Kenneth Branagh's great talent was wasted in the atmospheric focus of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The first hour of the movie was boring as hell.  There is no suspense, no action, not even a plot.  The movie went no where. I mean they could have made the movie in 15 min short film. Overall, the movie wasn't good at all, and I don't recommend it.  "},{"Title":"This movie was lousy!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen.   Branaugh seemed to have so much trouble remembering his accent that he couldn't deliver his lines. The plot was definitely not worthy of John Grisham's name.  No wonder it was never published as a book or released in theaters.  I didn't even watch the whole thing.  I decided I didn't care who done it, then realized there was no whodunit to care about! "},{"Title":"Thespian Carpet Baggers, again!","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The enjoyment of this movie is diminished by what I call thespian carpet bagging.  Why go on location in the South for authenticity and then import actors with southern drawls out of acting school instead of Georgia?  The fact that southern is a stock dialect may be why high latitude reviewers tend to overlook or even praise such performances.  For the British Branagh, it must be considered a personal triumph.  Certainly, he did better than Hannah and Downey but all three distracted from the ambiance as much as a backdrop screen would have as the set for The Sound of Music.  Surely there are capable actors from the eastern Sun or Bible Belts.  But in this cosmopolitan era in which we live, why is there a need for such stereotyping at all?  To genuine southerners, this kind of flawed imitation is not flattery.  To some it may even be as offensive as the painted dark faces of the minstrel show are to Afro-Americans.  But then again, I wouldn't really know because although I've lived half my life in the south amid diverse manners of speech, I was born and bred a Yankee and, no matter how hard I try, will probably always sound like one, as will Hannah and Downey. "},{"Title":"You'll See it Coming/Drawn in Crayon","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Have you ever heard the saying that people telegraph their intentions? Well in this movie, the characters' actions do more than telegraph future plans -- they show up at your house drunk and buffet you about the head. This could be forgiven if the setting had been used better, or if the characters were more charismatic or nuanced. Embeth Davidtz's character is not mysterious, just wooden, and Kenneth Branagh doesn't succeed in conveying the brash charm his character probably was written to have.The bottom line obvious plot, one-note performances, unlikeable characters, and grotesque Southern accents employed by British actors. "},{"Title":"2 hours wasted","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  The only thing remarkable about this movie? is that all the actors could bomb at the same time. Idiocy. I want my money back...and I got it free from the library. Sheesh. I would rather chew on tin fool and shave my head with a cheese grater then watch this again. "},{"Title":"Disappointing. It should have been better, but was stupid.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I should never have started this film, and stopped watching after 3/4's. I missed the really botched ending. This film was a disappointment because it could have been so much better. It had nice atmosphere, a top notch cast and director, good locations. But a baaaaaad story line, a bad script. I paid attention to Kenneth Branagh's southern accent--it was better than the script. The plot was stupid--driven by characters acting in unreal and improbable ways. No one behaves like this outside of Hollywood scripts.  "},{"Title":"Grisham's complete waste of time","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that so much talent can be wasted in one movie! The Gingerbread Man starts of on the right foot, and manages to build up some great expectations for the ending. But at some point the movie turns into one of the worst stories I've ever wasted my time on. It's just so unbelievably how the bewitched Mallory Doss manages to pull Kenneth Branagh's character around by his nose. The movies climax is as uninteresting and flat as a beer, which has been left out in the sun too long. The Gingerbread Man is probably the worst Grisham-movie ever and this isn't changed by the fact that talented stars crowd the movie. Don't waste your time here!    "},{"Title":"Unbearably Bad","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  I have seen some bad movies (Austin Powers - The Spy Who Shagged Me, Batman Forever), but this film is so awful, so BORING, that I got about half way through and could not bear watching the rest. A pity. Boasting talent such as Kenneth Branagh, Embeth Davitz and Robert Duvall and a story by John Grisham, what went wrong? Branagh is a big-time lawyer who has a one-night fling with Davitz. Her father (Duvall) is a psychopath who hanged her cat, etc, etc, so Branagh has him sent to a nuthouse, and he promptly escapes. Somehow (I couldn't figure out how) Robert Downey jr, Daryl Hannah, Famke Janssen and Tom Berenger are all mixed into the story which moves slower than stationary. I wanted to like this, and, being a huge Grisham fan, have read all about this movie and I (foolishly) expected something interesting. This is honestly the WORST film I've seen to date and I wish I could have my money refunded. * out of *****. "}{"Title":"Filmed entirely in the dark","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  What's up with Robert Pretentious Altman?  Was he saving on lighting? Everything was so dark in this boring movie that it was laughable.  I mean, have you ever seen a lawyer's office where everyone works by candlelight?Don't waste your time.  In fact, don't waste your time with anything Altman makes  It's all a pretentious waste of film. "},{"Title":"This Movie Ate The Fox !","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Awful, customary, idiot, and the P word, which this movie deserves it better.. pre.. yes, you know it.. predictable. These are the very words I've found on my lips right after the end of this.. well.. awful, customary, idiot, and predictable movie.It's a noir story that I've seen hundreds of times before. Sure (Robert Altman) knew that by heart, so what exactly did he think of to make it kind of new or even solid  falling in love with the red color, directing the whole thing truly poorly (like the worst Woody Allen's movie), and leading good special effects concerning a hurricane. That was it if you're looking for more ! Some scenes looked really tepid while they were supposed to be thrilling, where the camera was immovable and the rhythm screaming  I'm boring ! (Like when Branagh was going in his girlfriend's apartment looking for anybody in it near the end). And some of the moments seemed so cheesy (Branagh hands in the gun to his girlfriend to discover that he emptied it from bullets earlier.. Old stuff in a movie lacks any new ones !).I've got more points that force me to explode  (Kenneth Branagh)'s charisma got something wrong, being uninteresting or weak or both ! (Robert Duvall) looks dim without anything high to offer (just like the whole movie !). And (Embeth Davidtz) is no sexy, charming nor beautiful in the first place to seduce anyone, you'll have every single man in the movie fascinating about her legs which are pathetic to begin with (ideally ugly is the word !).I can't say that there were plot holes, but there was intentional dealing with us as assholes ! For one example  how the competent wise old-time attorney ever believed for a second that (Duvall)'s shoeless character or any of his imbecile hillbilly companions got the advanced technology to track down his cell phone ?!! How can he be that fool ! It's this script which dealt with him, so us, the same shameful way !The movie gives us little but clear suspicions about something between the girl and the detective, to make its so-called twist at the end where we discover that the husband is the other part of the scheme not the detective. Basically all of that is based on the fact that the whole thing was uncovered from the beginning as the girl is a deceiver with associate of some kind. So the movie nearly exposed its own deception, hence deprived itself of its main surprise, but with a twist in the last 2 minutes  How Smart ! In fact with obvious gestures like  Embeth Davidtz's character looks directly to Branagh at the start's party, leading him so easily to her apartment, presenting nothing about the father's intention, let alone portraying him as helpless feeble-minded, over and above a hint story about the fox that ate the gingerbread man/the attorney.. It became so easy to figure out everything and from the very start of it. This movie simply had eaten its power to be a little foxy. As if it ate the fox in the story, and too early as well.I don't know why (Altman) did it originally. But for money or art, both ways it sucks. Naturally it's not for the genre's fans, maybe for the genre's haters to hate it more, I know I hated myself when I watched it in complete !One last remark, what about the woman who was taking photos for the lead's kids at the park ?! I thought that could've been his ex-wife as a part of the whole scheme ?! Actually what a shocking twist it could've been if she turned out to be his devoted assistant (Darryl Hannah) ! But this movie, as you see, doesn't want anything but being awful, customary, idiot and predictable one...Can I add silly too ?! "},{"Title":"Woefully Below Altman's Standards","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" The lighting is so dark, you don't get interested in what the movie is about, but instead are squinting trying to see what is taking place on screen. Such a great cast of characters &#151; including Robert Duvall &#151; such a great director &#151; and such a dismal out come. In fact, the film is so dismal, I could post the review I had written because I didn't write ten lines! When it was shown to be based on an original John Grisham story, I had doubts, since his books and the movies they make from his books have become so derivative of themselves, I thought it would be a boring waste of my time and dollar. I was wrong &#151; it's actually WORSE than that. Didn't even bother to finish watching it. To quote another film Duvall was in The horror! The horror! "},{"Title":"Am I Alone Here...?","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" I feel like I'm the only kid in town who was annoyed by Branagh's performance. He is a fine actor by most accounts, but he simply could not pull off the Southern accent. I mean, it was deplorable. It was as if he was trying too hard to be a Yank. One of the previous reviewers questioned why U.S. actors were not cast in this film. I second that notion. It's wonderful when actors/actresses wish to expand their horizons, but it's another thing to try too hard so that a performance becomes strained. Maybe it was Altman, but he's a such a great director...Well, I really don't want to bash Branagh for his absolutely hideous accent too much. Everybody deserves to screw up here and there. But it is hard to watch something so annoying that you'd rather choke on a chicken bone or eat a bucket full of crap than sit through The Gingerbread Man. "},{"Title":"As bad as Grisham gets","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" When you can guess the basics of the plot in the first 5 minutes then you know the movie is creaking. Branah, overacting and brash, good as an asshole lawyer, less good as stupid asshole lawyer, gets personally involved with a woman who lives in white trashville, after driving her home when her car gets stolen. Not content to be a good Samaritan, he goes into her house, knowing there may be trouble on the inside, and then stays the night! He agrees to help the woman have her crazy father committed, just on her say so. Why? Because he lets the little head do the thinking!After a farce of a commitment hearing he has Daddy (played to the hilt,as usual, by Duvall) sent to the crazy farm. Daddy breaks out and comes after him and kidnaps his kids, or so it seems. As a supposedly smart criminal lawyer, who won't listen to the audience telling him not to be so bloody simple, he drags out his stupidity until twenty minutes from the end, and then bingo! He gets it. By now we really don't care if he gets it, nor whether the bad guys get it either! ***SPOILER**** Grisham was a lawyer but he doesn't know the first thing about mental health competency issues. You can't commit someone to a mental hospital on the basis of acts he committed years before, and for which there is a record of, and no-one did anything about!!!You can't commit someone for being crazy, as Duvall seems to be, without connecting mental illness to danger to self or others! "},{"Title":"Ultimately, this is a slow burner that never ignites.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  First Coppola, now the maker of masterpieces such as M*A*S*H, Nashville and The Long Goodbye. Altman's done a Grisham. The once esteemed seventies directors are all succumbing. Whatever next? Scorcese doing Police Academy.Super successful Southern lawyer, Rick Magruder (Branagh) takes on pro bono case client, Mallory Doss (Embeth Davidtz), because he just happens to be bonking her. Yawn. How many times do we need to suffer this tale endlessly rehashed? Thankfully, we don't get the obligatory courtroom scene denouement, but we do get a piss-poor imitation of classic film noirs such as Double Indemnity, The Postman Always Rings Twice, The Maltese Falcon and seventies masterpiece Chinatown.The enigmatic Mallory is being harassed by her seemingly deranged daddy &#150; a shoeless hillbilly (Robert Duvall) who steals her car, breaks into her house and hangs her moggy by the front door.Branagh in the midst of a messy divorce becomes embroiled in this strange waif's turgid world. He has the hillbilly arrested and after a trial filled with a gaggle of lank-haired followers, Duvall is packed off to the loony bin. His gang helps him escape, and Branagh's kids are swiftly abducted.About now you're approximately 90 minutes in and the only elements stopping you from entering the world of slumber are the interesting cameos, from the likes of Hannah, Berenger, Duvall and especially Downey Jr, and the occasional Altmanesque touch.How about Branagh? Well, they should have got a genuine Southern actor &#150; wheel out Matthew McCoughney &#150; or better still Harrison Ford. Branagh doesn't convince and the supposed passion between Branagh and Davidtz just isn't there. Although the South African actress is rather better in her femme fatale role than Kenny is in his. The moment when they get it on, so to speak, is about as sexy as witnessing Manchester City drawing 0-0 to Macclesfield on a wet Sunday afternoon at Maine Road in deepest, darkest February. There's no chemistry whatsoever, although Davidtz pluckily tries to emulate Barbara Stanwyck.The interest level only truly rises when Robert Downey Jr appears as Clyde Pell. Patently in his own world his bravura over-acting is a blessing. Maybe he should have been given the main role, then perhaps not given his subsequent mental state.The film always looks great, thanks to the dramatic Savannah thunderstorms, but everyone involved has forgotten to tell an original and decent tale. One suspects that Grisham's influence has most likely ruined The Gingerbread Man (very silly title) from the off, despite Altman's attempts to resuscitate the beast.Ultimately, this is a slow burner that never ignites and possesses a predictable, unremarkable script. --Ben Walsh  "},{"Title":"Flashes of brilliance hidden in grey","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":"  Is it a coincidence that the film opens with grey aerial shots of nature's artistic canvas in grey, all in vague shapes to slowly lead us to the man-made straight line of a highway and then surprise us with a shot of a similar canvas of clouds reflected on a bright red bonnet of a car? That's Altman at his best, that's cinematographer Changwei Gu at his best and that's Altman's stock editor Geraldine Peroni at her best. Mark Isham's music adds to the effect. Full marks, Mr Altman. I have not read Grisham's book and I am not sure what is Altman's contribution and what is Grisham's. Surely the opening shots could not have been Grisham's. The use of color continues one red car vs all the grey cars, a red car in a grey forest...are we being given a Red Riding Hood modern tale, stories of big bad men who do not wear socks, and images of old dishevelled men who are crafty enough to rescue a pal from the loony bin after emerging from a graveyard...The bright colors in the movie are limited..the images inside the school, the red car, the prison dress of Duvall, the fire-tender that temporarily blocks the view of Branagh.. The story may appeal to some, it may not to others. What gripped me was the way Altman used his cinematic tools to tell the story. I do not see this film as an actor's film, it is a director's film, an editor's film, and a cinematographer's film. The jump cuts from the burnt box containing the will to lawyer's office or the cinematographer's images of Davidtz hiding behind the car door as her father's house is burning are unusually poignant. All in all, a well made film but not a film to suit everyone's taste. If you note the scheme of colours in the movie, the intelligent use of rain and aerial shots at crucial parts of the movie, you can appreciate the movie better. If you look only for the story, you will probably miss Altman, Gu and Peroni--a fascinating trio. I wish they gang up again.   "},{"Title":"Quite trite; ordinary schmaltz, in the Phil Joanou\Mike Figgis line","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller","Review":" Kenneth Branagh plays a rascal, a hypocritical scoundrel,a villain,a bad lot &low fellow.Embeth Davidtz's character is a bit of fluff.Often moderately and conventionally atmospheric, the film has also a moralist intention and aim,a moralist, moralizing, ironic, quizzer, chaffer, biting, sarcastic side, with accents of satire--all of these, alternatively, also with fluid transitions.Yet the characters are mere puppets, which is bad in a moralist work--i.e.,a work that sets itself up for a moral study, for a study of manners.This ample defect undermines the entire film, it is a major flaw.The movie is, therefore, never complete or entire--and still for another reason or lack as well--it lacks the dramatic dimension, the labyrinthine itinerary, and it sadly reminds things like Mike Figgis' Cold Creek Manor (2003) or as cheap as Phil Joanou's Final Analysis (1992).A straight thriller like Peter Hyams' Narrow Margin (1990)(--with Gene Hackman,the delicious humid Anne Archer,M. Emmet Walsh,etc.) was ten times better and much more chilling.The story is trite, and the handling is hackneyed and tarnished. Which results in the movie being cheap, phony, schmaltz, a trite surrogate.(Hammer timeonce B. Barbera spoke about the fake things, the fake legends in music--like U2 and Doors; the same might be said, for the cinema ,about directors like Robert Altman, Sam Peckinpah.Or, to complete here, and quote myself a bit from an earlier review&#151;also phony prestige directors like Lynch, Burton, the Coens, Soderbergh, maybe Shyamalan, Scorsese, the very phony idols of a fastidious emptiness.But maybe I will recant these stances someday.)Now to positive elements (that The Gingerbread Man (1998) completely lacks)a mystery thriller ought to be a maze, labyrinthine, sinuous, circuitous, like The Lady from Shanghai (1947) and Touch of Evil (1958) ; like Don Siegel's adaptation of Israel Zangwill's novel The Big Bow Mystery--fortunately never adapted again since '46!;and like Vertigo;like Jean Delannoy's Maigret movies,like Dario Argento's '70s movies,like David Wickes' Jack the Ripper (1988),or like François Truffaut's Mississippi Mermaid . "}]