[{"Title":"Underrated Political/Courtroom Drama","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"46 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For about a dozen years, it was hard to find too many films Richard Gere made which weren't interesting and well-made. This was no exception. Once again, he delivers the goods and is involved in an interesting story.Gere, a follower, I believe, of the Dalai Lama whom the Communists forced out of Tibet, uses this film to get his shots in at his mentor's enemy. Anyone who thinks this is just a coincidence is pretty naive. Nonetheless, the facts support the film's stark, brutal portrayal of Communist China's leadership. At the very least, it shows a regime unwilling to hear both sides of a story. (Hollywood has often given the same treatment to the U.S. government, showing it more often in a corrupt light, which is ludicrous compared to restrictive Communist China.)Anyway, Gere really dominates this film, being in almost every scene. This is your basic frame-up-then-prove-your-innocence-in-court story. It keeps your attention throughout although I thought the ending was a bit confusing because things happened almost too fast for the viewer to take in. At two hours, the film could have been trimmed a tad but the lulls in here were not much. Overall, an underrated film and unjustly criticized by the national critics, most of whom don't like it when communism is bashed. "},{"Title":"Very good, exciting, exotic suspense thriller","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was wonderful - and can't for the life of me understand the criticisms. Some seem to be attacking the movie on the basis that it is too hard on China - REALLY? Ask any North Korean refugee who's been captured in China -Ask any member of the harmless Falun Gong religious sect -Ask anyone connected by family ties with those identified as having participated in the Tianenmen Square protests (the protests were actually in quite a number of cities - but television covered just the tens of thousands assembled in Beijing). No, it's not an art house kind of movie - don't expect the slow pace and strange story of something like Farewell My Concubine.Instead, it's a wonderful Hitchcock-type story transplanted to Communist China - and voila - a wonderful movie that should have been remembered at Oscar time! It's far better than, say, Hitchcock's Torn Curtain or Topaz - both set in repressive Communist regimes. It's more like a combination of The Wrong Man and North by Northwest - but sexier than either.Our Welsh friend from beautiful Aberystwyth, Philip Davies, has it about right in his review printed beneath mine.This is beautifully shot, with wonderful acting in a riveting Hitchcock type movie. Richard Gere is excellent - the politics and scenes of a changing China are fascinating.I strongly recommend this one. This is very exciting, suspenseful, romantic - and its depiction of China rings true.     "},{"Title":"Not Just Crying Wolf","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not well received back in 1997, this film deserved a much kinder evaluation, and in light of present geopolitical and commercial developments even appears to have been prophetic. But of course hindsight's always easy, and since most people who reviewed Red Corner eight years ago never lived in mainland China, it was likewise not highly probable they would see it through the same jaded, seasoned eyes. And in fact, it helps to be experienced in China living when watching Red Corner, for much of its deeper mannerisms only become apparent if you know how and when to look for them.For example, Richard Gere (as subtle and low-key as usual) portrays Jack Moore, a US-based business person willing to forego ideals and politics in order to enter the much vaunted mainland market, hyped up to be the best thing since instant noodles, when in fact like everything in life, it too comes at a price. When time arrives to sign a large media contract, Moore wants to pause and assess particulars by the book. He also notices China's newly-found penchant for blunt nationalism (oops, patriotism, done nicely by a scene where he gauges club-goers' vehement reactions to a coaxing DJ), and doesn't quite feel good about his local contacts (including excellent veteran James Hong). But as a simple mortal, Moore joins a gorgeous catwalking model (Jessey Meng) at his hotel room for a night of brief pleasures. Brief, because the next morning begins with him dragged away by Beijing cops who, having found the girl's dead body in the room and her fresh blood all over him, proceed to assume the American guilty.Now, Red Corner's not a racist film. It doesn't fall into obvious stereotypes, nor does it contain any racial slurs (or profanity at all). Asians aren't made to be villains, just as the uncaring US embassy staff do not in any way represent the Western contingent. Having said that, the movie doesn't shy away from painful issues. It clearly conveys xenophobic attitudes found among mainland people and authorities, as many who've lived there can attest to. Of course, not everyone's like that, and competent actress Bai Ling (The Crow, Anna and the King) does well as Moore's honest, crusading defense attorney, Shen Yuelin, during what quickly devolves into a kangaroo court. Meanwhile, Red Corner shows the abusive treatment our protagonist's subjected to, often to the point of endangering his life. When asked, Shen Yuelin's assistant says that Moore's frequent beatings are simply because he's a foreigner, a familiar sentiment to non-Chinese residents of the mainland. Similarly, the Americans involved in this legal fiasco wish to distance themselves from aiding Moore, as doing so might work against commercial interests based on sheer greed. Thus Red Corner preceded its time by faithfully showing how global factions are willing to play along just to get that great juicy carrot dangling from a stick most don't want to acknowledge. As of 2005, companies like Microsoft and HP openly pursue a policy of appeasement when it comes to China, willingly accepting political strings attached to what are supposed to be mere commercial activities.And if you don't consider all that a sign of the film's credibility, how about the fact that mainland authorities quickly moved to ban it and prevent its cast and crew from entering China? Just for its attempt to challenge an authoritarian mindset and stand for free expression alone should Red Corner be applauded. Additionally, it's a mostly believable project from start to finish, accurately sampling many of China's social staples through concepts such as guanxi (connections) and da ge (basically a nickname for somebody more respected than oneself), yet doesn't make any claims of exotica, while steering clear of clichés (save for Yuelin living with her kindly old grandmother). There's one scene showing Yuelin speaking to a police official in English so as to avoid making him lose face, which is utter nonsense of course (probably the actor doesn't speak Chinese). Moore himself speaks just a bit Putonghua (standard Chinese), as do many of the business people and newly-arrived in mainland China. Again, familiar from real life, as was the interaction between him and the locals. Beyond that, for something made almost entirely in California, Red Corner passes for Beijing with very few glitches (vehicles sometimes don't look authentic), featuring ample attention to detail and an atmosphere faithful to the original. Certainly, some footage was covertly shot in Beijing itself, yet due to the government's disapproving attitude, production had to relocate back to the States. All in all, Red Corner also plays it fair, going to show that China does have judicial systems with a potential to work as well as any others. It makes a point of addressing the mainland's criminal code, and court hearing procedures all appear in detail. Plus, eventually the truth does come out, and while it's pretty obvious who dunnit from the get go, this isn't the main point here.The point is a warning against oppression wherever it may be and whatever form it may take, and a cautionary note regarding the perils of blind opportunism. Just because somebody promises you a gilded prize for playing by their rules doesn't mean those rules stop applying once the prize is obtained, if at all. And if we're not careful, there won't be too many reviews of this critical nature in times to come. Relations with China, as with any other nation, should be equivocal and based on standing for your own values, not another's, and that means not compromising liberties and freedoms standing at the very core of enlightened, progressive society. Like Red Corner's tagline says, leniency for those who confess and comply, severity for those who dare resist, that will be our downfall.Rating * * * * "},{"Title":"A strong and enjoyable film, sadly overlooked.","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very well written and directed film with good locations and very good acting.  The discourse on the Chinese approach to justice and the potential for corruption in their state-centered society is sharp and, from my experience, accurate.  It is delivered as part of an entertaining story with very strong performances by the leads.  I like Richard Gere in this, as I do Ling Bai's performance.  Their chemistry attracts the viewer and helps us through the difficult issues the film addresses.  A must see.  "},{"Title":"A great movie, but no one has seen it!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After I saw this movie, I had to see it again. Most likely it was because it was on HBO and I missed the first thirty minutes. I'm glad I rented it though. It is a great movie and I would have wanted to see it again anyway.It was sad though. I spoke with many of my friends after seeing it the second time and told them about it. They just looked at me and said, Red Corner? What's that? I was sad that most of my friends have never seen such a great movie! Gere and Bai's performances were wonderful! It is one of the best movies I have ever seen. I hope my friends eventually see it and if you haven't, you should.********** - 10 Stars "},{"Title":"White Light","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rambling drama about a US salesman arrested for a murder he did not commit, Red Corner has actual footage of Beijing convincingly mixed with the main shooting which gives the impression that the movie was actually made in China - and presumably with the approval of the Chinese authorities. Unfortunately, this is not really true, and the main Chinese lead - Ling Bai, whose name means 'white light' or 'white spirit' - was at Tiananmen in 1989 and emigrated to the US shortly thereafter. I've met students who lived in China at the time who absolutely refuse to discuss the situation back home; that Ling Bai does is testimony to her 'white spirit', and she really does steal the show from Gere here, in a kind of reverse Casablanca 'hill of beans' role. Whether the depiction of conditions in the Chinese judicial system is accurate or not, the movie does succeed in making the viewer understand that there are two views to almost anything, and that in China, as anywhere, power corrupts. Stacking the deck against consular officials is a nice touch, for these people are truly the cowards and turncoats the movie makes them out to be. The plot swerves from the inexplicable to the Orwellian to a love story (which does, it is true, sort of come out of nowhere), but the final scene on the tarmac does much to salvage that. Maybe Gere wanted to make the Chinese look bad, but they certainly don't need his help. Based on an incident that happened not in China but in Italy, Red Corner is viewable without ever coming close to being a great film. Its one claim to greatness is Ling Bai - she's absolutely fabulous. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film held my interest because of the great acting by Ling Bai,(Shen Yuelin),Edmond,'05, who is a very educated Chinese lawyer and is placed in a very difficult situation in having to defend Richard Gere,(Jack Moore), Unfaithful,'02, who is also another lawyer from the United States. Jack Moore gets himself in a very bad situation with a young Chinese woman, he some what falls in love with this gal on first sight and winds up in bed with her and all kinds of problems seem to happen. Jack wakes up and can't remember very much of anything that seemed to have occurred with this young gal and winds up being thrown into jail and having to live like a pig in horrible conditions. Richard Gere and Ling Bai are a great combination, however, the film is rather long and drawn out and intends to become a bit boring. "},{"Title":"Communism comments by Richard Gere","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner is quite obviously a comment on the current situation in Red China. Being a good friend of the Dalai Lama and Tibet in general, the the Chinese government and army are all bad people argument is what keeps this film going. It could almost be considered a crash course on what is still going on in China today. Don't get me wrong, the film is actually quite well done and has a good story to go with it which makes it more than a two hour CBS special.The whole plot centers around the Gere character being framed for a murder of a Chinese girl. The girl just happens to be the daughter of an important general which makes Gere's chances of survival all the less. Sure, all of the cliches are built into this film, especially the wrongfully imprisoned man (haven't the 90's been a real haven to these kinds of films ever since The Fugitive?). But the plot is still interesting the film throughout and other than a few twists that seemed unnecessary, keeps focus until the end. I never will understand why Gere didn't just stay at the embassy, he must have been somewhat crazy.The bond between the two main characters starts off very cold and warms until the end with an airport scene that was very fitting. After watching the film you'll know what I mean. The chase scene through the city is very exciting although at times farfetched, but still makes for some good action in between a few dramatic scenes. Even without on screen violence ala American History X or Saving Private Ryan, this film still manages to invoke fear simply knowing that the Chinese will do whatever they please, regardless of human life.This film only helps to show China as an unhumanitary state with archaic laws and traditions. When one is forced to plead guilty in order to have leaniency directed towards them, something is really wrong. Hopefully this film will open some eyes to the situation and be a catalyst to future change.7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A Sensitive, Compassionate and Compelling Movie","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think this was an excellent movie.  It's hard to believe that this was not filmed in China the settings looked so authentic.  The directing was very good.  Richard Gere gave his usual superb performance and Bai Ling was brilliant.  Some people seem to think that this movie was being too hard on China.  I read some of the quotes that the Chinese actors made who were in this movie, they said the movie was being too lenient, I tend to believe them.  Just because Richard Gere is a Buddhist doesn't make him biased as some have suggested, he is too gifted an actor and too much a gentlemen to let his spiritual beliefs affect a movie, his compassion sure, but not spiritual beliefs.  Too many people think it's hate, but what it is, is his compassion.  Just be glad we live in a democracy and have compassion for those who don't.  I can't imagine what it would be like to find myself in a situation like the character Jack (Gere) in the movie - it would be terrifying. "},{"Title":"Boxer Rebellion in Madison Square Gardens?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Essentially what we are shown here is not the classical American court drama. When our 'Mr. Deeds' goes to town, the town is Beijing, and his case becomes a show-trial in the cockpit of a new Chinese revolution that is taking place between the old-guard Maoists and the modernisers.   Richard Gere's American is an alienated, rootless 'Rick' caught in the cultural cross-fire between two power blocs. It is his enforced engagement with the reality of another world-view and the struggle of an intelligent Chinese woman to redeem the revolutionary excesses of her culture that lead directly to the Casablanca-esque ending, where love is sublimated beyond the personal to an ideal understanding and identification - 'You have a family here' - with the historical plight of a people.   This explains Richard Gere's unusually selfless performance, where he has had the taste and intelligence to let the women, particularly his Chinese defence lawyer, dominate every situation and every scene. Indeed, this feminist tendency in the film is also reflected in the consistently hostile view taken of the militaristic structure of Chinese state power as so much authoritarian posturing. As symbol of a new China the young woman lawyer is most effective The ancient Greeks also saw the spirit of unbiased law as female, and Shakespeare's Portia is another such paradigm. And the actress portraying her illuminates the screen with her passionate intellectual intensity.   There is an effective parallelism to the revolutionary acts which destroyed the young lawyer's father during the time of the Cultural Revolution, leaving her with crippling and unresolved guilt, and the barrel of a gun in the hands of the murdered girl's father which alone can resolve the historical tensions at work in the courtroom, and reverse all the political lies in a new revolutionary act, additionally realising the great potential of a young China, by freeing that stirring Chinese conscience from its historical contradictions.   So this is an intelligent political thriller, although those of a more Costas-Gavrian or Godardian intellectual purity do seem to resent  seeing a crisis of the Left viewed even from a very disengaged American viewpoint, disliking the humanist American strain of populist appeal in a political context, and resenting the smooth professionalism of the presentation as a mere circus. Even stranger are the objectors to Gere's Buddhism, who seemingly take fright at the intrusion of other perspectives into their own blinkered focus! In any case, Buddhism seems clearly not to be an issue to the scriptwriter.   This film in no way presents itself as the last word on its subject - but it is an intelligent and engaging movie, which, far from slandering the Chinese in the manner some vintage Korean-War tub-thumper about the 'Yellow Peril', goes out of its way not to identify the Chinese people with their masters. Curiously, this is exactly what the film's detractors do!   There is a sly reference to the Boxer Rebellion that began China's long road to modernisation, in the person of the trusty who was sent to beat up or even kill the American, but who comes to see that the real foreign devils in this instance are the corrupted Chinese officials who have sold out to the worst foreign traits of cynicism and greed by doing back-door deals with an unscrupulous Western communications company, and who finally confesses his error with true selfless revolutionary earnestness.   The fact that this Boxer Rebellion is played out in the blockbuster film equivalent of Madison Square Gardens, and is mightily entertaining throughout, has led many critics to assume that all they have been presented with is a superficial entertainment unworthy of such a serious subject. Actually, the film is fully engaged with the tragedy and passion of the Chinese people as they try to work out their destiny, and the proof of this is that, to any unbiased observer, the film leaves one with a new respect for the Chinese people, caught up in the complexities of their own history, and struggling for a better life. There is nothing patronising; there is emphatically no United States Cavalry riding to the rescue.    And I should have thought the contempt shown throughout towards official American diplomacy and state policy would have appealed to the most anti-American leftist. But are the critics just taking fashionable left jabs at their own right-wing bogies? - and I do mean Humphrey! Let us leave these obsessives to their futile shadow-boxing, forever engaged with an opponent entirely constructed from the straw which evidently bulks out their own brain-pans. "}{"Title":"A look at government oppression in China","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like many movies with political/ideological messages, this movie veers into the preachy at times, but the character development is good.  Fine acting from Ling Bai.  The plot unfolds well and develops and maintains suspense. A fascinating and sometimes chilling peek into a legal system very different from America's. "},{"Title":"This film revealed the Chinese justice system accurately.","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film revealed the Chinese justice system accurately. I am from China. I have experienced the Chinese justice, it favors the rich and man with connections with the officials, they can forge evidence to frame you, and you can do nothing about it disregard your strong evidence indicate otherwise. People here are nothing but slaves to the powerful red machine. Those corrupt officials always get away with it. Maybe that is why the Hong Kong counterparts want universal suffrage to guarantee their rights not being violated. This film tells the accurate story of how the Chinese Justice System works. The party officials control the lawyers and judges from behind and decide the outcome of the lawsuits. "},{"Title":"Not so much thought-provoking as mind-numbing","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A lethargic thriller that wants to say something about the Chinese justice system and Western violence, but is really just an excuse for Richard Gere to squint a lot. He's a lawyer who wakes up after bedding a gorgeous model to find her dead on the floor of his hotel room. With the help of his wooden lawyer Bai Ling he tries to convince the Chinese authorities of his innocence and uncovers a plot to frame him. Fresh ideas are not this sorry film's strong point as it prefers to churn up clichés left, right and centre, as well as starting with what seems like the first twenty minutes of the film missing, which means it's off to a running start and I didn't give a crap what happens to Gere or anyone else. Occasionally it threatens to get gripping, but instead cops out and bores us some more, lumbering on to the who-cares courtroom revelation. "},{"Title":"A Good - If Implausible - Story About Justice In China","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Overall, this isn't a bad movie. It's a pretty decent courtroom drama - sort of Law & Order Beijing. It's got a lot of suspense, and it provides a fascinating glimpse of the inner workings of the Chinese justice system. I offer that last point with the proviso, of course, that the star of this movie is Richard Gere, and Gere is known for having a somewhat anti-Chinese (or, more accurately, anti-People's Republic of China) outlook. The view of China presented here is an ominous one - and that's not entirely fabricated. I travelled to China a few years ago. I never got in trouble with the law (thank goodness!) but still when you're walking through Tienanmen Square and a column of Chinese soldiers suddenly comes marching right toward you shouting at you, you know that the basic message (even though you don't speak Chinese) is get out of the way or we'll trample you! So, yes, even in completely unthreatening circumstances, there are vaguely threatening elements to being in China.In this movie, Gere plays Jack Moore, an American businessman trying to close a deal in China, who picks up a girl at a nightclub. She ends up being murdered in his hotel room, he's the prime suspect and it's clear that the system has decided he's guilty before he even goes on trial and the court flat out refuses to hear any evidence that supports him and challenges the obviously pre-arranged verdict. How Moore can triumph over this system is the issue.All that's pretty good. Gere's performance is good. The problem is the one American man takes on the entire People's Republic of China scenario. Yes, Moore had a court appointed defence lawyer (played by a young U.S. based Chinese actress named Ling Bai) who becomes increasingly sympathetic to him and wants to prove his innocence, but essentially Moore does it all himself. Even in the courtroom, he essentially takes over the case, questioning witnesses - even when his lawyer is there. That all was a bit too much, and it strained the movie's credibility too far. Still, it's an entertaining and suspenseful if perhaps implausible couple of hours. "},{"Title":" You'll always have someone on the other side of the world who is family ","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those average films one does not expect to have much substance. Unexpectedly though, director Jon Avnet and a script by Robert King provide the basis for a surprising hit. The essence of this film is called  Red Corner  and tells the story of an American businessman and attorney Jack Moore (Richard Gere) who visits China to broker a satellite communication's deal with up and coming Chinese businessmen. However, Mr. Moore has the unfortunate luck to make enemies out of unscrupulous executives.They set him up with a sexy Chinese girl who returns to his hotel room, where both strip, make love, get drunk and pass out. The following morning, Jack is accosted, arrested and imprisoned for the brutal murder of the girl. Unaware of Chinese criminal procedures, the accused has little to expect, except that execution is swift if he confesses. Pleading Not Guilty is not an option and is fully explained by his court appointed attorney Shen Yuelin (Ling Bai). Together they face an up hill battle to prevent his execution and prove his innocence. Versitle actor (West Wing) Bradley Whitford) plays a U.S. consulate friend. The movie itself is filled with dark drama, exciting realism, scary prison scenes and brutality. Gere is incredible as he portrays a man on the brink of death trying to exonerate himself from a twisted government where friend and foe alike wear the same color hat. Terrific movie. **** "},{"Title":"like this plot","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I like this film plot. The story is really good. It shows how a person is trying his best to proof his innocence. Nice movie but the best.  "},{"Title":"Watchable (6/10)","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would agree with the general consensus that this film is predictable and full of cliches and Gere's performance is hardly credible, but the Chinese actors are quite convincing, the plot is remarkably complex,  and the implacable web of intrigue around the lead characters seems real enough. All and all, enjoyable (6/10). "},{"Title":"Decent movie, but beware of the DVD version!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie as much as I enjoy any movie of this genre, but my comment is more related to a non-plot element.I watched the movie on DVD and wish to warn others who may do likewise. The version I rented was spoken English, but the subtitles when characters spoke Chinese were in French.  Whether this is a regional issue for us Canadians I'm not certain, but it annoyed me enough that I decided to comment here. My French isn't what it used to be, and I missed what seemed to be major plot advancements due to the incorrect subtitles.Even with this problem, I still give the movie 7/10.  Definitely worth watching, and I suspect I would have given it an 8 had I understood what the heck was going on. "},{"Title":"Major Overlook","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this movie again. Great performance from the lead roles, great story line and a great score. This has got to be without a doubt a major major movie that is overlooked. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was excellent!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure why so many people are giving this film such a poor review. I thought the movie was suspenseful and thrilling. I loved Bai Ling and I thought Richard Gere did an excellent job acting in this film. Admittedly he did carry the film on his shoulders as another reviewer suggested, but I don't think that takes away from the movie at all. He was, afterall, the lead role.I've seen this movie a dozen or so times and my impression of it has never been bad. Again, I've always found this movie to be quite thrilling. And everyone I've shown it to has felt the same way.Anyway, I thought I should defend the film since so few are giving it its due credit.Check it out, rent it sometime. Maybe you'll see it's not so bad as everyone suggests. I easily rate this an 8/10. "}{"Title":"Give credit where credit is due.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On the video cover is a four star rating with the large words 'An explosive performance by Richard Gere'. I thought Bai Ling's performance is equally good if not better. It is the performance of these two leading characters that made this a powerful movie. However, I am disappointed that Jon Avnet chose to have the leading lady speak in English on some scenes that could be more authentic if she had spoken in her mother tongue. Still it is a must see! One of the few that will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"Great and underrated","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie didn't get the attention it deserved at the time of its release, I hope it does better on video.  While the film may be a little heavy-handed at times, it is still an interesting piece of work.  Gere is great as the TV exec. caught up in the Chinese court system, and Bia Ling is quietly sensational as the chinese lawyer who reluctantly comes to his defense.  The relationship they generate is more than enough to make up for the routine plot development.  A must-see for fans of Gere.  "},{"Title":"Airport farewell","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The airport runway finale was the most romantic movie farewell since  Casablanca.  A don't miss movie,,,Ben Matlock would have been locked up for life for contempt of court.   "},{"Title":"Another Gere above average movie","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Another of those above average movies that Gere usually does.He carries the movie on his shoulders here as he gives us a peek into the guilty untill proven innocent style justice system of Communist China.The movie tries it's best to be fair but the screenplay and script are so below average,it comes off as forced.The Chinese actress who played Gere's lawyer was very good and if you are a fan of political court drama or a big fan of Gere,you will be satisfied with this movie..... "},{"Title":"Emotionally engaging and very well directed!","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner was not only a good movie, it kept me emotionally engaged for the entire film. I expected Richard Gere to do a good job, he always does, but, Bai Ling stole the movie with a touching performance. Red Corner is very well directed, too, but from Jon Avnet, who would expect anything else? "},{"Title":"An Asian Marx Bros. movie with touches of Gilbert and Sullivan","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wish Gilbert and Sullivan were alive to adapt Red Corner into one of their operettas. Preposterous story lines, unintentionally amusing dialogue and actions that G.&S. of course, would intentionally make into comedy (unlike what the writer of Red Corner and the hack director achieved), though perhaps I should give it another star because of the dozen or so laughs I did have. You praising folks want an example of the unintentional comedy? The scene where Richard Gere suddenly transforms from media executive to action hero after a seasoned hit man impossibly bungles shooting Gere and Bai Ling in a stalled limo. The un-hit man flees the scene with Gere in full pursuit, Gere loses sight of him but continues chasing something through a maze of alleyways; the big laugh of this scene is when Gere, riding a bicycle (with handcuffs on yet) is being pursued by a motorcycle cop who is closing in on him rapidly but eludes capture when the cop, apparently riding a motorcycle for the first time, slides on something in the street and wipes out. The truly grandest comedic moment in the movie though was the big production number at the end when the court proceedings become a shambles of story rabbits being pulled out of Bugs Bunny's body. It made me think of adding Perry Mason to the stateroom scene in A Night At The Opera. A laugh a minute. "},{"Title":"slow plodding thriller","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Moore (Richard Gere) is an American visiting Beijing to sell American TV to the communist. He spends the night with a local woman and finds her murdered the next morning. He's arrested for killing a general's daughter. Everybody wants him to confess including his defense lawyer Shen Yuelin (Bai Ling). His contract is lost. There is a high level conspiracy at work.This is a slow moving thriller. Jack Moore has little rooting interest and he acts as an entitled Westerner right from the start. It would be more compelling to have him overwhelmed as the initial reaction. As for the realism, I doubt a kangaroo court is somehow unknown in China. If anything, the objectivity shown by some of the characters is nice for the Chinese people. There is still an out-of-date style to the setting. The China being portrayed doesn't feel correct. The plot moves way too slowly. At 2 hrs, it's way too long. In the end, the plodding pace takes a toll. "},{"Title":"superb","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a really, really outstanding movie, and I am surprised that I had never heard of it. I stumbled across it on cable, and having an interest in modern day China, watched it on my DVR. The movie works on many levels - as an action movie, as an excellent portrayal of the Chinese court system, and as the story of a relationship between two individuals disparate in race and culture. I count Richard Gere as a fine actor, and knowing his work on behalf of the oppressed Tibetans, I am not surprised that he would be eager to be part of a movie that exposes the injustices of the Chinese justice system. It also shows well the corruption of the Chinese bureaucracy, and the backroom dealings foreign businessmen must engage in to get a foothold in the country. The portrayals of the sufferings of Gere's character while incarcerated are chilling, and to my knowledge accurate The action sequences are well done. The inevitable parting at the end of the 2 central characters ranks right up there with Casablanca and Witness. My only quibble is with some of the proceedings in the climax of the People's Court trail, proceedings which are hard to imagine actually happening. However, they do serve to move the story along. I would call this flick a sleeper. "},{"Title":"Jewel in the rough, worth a watch","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recently watched this movie on Netflix, and was pleasantly surprised. This is a very good movie and deserves to be rated higher on IMDb. I've watched many movies that are rated in the 6-7 range, and this one does not belong in that category! I am not a Richard Gere fan - as a matter of fact I even rooted for Bruce Willis in the Jackal... but I was definitely impressed with Richard Gere in this one... He is probably far outside his comfort zone in this role, and has done an excellent job. But the real star of the show is Ling Bhai. She has delivered an outstanding performance. I gather that only a few shots were actually shot in China, but you don't get that feeling while watching the film - you feel like the film was actually shot in China... I am not sure of the accuracy of the portrayal of the judicial process in China, but was it was refreshing to see something other than what we are all so used to with Law and Order. Overall, I recommend this movie. While it is not in the same league as Primal Fear, it is definitely worth a watch... and it will keep you engaged for the entire film. "},{"Title":"Conspiracy of One","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You know, many people have been bashing on Red Corner saying it's not the real China at all. Whether it's or not, doesn't matter; it's a movie, the spectator has to know the difference between a movie and reality. If you really wanna know how it's like in China, search for it on Internet or ask some of your teachers... watching a movie isn't necessarily showing the truth. For instance, there's been made a film called Turistas that shows Brazilian people killing and robbing, and nobody is naive enough to believe that's the real Brazil. The same for Hostel.Red Corner is an entertaining political/juridical film towards an American guy suffering a conspiracy from the Chinese authorities and finds a Chinese attorney who helps him. If you like Law and Sociology you'll probably enjoy it and appreciate the ending. The cast do their best and if you have a strong sense of justice, it will be very tense for you. It's just a shame that nobody has seen this film, I believe it didn't have enough publicity back when released. "}{"Title":"Good solid courtroom thriller","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Moore (Richard Gere) is an American TV executive in Beijing trying to put together a deal for supplying material to China. He catches the eye of a Chinese girl and they head off to his hotel room the next morning he wakes to find himself covered in her blood and taken away by the authorities to face trial for her murder. He discovers that the Chinese justice system works on very different lines to the US system. With the help of a female Chinese advocate he begins to try to make sense of what has happened to him.This film is mostly a cross between a paranoia thriller and a courtroom drama, with some action sequences which don't fit that comfortably, and some interesting overtones about how to find justice in a system which encourages confession to obtain leniency, and a woman's place in a system which is, in some respects, strongly feudal.There is an irritating moment about halfway through where the plot is moved along by an accidental, fortuitous, and completely improbable discovery by Gere (he catches a bit of a TV broadcast filling in a convenient gap in his knowledge).Gere is good as a man whose self-confidence and arrogance is gradually worn away by the reality of a system which simply won't permit them to exist.Bai Ling is better as his Chinese advocate - realistic, dignified, recognising the need to work within the system as it as, and a woman of intelligence in a culture which does not value her qualities in the way they would be valued in the West.The Beijing setting is unusual, atmospheric and convincing. The film is gripping throughout and a thoroughly enjoyable and exciting movie. "},{"Title":"Romantic thriller about human rights","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think nobody else could have played the role of Richard Gere so good as himself. Richard Gere delivered again a great performance as in THE FLOCK. My wife liked RED CORNER a lot because of the romantic touch and the nice music. But I warn you that there are some slow paced scenes keeping anyway high the importance of this message to the audience. Perhaps the running time is a little bit too long. The story opened my eyes again very wide and showed me how the human rights in other countries as in China aren't respected. I hope that this situation will change very soon!Then I am impressed how many details were integrated in the sceneries to create a real Chinese atmosphere. I saw in a french TV magazine a documentation of the making of RED CORNER. In reality it was filmed in the Californian film studios.Final vote 7.5/10.If you liked it I recommend you to see TEARS OF THE SUN or HOTEL RWANDA. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere owns this film","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this is a great murder mystery/psychological suspense thriller.this time it's Richard Gere who owns film.just a year earlier,Gere was in a movie called primal fear,in which he played opposite Edward Norton.Norton owned that film,with his performance,and Gere does the same with this film.the film takes place in China,where an America lawyer(Gere) is on business.one morning,his world is turned upside down,as he finds himself accused of murder,with what seems an ironclad case against him. him.he must fight to free his name,all the while battling the corrupt Chinese government and justice system.this movie,like Primal Fear,will have you on the edge of your seat,right to the end.Gere is brilliant in this here.i highly recommend it.for me,Red Corner is mesmerizing.as a result,i give it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty dull.","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't let the one star ratings that other people have given Red Corner fool you - Manos The Hands of Fate this is not. Nonetheless, it's a very dull film, with pedestrian direction and pretty unconvincing acting. Richard Gere and Bai Ling have zero chemistry together, and having to watch Bai Ling try to emote is a bit painful. Gere is just his usually smug self, woefully out of place for the substance (what little there is) of a film like this. The plot is shallow and hackneyed as well. The prime fault of this film, though, is just how overwhelmingly devoid of any aesthetic or artistic sensibility it actually is; it's like a movie of the week, from the melodramatic music to the cardboard characters. Chinese communism is a ripe target for thought-provoking films but this one totally misses the mark. Only the dullest among us would find this tripe 'under-rated' as one IMDb commenter put it. No accounting for taste, I suppose. "},{"Title":"Paints Itself In","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner is more message than entertainment.  However, there is much to like here.POSSIBLE SPOILER An American Businessman (Richard Gere), negotiating a deal in mainland China, is framed for a murder he didn't commit.  He must defend himself in a judicial system which has been designed to convict, not exonerate. His only real ally is his public defender, who doesn't even believe he is innocent.The ladies carry this movie.  Both the murder victim and public defender have the strongest roles.  Gere graciously allows his leading ladies to dominate their scenes. The nature of the story requires Gere to remain passive throughout most of the film.  The murder mystery is at once both overly complex and too simple. John Avnet's direction seems sluggish; however this is probably more due to the nature of the plot, which tends to paint Gere and Avnet into a corner.  The music is excellent.A small, but worthwhile, test of patience.  See it for the ladies and the music. "},{"Title":"Realistic & Eye Opening","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow!  This takes you into the heart of a different part of the world where freedom is not something that is taken for granted.  Richard Gere gets infatuated with the wrong woman, & when he wakes up, she is dead.  At first, he doesn't seem to have a say so in his plea.  He has to plea with his (female) lawyer to get her to change it.  I am glad that our court system is not like theirs.  Richard Gere's decision to put himself back into the hands of his lawyer after he is safe at the Embassy shows that he is honorable, & thank God his lawyer can prove his innocence!  The story is both moving & touching. "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie, not a great one; What would happen if you where framed for murder, in a strange land with strange laws, compared to your own.  Fear is what this movie evokes, Richard Gear feels like an outsider, who is viewed of having western decident values, in a society where his lawyer states the groups importance over the individual in society.  Admitance to guilt is considered aceptance of society's morality.  This film gave me a sence of reality about communist society, and what its like in the comune part.  Its a interesting movie.  I read some of the reviews, and did not find this movie offenceive, it showed a side, but was not preachy. With movies like The Texas Chainsaw Masacure, and Deliverence you see very few people complain that this is a bad sterotype of the south, most people find it a small picture of extremes not confused with the whole south. Thoes two movie went much farther then Red Corner. "},{"Title":"I had to see the end!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I started watching this film, thinking that Richard Gere wouldn't do bad ones.  And I was absolutely right.  The film had enough intensity that I had to see it all.  The manuscript was good enough and the scenes were quite interesting.  There were romantic scenes as well and they worked. "},{"Title":"A good thriller.","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner is a well made thriller, a film that isn't terribly original but directed and acted well. Richard Gere is very good in this film and the direction from Jon Avnet is solid. There are special effects in this film that are near seamless and I was really surprised to find out they didn't shoot this film in China. If you are in the mood for a good thriller, Red Corner is a good one. "},{"Title":"Shoot me twice......","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Moore, a high-profile international lawyer, is in China for business. Moore sleeps with a young woman, and wakes up to find her dead in his bed.Falsely accused of murder, Moore's only chance is his Chinese advocate Yuelin.The rules and laws are different, and Moore must convince Yuelin of his innocence and unravel the chain of events that entrapped him...One cannot deny that Gere is very good in this movie, it's one of his best roles without Julia Roberts being involved, but the whole thing is a little overlong, and very boring.It's not Geres fault, it's the script and the narrative just plods on and focuses too much on him alone and complaining that his earphone/telephone isn't working.But it wouldn't hurt to just have a couple of exciting scenes? The one scenes with him running toward the embassy is a little too late, another case of a deceptive trailer.so all in all, Gere is good, film isn't, and it all has a 'Rising Sun' feel to it "}{"Title":"watch without expectations","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I picked this movie late one night as I was having trouble falling asleep and because of the mostly negative reviews I had read about it, thought it would soon put me to sleep.I am a fan of neither Richard Gere nor Bai Ling but found myself soon being drawn into the unfolding drama and getting more alert and interested, instead of drowsy, as the movie progressed.Both leads turned in solidly strong and very believable performances (Bai Ling really surprised me) and I really loved the handling of the developing relationship between their characters. Instead of taking a turn into romance or eroticism(an easy and tempting directorial path) the focus instead was on how they come to understand and truly appreciate each other for what each is, and isn't, to the point that both don't hesitate to take great risks for the other's sake.The depiction of mainland Chinese bureaucracy and corruption (at the time) is by all accounts, accurate. I found the courtroom drama tense and riveting. The ending is poignant and fitting, though in the end you can't help but wish they stay together.An under-appreciated movie. See it if you get the chance; you could do far, far worse. "},{"Title":"Change is nothing simple","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a poignant film about today's world and how change can come to a country, any country. In this case we are dealing with China. Corrupted people are framing up an American TV man in order to prevent a contract being signed that does not go in the right direction for their interests. The point is that the corrupted and plotting official is the son of a highly respected man, a son who was educated in the West and brought back his corruption, or at least a good knowledge and know how about it, from his foreign sojourn. He is using the opaque situation in changing China to cover up his dealings and has a little group of plotters and accomplices to manage his operations. But the film tries to show how the Chinese today are realizing from their own experience and history, even from their own culture that includes Mao Zedong and a couple other revolutionaries, that they have to change in their own minds and then change their country. This cannot come from outside, especially not from the US that is no model, neither social nor economic nor even political, but it has to come from inside, from deep down in the souls, the minds and the spirits of the Chinese. What is most difficult for us to understand is that the Chinese live on a completely different set of principles and concepts and that they have to invent a new open society from their very concepts and philosophy. Democracy for example cannot be the same thing in China and the USA or France, for the very simple reason that it is not the same in the USA, Great Britain, France of Italy, not to speak of Japan and Finland. There is not one model. There are many models that are therefore no models at all. The film very carefully and cautiously tries to show us how the mind of a person can open little by little when confronted to real life if that person is simply honest with himself or herself, with his or her own principles, with his or her conception of justice. This leads that person to considering the very concept of human being, of individual, of subject, of what is necessary for that individual to feel free and happy. The very point we are confronted to with China is that it is one fourth of humanity or so and no one has any interest in a brutal and uncontrolled change in a direction that is not carried and supported by the heritage of the country, its history, its culture. The United States have a strange but understandable reaction in front of the rest of the world because they are all the descendants of immigrants who left a culture and a history behind them to build out of conscious and willful choices a new history and a new culture, a heritage that became something that had to be built out of nothing or very little. They cannot understand that other countries will not be able to do any change that would break up the fabric and material of the country itself. If you did that you would provoke a ferocious reaction that could just wash you away in one wink of an eye. Actually the Americans today are not better or worse than other countries and peoples. If we from outside told them you have to rationalize your political system on the let's say German model, they would jump to the sky, and yet how can we accept that the political system is not the same in all the states, that citizens have to publicly declare themselves democrat or republican to be able to take part in the primaries, which goes against the very principle of democracy which is the secrecy of our political choices and our ballots. And If Europeans told the United States that they have to ban the death penalty within one or two or three years to be granted the privilege of being recognized as a democracy and keep the status of permanent veto-endowed member of the Security Council of the United Nations that could be withdrawn from them because of their not having banned the death penalty, they would react violently and viciously. Yet to join the European Community you have to ban the death penalty. This film is a marvelous demonstration of this fascinating question, even if it is slightly sentimental.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"comment","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" absolutely amazing film. absolutely the best anti-china movie Americans ever made(anti-china just means that kind of movie shows china's bad side, doesn't mean anything negative.) the reason make me like this movie, is how deep the film makers know about china, unlike other anti-china movies, this one is extremely really, like the all the uniform designs, and those details make the movie believelbe. but thats not the best part, the beauty of the film is how much does the writer understand whats the problem of china, those problems in the justice system, the problem of the control the powerful man in military. i cant believe the writer is from another country, because the those problem of china is so complicated that to hard to be understood by the most of western citizens. one thing i have to say about the last commenter, he suggest that go ask those fa lungong people to know how Chinese government trade human rights, come on, thats just as stupid as go ask the terrorists how do they think about USA. anyway, not like I'm saying that human rights in china is cool, just, that unnecessary exaggerate will just make it like a shity film, like spy game, which by the way has nothing compare to the red corner. "},{"Title":"Very Nice Movie","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Overall, it is a very good movie although some of the Chinese to English translation was not well done. The movie does comply with a plot climax and exposing the corruption idea of a supreme power at court in a communist society. Although there might be some scenes are not matching the real scene, however, it is understandable of how a movie is made to present a story into a reality. My overall experience with this movie is great. There are many beautiful scene in China having been brought in the movie as well as how the political and local culture at the old days of China. It is a tear earning movie as well as a temporary aggravation of the mistreatment to foreigner in China at that time. This makes me think of 2008 Olympics in China, what will it be like. "},{"Title":"Just a bit 'hokey'...","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When Richard bolts out of the Embassy to hook-up with Ling, I found it just a bit 'hokey'.  Can't imagine a man(any) to give up Freedom or go through that for 'the Chic'.  Sure he knew she'd get him free,then again, It's a Movie, right?  Other than that one part, it really was a great movie. "},{"Title":"Needs less hodgepodge and duplication, but watchable","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Richard Gere redoes his American Gigolo role as the framed sex guy when his attempts to bring a racy TV drama to China are met with political opposition and unscrupulous business conflicts. Ling Bai appears serious and tries to come across as professional. Shen's reasons for wanting to help Jack Moore (and the numerous times she risks her own life and well being) should have been more deeply explored, as well as Moore's past trauma that influences his actions. After seeing the advertisement for this film in 1997, i dismissed it as cheap material, but a television viewing changed my tune slightly because of at least some entertaining moments. Red Corner gets 2.5 stars (out of 4) from me for captivation, 1.5 for story, and 1 for acting. "},{"Title":"A good legal oriental movie","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In a Beijing that is still not used and convinced of the occidental values, printed by the American culture, an homicide is consumed. This has the smell of an international conspiracy.It is interesting to see how the director John Avnet presents all the complications of a Chinese process against an American citizen.The language and culture difference is very well stressed. An occidental scapegoat has to be found for the spiritual cleaning of the oriental race, more free of violence than in USA. Two different political standpoints one very conservative and anti- occident and the other one more progressist and opener, are the frame of this legal movie based in a communication network company that wants to sell some American TV multimillionaire packages to the China government. Corruption and black money are the one that Jack Moore - Richard Gere has to sort out. A good legal movie in the tangled cobweb of the Chinese penal code.Rating 6/10    "},{"Title":"Just a nice movie","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner is a nice movie, that's all. You can't call it a thriller and it is too much Hollywood-stuff to call it a drama. The acting is nice, Richard Gere is good and Bai Ling is a nice actress. The movie is too predictable to make it a very good movie, but you will not be bored. A normal movie, but nice to watch. "},{"Title":"Suspense and culture lesson uneven but entertaining","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Originally, I had wanted to see Red Corner at the movies, but I'm kind of glad that I waited until I rented the video.  It had its moments, with Jack (Richard Gere) having a real big lesson in Beijing culture, sex, and law, all in one night.  Probably the most interesting and suspenseful parts of this film were Jack's initial experiences with the Chinese prison system.We learn much of the legal system, however,  through Jack's  Chinese court-appointed attorney, who is smart and beautiful (a combination that has kept her single for some time).  She is involved in  the other extremely suspenseful sequence  when Jack is chased through the crowded streets (a scene very reminiscent of Elizabeth Shue's dash to an embassy in The Saint).  But, to be honest, the movie seemed to slow to a grinding halt after that.  After a while, I saw very little difference between the American and the Chinese court practices, and the thought of his attorney trying to explain that China actually does have an effective (albeit harsh) form of justice is nauseating--in light of the obvious human rights violations that have taken place in the Republic for many years.Like many American movies that try to capture culture, it pretty much plays to stereotypes.  However, it does something that Hollywood does best  Take a story, make it suspenseful, inject some love, a couple of courtroom scenes....and of course get an actor like Richard Gere to pull it off. "},{"Title":"Trite Fun and Very Quotable","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  RED CORNER may not be a brilliant movie, but it's still a fun movie that makes you at least FEEL like you're watching an important movie on US/Chinese foreign policy. But, what I like most about it is the amusing, often hilarious quotes screamed by Richard Gere. Here are some of them for your amusement.If I had my passport, I wouldn't need asylum.You've already nailed my coffin.-You are in contempt! -I'm in contempt, what are you going to do? SHOOT ME TWICE!?! "}{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie for quite a few reasons - not the least of which was Richard Gere's performance.I believed that I was in China even though I knew there was no way they would allow this movie to be made there. The movie had suspense, action, mystery, intrigue - and it wasn't as predictable as you would assume it would be.And, nice chemistry between Gere and Ling Bai. Apparently this was her first movie. She was sensational. "},{"Title":"It was better than I'd expected","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I work at a video rental shop in 1998, I had the chance to see this film several times, but I didn't. I'd thought it would be boring to watch, and heard some negative rumors that this one has made based on bad prejudice about China.  a few days ago, it aired on National TV, but I missed first one hour. Luckily it aired again today, watched it with full attention. I don't know what circumstances the China faces now, but this movie is acceptable.I must admit, I really liked this movie. I was very attracted to Ling Bai's performance, I don't know what it was, maybe it's comes from her charm of her inside. and Chemistry between Gere and bai was so warm, powerful. I'm not a Richard Gere fan, but felt he was great and attractive for the first time.  Yes..I also love their airport Good-Bye scene. so touching.  "},{"Title":"Boring movie with unusually annoying Gere","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a really boring and probably unrealistic movie.I don't believe the Chinese authorities would treat a foreign man accused of murder like they do i in this film. They would not refuse him to speak to an official from the US Embassy and they would not refuse him a lawyer from his own country. This is just a typical prejudicial way to represent China in American movies.That having been said I've never seen a movie before with such a promising premise, being made so utterly boring.Geres character is not very likable from the start so as an audience we really don't care what happens to him. We don't get to know him at all before he is arrested and he is acting completely irrational several times during the trial. The worst moment in his movie is when he, after having successfully escaped and gotten to the US embassy, out of some misguided stupid loyalty to his Chinese lawyer,gives himself up again to the Chinese authority, knowing they will shoot him even though he is innocent. At that point I was thinking this guy is a moron with a death wish, just shoot him already so the movie can end. And during his escape he can outrun and out-bike-ride armed men, some of the on motorcycles. Give me a break.Don't waste time on this crap unless you have trouble sleeping. In that case this movie is the perfect sleeping pill.The "},{"Title":"Too much Hollywood, but a rather enjoyable thriller nonetheless","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching the trailer for this... I've seen it more times than I've bothered to count, since it's on several films I have on VHS from that period(and I *love* trailers, I rarely surpass any chance to watch them). So the trailer for this film was in my mind for a long time before I realized what it was about or even what the title was. To this day, I can pretty much remember the entire trailer, despite the fact that I haven't seen it in at least three to five years. I believe this was the first place I ever saw Gere, and I know it was the first place I saw Bai. I don't know when I first saw this film, or if I did, really, before tonight. I had a feeling of deja-vu through some scenes, but if I have indeed seen this film before, it certainly can't have made much of a lasting impression on me. Whether that is the fault of the film or merely a sign of me having a quite low interest in political matters in my younger days, I leave up to debate. The plot is quite well-written, and mostly realistic and plausible, if a bit aimed at the Chinese legal system and the people in general(I realize that they and their system is a Communist one, but this does seem a tad over the top, exaggerated). The film also contains a bit too much Hollywood for an otherwise quite realistic depiction of another country's court and legal system, one that is in stark contrast to that of the American system. Some forced(granted, the chemistry is most definitely there), not to mention quite unlikely, romance, a chase scene, etc. The pacing is solid. The acting is top-notch. The writing and direction are marred by obvious sinophobia - hate and fear of China - and a lack of objectivity when dealing with this subject. The writer obviously did extensive research into the culture and court system for this film, but unfortunately, these truths are mixed with preconceptions and prejudice of said system(and possibly of the culture as well), making for a skewed perspective of the reality of the Chinese courts and prisons. The cinematography and editing are quite impressive, not too flashy but intense and effective when the occasion calls for them to be. All in all, a pretty good court-room thriller with all the elements, but the anti-Communism just seems a tad too extreme. I recommend this to fans of thrillers, Richard Gere and politically themed dramas... just watch out, or you might get caught in the maelstrom of blind hatred towards China. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Ok but nothing special","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red Corner is a slightly above average thriller which although very watchable is also predictable. Richard Gear plays the part of a business man who is framed for the murder of a chinese diplomat's model daughter. It is a little unrealistic especially the Court scenes but if you don't take this movie too seriously you will enjoy it. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A political propaganda","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film once and I think it's a really low-quality political propaganda sort of film!Firstly,I wanna say that Richard Gere has always held a huge grudge against China for he strongly supports Dalai Lama! He has spoken of China very meanly in many public occasions!So this film and the casts are very politically biased in the first place！Seconly,although I know that an ideological difference between China and the West has always been there, but shouldn't those film makers or artists have some basic understandings of what China is like or Chinese people are like when making a film about China? They should always keep in mind that their work may have great impact on the audiences! It's not a very nice thing to have such a strongly biased view of the others in our modern world! That's why I give it a very low rate! "},{"Title":"Woeful","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Smug and dull, Gere brings no sparkle and no real fear or tragedy and no-one else does any better.  Most minor parts simply one dimensional, certainly not simply xenophobic but somehow no better than that in its dull thoughtlessness and passionlessness. "},{"Title":"Best propaganda movie since I Led Three Lives","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lord, not defending the Commies in China, but this movie had all the subtlety of a moving van.  When you get Hollywood wackos pushing their own causes, as is our star, you get hackneyed bludgeoning such as this. AVOID!  "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This propaganda is boring, predictable, and annoying.Richard Gere, with his loyal support of Tibetan Buddhism, hates China with a passion.  However, his attack of the Chinese judiciary system ends up weak.The movie tries to ridicule the Chinese system one American hero (Gere) and a Chinese altruistic lawyer (Bai) in a bland film.True suspense fans will find this movie predictable and boring.  People who are trying to understand the truth of the Chinese system will find this one very biased.  Chinese audiences will find this movie insulting because all but one Chinese character are portrayed as barbaric, cruel, and malicious in this propaganda.This movie should be shoveled to a back storage of a 49 cents rental store. It is not worth anyone but Gere's time to watch this pathetic one. "},{"Title":"Really unbelievable. A impossible situation.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In stunk.  I felt that I was in a white washed version of the world. It was really bad.  The plot was a good start but the actions of the characters belie that no one did any real research into China.  I think the movie was made only to allow RG to get a slightly misguided though maybe noble political expression out. "}{"Title":"The adventures of Richard Gere in Asia,part2.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first part was Rhapsody in August which was set in Japan and which was commendable.The second part is Red Corner and it takes place in China.It features a rather interesting beginning;whereas the scene with the girl in the hotel has been told a thousand times or more,the first trial scenes are impressive and the chairman -a woman always asking for respect!-will make your hair stand on end.Accused of a horrible crime,Gere has to cope with a law terribly different of the one he used to study in Harvard.One thinks of midnight express(1978) and,better,Costa-Gavras(Z(1969)-l'aveu(1970)).But it leaves soon political cinema for the broader horizons of pure entertaining thriller.After Gere's escape,and the embassy episode ,everything comes gushing out;there are as plotholes as in Swiss cheese,as evidences appear and disappear,and it takes all Bai Ling's moving presence to be taken in. The far-fetched plot is also marred by ill-chosen melodramatic elementsGere has lost his parents,his wife,his little girl,he's got no more family,but he has struggled hard to gain a place in the sun ,thanks to brilliant studies.And what about Bai Ling's character?During the Revolution,her family got a raw deal too.All in all,this is an entertaining thriller,ideal for a rainy day,but as a political movie,it makes itself a laughing stock. "},{"Title":"Dumb Star Vehicle","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised this film didn`t receive a wide distribution at the cinemas` in Britain and I think may be right when I say it straight to video. After all Richard Gere is big box office especially with females ,but watching RED CORNER it becomes obvious why it flopped - It sucks big time.Gere sleepwalks through this predictable tale of a man wrongly accussed of murder and when I say wrongly accussed of murder that`s not a spoiler because we are talking about Richard Gere you know. It would have been bad enough if we had a run of the mill thriller about an innocent man trying to prove his innocence , but what we get is a dumb unthrilling thriller with an even dumber love story attached!!!!! MAJOR SPOILER !!!!!!And it`s this dumb love story that brings the whole film down. Gere escapes to the American embassy and under Chinese law his defence attorny ( Who Gere`s fallen in love with ) must face the penalty for his crime. So does Gere escape back home to America or does he give himself up to the cruel communist despots and prove his innocence in order to save the woman he loves ? What do you think ?I`ve forgotten how the film ends , but I`ve got a feeling that when Hollywood makes a film about an all American hunk battling against Communist injustice the reds end up second best "},{"Title":"Stereotyped, but PC at the same time","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This really is a bit of a strange mix of a film.Plenty of stereotypical Hollywood stuff about what China is like, the people, the government, the set up, the legal system.At the same time, this never goes beyond the point of political correctness; not so that the film could be sold in Asia -- but presumably so that there wouldn't be any controversy in the media that might affect the value of the stock holding of the film moguls.Richard Gere is a TV executive who is framed for the killing of a girl he had a one night stand with, and from the second when he was arrested the remainder of the film was absolutely 100% predictable.Gere is good enough, as the character actor he is, and some of the Chinese cast are very good.  This dragged on and got very boring by the close, however.I don't seem to have much luck with this film, I've tried to watch it three timesAttempt 1 At the CinemaThe film broke down, the sound went and the reel was damaged, they had to give me my money back.Attempt 2 On videoI purchased a video that had no film on it!  I lost the receipt, and hence couldn't get any replacement.Attempt 3 On TVThe BBC transmission broke for 20 minutes because of a power failure - and they were obviously too cheap to have a backup at TV towers.Thankfully on the 3rd attempt my tape picked up the rest of the film and I saw it to the finish.  Or not thankfully, depending on your point of view. "},{"Title":"Could have been so good... but","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the film that could have been great. But it weren't. The mainreason is the choice of actor.As most people know Richard Gere is a buddhist, and a closepersonal friend of the Dalai Lama. This therefore makes thismovie into a political assault on China.Do not misunderstand me. I do not condone what China is doingto it's criminals and even people who aren't criminals. But Youwouldn't put an anti-fur-activist to play the role of a film abouttrappers, would you?Come one. You can do better than this...DEATH TO POLITICAL CORRECTNESS!!!   "},{"Title":"Pretttty Faaaar Fetched","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was interesting for me because I had been in China last year. I must say I was surprised to learn that most of it actually was done on a California set. (Maybe that explains why there was no smog. Bejing is seldom free of it.) I also like Richard Gere. But come on guys... The plot is pretty far fetched. I know nothing about Chinese courts. But it's unlikely there is much in the way of Perry Mason law or that a Chinese judge would be intimidated by or even allow American style courtroom histrionics. The mandatory Hollywood humping scene is about ten minutes into the film. But it serves a purpose inasmuch it anchors the subsequent plot. Interesting? Yes. Exciting? It has its moments and you just know that in addition to the mandatory humping scene there would be a mandatory high speed chase. There is... With a bike and with a sprint across the roofs. It's an okay movie. But there are too many holes in the plot, too many stereotyped Chinese characters and too little understanding of Chinese culture in which losing one's temper is an unforgivable loss of face. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere in Red China","Date":"21 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In modern-day China, an American is about to be punished for the ultimate crime&#x85; his innocence. Richard Gere stars in this electrifying suspense thriller charged with lethal confrontations, raw passion and international intrigue. On the verge of signing a huge business deal, attorney Jack Moore (Gere) is on top of the world. But, his elation soon comes tumbling down after he spends the night with a beautiful woman&#x85; and is then accused of her brutal murder! according to the film's official synopsis.At the mercy of the strict Chinese court system - where one is guilty until proved innocent - Jack finds himself completely alone. But, when his defense attorney (Bai Ling) unearths puzzling contradictions in the case, she acts against the court and her country, joining him in a pulse-pounding race to find the true killer&#x85; while both of their lives hang in the balance! Their pulses may pound, but you might need to check your's during most of this competently made, but unfortunately implausible and dullish, film.**** Red Corner (10/31/97) Jon Avnet ~ Richard Gere, Bai Ling, Byron Mann "},{"Title":"this movie is a nonsense","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a horrible movie. The setting is totally wrong and ridiculous. The characters wore the clothes from wrong years and spoke weird language that will make any Chinese native speaker laugh. I kind of think the director may never visit china and just shoot the movie from some wrongful reading or whoever gave the money. Anyone who believe this movie is real or good should visit china personally and see it with their own eyes. Although it is 10 years ago, you can still have a better feeling and know how some lies can be so contagious and outrageous. I don't object movies with a strong political opinion. This movie is just too out of line and relay wrong impression on innocent people all over the world. It is not only unfair to Chinese people but to other people who is not familiar with China. "},{"Title":"The most tense movie I have ever seen!!!!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is nerve wrecking... a must see for any fan of thrillers!!! Richard Gere plays a man framed for murdering a women in China, and the US government can't do anything about it!!!! Intense Action Packed Thrills packed with Mystery bring this movie into my top 10 Thriller list!!!! "},{"Title":"O.K. Hollywood thriller","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Moore, a hot shot attorney is trying to secure a Communications/Satellite deal with Communist China. After the agreement is made, he celebrates with his new business friends and ends up taking a local girl up to his hotel room to spend a passionate night. The morning after she's found dead beside him in the bedroom and Moore is arrested for her murder. Trying to secure legal defense is harder in China than in the States and Moore is facing much difficulty in trying to receive a fair trial, besides being brutally treated inside the prison. As a political thriller depicting the harsh reality of the Chinise government; Red Corner fails miserably. Midnight Express this ain't. As a conventional Hollywood thriller that simply takes place in a foreign country it's quite adequate. Fairly well written, with a solid murder mystery that's not easy to guess, decent performances from Richard Gere and Bai Ling, handsomely photographed with beautiful scenery; Red Corner scores on a number of levels. As most people know Gere is a powerful advocate for the Chinese brutal mishandling of Tibet and probably wanted to strike a blow to the Chinese government with this film which is intended to show the inhuman treatment in their handling of legal matters. It's said here that trials sometimes last only hours and soon there after the guilty party is shot in the head and the price of the bullet is to be collected by the family. It's also stated here that China has less criminal activity and less murders than the U.S., so in my books they're doing something right.Anyway, the movie never really got me. It's a pleasant enough time filler, has an O.K. mystery (which I found unraveled a bit too easily), solid performances and a way too sentimental ending. All in all it's solid but nothing special. "},{"Title":"authentic????","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" if you find this movie authentic, you should probably repeat some of your political and historical basics. although china has great history, nowadays it is totalitarian state, fearlessly controlled by the communist party. scenes like the arguing at the court during the trial or the chase ending up at the us embassy would be impossible in nowadays china or any totalitarian state. i think this is something unimaginable for someone who never lived in such regime. only trials meant to be public look like theatrical dramas, this one would be finished in five minutes. apart from the fact that this story could easily happen in the USA, just replace the party with some big corp. "}{"Title":"personal protest and propaganda","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Red corner is OK as a movie and the good actors are basically the Chinese cast in there. But after watching Red Corner,I basically regretted buying the DVD.Knowing that Richard Gere is a close friend of the Dalai Lama and making this movie starring him is basically a personal protest propaganda.I just find Red Corner is a very mean movie. Insulting. Even if the judicial system of a country is different than the other, I really think that it is nobody's business to make a movie to condemn that system. These are the works that is asking for trouble.I am born a Buddhist and I am a full fledge worshipper of Buddhism and the Dalai Lama, and I do yearly Pilgrimage. But I don't wave flags and harp about about another country's business.RIchard Gere should in fact think of handling business (anti-abortion bombings, gay bashings, racism)in his homeland before sticking his nose into other's.He admits being a buddhist , but his very attitude and protest and to actually act in a movie like Red Corner is very Unbuddhist, That really makes him and the other Steven Seagall 2 biggest hypocrites. I always wonder if bashing movies like this had a larger ulterior motives.You never see Mongolia or Thailand or China or Japan making movies that bashes the American system.Genghiz "},{"Title":"Totally fake, totally slandering.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  yes, this is the worst movie that I have ever seen.I have been to BeiJing, I know that most streets at BeiJing are wide and clean. In this movie, most chasing scenes were filmed in set up crowded streets. There was one scene when the policeman just washed his dish in toilet water. That is completely slandering. Chinese prisoners don't even get these kinds of treatment, not to say that he is from the states.This film has tried too hard to slander the Chinese government, in that effect, this film lost its story line to attract the audience.therefore I rated it 1 "}]