[{"Title":"INTELLIGENT AND HEARTFELT","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Jones explores the passionate and intelligent sides of love, and it does so deliciously.  Larenz Tate and Nia Long deliver performances as understated as the film's smart jazz and R&B soundtrack -- their approaches give their characters dimension and depth.  But make no mistake -- this film offers elements of entertainment and political correctness in director Theodore Witcher's offering of multi-layered African-American characters. If comparisons must be made, Love Jones compares to the best in Woody Allen's Annie Hall and Manhattan, as those films explore desire and passion through words in addition to physical attractions. Recommend this film to the scores of filmgoers who missed its limited theatrical release -- better yet, serve it up as a first course conversation starter during your next gathering with friends.  It's sure to spark equally passionate discussion, and that's always a good thing. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Human (Sorry Ms. Jill Scott)","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is in my top 5 when I name my favorite movies of all time. There wasn't a single character in this movie that didn't act more than they were. The hardest role in a movie may BE to perhaps, play someone that you'd see everyday, or someone that you'd be everyday, and they pull it off so naturally. It just reminded me SO much about how me and my peeps would kick it on weekends...one couch...snacks, and crazy stories and philosophies on life. I love nights like that. To add to it, who WOULDN'T want to have the type of relationship that Nia and Larenz endured? Good or Bad...it was so sexy and warm and black and beautiful...Definitely a keeper, and PACKED with unforgettable quotes that ALL can relate to. Definitely somethin for the movie collection.  "},{"Title":"The Urban Love Story","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of all time.  Beautifully done, well written and well acted.  It portrayed 20 something blacks in a way I don't think has yet been duplicated, and the dialog? Hmmmm, so stimulating. Makes me want to find love like that........ "},{"Title":"Great Love Story","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite love story it has every element that a good love story should have. Poetry, jazz, friendships the ups and downs in a relationships. Finally a movie that shows positive aspects of the black community. Larenz Tate was great I can't picture anyone else playing the role of Darius. He recited that poem like he had written it himself and meant every word. I own this movie and if I had the time I would watch it everyday it always makes me feel better and that's what a good movie should do. Also, the character Savon could not had been any better dealing with the subject of marriage. We would all like to find a Darius out there but most of us just settle for watching this movie. My vote is 10/10  "},{"Title":"Love Jones is a must-see, thought provoking masterpiece.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Jones cleverly portrays young African-American men and women in a clear, positive, realistic sense.  I feel that all of the actors and actresses were magnificent and really did a great job at capturing the mood. Nia Long and Larenz Tate worked well together and I hope to see more work from the two of them. As a matter of fact all of the actors/actresses did such a fine job it would be great to see another romantic-comedy from them. This movie can be compared to most any well-written, romantic comedy. If you have not seen this movie already I strongly recommend that you do, it can definitely give you another perspective on life and love.  "},{"Title":"Why isnt there an award for Best Ensemble?","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie features some of the best ensemble work I've seen in film or on stage.  The actors play off each other with a skill and vivacity that in no way can be achieved through editing.Love Jones a good story, period.  But it is also an excellent portrayal of the urban, middle-income, twenty-something African-American set that is not often seen. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After viewing this movie, lets say, around 8 times, the story line has never bored me.  Each character has their own distinct personality and their own views of love.  This movie has timeless, almost realistic, love lessons. Filled with philosophies on love, a jazzy soundtrack, and great actors is why I would call it a classic. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Date Movie, with real insights on The Big L","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a shame this movie didn't get more play in theatres.  It's a rich, textured love story with believable, all-too-human characters, who are too busy gaming and protecting their hearts to recognize The Real Thing when they experience it. One of the most pleasurable aspects of this movie is its setting in Chicago, among hip, artistic, literate, middle-class African-Americans who discuss poetry, music and literature.  Another is his Royal Fineness, Larenz Tate -- and if you are even half a fan of his, you NEED to see this film! His boyish cockiness and vulnerability are perfect for the role of Darius. Nia Long also shines as Nina, who longs to tell Darius she loves him but is afraid the break the Rules. A great movie to watch curled up on the couch with your sweetie!  "},{"Title":"Feels so good!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think it's about 3 years ago when I saw this movie. Accidentally I revisited the info-site for it here and immediately I felt good again! I remembered seeing this movie and loving life again! It showed me I could find love and what-do-you-know?? I have a boyfriend for a year and a half now and love is definitely there.. "},{"Title":"I just love this movie","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is one of the best movies of all time.  I just think it shows realistically what romance and especially black romance is all about. Would love to know what others think as well.  The acting was just out done. Where is Tate anyway?  It has been awhile since I have seen him in anything, however I think he has out did his acting performance in this movie! "}{"Title":"Excellent positive African-American Love Story A must see!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a must for All but especially African Americans.  It is about time there is a movie that expresses and shows the concerns going on in African American relationships. It also allows other cultures to see in a fictional humorous manner how positive African American relationships are and the outcomes of them instead of the undesirable stereotype that plagues the African American community.  I love this film a must see!!  "},{"Title":"Love Jones is a wonderfully heart warming, original film.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched Love Jones over thirty times.  It is one of the rare films that depict a love story about people who happen to be African-Americans. The dialogue was realistically written, and delivered with honesty.  It was so nice to see a film where the story line centered on young professional African-Americans.  This is virtually an untapped market. Love Jones was visually captivating as well. The chemistry between Lorenz Tate and Nia Long will bring memories of past and present love.  The feeling of the film is jazz and blues, and brings to mine the sensuality of a warm creamy hot chocolate with a splash of Kahlua and Butterscotch.  If you hadn't guessed, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Great Actors & Great Love Story","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was filled with great acting, great musical sounds that blow your mind completely away. Larenz Tate,(Darius Lovehall),Waist Deep,'06 was a sharp cat with the gals and he soon met his Waterloo with Nia Long,(Nina Mosley),Big Momma's House,2000. Nina put her heart and soul into this role and when she meets up with Darius, the sparks fly at first and then there is a sort of hate relationship. The entire cast of actors made this a very entertaining film, with plenty of comedy, drama and lots of loving and cheating going on. This is a very down to earth film and at the same time shows how everyone eventually has his and her destiny in life and are placed in their little corner of this big world. Great film, enjoy ! "},{"Title":"Giving Respect where Respect is Due!","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Love Jones is one of the best movies I've experienced. The main element that sticks out to me is the fact that it is very well-directed. I have studied this film in it's entirety - with watching movies more than once, certain things dawn on you subconsciously - the direction of this movie, as well as the writing, is chic, hip, and artful! I am in love with the direction. The scene where Larenz Tate and Nia Long are riding the motorcycle through north Chicago at night is astonishing. The director of this movie DESERVED awards for his great job.Love Jones is a classy and sexy film. It highlights the fact that we can be people who love, who have flaws, who love living, learning, and just being us without the hype. Being our Natural selves.The poetry is wonderful, but the story line, the dialog, and the scenes really make this movie.This movie deserves to be seen. It is a great movie for lovers and friends to sit back and watch, or, the hopeless romantic (like myself) to sit back and enjoy alone on a Friday or Saturday night. Any day of the week where peace, solitude, and a little entertainment is needed, Love Jones is what I recommend. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Gen-X Love Story","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the opening sequence, filled with black and white shots reminiscent of Gordan Parks photos, this film draws the viewer into a feeling of artistic renaissance. The backdrop of a poetry cafe aptly named, The Sanctuary, provides just that. The jazz that permeates the film and the cinematography will seduce you.This story of love actually allows love to grow, to evolve, and ultimately mature, a rarity in hollywood. Everyone can identify with some stage of their journey towards each other. This tale of two artist that just can't quite get it together sparked a debate amongst its viewers. Should she have gone away? Should he have stopped her? Who knows...?Starring Larenz Tate(Darius Lovehall), and Nia Long(Nina Moseley) with a scene stealing performance by Isiah Washington(Savon) and Lisa Nicole Carson(Josie Nichols) as the ultimate best friend, this film is a romantic jewel.See this one with someone you love (wink).       "},{"Title":"The coolest love story you've never seen","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Late film critic Gene Siskel said that this movie shows how easy it is to make a movie. He was giving it a compliment even though now that might have been taken as an insult these days. Even though I didn't always agree with Gene Siskel, I agree with him here. Love Jones is a shining example of how a love story should be realistic with real characters in real situations.The story chronicles the ups and downs of the relationship between Darius Lovehall(Larenz Tate) and Nina(Nia Long). Larenz Tate and Nia Long are more than just a beautiful couple on screen. These two actually have chemistry together. You can feel the vibe between these two whenever the are on screen and its fantastic.Bill Bellamy is pretty funny as the deceitful Wood and Lisa Nicole Carson is great as Nina's friend Simone. Isaiah Washington is just as great as Darius's close friend Savon and I sigh every time I see him in a movie. The guy is a great actor who never got any credit. I've seen performances from him(as well as Larenz Tate) that put some of Hollywood's best to shame. Follywood will never got over themselves.Love Jones is a wonderful love story full of interesting and likable characters that are in realistic situations that anybody that has been in love can relate too. You love these people because they are believable and are not portrayed as gangsters and tramps. Not one obscene stereotype can be found here. Contrast that with the Romance movies of today. Exactly. In closing if you love Black Cinema then you would do well to own a copy of this movie. "},{"Title":"SuperB Black Love Story","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had reminded me of watching the old black and white movies with my dad. More true to life characters looking for love, being in love, and loosing it. Old story fresh view. Larenz Tate was so Cary Grant in style as the character may have been in a clumsey situation, but the actor kept him from looking silly and like a cardboard cut out. Nia Long has always been a favorite of mine she is sweet even when she is tough, almost like a Kathrine Hepburn. This is one of his best work and showing that he is better than always playing an angry black manThis movie is a classic, superb acting, well written, a real love story set in Chicago, what more can you ask for?SuperB Black Love Story "},{"Title":"Great real love story","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie that portrays African Americans in whole different light. because it shows a different side of African Americans that it is not shown in the movies. its not the gang bang, urban ghetto setting or having to deal with deep racial issues, it captivates the whole essence of being young and trying to be successful and having problems with letting your guard down and letting someone into your life, and the whole bohemian atmosphere gives that great touch that makes all that great, its a great script great dialoge that captivates you and you just get involved with the character. perfect casting with a lot of chemistry and very good acting and i still haven't seen any other movie with black characters that are portrayed in this format the only one that get close is Sprung but since its a comedy it looses it very quickly I give this movie 9 out of 10 and i wish they would keep making movies with this type of attitude about African Americans "},{"Title":"Love in the 90's","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this movie. I shared the video with others in my multi-cultural romance reading group and they all enjoyed.  Topic for the day was, How I missed it at the theater?.  It was determined that it had a short life in the theater and publicity limited to certain domains. Enough of my political stand.Now from the heart. The acting was great from the lead to the supporting cast.  The relationship had all of the real world to it.  From Nina testing his feeling to Darius macho side to I don't care, there's no commitment here.  If you are a romantic at heart, here's one for you. "},{"Title":"A Must See!","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A Must See!Excellent positive African-American Love Story. This movie had reminded me of watching the old black and white movies with my dad. More true to life characters looking for love, being in love, and loosing it. Old story fresh view. Larenz Tate was so Cary Grant in style as the character may have been in a clumsey situation, but the actor kept him from looking silly and like a cardboard cut out. Nia Long has always been a favorite of mine she is sweet even when she is tough, almost like a Kathrine Hepburn. This is one of his best work and showing that he is better than always playing an angry black manThis movie is a classic, superb acting, well written, a real love story set in Chicago, what more can you ask for?SuperB Black Love StoryAmsterdam, Holland "}{"Title":"My Favorite Romance Story of all time","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I try to be diverse in my movie watching. I can get into Pride and Prejudice as easily as I get into Disappearing Acts. Love Jones is my all time favorite, it is the standard by which I judge any Modern Urban Romantic Comedy. Shot very well, the shot of Nia and Darius riding up Lakeshore Drive on the Motorcycle is one of Classic 3 second movie shots of all time. Of course no one will ever remember it. When it came out, I though it would be a new paradigm for Modern Urban Film-making, good actors, no guns, and so forth. The movie industry has disappointed me to a certain degree, you will have your occasional Drumline, or Roll Bounce, or Tyler Perry's Why Did I get Married. So whenever I need to see my people presented on screen in a very professional and stylish way, I pop in Love Jones. There is no Best Movie ever made, to many people and opinions for that. But it is my personal best. My favorite line from Love Jones  Baby, I just wanna come up and talk!! "},{"Title":"Perfect music","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working in a music store, my collegue first tipped me this soundtrack. The music of this movie is perfect. One of my favorite CD's. Only years later I saw the movie, I was afraid it would not fulfill my high expectations, luckily it did. A feel good romantic love story.  "},{"Title":"A movie well put together","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree, the move was great, i relate it to things me and my friends when through to find miss right, that's how i fell in love, but i have a mystery question with no answer, and i hope a love Jones fan can help me. The scene where Darius asked Nina to go to the wild hare, the reggae band was Charles Cameron and the sunshine festival and the song was never stop loving you but it was not on the soundtrack and i can't find any music by that artist, has anyone else searched and not found. i have seen the movie 55 times thous far and still watching it weekly, i hope to fine that song so i can pop the question to my now girlfriend and for the honeymoon i plan to take her to the club the wild hare in Chicago. we fell es need to go to those lenghts to get the women of our dream, the end resolute will pay off.htown "},{"Title":"Love without blinders","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love Jones gives a clear-eyed look at modern romance the excitement, confusion, depression, and game playing.  The couple at the center of the story, Nina (Nia Long) and Darius (Larenz Tate) play it frustratingly safe, often guessing incorrectly what the other is feeling.  While my reaction was that I wanted to reach in and bonk their heads together, I recognized the story as real and the acting as top-notch.That said, the real reason to see this film is for the secondary cast.  Nina and Darius are the stars, but it's the witty dialogue of Savon, Sheila, Ed, and Wood that makes me recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A romantic-comedy with a touch of soul","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I should be working right now, I feel compelled to write about this excellent romance/comedy, especially since there's only one other review about Love Jones. The backdrop is New York in the 1990's and the story focuses on two main characters in their mid 20's.   They meet, date, fall in love, fall out of love... you know, the whole nine yards.  While it may seem to be your run-of-the-mill romance/comedy in the same playing field as When Harry Met Sally and Sleepless In Seattle, there are two major differences that set Love Jones apart.  Firstly, the music in this movie is perfect, ranging from hip-hop grooves, soul rhythms, and even classy jazz... it's not to far-fetched that the music truly adds more character to the film than the actors.  Second, the supporting cast delivers a great performance, and in some cases, eclipses the lead actor and actress. I would really like to rant out, but time barely permits me.  My only concern is that the film is tailored somewhat to the dating scene of the mid-twenties, especially those like hip-hop or R & B.  Lastly, I saw this movie with a bunch of guys, and if there's anything as a romantic/comedy for guys, I think this could be considered one on my list.  "},{"Title":"This movie is for all of you who believe in love at first sight","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a good movie to me, but slow.  It is especially for you out there who believe in love at first sight, romantic dramas, and artistic stuff.  A nice romance story.  It may seem a little like The Best Man, almost identical.  So if you like these kind of movies, make this your next rental.   "},{"Title":"Not Good","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't see this movie when it originally came out, but there has been a couple songs sharing the title and the term still gets used from time to time and I figured there must be something to the flick, so I dug it up and gave a view. Now I would like the approximate hour and forty five minutes of my life back(it seemed much longer). There was nothing particularly bad about the movie, the acting was good, no large plot holes, of course there wasn't much plot to have holes in. There just wasn't a lot to the movie. There was some chemistry between the two but nothing compelling about their relationship; Nothing interesting about their story. Near the end when he attempts to chase down the train to catch his fleeing romance, neither my wife nor I wanted him to catch her. Honestly we figured they were better off with out each other and if they did get back together we really didn't care. So what's that say about this love story when even a 25 year old sappy romantic like my wife had no emotional investment in the relationship. I should have left this one in the missed category.Logan Lamech www.eloquentbooks.com/LingeringPoets.html "}]