[{"Title":"Pretty good, of its type","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The basic plotline could apply to hundreds of movies  a couple of regular guys get mixed up in the world of drug dealers and guns, to their peril. There are only so many twists and turns a screenwriter or director can throw into such a story, so this isn't exactly the kind of film that will change the world.  But the performances are excellent (especially Callum Keith Rennie, playing the sad, sweet, tragic mental case so well you can practically see the thoughts in his sleepy eyes), the script and art direction are just fine, and the overall level of suspense is perfect. The viewer will know his own tolerance for violence and profanity--there's quite a bit of both, but not so much that I found them distracting.  Plenty of shots are fired, but no one is turned into bullet hamburger like you see in some movies.  All in all, a good entry in the B-movie shoot-em-up crime genre, and especially watch out for CKR. "},{"Title":"Promising Set-Up Gets Bogged Down In Senseless Violence","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Men With Guns opens with two twenty-something guys sitting around discussing the times in their life when they were humiliated. Gregory Sporleder, Lucas, relates the time when he was forced to hold a guys coat every gym class or risk getting beaten up. Donal Logue, as Eddie, listens intensely, I thought that was your coat... why didn't you tell me? Ah man, I got your back! You know that!This powerful opening stands out more than anything else that happens in this film. It concerns two friends, Eddie and Lucas, who go out to a farm to retrieve some money for a local club owner. When they arrive, they are brutally attacked by a group of thugs.The incident doesn't sit well with Eddie and Lucas. They decide to put a scare into the men who attacked them. They manage to recruit one of their friends, Mamet, played by Callum Keith Rennie. Mamet is a well meaning sort but his mind-set appears suspended somewhere out above the clouds.The revenge plan goes horribly awry. Eddie and Lucas find themselves sitting in a room with three corpses and a whole lot of money and cocaine. At this point the film seems to get lost. It really doesn't know what to do or where to go. We watch as our three simpleton heroes party away the cocaine and money.A problem arises when it becomes evident that the cocaine and money actually belong to a local mob boss played by Paul Sorvino. Sorvino and his laughable cronies begin a man-hunt for the three.Without trying to give anything away, the film becomes a little tedious and manages to immerse itself in a bloodbath. A needless one.Where the film gets lost in its story it finds solace in its actors and characters. Callum Keith Rennie, a truly amazing Canadian actor, offers a haunting performance as a man whose subtle eccentricities begin to give light to his absolute insanity. Also watch for Easy Gary played by Max Perlich. His character is one of the most interesting that I've seen in a film in a long time. "},{"Title":"Genuine","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For me, the real strength of this film is its authenticity. It reminded me a little of Laws of Gravity.It's unabashedly Canadian, low-budget, and gritty. Where a big (or even medium) budget Hollywood movie would have nice costumes, a crisp soundtrack, star players, a fantastical plot, and try to pass off Toronto as New York, Men With Guns does everything exactly the opposite and is so much better for it.The main cast are barely-known, unshaven and unattractive, wearing what could be their own street clothes. The characters aren't heroes, they're losers. Their small-time criminal stupidity and immaturity is exactly what you would expect if a bunch of lowlifes came across a huge bag of cocaine by accident. There's no million-dollar deal, no flashy clothes, cars and jewels, no plan instead they get really high, pick up some trashy girls at a local club, then go home and destroy their dumpy apartment. Their idea of preparing for a heist is to smoke drugs, set off fireworks, and shoot at beer cans. The cops and mob easily track them down. The chase scene doesn't have over-the-top car stunts and end in a thrilling get away the main character is run to the ground, puking and stumbling. The sex scene isn't romantic and shot with body-doubles it's bent over a bathroom sink, fumbling for a condom, and doesn't escape the awkward morning-after hangover. In short, the story is no fairy tale.Don't get me wrong, Men With Guns has its flaws (the mob/cop caricatures, the hasty ending, some poor support acting/casting), but the B-movie quality isn't one of them. It's not a matter of it's so bad, it's good, it's that parts of the movie feel genuine enough that it could be the adaptation of a true story.Ignoring the details of the plot in favour of the overall ambiance, I rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Predictable and just plain bad","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" About the only kindest thing one can say for Men with Guns is that unlike most Canadian films, the movie does not try to disguise its location and characters as American - it's made clear it's taking place in Toronto and the surrounding area. Otherwise, the movie goes wrong in just about every way you can think of. The main problem is with the script. The heart of the story - two criminal lowlifes getting their hands on a large supply of illegal narcotics belonging to the mob - has been done on TV and in other movies many many times before. It still could have worked, but the script also suffers from characters that are not only extremely thin, but are pretty repulsive and one note. The cast shows some talent, but the only actor who manages to make an impression is American Paul Sorvino - and he is only given three (brief) scenes in the entire movie. The movie also suffers from shoddy production values; it looks like a low budget Canadian TV show from the 1980s instead of a movie. Obviously not to be confused with the reportedly superior John Sayles movie of the same title that came out around the same time. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure we needed another movie like this, but here it is...","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In its favor, Men With Guns has a cool title, three strong performances, a nice sense of ambiance and atmosphere, Paul Sorvino doing what Paul Sorvino does, a few genuinely funny moments, a pretty good party/orgy scene, and a dandy chase scene that gives you a sense of the character's desperation and fright.On the other hand, you can go to a video store or turn on your cable provider, and see a hundred gritty crime dramas about small time losers getting in over their heads with the mob and/or the law, some of them much better paced and told than this one.While Men With Guns has a slightly different emphasis with its emphasis on the devotion and loyalty of the two friends to each other, the director seemed to out of his way to rub the audiences' collective noses in the sleaze and grime of their lowlife scene, to the point where it seemed to me he was wallowing in cinematic tricks and clichés stolen directly from Tony Scott and French existential cinema. Add to that a rushed ending that doesn't have the guts to live up to its Butch Cassidy finish and characters who are dense, unthinking, and pretty unsympathetic (it's not a tragedy if the bad things that happen to the protagonists is a direct result of their own stupidity) and you've got a movie that makes you wish you'd watched GoodFellas or Taxi Driver.The director and cinematographer obviously have some chops - this is a well made movie with professional polish and some great setups. But they need to set their sites a little higher regarding the story they want to tell.If you just have to watch a gritty crime drama about low lives getting in over their heads with the mob and the cops, and you've already seen all the better movies in the genre 100 times, well, Men With Guns will give you your crime drama fix. But you'll probably prefer to go back and watch Rounders for the 101st time instead. "},{"Title":"Classic Crime Flick","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Kari Skogland has created a gem in Men with Guns.Starring Donal Logue who was also in the classic flick, And the Band Played On 1993 and the classic television series Vikings 2013-2015 and Sons of Anarchy 2008-2014.Also starring Gregory Sporleder who has also been in other classic flicks, The Crazies 2010, Black Hawk Down 2001, The Rock 1996 and another classic crime flick, True Romance 1993.Also starring Callum Keith Rennie who has also been in other classic flicks, The Butterfly Effect 2004, eXistenZ 1999 and Timecop 1994.Also starring Paul Sorvino who has also been in other classic flicks, Romeo + Juliet 1996, Nixon 1995, Goodfellas 1990 and The Panic in Needle Park 1971.Also starring Max Perlich who has also been in other classic flicks, Georgia 1995, Cliffhanger 1993, Rush 1991 and Drugstore Cowboy 1989.I enjoyed the violence, sex and drug scenes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic crime flicks, A Dangerous Man 2009, Instinct to Kill 2009, Judgement Night 1993, Marked for Death 1990, Rampage 2009, Under the Gun 1995, Wrong Turn at Tahoe 2009, Badlands 1973, Bitch Slap 2009, Blood Simple 1984, Blue Velvet 1986, Deadbeat at Dawn 1988, Dressed to Kill 1980, Falling Down 1993, Fast Money 1996, Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill! 1965, The Getaway 1994, Hard Target 1993, Hero Wanted 2008, A History of Violence 2005, The Honeymoon Killers 1969, The Last Boy Scout 1991, The Lost 2006, Made Men 1999, Mission Impossible III 2006, Mission Impossible - Ghost Protocol 2011, No Way Home 1996, A Perfect Getaway 2009, Pressure 2002, Rage 1995, Run 1991, Sabotage 1996, Shoot 'Em Up 2007, Sin City 2005, Rumble in the Bronx 1995, The Take 2007, Thursday 1998, True Lies 1994, Walking Tall 1973, The Shearer's Breakfast 2001, Wild at Heart 1990, The Package 2013, The Purge Anarchy 2014, Marine 4 Moving Target 2015 and Zero Tolerance 1994. "}]