[{"Title":"Enchanting film about the universal evils of homophobia","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The subject matter of this wonderful film (parents' reaction to their suspicions they may have a gay child) is sadly still a controversial topic. The parents of the 7 year-old hero respond erratically to the ever mounting pile of evidence, at times supportive, at times down-playing, then again aggressively trying to fight this non-sense in their son's head.The stereotypes of the bent, as well as the extreme opposers (parents unanimously signing petitions to expel the boy from his school - unanimously???? WOW!), neighbors (who seem to be hiding secrets of their own) are vivid, and hopefully strongly exaggerated. To see a 7 year old hide in a freezer is a frightening sign that children feel so desperately out-of-place in the world that seems to not want them in it.The fantasy element of Pam, a Barbie-Doll-like fictional character, serves as an escape for the boy who wishes to be a girl. When the family feels forced to leave their home (after Dad got fired - we wonder how that happened??) for a distant new place, all seems well until our hero is caught swapping party costumes with a girl. The boy's furious mother didn't realize that the little girl was the one who fancied the masculine costume the boy was wearing.At the end there is hope for a happy future for everyone. Unfortunately the parents (who should have known better from the start) took a dangerously long time to figure out what's right. They promised to love their son unconditionally, no matter what.This film is filled with magic and wonder and should be seen by all audiences. An R-Rating is absolutely ridiculous! Elementary schools should make this film mandatory viewing. There is not a single scene in this entire film that would warrant even a PG-13. Who rated this film, anyway - Jerry Falwell? I highly recommend this film to those with an open mind, and especially to those without.  "},{"Title":"Charming, Touching--And Surprisingly Subversive","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most obvious way to read MA VIE EN ROSE is as the tale of difficulties faces by a very young boy who is very likely transgenderd--but given the multi-layered nature of the film this is actually a rather narrow point of view. It would be more accurate to describe the film as a rather sly assault on a cookie-cutter society that reacts with a herd mentality toward anything in the least unusual. And Ludovic Fabre is a most unusual child barely into school, he has become convinced that he is a girl, and in his childhood innocence he sees absolutely nothing socially amiss with the idea.The film begins with a party at which neighbors gather to welcome the newly arrived Fabre family--only to be, along with the family, extremely disconcerted when Ludovic makes an entrance in meticulously applied make-up and a pink dress. His family passes the incident off as a joke, but Ludovic proves remarkably single-minded, and when he draws a neighborhood child into his fantasies he also incurs neighborhood hysteria. The result is at once comic and unpleasantly vicious as his classmates, his neighbors, and eventually his family gradually turn upon him.Although there are one or two problems with character development in the script, the cast--particularly Georges du Fresne as Ludovic and Helene Vincent as free-spirit grandmother Elizabeth--is superlative, and director Alain Berliner balances the serio-comic story with a very light touch. Viewers will laugh a little, cry a little, and ultimately come away from the film feeling an uncertain hope. The fact that this film is rated R is merely so much more evidence of the power of the herd to dictate standards of normalcy--one or two profanities aside, there is absolutely nothing in the film to offend any intelligent viewer, and the film will hold a special appeal for older children who have been targeted as in any way different by their peers... and for the many adults who remember what it was like to be a victim of a society that prizes conformity over imagination, creativity, honesty, integrity, and self-awareness. Strongly recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"His life as a girl","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"34 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most comments submitted to this forum seem to give credit to the French cinema for bringing Ma vie en rose to the screen. While this is a co-production, the film is a Belgian movie, as well as its talented director, Alain Berliner, who co-wrote the screen treatment with Chris Vander Stappen.We first saw this excellent film in a film festival before its commercial release. Thanks to IFCTV, which is airing it lately, we revisited it, and again, we were charmed by this unpretentious movie that has its heart in the right places. The idea of Ludovic, the young boy, who thinks of himself as a girl, has been discussed in some of the wonderful comments submitted to IMDb.Ma vie en rose is a film that has the courage to tackle a subject that is different from all what one sees in mainstream movies. It also has a lot of messages for the viewer, but those issues are lightly handled by the writers, who had the common sense of treating the film in such manner, instead of throwing it one's face. In fact, it shows how resilient little Ludovis is in spite of all the rejection he suffers at the hands of his peers, as well as the adults, who should have a better understanding of the situation.Little Georges de Fresne does excellent work under Mr. Berliner's direction. He is never bratty and one's heart goes to him because no child should suffer for something they didn't create and have no control about who they really are.The R rating ought to be examined more closely. For a film that doesn't have any nudity, violence or sex, that classification seems too extreme by a film that should be watched by a wider cross section.Thanks to Mr. Berliner for dealing with a taboo with a lot of class. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully touching","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautiful movie that will touch your heart.  A movie about accepting those we love for who they are, and not what we wish they were. It's a very real look at families and how they interact.  About how hard it is for a parent to admit, either to themselves or others, that their child may be different, even when they truly love that child.  The child in this movie will steal your heart. "},{"Title":"A disturbing film that's more about the trauma of bad parenting than anything else","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I find myself at an unusual loss trying to decide how to rate this film. All in all, I think I don't think I liked the film, but some of that is due to problems in the film while some stems from problems in the characterizations and the degree to which I was bothered by how the parents of the child related to him. I also think that it is ultimately a sad film that is hurt by the attempt to attach a sort of sunny everything's gonna be OK ending.In parts, I think this film does a great job of portraying how a young boy, who might be effeminate or who might be gay or who might be transsexual, experiences the world as his personality begins to come into conflict with the ways in which a the world expects a young boy to behave. I think it captures well the sense of confusion and panic that can occur to any child when the sense of a warm, safe family environment is suddenly punctured when it bumps up against societal expectations --- when YOU aren't doing anything different than before, but suddenly everyone is unhappy with you. I do feel that the reactions of the community to this child seemed over-the-top and unrealistic. The idea that the whole neighborhood would band together to ostracize a family who has a 7-year old boy who likes to wear dresses and play with dolls is hard to believe. Of course, we live in a world where in the same week, the Texas legislature can vote 135-6 to ban gay foster parents while the Connecticut Senate votes 26-8 to allow allow same-sex civil unions, so geography may be destiny, and maybe there really are parts of France where parents would sign a petition to oust an effeminate 7-year from his school and the school would agree.To me the emotional heart of the movie was in how the parents behaved, rather than in how the child was reacting. I was horrified by many of the things they said and did (or didn't say and didn't do) to their son as the movie went on. One of things in this movie that left me sad is that, while I think we are supposed to believe at the end that all is well and that the parents have accepted their son as he is, there is really nothing in their behavior throughout the rest of the movie that helps you believe this. They both reject him so thoroughly and are ultimately so MEAN to him (especially the mother, who on more than one occasion blames him to his face for their troubles) that one has to think they will continue to do so. They seem to under-react to the freezer incident (which was, after all, a SUICIDE attempt by a 7 year old (!!!!) And, the fact that the family appears so loving and supportive in the beginning of the film (and that the other straight children appear happy and well-adjusted) only underscores the horror of what the their other son must be experiencing as HE is rejected by these otherwise supportive parents. But, I also felt that all of the parents' bad behavior was out-of-character given what we are otherwise shown about them in a way that suggests there is a problem with the script/characterizations. (As an aside, I also found it odd that many conversations in the film that I would expect to take place privately took place with a larger audience - i.e. the child is present when the shrink talks about the boy's behavior, the other children are present when the parents fight about the boy, etc. But I don't know if this is bad writing or if these are just US/France cultural differences in play.)Either way, and no matter what the end of the movie would have you think, the boy has been pretty battered by how he's been treated (especially by his parents -- it's one thing to have the world against you, but if at any age, let alone 7 years old, you don't have a safe secure home world, you're really screwed) and I don't think you get over that very easily. Heck, he MOVES OUT at the age of 7 to live with his grandmother because everyone recognizes he'll be better off there. And then is effective forced back home because the family is moving. He's lost the innocent security of childhood years before the age that most people are forced to go through that.So, I didn't hate the movie and it had moments that felt very truthful (I loved when the psychologist tells the boy that there just may be things that his parents will never understand -- I'm just not sure he was at an age to really hear her) but there is a lot of stuff in the movie of which I am suspect and which feels contrived. If it is contrived, there's a problem, but to the extent that it's just reflecting a reality other than what I think exists, then maybe it's good. But, either way, I am bothered by the suggestion in many reviews that this is some sort of feel-good movie. At the end of it all, you still have a boy who has been traumatize by this family and neighbors and who is likely to continue to face similar problems for years to come. "},{"Title":"First Hand Knowledge","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first heard about this movie, I myself was in my teens struggling with identity issues like the main character in the movie. As a transsexual woman myself, the movie plot drew me in. I had no idea that the movie would be a mirror image of my own life, of what had taken place right in my very own home growing up. Ludovic, as innocent as he may be, struggles with the reasoning as to why something that comes so natural to him is so disconcerting to all those around him. This movie captures the pureness and innocence of children and their wild imaginations. As Ludovic faces many obstacles in the movie, including rejection from his very own parents, he somehow finds the courage within him to stay true to his convictions that he is a girl. Let this movie enlighten you, and you will be left wondering what would have come of Ludovic if the movie reflected on him as an adult. The actor of Ludovic was stupendous and completely convincing. "},{"Title":"A total charmer.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why is this wonderful family movie rated R?  Why, on cable, is this heart-warming gem preceded by warnings of violence and adult content? Ludicrous!  Although told in an almost fable-like manner, Ma vie en rose is an all-too-rare depiction of believably real parents and children dealing with life's pressures together.  Beautifully written, directed and acted, any child would benefit from watching this utterly delightful and thought-provoking film with their parents and discussing the struggles of little Ludovic and his family.  Don't miss the opportunity.  "},{"Title":"This movie taught me the word tolerance","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a movie fanatic and reviewer, I was invited to the Semaine du Cinema Francophone in Beirut (francophone cinema week). The movie taught me the word tolerance as I was one of these stupid guys who mocked on effeminate people. (Maybe to reject my desire at this age to be free to disguise myself, like Ludovic did in the movie). What I know is that being in a place that was supposed to gather cultivated people, journalists and movie reviewers, cinema lovers, artists, etc. I was chocked to hear people laughing at some scenes that were supposed to be moving, sensitive and very important humanely. Also the sound going out public mouth tsss tsss tsss was so chocking that I felt more the pressure of non-tolerant' society inside the movie theater itself, more than the pressure Ludovic had to endure in his story. My personality was projected into Ludovic who suffered his moments in the film, while I was personally suffering inside the theater and trying to vibe with the movie, despite chocked snobbish people's reaction. An excellent movie. Rather a drama than a comedy! "},{"Title":"Truly remarkable!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie in one of my classes, and I was really impressed by it.  I didn't expect much to sympathize with a young boy who wants to dress in female clothing and take on womanly characteristics, but as the film went along I not only felt a sympathy but a connection to him.  Anybody who's ever felt alienated, for any reason, should relate to Ludovic's character.  Yet at the same time I related to the parents in the film too.  It's easy for an audience to say, Why are the parents being so hard on the kid?  But if I had a son who wanted to dress up like a girl, I wouldn't take it lightly at all.  If this were an American movie, it would be treated like an after-school special.  (SPOILERS AHEAD) If this were an American film, by the third act, all of Ludovic's peers would've embraced him with open arms, you'd hear some cheesy score and he'd make some uplifting speech.  As a matter of fact, there's a recent movie called Bruno (also listed as The Dress Code) which has an identical plot to this movie, and it is given that corny, sentimental treatment.    Ma Vie En Rose is strictly character-driven.  There's never a moment where Ludovic's peers treat him with a ton of respect--as it would be in real life.  I've expressed it before and I'll express it again--kids and young people are cruel.  Their number one goal in life is to torment the lives of others.  I am a young person myself and I don't feel like I'm being a hypocrite when I say I'm not part of that majority.  The film is also filled with humor.  Some of the best movies are touching and powerful, while managing to be very funny at the same time.  If you get your hands on this gem, it's a must-see!  My score  9 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"A Touching Walk Down Memory Lane","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was once a child - full of awe, wonderment, and an overall appreciation of...just - being. Yes, just being!We were all there at one point in our lives - whether you can, or choose too, remember at all.That childhood was full of light. That childhood was full of naivete. That childhood was full of love.That childhood was full of innocence.One day I realized that I was no longer a child. I don't know exactly how - nor when. The light bulb just turned on. I became a young adult. I knew certain things and realized other things. That's the day I lost that childhood. I knew what other people expected of me.That childhood is what we all long to return to. That childhood is the essence of pure love without conditions - and no expectations. That childhood is what this movie is all about.As an unadulterated being we see ourselves as the center of the universe. It is our world which all about us takes part in. We are the reason our parents go to work. We are the reason a billboard is placed in a certain spot. We are the reason for everything. We are neither plotters nor planners. We are not in it for ourselves - after all - the world is ALL about ourselves - innocently and faithfully we just know this.Growing up is a slap in the face of that childhood. There comes a time when all of society plops it's weight on the unconditional love we feel. There comes a time when all of society says to us Wake up - this world is not yours.I cried as I watched the real world crashing down on Ludovic.This is not so much a story about gender identity as it is a story about the loss of that childhood innocence.ROSTOV RATING*****Highly Recommended***** *****All Audiences - Ignore Rating***** *****Bring Tissues***** *****Buy/Rent?---->BUY***** "}{"Title":"Watch out if you have a raw unexposed emotional inner place","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not just a 'weepie' but a heaving-shoulder sobfest. I watched this at The Swiss House near Leicester Square, which is quite a small intimate cinema. I was there on my own, admittedly being a sad git and the house was packed; a fair proportion of whom were gay couples. I go to the cinema a helluva lot and on the Audience Reaction Richter scale this film was a force ten with warnings. It wasn't just the whole gender identity thing which was palpable and heart-wrenching but the powerful evocations of all childhood miseries that choked me up... Like the first day at my new school realising I was the only person wearing a homemade uniform (sorry mum but this has scarred me for life). At the Swiss House, the audience have to take a lift down to the exit and strangers were literally hugging each other because we all knew we had been crying our bloody eyes out unashamedly. I completely ruined my favourite scarf blowing my nose and wiping my mascara off my sodden face. This film just touches a raw emotional inner place so bloody beautifully..Formidable!! "},{"Title":"Loved every minute!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow! I just finished watching this movie today, a few hours ago and was really really surprised by it. Though somewhat weird at times, the powerful performances, thoughtful subject matter, and clever writing just amazed me. Prior to today, I had never heard of the film, which isn't really a big surprise I guess, foreign films in general don't do particularly well in North America on a whole. Yes its sad, but also true.My Life In Pink definately ranks HIGH on the list of spectacular international films for me. I only wish I heard about it sooner but like every other thick headed westerner I was brainwashed into paying to see sub-par movies like Men In Black, Lost World Jurassic Park, Con Air, and Face Off in 1997 instead of this. Those movies weren't horrendous but they didn't have nearly as much depth and meaning as My Life In Pink.If you can find the video or DVD or even VCD then pick it up and watch it. Many will not like it at all because they may feel its weird or too taboo for them. But for those of you who are more open minded and are in search of a great piece of film making then this is for you. I felt nothing but sorrow and compassion for young Ludovic all throughout the film. His pain and sorrows, his sadness and loneliness, it brought some tears to my eyes seeing how horrendous he was treated. Everybody looked upon him like a monster. That him wanting to be a girl was outrageous and wrong. Yet again, an accurate interpretation of society. Nowadays your not allowed to be anything that society deems unacceptable. Frankly it sickens me. Whether your gay, straight, bisexual, lesbian, or transgender its your decision and nobody has any right to tell you other wise.My Life In Pink accurately portrays the struggles that hundreds of youth face today. Youth that are struggling to discover their identities, having to deal with family and friends that tease and taunt them for being different.I really don't want to say much about the movie because you should experience it without knowing much to get the whole impact of its message. See this movie. Its a prime example of AMAZING French cinema.A MUST SEE!!!! 4.5 OUT OF 5!!! "},{"Title":"I am astonished about some reactions","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am astonished about some reactionsI am amazed to read things like this, To me, this was not a film about a disturbed child, but about parents. The parents made, apparently, no effort to explain the biological difference between boys and girls. Second, nobody enlightened the child on the difference between your secret, internal sensitivities and those that one displays publicly., have you really not understood this movie or was it me?Of course this movie is not about a disturbed child! Maybe this movie is about the fact that all people, from the moment they are born, are conditioned to be like this and like that, and especially not to be themselves. Boys have to play with cars and guns, and girls with barby puppets, and most definitely not the other way around, otherwise you should take your kid to a therapist. Boys have to wear trousers and girls skirts or frogs, just check school uniforms, there are still quite some schools where girls may not wear trousers except for the really cold winter months. A child can not explore the world in a natural way, whenever it yells to test the capacity of its lungs, and any adult might dislike that, it is silenced, with other words whenever they are themselves, they are silenced. We are all conditioned like rats in a skinner box and we are no more and no less than rats in a skinner box until we can say f**k you to that society, those politicians, law enforcers, teachers, parents, employers, media, so called friends that don't accept us like we are, etc that gratefully fulfill the role of skinner. Maybe the biological difference between the two sexes is much less clear than most of us think and are people in the first place humans rather than men and women, and maybe hormonal and genetical, there are many stages between absolute woman and absolute man.I also don't think that the film wants to implement that the boy could have these feelings as a secret, but nobody else may know that. With other words you are saying the same like all the other skinners, whatever you think, try not to give in to it, and keep acting like a robot, wearing your mask because your real self is disgusting and abnormal, and something to be ashamed of. For myself, i am a guy, but i like to wear long skirts, noting to do with gender (there is fundamentally nothing female about a skirt) because the are comfortable and give your legs much more freedom than trousers, but i never wear them when I'm at my hometown, because i just don't feel like being stared at by the local baker, neighbors, etc. I just can't cope with being the weirdo again, and i am like everybody else in this society threatened with being laughed at, being discredited,... if i am myself.I also readGreat! Great! Great! I've told everyone I know to see this one! Really a fun, entertaining, charming, sweet film. It will take you emotionally all over the place. But believe me, it is really a great emotional ride. I love to see films like this that show all aspects of life! Enjoy this one with several friends!I think this film was everything except charming, entertaining, sweet, fun... I think this film tries to confront people with the DISGUSTING society to which they all contribute, it is a good movie, but it has nothing to do with sweetness and charm and the like. Now sorry for the enraged start that i took, of course everyone understands a movie in their way, and i don't want to sound patronizing, but i was shocked by some reactions. "},{"Title":"I Missed This One At The Theatres, But Managed To Rent It On Video","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The French have been known to make several great movies, in my opinion and this it one of their bests. Georges Du Fresne's stunning performance makes you smile, as well as makes you think. The idea of getting to know yourself has been around for a long time and his character had a long way to go to getting to know himself. "},{"Title":"Nicely made film","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My Life in Pink is an entertaining, often thought provoking film on the nature of being true to one's self, and of parental and public reaction when the truth expressed is controversial. Interest is maintained throughout through a well crafted production, in which all elements unite and work smoothly.  The various points of view of the situation are nicely dramatized, and honestly presented. "},{"Title":"An exceptional film about acceptance","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've just finished earning my master's degree in Psychology. This film fits right in with what I've learned. It is touching and enlightening. I believe that every person should view this film before having children. Accept everyone for who they are and don't try to change them. We live in a diverse world, we should enjoy it instead of manipulating it. Open your eyes. This story is not limited to gender specifications and expectations. It is about being accepted for who we are - period. I highly recommend this film. I rented it from Netflix, so I know that it's available. It's important to recognize the name as Ma Vie En Rose, rather than La Vie En Rose. "},{"Title":"Painful to watch","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie extremely painful for me to watch, as I saw little Ludovic just trying to be what he feels in his heart is his true role as a young girl.  He even (as young children tend to do) plans to marry one of his classmates, but only when he can become a female, as apparently he sees that that is the only form of coupling between people -- male & female.He has to fight off the fear and resentment of his neighbors, classmates, and even members of his family as he insists on trying to become a girl. The most disturbing factor of this movie is that Ludovic remains innocent and rather naive as to why his wants are so wrong, and no one really bothers to explain to him why it is seen as unseemly and even perhaps immoral.The most fascinating point seems to be how his relationships with his family members shift throughout the storyline; his father takes the standard role of masculinely denying that his son is very effeminate and then gradually accepting his little quirk, while his mother acts supportive and concerned for him only until her social life and connections are threatened by the way others view Ludovic.  She becomes the ultimate antagonist, because a mother's role is to be loving, caring, and supportive of all of her child's wants, and she throws those all away just so that she can blame their family's downfall on someone other than herself.I seriously recommend this film to anyone who is either an emotional masochist or is interested in studying varied interpretations of how a family may react to the uncommon wants of a little, innocent boy. "},{"Title":"Very touching and honest!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A story about a transgendered person that does not involve campy drag queens or troubled transvestites with bad home lives. Rather, the story of sweet young Ludovic, a mere child who is born knowing that he wants and needs to be a girl. He has it all figured out; God messed up his chromosomes, simple as that, and gave him a girl's mind in a boy's body. And all Ludo wants to do is rectify this mistake. It's all very honest and natural to him. He is only a small boy and is much more in tune with his needs and desires than his family is. I agree with whomever stated that this film probably could not be made in the U.S., home of Jerry Springer and sensational news stories about transsexuals. It has none of that. It is pure and sweet, and Ludovic is completely wholesome in his feelings about himself. Everyone should see this movie, and see the REAL side of the story for people who are transgendered.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant, but still half-baked, movie","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though Ma Vie En Rose is a brilliant, beautiful movie, it leaves many of the most important questions left to be asked.  The parents change heart about their son's transgendered tendencies more often, and with less reason, than Hollywood still finds spots for Randy Travis to act.  The movie is indeed beautiful, but the special effects come off as a hoaky attempt to make a child's wonder more tangible.  Rather than dealing with the mutable emotions of Ludevik's family, he instead inserts the audience into a candy-coated fantasy world which says nothing more than is already obvious by the script.All in all I enjoyed the movie, but left feeling like it had so much more to say. "},{"Title":"Imperfect, but original and worth seeing","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A very sweet, well intended, good-natured film about a 7 year old boy who is convinced he's supposed to be a girl, and wants to dress and act accordingly. His parents' confusion, and inability to deal with the situation are shown without making them monsters, even as it all starts to tear at the fabric of the family, costing the father his job, etc. What didn't work as well for me was the weaving in of the Tim Burton-esque magical realism/fantasy element of the young boy's dream world. Somehow, in the end, the film felt too light and sunny to really rip at your guts, and yet too dark to just enjoy as a wish fulfillment fantasy of the way the world should be. So while well worth seeing, it ends up as a little less than it has signs of becoming. "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film, Ma Vie en Rose, conveys the struggle of a little girl who was into the world genetically male.  She struggles with societal norms and biases encountered while trying to come to terms with her identity. The audience witnesses one family's struggle in accepting their daughter as female, not as the little boy, Ludovic, whom they believed she was. The family has trouble accepting Ludovic as a little girl because of the pressure from society, more specifically their neighbors. As the neighbors become surveyors of Ludovic and his family, the family internalizes being surveyed and change their nature towards her on account of this; the basic premise of a theory by John Berger. The application of panopticism, a feeling that one is always being watched, by the neighbors creates a pressure on the family to reprimand Ludovic for her own acceptance of the guidelines set by society of what it means to be a little girl. To Ludovic, being a girl means wearing dresses, marrying boys, putting on make up, and a number of other stereotypical concepts of femininity. The film addresses the problem with the inflexible gender lines in modern day society, and society's reinforcement of stereotypes that have come to define femininity. Ludovic believes she is a girl, which she claims repetitively in the film. She believes that to show everyone else that she is a girl she must play the part and to do that she must accept the symbols of femininity set by society. It is society that classifies gender, and it is society in this film that tells Ludovic that she is not a girl but a boy.  In the film, the community involved exemplifies the inflexible gender lines by ostracizing, harassing, forcing Ludovic to leave school, and even forcing the family out of the community. The film does an excellent job of demonstrating that gender is not something assigned at birth but rather a construct of society. It shows that children are taught to think that blue is for boys and pink is for girls. This is not a natural thought pattern, but an accepted one. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ma Vie en Rose is an extremely moving account of the struggles of a seven-year-old French transgendered girl. In the earliest stages of expressing her identity, Ludovic (I am not sure what her desired name is) suffers from frequent misunderstanding and punishment from adult figures in her life. Her parents, grandparents, neighbors, and even a doctor attack and discourage her efforts to convey her feelings of being female. These uncomfortable moments are brilliantly cut against wonderful dream-like scenes and also a few hopeful moments. It is so rare that a film captures a bit of the essence of what it means and entails to be transsexual/transgendered, and oddly, it's the ones that never even mention the 't' words. Unfortunately, though the audience probably feels appropriate sympathy for the main character and experiences a more proper emotional reaction to a transgendered person, they still remain uneducated on the details, even proper words, that are necessary for understanding the transgender experience. Ma Vie en Rose, as a film, has some terrific cinematography, and even in translation, alot of the dialogue is unique. Pacing is fantastic, and the story is absolutely unforgettable. Get out the Kleenex for this one.    "},{"Title":"A boy's life as a girl","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is not about a young transvestite/cross dresser, neither is it about homosexuality.  It's easy to get that impression from the reactions and misinterpretations of Ludovic's parents, but not if you empathise with his perspective.  It's a film about a young transsexual.  He doesn't just act like a girl, he feels that he IS a girl trapped in a boy's body, with such a passion that he believes he will one day become female.  Dressing as a girl and playing with girls toys is an obvious extension of that, and if you truly believed you were or would become a heterosexual girl, marrying your male friend would feel perfectly natural.The film treats the subject from a non-judgemental viewpoint, contrasting the destruction of family and work relationships against Ludovic's wide-eyed innocence about the consequences of him just being him/herself.  In the process of his parents coping with their lack of understanding, they try to mould him into something more socially acceptable and normal, like forcing a left handed person to use their right hand instead.  Adult acceptance only comes in the form of treating it as childhood naïveté, and the film fails to confront the fact that this may not be just a phase.  Given this, the ending is a little weak, abrupt, and too open-ended, but overall it's a tender, emotive, and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Nothing quite like it","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic and unique.  I love it very much and I am so glad the Golden Globes had the good sense to honor it with a Best Foreign Film win that year.  Why wasn't the Academy so smart?  The lead actor has a lot of talent and a lot of courage. "},{"Title":"fantastic!","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Life in Pink is a french drama of a 7 year old boy named Ludovic who wishes to be a girl, henceforth decides to dress and act like one, but his actions begin to slowly anger the citizens of the conservative neighborhood they live in, and the problems begin.A film that takes a rarely touched upon subject and treats it with care and gravity. Filming it in such a way that you are experiencing the events through the eyes of Ludovic, you grow a care for the child, because he is so innocent and sincere that you can't help but feel bad or angry at the people berating and punishing him all throughout the story.Ludovic's parents had a difficult role as they try to control and take away something that is slowly but surely beginning to affect their normal lives as well. Their acting is just fantastic, and they were written very well, and while the film revolves around Ludovic, the stars of the film are his parents IMO. Props to Michèle Laroque and Jean- Philippe Écoffey.With a well executed drama, the film also has very subtle symbolism on religion and social norms that i feel should be noted, as it gives an extra sense of value to the film, especially since the filmmakers didn't make the symbolism obvious and in your face.The only thing i can say i didn't like was the ending, while the whole scene felt mostly metaphorical, and it's possible i missed something, i can't help but feel it was forced and poorly handled to have a happy ending. but that is only one small part of an otherwise good drama. If you enjoy, heartfelt, social dramas i feel you may enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Tells it like it is...possibly triggering?","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **spoiler alert**This movie very accurately portrayed what its like growing up with a feminine gender expression, while having been coercively assigned male at birth. Having yet to experience years of sexual harassment and bullying, Ludovic's simple straightforward insistence that she is a girl is heartfelt and unassuming. She sees no danger with dressing in the clothes her sister gets to wear, pretending to be a bride, or telling her new friends she'll be a girl someday. But sadly, it seems everyone else in the film wants to strip that internal confidence from Ludovic. Her parents bully her so much, culminating in physical abuse, as well as Ludo's mother holding her down and cutting her hair. All this causes poor Ludo to attempt suicide and move out of her parents house, because her family hates and blames her. At age seven.The scenes with the father were difficult to watch...scary men shouldn't have a place in a young trans girl's life. I had to stop the movie and watch over two nights. It was like living with my father again.. so, really good directing, I guess. Not a happy ending, either. As far as I can tell, Ludo has hidden her feminine activities for fear of her parents reactions. When offered feminine clothing, Ludo's face lights up, and then quickly darkens in fear (excellent acting!). Ludo's fears are confirmed, as she is hit across the face multiple times and strangled by her mother. Mere MINUTES after the abuse, Ludo's mother says You can wear whatever you want.....Are we supposed to believe that statement? Are we supposed to believe that an abuser has stopped abusing, with no treatment? It's clear that Ludo can never return to that innocent age of childhood, where gender expression was simply what I want to do.Ludo entered into the transgender world of adults at the age of seven, learning that feminine gender expression can make you a target of sexual violence, even from your own parents. This is a movie that does not act as a role model for how to accept trans children in your community. This is not a feel-good family movie comedy. This movie shows what children with atypical gender expression go through right now, every day. "},{"Title":"Quite lovely","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ma Vie En Rose, winner of the 1997 Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film (its English title is My Life in Pink), concerns Ludo, a 7-year-old boy who likes to dress up as a girl and dreams of marrying a boy, even staging a mock wedding with himself decked out in a pink satin dress and pearls. His parents are appalled. When Ludo makes an appearance at a family gathering dressed as a girl, the father covers his embarrassment with nervous laughter and insists his son is just joking. The mother drags him to the sink to wash off his lipstick. When Ludo continues to cross-dress, they take him to a therapist to set him straight. Ludo's attempts to be a typical boy prove disastrous, however. When he tries to kiss a girl, she knocks him to the ground. I don't kiss girls, she sneers. He proves too gentle for football, and when another boy sees him through the opening of a toilet stall, sitting down to pee, he explains that he's a girl-boy. Of course, Ludo is almost certain to grow up to be homosexual or transgender, perhaps opting to change his gender through surgery. The film doesn't take us that far into the future, but does conclude on a note of acceptance. Whatever happens, you'll always be my child, the father tells Ludo, shortly before the credits roll.The boy in Ma Vie En Rose is adorable, and is very convincing when dolled up as a female. The film itself is quite lovely. Undoubtedly, there are those who would assail it as propaganda meant to promote tolerance toward homosexuals and gender-bending boys. Maybe it is, but the fact remains that there are boys who want to be girls, and such boys would exist even if a film like Ma Vie En Rose did not. If it succeeds in making the life of a girl boy easier, what's wrong with that?Brian W. Fairbanks "},{"Title":"A Treat","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alain Berliner's `Ma Vie En Rose' tackles a touchy and controversial topic that might make some views uneasy, but there is a sense of overriding sweetness and innocence that pervades the movie.  The plot is about Ludovic, a young boy who believes he is in actuality a young girl, and the difficulties he encounters in his middle-class suburban neighborhood as he attempts to life out that life/reality.  One of the important things to note about the movie (and which makes it a easy and enjoyable watch) is that it is highly unsexualized; Ludovic is not gay, but rather wishes to express his inherent femininity through pretty dress, makeup, jewelry and `girlish' gestures, because this is what the young child has been taught girls should do.  One of the Berliner's movie touches upon is the commoditization of women, though the fact that Ludovic is a boy seeking to commodity himself into a female product is one of the movie's humorously ironic touches. His dream-sequences of his idol, the Barbie-figure Pam, address this issue of femininity-as-spectacle/performance, and give the movie a lighthearted, fantastical feel that helps to buffer the dreary social realities Ludovic inevitable clashes against.  At its heart, `Ma Vie En Rose' is a critique of gender stereotypes, as it successfully draws out gender as a mere performance one puts on in response to societal `norms' and conventions (a nod to the theories of Judith Butler).  While Ludovic's expression of his chosen gender reflects these societal `norms,' his being a biological boy shows that notions of `male' and `female' are not 'norms' at all, but are rather rigid systems of categorization and binaries imposed on us, and are rather limiting to one's identity.  There is a naturalness and aesthetic pleasure in the movie, that successfully conveys and naturalness and ease Ludovic feels in his satin dresses and high heels.   "},{"Title":"Review for Ma Vie en Rose","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alain Berliner's Ma Vie en Rose has been commended for addressing many of the issues that challenge the societal norms that exist today. The major themes addressed in this film are heteronormativity, conformity and family relationships and their struggles to fit into a judgmental society. Ludovic, a seven year-old boy, genuinely believes that he was born a girl and become increasingly confused when everyone around him, including his family (with the exception of his grandmother), teachers, and the neighboring community tries to make him be something that he feels he is not. Through this movie, Berliner does an amazing job of showing the audience how gender identity and societal norms collide. The unfortunate part of this movie is that it is much more true to life than people realize.  In the community in which Ludovic lives, the people think he is `bent', or off and queer. They refuse to look at the fact that at seven years old, a boy is simply trying to find himself and figure out who he is. There should be no talk of him being queer and more importantly at seven years it is impossible to know what sexuality is.This movie is one that should be shown everywhere and have more recognition within a society such as ours in which Hollywood films dominate so much of our pop-culture. Hollywood films don't address or thematize issues such a gender identity, heteronormativity, etc. like many smaller independent films do. Not much though is required when you go in to see one and you don't come out with a life lesson that could change so much about the way our society is viewed. Ma Vie en Rose provokes thought, emotion, and shows the repercussions of an unaccepting society, such as being shunned and forced to move. It shows the repercussions on the individual to which the negativity is being directed and the indirect and direct consequences of everyone's actions. This type of film is not something that a Hollywood engulfed society is used to seeing but it is amazing and goes a long way to inspire and make people step back and reevaluate their attitudes towards things that they do not always understand. It tries to teach tolerance and just advocates having respect for those people and things that are different.An excellent movie that should not be overlooked!  "},{"Title":"Fine for older children despite its 'R' rating","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's hard to understand why this very beautiful film, Ma Vie en Rose (My Life in Pink), is rated 'R'. Ludo -- a 7-year-old boy, who is very comfortable with, and intent on living his life as a girl -- has absolutely no understanding of adult sexuality and no aspect of adult sexuality is presented in the film. The topic of sexual identity (which children start dealing with at the age of ... zero) is seriously presented, and there is some grief and anger (on the part of adults) around issues of conformity to gender -- with a level of conflict children are accustomed to seeing in the less intense films shown to them. The overall tone of the film is very light, playful and positive. It's rare for a foreign language film that's so appropriate for youth to be distributed in the U.S. -- a film that provides a glimpse of Western European culture, as well as very sensitively addressing a subject which children deal with every day, though which is often confusing.  This film is fine for children old enough to read the easy subtitles. (My 9-year-old had no problem with that). "}{"Title":"complete questioning of identity","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  if nothing else, this film is provocative when it comes to the issue of identity. georges du fresne is mesmerizing as ludovic, the boy who wants to grow up to be a woman. i was taken aback at the severity with which his parents reacted (both mother and father are deeply affected), feeling altogether astonished at how realistic the portrayal was. this is, of course, a rather interesting notion given that fantasy and stylization are keenly employed herein. the ending left me puzzled, which i believe to be a good thing, as there can be no pat hollywood ending to a matter of this importance. overall, this movie just made me wonder about how the abnormal really can only be judged as a figment of the people who deem it such. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking and Beautiful","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ma Vie en Rose is a story about the innocence of childhood as told through the experiences of a seven year old boy, Ludovic. Ludovic desperately wants to be a girl and everything about him says that he already is one. Today science feels the brain is sexed before birth...and not always correctly...Ludovic is a prime example of a female brain in a male body and he is putting up a valiant struggle not to be erased as a person.While it's easy to heap ugly words on an adult, looking into the loving, imaginative eyes of a child like Ludovic brings home the real tragedy of gender bigotry. There are so many wonderful traits in Ludo but all anyone can see is what he isn't. I wondered what would be left of a real Ludovic when he grew up? This movie makes you wonder about a lot of things but without being heavy handed about it. I'm sorry the story is in French (subtitled) and therefore inaccessible to so many. Maybe someone will make an English version of it for TV. It's a great film for anyone who values childhood or feels they had part of themselves taken from them there.  "},{"Title":"...beautiful, no matter what they say.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Deriving its title from La Vie en Rose (one of the most famous French songs in history), Ma Vie en Rose is a courageous film that presents a controversial topic in a truly captivating, childlike light.Ludovic Fabre is convinced that he was meant to be born a little girl. With all his seven-year-old wisdom, he calmly explains that his male gender is simply a scientific error, one that he will soon correct. But instead of becoming female, Ludo becomes prey. His schoolmates tease him, his principal expels him, and his soccer teammates beat him up. Ludo's two older brothers, who are on the same soccer team, do nothing but watch.Throughout the film, the true colors of Ludo's brothers and of everyone around him are revealed as they each try to deal with his behavior. Ludo's teacher makes an admirable speech about respecting those different from you. Ludo and his eccentric grandmother grow closer. But a terrible rift develops between Ludo and his seemingly-loving mother, Hanna. When her family is living in a comfortable neighborhood and her husband has a good job, Hanna makes every possible excuse for Ludo's gender confusion. She lets him grow his hair long and even wear a skirt, and when Pierre, Ludo's father, makes the mere suggestion to cut their son's long hair, Hanna snaps, Well, why don't we just crucify him? But in a powerful and painful shock, Hanna is revealed to be only a fair-weather friend to her son. After Pierre is fired (apparently because of Ludo's attempts to marry the boss's son), Hanna suddenly turns on Ludo, screaming and snapping at him, blaming him for all the family's problems. Both Ludo and the viewer feel completely crushed and betrayed. After Hanna physically abuses him in a scene of scary intensity, Ludo runs away, and the ending that follows is truly remarkable. "},{"Title":"provocative and well-crafted","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The plot of Ma Vie En Rose revolves around a young boy, Ludovic, who desperately desires to be a girl on day.  His open expression of his fantasies (mostly in the form in dressing up in girl's clothing and in fantastic dream-sequences featuring a barbie-esque doll).Ma Vie En Rose, however, is more *about* relationships within a family. Ludovic is not particularly struggling with gender issues as he is too young to comprehend exactly what this entails.  In the film, he is innocently communicating his dreams.  It is his family and the people with whom they interact that are dealing with issues related to gender-identity.  Indeed, the film beautifully renders the growing process of the family.The visuals are lovely, the performances are well presented, the pacing and unravelling of the story is nearly flawless.However, Ma Vie En Rose is not without its problems.  It is never revealed how this intense desire to dress and become as a girl evolved for Ludovic. Nor does he ever suggest what it is he enjoys about dressing as a girl, only that he never meant to do harm.  Also, his parents never seem to explain to Ludovic why his behavior is (or is perceived as) inappropriate.  I strongly disagree with the assumption that Ludovic is or will be gay-- to claim such is to pigeonhole the film into addressing issues of homosexuality, which would be a tragic mistake, because the film explores relationships on a greater level.Despite its shortcomings, I recommend this film, as it presents some delicate issues with great care, and is finely executed. "},{"Title":"Flights of fancy.","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ma Vie En Rose is one of those movies to watch when you're in a suicidal funk.  But only if you want to feel better.  Otherwise, this candy-colored melodrama will severely test your resolve... even if it's of the grimmest.As everyone knows -- or should know -- this is the story of a seven year old boy named Ludovic, a budding transvestite and homosexual who is ostracized by his schoolmates, misunderstood by his family, and eventually run out of town by bigoted neighbors.  And it's all a lot more appealing than I'm making it sound.  In less than an hour and a half, Ma Vie En Rose floats sublimely to a conclusion that is sweet, but not too sweet; hopeful, but not definite.  You walk out smiling, but also concerned for Ludo's future.  Do I smell sequel possibilities?The French, I grudgingly admit, are geniuses at eliciting the best from their child actors.  This stems all the way back to The 400 Blows, continues through Murmur of the Heart, and extends into the present day with Ponette and Ma Vie En Rose.  The reason for their success is simple -- they know kids are every bit as complex and idiosyncratic as adults.  In fact, most of the personality traits we manifest as adults are there from birth, in even rawer and more pronounced form.  But in America, we choose to ignore all this.  We prefer adorable moppets.That's not to say Georges Du Fresne, the actor who plays Ludo, ISN'T an adorable moppet.  In fact, I'd be hard pressed to think of anyone more adorable.  With his Prince Valiant haircut, big brown eyes, and beautiful, brittle smile that always seems heartbreakingly ready to accept disappointment, Du Fresne commands the camera like a Garbo in short pants. He just has one of those faces that's reassuring to look at.  All kids are reassuring to look at, retorted a friend after I told him this. Actually, most kids remind me of my own misbegotten upbringing and make me want to head for the hills.  But Ludo I like.  Ludo I can deal with.  Ludo is my kind of kid.The film only let me down during its fantasy sequences.  They're not terrible, exactly; they just shouldn't have been attempted.  After all, special effects can't possibly hope to reproduce the unique intermingling of terror and awe the world holds for us when we're young.  There's something so unconscionably smug about a film director trotting out gaudy cinematic tricks in order to concretize what can't be concretized -- a child's sense of wonder.  It's like tying lead weights to a bird's wing.And it's not even necessary.  Ludo seems to me like a bright and sensitive kid, one whose imagination could bound off into uncharted realms just by seeing sunlight strike a tree the right way.  Why, then, is he so enamored of a tacky doll like Pam?  I get the gender-bending joke  he idolizes a doll instead of an action figure.  But Pam is such a plasticky tart, such an uninspiring grue, that she banalizes Ludo and the movie.  It's when he's soaring through the air with her like Peter Pan that, ironically, the movie is at its most earthbound. "},{"Title":"Tragic Magic","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ma Vie En Rose had the audience in tears. It also had us laughing, thinking, feeling. What can you say about a film that requires many of its audience members to reflect on their own childhood memories so deeply that they are unable to get up and leave the theater? What can you say about a film that shows the tragic magic of young gay life so beautifully? What can you say about a movie that blasts through the language barrier to become more than a work of art, but also a cry for a new way of thinking? What can you say to people who haven't seen the film yet? Get it. Your life needs a little more pink in it!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant and moving","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant marriage of directing, acting, and writing. Illuminates the journey to selfhood with Almodovar color andFrench sensibilities. You'll rethink your views on family andfitting in. HIGHLY recommended. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fantasy which has great resonance","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie, the story of a Belgian boy who likes to dress up as a girl, is delightful. It richly develops the boy, his family, and his neighbors to give an insightful portrait of a child who isn't bound by gender norms. The filmmakers use a beautifully realized, cartoony fantasy sequences to broaden the story and give the viewer insight into the boy's mind. A most highly recommended film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful portrait of a boy being himself","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is considerable substance to the story, but also plenty ofhumor and charm, even when the going gets rough for the  protagonist. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are not too many films I would describe as extraordinary but this is certainly one of very few that deserve that description. I simply cannot imagine it being made in Britain or America. The subject matter is just too, too controversial. So whether it is French or Belgian (as one reviewer suggested) it is a case of hats off to whoever it was that had the courage to bring this story to the screen.It's a fabulous movie. Heart rending and heart warming in turn. And risky. Boy, does it feel risky. One can just imagine the Born-Again Brigade's reaction. Outrage no doubt! But despite the fantasy elements the core of the film is reality. I know, I lived part of it. It's real so get used to it! The acting, direction, and script are superb. Flawless even. I can't recommend this film enough. My only sadness is that the people who would truly benefit from watching it won't. The bigots, the bullies and the Born-Again Brigade would doubtless balk at the thought of seeing a film that might just significantly challenge their prejudices. "}{"Title":"I shut my eyes and the world is how I want it","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another beautiful film that could never be made in the United States.This touching story of a boy with gender identity issues is touching, heartwarming and as subtle as such a film could ever be.The casting is brilliant -- there are no Oh-So-Pretty Hollywood faces here -- just very real looking people caught up in the world of the small boy -- Ludovic.The fantasy scenes are amazing -- they are so very, very real -- even though they take place in the world of a Barbie-like doll Pam and her boyfriend Ben.There is a very strong flip-flop between the parents -- the mother's acceptance of her son at the beginning of the film and the father's horror; and then the total reversal at the time the father loses his job.There are other touches that add to the verisimilitude  the mother's increased smoking as the tension in the family increases; the granny that refuses to grow old (Call me Elizabeth) and her hot yellow Peugeot.But near the end of the film the almost closing lines say it allWhatever happens you'll always be my child. Our child. "},{"Title":"You owe it to yourself to see this film","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You do owe it to yourself to see this film. It shows the bias of the MPAA that this film is rated R, don't listen to them, if you have children, show it to them, if you don't, you owe them an explanation as to why not. This is an outstanding movie. They rated it R for using the F bomb once (it is written but you probably won't notice it). It is a well made movie and gives an accurate portrayal of a transsexual. It doesn't go too far over the top, just a little bit but still, it is the most accurate to date. The movie is touching in a it's a wonderful life type way. At least rent the movie if you are curious about it. I bought it and don't regret it. Don't let it deter you that it is french, after a while, you won't even realize that you are reading subtitles. "},{"Title":"Truly amazing","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a great lover of French Cinema, but this film in particular blew me away. The story was one of the most moving things i have ever witnessed. It was something that really tugged at the heartstrings, some parts of the film were so powerful and the feelings that were being emoted were so strong it was hard to watch. The cinematography was brilliant. The use of colour was a real breath of fresh air, something which needs to find its way into mainstream films. The camera work was skillful and each shot seemed considered and perfected. The whole film was a masterpiece and something which I will remember for a very longtime if not forever. "},{"Title":"An excellent film about being different and acceptance.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a delightful story about a young boy who wants to be a young girl. The reactions of family and friends vary and his passion causes friction in his family which is portrayed both well and realistically. A splendidly made and visually sumptous film about being accepted for who and what you are.  "},{"Title":"It's about family, folks.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are few movies I want to own, and fewer still that I could view and re-view weekly. This is one of them.Substitute any unusual childhood problem for Ludo's imagined identity as a girl and the point of the movie remains the same  The love of family is foremost.Whether he's homo or hetero makes no difference. It's about love. And oh, do I love this film! "},{"Title":"one of the cutest and poignant stories of a boy sorting out his sexuality","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film shows a true portrayal of a boy who wishes to express his own sexuality, but runs into the mores, morals, and pressures of a society who wants to mold him into what they think he should be, and not what he wants to be.  A nice mixture of humor, insight, and sadness. "},{"Title":"Great movie !!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is really a great movie and everything has been said in previous comments. There is just one thing ... I hear people say this is a 'great French movie'. Well, it's as much a Belgian movie as a French movie (even more). It's directed by a Belgian. There are Belgian actors in it etc. This is a mistake I noticed also with other French spoken Belgian movies, so please watch out! "},{"Title":"One of the 90's best!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a bit stunned to see this movie rated R, in the same way I was upset Billy Elliot was rated R.  My Life in Pink is a sweet story of 7-year old Ludovic's struggles to become a girl and the intolerance of a town who refuses to accept anyone as different as he is.  There is nothing sexual in this movie and it is not about whether or not little Ludo is, as the town suggests,  a bent boy.  The film is honest and compelling... it deserved every award it has received.  A MUST-SEE. "},{"Title":"this thing moves, it flows, it soars","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  colors dazzle, images dance. you are forced, if you have the guts, to see this kid as just fine, and the world as having to deal with the simple fact of his OK-ness.you can, if you let yourself, get drawn into his view of the world, his gentle determination to be himself.the world adjusts.we root for him.and the IMAGES, beautiful flights of fancy and dreams in flying colors.a great job. "},{"Title":"Troubles of being abnormal","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story of a boy who believes he'll grow up to be a girl, who likes to dress as a girl, who dreams to marry his boyfriend...It's a difficult story (at least for people having troubles with the subject) , but it's well developed, with a neat ambientation in the suburbian life-style, with a terrific screenplay, an acceptable performance of the wannabe boy.The movie reflects the influence of media in young people (the boy watching the series of a heroin), the effect of the shocking news among the suburbia. In a manner, it diminishes the role of woman, by defining the ultimate goal as getting married.Resuming, it's a fun story, well managed, but could have been better... "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this movie i loved it. But the other day when I saw it on DVD I was really, really moved and I just wanted to write about this, I mean it's beautiful, everyone has to see it, It's a lovely story with powerful performances and a great art direction. It kind of reminded me of Edward Scissorhands (I really don't know why). After the success of Transamerica and Brokedown Mountain and all these movies with gay themes all I can say is that this movie was way ahead of it's time. Even do it won a Golden Globe and many other awards, I think that it's was a pity that it didn't won an Oscar... ..After all life wasn't that pink for this film. Too bad "},{"Title":"Tops at local movie house","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My local art film house listed this as one of the top 5 (of 50) most beloved foreign films shown there.  This prompted me to go out and rent it. And there was no disappointment.It's a wonderful story about a middle class family trying to be like everyone else, except their son Ludwig thinks he's a girl.  His proclamation isn't received too well, and it eventually causes major life changes to everyone in the family.Yeah, it's cute that this little boy dresses in drag.  But all comedic relief aside, you see how the family is nearly blown apart by it, and how they finally pull it back together and move somewhere where Ludwig's proclivities aren't considered too eccentric.  The movie is healing, and very human, without belittling the characters.  "},{"Title":"Only the French are brave enough","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only the French are brave enough to tackle a movie with this much depth. It's a great movie that looks at how we as a society have put so much weight on gender and how that gender should act.  The Grandmother is a wonder and being an American with little knowledge of Frace I loved the Pam doll (rather then Barbie).It's nice to see people willing to take on such a difficult topic. "},{"Title":"Wow!!!!!! Wow!!!!! Wow!!!!!!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great!  Great! Great!  I've told everyone I know to see this one!  Really a fun, entertaining, charming, sweet film.  It will take you emotionally all over the place.  But believe me, it is really a great emotional ride.  I love to see films like this that show all aspects of life!  Enjoy this one with several friends! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, tender and profound","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow. What else could I add to the mountains of kudos already mentioned by others, about this beautiful movie? The protagonist, Ludovic, had me believing, once he cast those soulful, honest eyes upon me. The emotional struggle within the family, all too real and stated. The cruelty that lies in the darkest pockets of the human mind. Deeply thought provoking and poignant, with resorting to being maudlin. (American film makers can once again learn from the Europeans...)Cheers to the screenwriters, Alain Berliner and Chris Vander Stappen, for their affecting script. Mr. Berliner deserves another thanks for his sterling direction, as well. Can you believe that the actor, Georges Du Fresne, (Ludovic) was only twelve years old at the time? Absolutely astounding. Don't miss this movie.   "},{"Title":"One Word Beautiful","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Close your eyes and visualize...A perfect world for a boy that wants to be a girl.Then open them and face...The harsh realities, rejections, and being picked on for what you believe. This is a really beautiful film about a boy named Ludovic who believes God made a mistake on him, and he was supposed to be a girl. Determined, he follows his dream to the end.Great acting from Hélène Vincent, who plays Ludovic's Grandmother, a really touching soul that is the only one that is acceptive of Ludovics dreams. Not just acceptive, but strongly supportive. Anyone would want a Grandmother like her.Has its great moments, and was so beautiful it made me cry.A+ (once again, France conquers Hollywood) "},{"Title":"A girlboy, for the love of God! This is all your fault!","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This ain't Peter Pan! When Ludovic (Georges Du Fresne) wants to escape, he gets Pam (Delphine Cadet) a Barbie-like creature that sprinkles magic dust and flies off with Ludovic in tow.Ludovic is different, maybe a transsexual, he is only seven, you know, but he likes to dress up like a girls. he plans to marry his father's boss' son when he is older. You can look at this film as being about homophobia, but you can also take the larger view that it is about society's ostracizing of anyone who doesn't fit in their cookie-cutter mold.It is a sweet tale about a boy that you just can't help loving.And, if he doesn't want to go off with Pam, I will. "},{"Title":"Yes, it's French - but don't let that stop you","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If there's someone in your family who is different - or even if there isn't - don't miss Ma Vie en Rose, the utterly charming and moving story of a 7-year-old boy named Ludovic Fabre who believes he should have been born a girl and whose dearest wish in life is to be like Pam, the French version of Barbie.Alain Berliner treats his subject with great tenderness and humor; there are neither heroes nor villains in the French suburb where the film takes place, just some ordinary, flawed humans muddling their way towards clarity - or its opposite.There is real substance behind the soufflé-like lightness of tone, and the pink veil of Ludovic's childish imaginings conceals moments of genuine pain. But there is nothing here that will outrage or frighten, making the R rating a complete mystery. The film could be shown to an older child (10 and up).Ludovic, as played by Georges du Fresne, will steal your heart. His performance in this film is nothing short of memorable. His mother and grandmother run a close second, but Ludovic will stay with you long after this film is over. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was an EXCELLENT film. The young protagonist was a fabulous actor, and the plot beautifully captured both the extreme joys and miseries associated with being gay or transsexual. Even the colors and music in this film were used perfectly. Ma vie en rose is one of those films that make you both laugh uproariously and cry hysterically. There was not a single weak moment or actor. There are many gay films out there, but pretty much all of them rely on sex and nudity to make their points There isn't anything wrong with that, but it's already been done before. This movie, on the other hand, framed queerness purely as an identity, something innate and spiritual. The fact that the main character was so young allowed the film to branch out into a new area, and explore the more internal aspects of queerness, like what it means to be a minority in your own family. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love this movie. I saw it years ago and this is one of the very few movies that I want to have. Everything is beautiful about this film the colors, the imagination, the acting, the emotion...The story about little Ludovic who thinks he is really a girl and will some day wake up and actually be one is sweet. The reactions of his parents, grandmother and neighbors gives it a darker touch. When you look at Ludovic and when you see the world through his eyes (wonderfully done by the director who mixes fairy tale images with realistic ones), you see how his wish is simple, real and imaginable.Only the confrontation with others makes it into a problem. An adult problem. But of course faced with troubled adults he too suffers from his wish... The film is not purely a Drama even though elements certainly are. Thanks to the beautiful mix, it is a very moving story about a truly adorable child.I really love this film, go see it ) "}{"Title":"Charming and provoking...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't help but recommend this movie. It is charming yet provoking... any parent should see this film. It's not depressing or sad, however it is intense. Conservatives beware! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Hazards of Smoking While Pregnant","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think I like Muriel's Wedding, which covered the same general territory, better.Superficially, this is a story about a girl in a boy's body. At least all the descriptions and summaries say so. And the parents in this think so. It isn't a life, only a couple weeks, and we have no idea what happens to this child. Even though a joke is made of misunderstanding the science of sex, the characters here (and the filmmaker too, it seems) conflate homosexual, transgender, hermaphrodite and crossdressing behavior.(There should be a word for this class. But I suppose anyone in it would exclude some others.)Never mind. The gender business is merely an excuse to explore deeper issues of disconnection between child and parent. Though I suspect few viewers will have had similar gender confusion, all will resonate to how difficult it is to make the story you inhabit.This is a movie with the child's movie within. Following Ted's rule, the level of abstraction between the movie and the movie within is the same distance as between the movie and us.Its well enough engineered to make you cry.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"What It Feels Like For A Girl","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent tale of little Ludovic who is sure he is really a she. It's a must see!! Unfortunately, we live in a world where each individual thinks their way is the right way...which is wrong. With that being said, Ludovic's family has to deal with their judgmental neighbors who should be cleaning their own kitchen so to speak. The comedy/drama dives deep into the trials & tribulations that this poor kid has to suffer in order to feel like he/she fits in. The funny thing is, back in the roman times, green was actually considered the feminine color...it was changed to pink when fashion changed many years later. Maybe they will make a sequel with Ludovic & call it My Life In Green, The College Years! "},{"Title":"It's So Natural!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about a French boy named Ludovic who is ONLY going through an experimental stage. It isn't serious because I went through it when I was much younger than Ludo because, I had a sister. But I didn't go through the experiences he went through and I didn't want to marry one of my friends who was a boy.The adults were so judgmental and so were the children. SHOCKING! Excluding Ludo's grand mother, she understood what Ludo was going through and she knew in the end he would grow out of his experimental phase. I was shocked firstly by seeing Ludo's father being retrenched from his job just because Ludo was experimenting on his boss's son, Albert. Secondly, the boys mugging him in the bathroom because they didn't understand what was going on and lastly it was terribly sad to see 7 year old Ludo being expelled from his school due to a SILLY misunderstanding!SHAME!! Ma Vie En Rosse was an Oscar award winning French film and I am thrilled to see it was because it has a message to all parents when their kids are young at heart, they will go through this phase ESPECIALLY if they have an older sister or brother and they, as the parents must NOT try to be too judgmental. "},{"Title":"Odd Movie About Identity","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ma vie en rose is an odd, off-putting French film about a seven-year boy who firmly believes that he should have been born a girl, and that he will grow up to be a woman nonetheless.  This is not a comedy, nor is the dramatic content in the least way sexual; the protagonist is a pre-pubescent child. He's actually very innocent in his assertions about his identify. The film's drama comes from the family's response to the child's activities, as the conflict spills out from the family into the neighborhood and job environments. The film's texture, the way the story is told, is very European (and I can't explain what I mean by this). You can just tell it's not an American movie irrespective of the language used to convey the story. If you like this style of movie I recommend it, otherwise give it a pass. "},{"Title":"It isn't about the child","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To me, this was not a film about a disturbed child, but about parents. The parents made, apparently, no effort to explain the biological difference between boys and girls.  Second, nobody enlightened the child on the difference between your secret, internal sensitivities and those that one displays publicly.  Any 7-year-old is capable of understanding these things, and Ludovic would have, too.  Third, cross-dressing is much more common in our world than most people think, and Ludovic's childhood feelings are not at all rare, nor are they bent.Childhood (and adult) sexual identity ambiguity is not a clear cut yes-or-no proposition.  It can take many forms in a vast grey area.  While Transvestitism typically associats with Homosexuality, Cross-dressing does not, and virtually all closet Cross-dressers are in fact Hetrosexuals with reasonably successful sex lives.  A child at 7 has a very unclear idea of what marriage entails, and his expressed wish to marry the other boy is far from being an indication that, with a matured sexuality, L. would have been a homosexual.  Sexuality is not yet within his grasp or ken.SPOILER  I predict that in adulthood, Ludovic becomes a totally heterosexual cross-dresser, well appreciated by women who value his sensitivity.  They will be lovely, caring women like his sisters, and not necessarily women with ambiguities of their own like Christine. "},{"Title":"Truly a Pity Fest which Failed to Accomplish the Goal","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most special individuals in society have qualities that make them unabashedly unique and remove them from the crowd.  The trauma of being a young outcast and the thrill of triumph over one's own wiring, often provide an incredibly rich canvas onto which the artist can paint the moving still of his/her life.  This film was rich in color, conceptually sound, and beautifully cast.    Yet with all the talent and obvious creativity, the film failed to accomplish the intended goal,we were born this way. Instead, the film developed into a pity fest and made unintentional mockery of the subject matter.  The sympathy for the character never came.  One of the rules of writing is that the audience need be on board with protagonist. Instead, I found myself thinking the boy needed a swift kick. "},{"Title":"A Heinous Misuse of Cinema","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I endured this film because it came highly recommended. Rarely has a film so egregiously disappointed me based on the glowing reviews of those I know who sang its praises. Ultimately, I thought it to be a heinous transposition of Berliner's personal fantasy world into the words and life of a child, barely above kindergarten age. Before cries of homophobe! or, trans-sexual basher! are leveled upon me, please understand that I am highly sympathetic to the strife and sacrifice many homosexuals and trans-gender persons endure throughout their lives. I also know that sexual confusion is a large part of growing up for many young people afraid to confront their true sexuality when they begin to feel very different and ostracized from their peers. But a 7-year-old boy? I simply could not overcome the inherent absurdity of Ludovic, a 7-year-old boy who dreams of having his period and who longs to marry and passionately kiss another young boy upon completion of said marriage. Indeed, everyone is different, of this there can be no doubt. However, for the sake of verisimilitude (please remember this is a fictional story), how many straight 7-year-old boys even long to passionately kiss little girls? The frank and disturbing sexuality of the gay little nymph as portrayed in Ludovic smacks of Berliner's bizarre, twisted fantasy; a film in which he may excuse, exorcise, and at the same time realize his lurid demons by using a VERY pre-teen child as his mouthpiece as opposed to a lucid, cognizant, world-weary adult trans-sexual. Perhaps Berliner himself knew whole-heartedly that he was gay and wanted to express such very, very openly when he was 7, but of every gay friend I've since discussed this film with since watching it, none could relate a common experience as presented in Ma Vie en Rose. Again, a dastardly misuse of the gift of cinema for a film-maker to indulge himself and soak in the trappings of self-aggrandizing pre-teen homosexuality. Poor, poor, poor. "}]