[{"Title":"Review","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"32 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a recipe for filmmaking at its finest... Get a dialog driven play, get the playwright to pen it for the screen, and toss in two of the most intense and talented actors (Kevin Spacey and Sean Penn) in the business, supported by a very talented and surprising cast.  What do you get? Hurlyburly!  Billed as a black comedy, this is more what I would term black hole comedy.  It is VERY dark, very disturbing, and the humor comes from the characters' need to lighten up a moment or to justify their actions. This film is NOT for everyone...  If you're looking for anything truly humorous, this isn't the film.  But if you want to see amazing acting and professionals who work well together, this is your film.  Read other reviews with cautions on this film--don't confuse the tone of someone who hates what the characters stand for, what they believe in, and how they behave with the quality of the work done by the entire cast. "},{"Title":"Don't take it literally","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an incredibly interesting movie.  Besides an exceptional cast, the dialogue is sharp and witty and there are some very intriguing issues raised.  However, it seems that these positive points are lost on most viewers.  My guess is it's because you cannot remain a passive viewer or an idiot and expect to find any redeeming qualities in this movie.  On the surface, Hurlyburly is populated by extremely unsympathetic characters that become more debased as the movie progresses.  Eddie (Penn) provides the central thrust of the movie.  Eddie is also almost continually snorting coke that fuels extended often seemingly disjointed dialogue.  But most of the meaning is lost and the movie can become a bit tedious if you take this dialogue literally.  The drugs and depravity serve to create a plausible environment for the expression of a much greater range of thoughts and emotions.  It would be hard to swallow Eddie's neurosis and paranoia if he wasn't high all the time.  And, Eddie's drug addled observations and frustrations are the glue of the movie.  The drugs provide the writer with a device to verbalise many thoughts that normally would not be uttered aloud. More traditionally this type of problem might be solved by using a narrator. Eddie's problems and fears are not all that different from most people ... they are just extremely amplified.   "},{"Title":"You'll either love it or hate it","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely not a movie for everyone. Heavy drug use, discomfiting sexual situations, bad language, violence, a talky, stagey atmosphere, and generally despicable characters. Even if you like the actors involved, this may still not be the movie for you (my aunt rented it for my uncle and herself on the strength of Kevin Spacey's name, and he still hasn't forgiven her).Having said that, I really liked this movie. I never saw the play, but when I read through it, I thought it was the most misogynistic piece of garbage I had ever  encountered. Seeing it on screen, though, was a completely different experience. I felt that I understood what the playwright was trying to get at namely, that this is a piece about how Eddie, through the death of Phil, is saved from being Mickey. In short, a spiritual redemption of sorts.Performances are uniformly strong. I have never been a big Sean Penn fan, but I thought he did a more than competent job with Eddie, particularly in the later scenes where he veers between arrogance and pathos. Kevin Spacey seemed uncomfortable with some aspects of the dialogue (i.e. blah blah blah etc.), but otherwise did his usual masterful job, in a role which raises the same questions that many of us would like to ask of him.The  role of Donna was, I felt, disfigured by the many cuts in the script--she is more of a victim than a wanton, IMHO--thus, the best thing I can say about Anna Paquin's performance is that she did well with what she was given. I had no strong objections to any of the other casting choices, except for Meg Ryan as Bonnie, who apparently cannot even play a stripper without resorting to her usual cutesy mannerisms.FWIW, I liked the director's technical choice of opening the scenes by putting the conversations on cell phones, etc. However, I would have willingly sacrificed some of the added dialogue for some of the original lines that got cut. Final analysis I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and plan to buy it when it comes out on video,  "},{"Title":"Powerfully acted and compelling drama","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Highlighted by emotional, believable performances by its cast (Sean Penn in particular is typically brilliant), Hurlyburly is not for everyone, but can be a powerful and compelling drama for those who approach it with an open mind.  The film is frequently referred to as a comedy-drama, a misleading designation for what is a sometimes humorous, but ultimately emotional and sobering look at life in 1980s Hollywood.  Particularly well-done are the cocaine-fuelled scenes which provide one of the most accurate depictions of the drug lifestyle and the effect it can have on interpersonal relationships.  The film can seem over-the-top in parts, but the excess is necessary to convey the film's message.  Emotional, witty, thought-provoking and on some levels deeply depressing, Hurlyburly is an underrated and under-appreciated character-driven drama that capitalizes on the talents of an all-star cast to deliver a top-notch product. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but be warned, you must have a good command of English to understand what they are talking about...","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" HurlyBurly is one of those movies for me that i can watch over and over again, and each time see something different, each time connect to it in a different way. The movie captures one man's struggle for meaning and significance in his with a desperation that has rarely been caught on film before. The movie deals in archetypes, with nearly all the characters neatly sitting into one archetype or another. After watching the movie one cant help wonder which of the people he knows is like which of the characters in the movie.The direction and cinematography are used to serve the characters, and thats what the movie is about, the characters. Nothing much happens in the movie, other than people meeting, and people talking. I always find brutally honest characters interesting to watch, and this entire movie might just be about that. The cast, and the acting is excellent.Many people are bored by the movie because of its wordiness, and many people disparage it as a drug movie. Although the film is wordy, it is not a drug movie. I would say it is a philosophical movie if anything else. The movie forces you to be introspective, and the movie even acts like somewhat of a Rorschach test on the viewers. Some scenes, like the one where Eddie and Mickey describe the road trip, can be seen in different ways. I like to think that the way people understand this movie has a lot to do with the kind of people they are.Do watch this movie, but remember that the movie is demanding. The characters talk fast, and talk a lot. The ideas expressed are complicated, and need to be thought about to be properly understood. In fact, watch this movie twice. "},{"Title":"solid direction-terrific ensemble cast","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You liked Glengarry Glen Ross? You're gonna love THIS one. Kevin Spacey doing his patented snide riffs. Anna Paquin growing up and showing some range. Garry Shandling? Who knew? Meg Ryan finally playing something besides America's Sweetheart. Disturbingly funny in some sequences (particularly the Sean Penn-Chazz Palminteri duets) and laugh-out-loud vaudeville in others (the Spacey-Penn cell phone bit is an instant classic). The ensemble cast, with excellent direction, gets all the rhythms of the script. It may look a little over-the-top here and there but it seems to be a conscious choice by the director in this epic send-up of 80's Hollywood excess.While it's readily apparent that no one is going to go home humming the tunes from this one, it's still a bit surprising that the film garnered no major nominations. Same deal as Glengarry. Give 'em a great ensemble in a black comedy with no discernible star, a solid script and inventive direction and be prepared for the icy shoulder at Oscar time. It's an unjust world we live in. This movie deserves a wider audience but owing to the subject matter, it probably won't get one. But I'll give it an 85, Dick. It's got a great beat and you can dance to it! "},{"Title":"Everything Pertains","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Trainspotting' meets `The Big Kahuna' meets `The Ice Storm.'Sean Penn is the best actor in film, period. He is one of the few actors who can act several roles simultaneously. Kevin Spacey is the best ensemble leader in film today. Though here he does his old wise man character, he knows how to project his being into the actors around.You'll want to see this just to watch the craft. But the pacing is tedious. Some of the language is brilliant, And the basic notion, of obsessive self-referential examination is rich, but the enterprise fails because of the misunderstanding of time. "},{"Title":"Great movie, more theatrical than cinematic","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A touching movie about friendship and dependency viewed through the distorting lens of rampant nihilism.There's a theatrical eloquence to the dialogue that lends it mesmerizing power. It has a literary quality that some people will find unbearably pretentious, but which I found deeply moving.The movie starts out with a fast paced barrage of hilarious absurdities. As it gets slower and more ponderous it sometimes veers off course, but in a sense this just deepens the sense of human frailty. Similarly the somewhat grasping conclusion does not significantly detract from the film's main thrust.Acting by Kevin Spacey, Sean Penn and Garry Shandling is absolutely top notch. Chazz Palminteri isn't always as convincing. Excellent showing by Meg Ryan. "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  a lot of the negative reviews of this movie are a consequence of the viewers simply not enjoying this type of work.  it aint a happy movie and its not for everyone.  if you've never spent serious time in NYC, LA, SF or some similar city, then you probably do not 1) know and interact with people like this on a regular basis, 2) understand the true to life social context of the scenes/plot or 3) comprehend the use of drugs amongst nearly every ladder rung within certain industries and hence can't recognize that the writer/director is making a parody of it all.  the writing is clearly very witty (you try writing it) and if you know people like those portrayed, then you would also see that the acting also first rate.  if you don't like this because of its repetitive babble, self absorbed characters, harsh realities and use of nose candy then perhaps you just don't know that this movie is a near documentary.  i recommend you visit your friends in any big city and see if you can't get to a few banker / journalist / academic / consulting / advertising / acting parties.  experience, re-watch, then review.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant writing,  marvelous and memorable performances round out the craftsmanship of this film","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For many movie fans who truly love the art of film, a good screenplay is the jeweled movement on which marvelous films turn and pivot. They remain with you as memorable experiences, be they like Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, Gandhi, or The Maltese Falcon. The genre hardly matters; good screen play is an essential in even the action movie. Too bad so much mediocre screen writing abounds when good talent seems so obtainable.'Hurlyburly' was adapted from the play for the screen by the author. In a word, it is brilliant. The acting is superb in every character, and the casting was perfect. Once again, Sean Penn gives a performance that is indicative of his paramount position as one of the very best actors of his generation &#151; a superlative star given any generation.I can just imagine that this film has made some pretty bad friends in some quarters &#151; and in both genders. There is no hiding the fact that this sort of world exists to some extent anywhere a group of hedonistic, single males (or men who think that they are still single) gather to hang out, relax or party. But a viewer will be missing the point if she/he thinks that 's all there is &#151; gratuitous, reckless living. Marshall McLuan's theory of amputation kept occurring to me after watching the film &#151; the idea that with each additional machine in our culture we are being cut off from our humanity. This is a psychodrama that does not resort to the unspoken, latent trauma that lurks in the past to trouble our characters. Something in Eddie is more truncated than broken, and although he doesn't know what it is, he is intensely aware that it is causing him despair, loneliness and pain. The drugs maybe both cause and effect. Beyond the pain itself, he is completely unsure about what he thinks he is supposed to feel. Some considerable irony floats around this issue, and to the director's credit it is revealed with cunning grace.This film demonstrates that amidst all the lowest common denominating crud, American mainstream cinema is occasionally distributing intriguing works of art. This may not be the film to purposely chose on a sad evening of angst and regret, but if you were to catch it at such a moment, the performances might sweep you up, and the film that was a play could beguile you. I gave it an unequivocal 10 for the same reasons your movie guide gives 5's for the films that I would love to have in my tape and disk library. "}{"Title":"Hurlyburly","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hurlyburly is adapted from a 1984 play by David Rabe, which is undoubtedly one of the best I have read. The stage version of the piece runs for over three hours and the entire show takes place in one location. Its life on stage has been both controversial and acclaimed. Anthony Drazan's film is brisker then the play, at a length of 122 minutes, and it is set in a variety of different places.The film takes place in Hollywood, although Rabe argues that critics overemphasize its setting. It explores the dynamics and cyclical psychology of men, and the women who pass through their lives. The characters interact in a chaotic environment, but it is their mental lack of clarity that provides focus for the piece. Substance abuse is an important component of the film, since it enhances the nature of the dialogue.Eddie (played by Sean Penn) can be considered the protagonist of the piece, but he doesn't serve as a spokesman for the themes. Nor does he exist as a moral compass for the story, which fluctuates between brutal animosity and moments of genuine tenderness. As Eddie says in the film, he is trying to maintain a viable relationship with reality. The tumultuous feelings and ideas he has are disconnected and elusive. Throughout the course of the movie, he comes to realize that he is a spectator of his own turbulent existence, and his paranoia intensifies.In order to maintain some sense of personal control, Eddie reflects his own uncontrollable tendencies in his best friend Phil (Chazz Palminteri). Phil is a wild force full of violence and rage, and his vulnerability makes him more dangerous. Eddie feels that if he keeps Phil on a leash, he is somehow restraining his own tumultuous urges. This kind of indirect, cerebrally confused relationship is what lies at the core of Hurlyburly. Without some kind of analysis, the men in this film are simply drug-addled misogynists complaining about existence.Mickey (Kevin Spacey) is a friend of Eddie's and Phil's, but he is more superficially balanced than both of them combined. Mickey delivers casual, sarcastic assaults to Phil as a way of validating his own sense of worth and importance. He confirms his own masculinity through emotionless sex and the humiliation of visibly weak people. Although Mickey is not inclined to raise his voice or inflict physical harm on people, he is arguably one of the cruelest characters in the play.All of these men see women as a vindictive, malevolent presence in their lives, and their romantic insecurity can probably be related to issues with control. Particularly in the case of Phil and Eddie, these characters want to dominate the women they interact with, and they feel threatened when they are unable to do so. They still cling to the idea that they can own something in every sense. What they are attempting is to remedy their lack of personal understanding through controlling women.Of course, all of these ideas are my personal interpretations of the material, but I admire any piece of writing that welcomes this kind of involvement. David Rabe's Hurlyburly is not simply a commentary on the inner-workings of Hollywood, although that may play a small role. It is one of the most intimate, challenging portrayals of men I have seen. The people occupying this story are not the sort of people you would necessarily want to befriend, but that doesn't make them unworthy of examination.In a 1999 interview with Charlie Rose, Sean Penn said that he is interested in films that are expressive instead of impressive. Anthony Drazan's treatment of Hurlyburly is completely expressive, and its articulation deserves to be commended. Technically speaking, it's a very well-made film, with dizzying visual style and exhilarating structure.Any work like this is obviously reliant on the actors, and Hurlyburly makes no missteps in regards to casting. Sean Penn is one of the great American actors, and I believe that this is one of his finest achievements. He played Eddie on stage before taking part in this screen treatment, and his personal understanding of the character is visible. This is a complete performance in every sense, drawing us in with broad physical alterations while also demonstrating the importance of subtlety.As an actor, Kevin Spacey is on par with Penn, and his knowledge of the craft is evident again in this film. He also performed this part onstage in the past, and he illustrates an intuition for the style of dialogue and acting required. Chazz Palminteri is outstanding as Phil, providing us with an intimate and painfully honest portrait. All the other actors deserve mention as well &#x96; Robin Wright Penn, Garry Shandling, Anna Paquin and Meg Ryan all turn in convincing and memorable performances.Hurlyburly asks us to spend time with flawed and occasionally despicable characters, but ignoring it on that basis is frankly closed-minded. This piece asks us to study why these people behave the way they do, and it presents us with great writing and acting to make that experience engaging. I think this is one of the best American movies of the 1990s, and it is a personal favorite. "},{"Title":"An Underrated and Relatively Unknown Film","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching Sean Penn walking up to the podium, accepting his Best Actor Academy Award for his (in my opinion) decent and somewhat accomplished role in Mystic River, and thought to myself the award was more of an achievement for his body of work rather than for the particular film. His role in Hurlyburly is far more impressive than the Jersey-speaking gangster in Great Clint's emotional waterfall of a film. I've always been a fan of Hurlyburly since seeing a heavily edited version of it for the first time on UPN years ago, mainly for its writing and acting performances. The entire ensemble is wonderful - Penn, Spacey, and Palminteri especially - and the writing is believable and clear cut, even though I've never met or been exposed to anyone even close to characters like the ones depicted in the film. The low rating on IMDb surprised me, but maybe I can see why the majority of people either don't like or are rather indifferent about the film. The film-making is not ground breaking by any means, but the content and passion exuded from the actors involved stand out amongst other films like it that heavily rely on idiosyncratic and interesting dialogue. I'd like to see Rabe's stage version to see how he nails it - because the movie is a treat for anyone who enjoys a dose of something a bit off-beat and different. "},{"Title":"THIS IS A GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the negative opinions about this movie!*** Warning, the following may contain slight spoilers *** Following this band of ironically (in?)compatible group of friends as they confront each other to the point where they question if their friendships are really worth the effort! And if so, is it based on anything that ISN'T self serving? And could it possibly be out of kinship and love?I think this movie questions the value of friendships, and creates a subtle mirror for us to evaluate our own friendships.I felt pity for all the characters in their bid to find love through means of friends, drugs, sex, hookers and girlfriends. Somehow they seemed hopelessly stuck in their emptiness.A brilliantly acted film... i'm sure the actors were delighted to able to cut their teeth on something involving long dialogs and stage-like drama.Don't miss it! 8/10  "},{"Title":"Talk is NOT cheep","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In a HurleyBurley world with HurleyBurley people, talk is NOT cheep. Cocaine, Marijuana and alcohol give the briliantly portrayed characters the power of speech.  No... this movie is not about drugs and alcohol.  This movie is about ideas and theories on life.  I myself have to admit that not all of what was discussed in this movie was not understood by ME, but on the other hand, I think that's the beauty of the script.  Who knows the secrets of the world?  No-one knows all, yet we all have theories on our own existances... or existance as a whole.Joel Siegal from GOOD MORNING AMERICA notes that This Cast makes you wish they gave an Oscar for ensemble acting..  I totally agree with this statement.  A wonderful cast has come together on this movie and I have come from it blown away by their abilities.  It takes a tough mind and will for an actor to spend a whole movie talking, and by that I mean, no car chases or things blowing up.  No special effects or thrilling scenes of aliens and monstars.  It was speech and these actors spoke brilliantly.  It was wonderfully casted and these people brought this original script to life. I can't wait to watch it again... and again... and again... and I can do that because I own it myself. "},{"Title":"Weird but good","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't know anything about this movie but when I looked at list of cast I realized that I have to watch this movie.And I did.I found it weird but very good.There is lot of conversation between characters and not a single line isn't missed.Very good lines about life,death,love,friendship and sex.Everything is mixed up together and wrapped into very good drama.I don't think that this movie will be on top of everyone list because this isn't type of movie for everyone.But what all people has to agree is that characters are full of life and situations in this movie are normal and realistic.And what I have to say and applause is acting.Acting is brilliant and it comes from every actor in this movie.Sean Penn did great job,this is a perfect role for him and he is very convincing.Kevin Spacey was a bit lost but his talent is so big that he can act every role.Also a good job.I liked Chazz Palminteri,Robin Wright Penn and Anna Paquin but what I really enjoyed is Meg Ryan.She surprised me.She's only few minutes in this movie but she acted that part so good and I hope that we'll see more roles like this for her.Excellent conversation and brilliant acting are top qualities of this movie. "},{"Title":"An original, very talky, comedy.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Or Verbal Gymnastics Among The Bored And Decadent. I have rarely, or perhaps even never, seen a movie with such extreme verbal acrobatics and with such an incredible emphasis on complex semantic games and duels; almost makes Stillman's movies sound like Bud Spencer's films, by comparison. Whoever wrote this thing evidently put a lot of effort into the sometimes mind-boggling dialog. There isn't much in the way of a plot, but the kind of talking, arguing, and philosophizing that goes on here is rather unusual. And the good part is that it's very well-written. Occasionally the sentences or arguments get so bogged down into semantic mud that it becomes necessary to use the rewind button, because it's difficult to concentrate that hard for two entire hours. I think that Wright spoke for both the viewers and the cast members when she at one point hollered I can't stand this semantic insanity any more!.Practically everyone engages in the verbal entanglements, but it is Penn's character who usually outdoes everyone in this respect, and it is usually him who initiates them, right after snorting the n-th line of cocaine, or after having taken a couple of deep inhalings of hash - and those things he does throughout the whole movie (and this goes to a lesser extent for Spacey and Schandling, too). The semantic insanity sometimes goes so far that the characters replace ends of sentences with blablablabla - quite literally. The dialog is sometimes fascinating, often funny or amusing, and at times so insanely intricate that the characters themselves have trouble following what the other person exactly meant to say.This last thing, of course, leads to many amusing moments. The humorous moments themselves stem primarily from Penn's drug-induced, hallucinatory ramblings and Spacey's wonderful sarcasm and wit. In fact, the very beginning of the movie sets the tone for the way those two will interact throughout most of the picture (their relationship being important but also just one of a half-dozen) Penn is falling deeper and deeper into thickets of semantic insanity - bitching about Spacey having had a fling with Wright - while Spacey listens to him, and responds to Penn's verbal overkill by making wry remarks. In the two hours of the movie Penn is almost always whacked-out on drugs, and the more drugged he is, the more he searches for answers to the meaning of life (towards the end of the movie), the more he moans, bitches, and whines, and the more he practices his bored-out-of-my-mind philosophizing about relationships and life. In moments when he is extremely out of it - like when alone with Meg Ryan, and just after Palmintierri's funeral - he goes on such an emotional rampage, and his voice assumes such a high, crackly pitch that he sounds exactly like Bill Murray in moments when he goes a little crazy. It's by far the best Penn I've seen so far; he has rarely been good, but in this movie he is rather good, I have to admit. Spacey, of course, is great as ever, and Palmintierri gets a short while to get used to. The cast is, generally speaking, quite a colourful and mixed bag.There are a number of funny or amusing moments, so I'll just mention a couple of those that I still remember... There is the scene when Penn mentions the aborigines, and says some nonsense about them having (had) their own problems, such as tigers waiting in trees, and dogs in the bushes (or something like that). Very funny. Then there is a funny, longer scene in which Spacey tries to explain to Penn that there is no hidden message in Palmintierri's (rather moronic) suicide note, while Penn insists that they analyze the letter for hidden meanings and anagrams(!) in order to find the real truth about his pal's death. Especially funny is the brief scene when Spacey reads the letter aloud, mock-analyzing it word by word. "},{"Title":"phenomenal acting, slow pacing","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" an interesting adaptation of the play, of course there is much lost in the translation (pacing etc.) but the performances are brilliant especially Chazz Palminteri who i believe gives his best performance ever as phil a violent talentless wannabe actor who is desperately seeking meaning to his life in the soulless city of LA. Penn is also good as the slimeball with the heart of...slightly less slime quality material. Like Phil he is becoming more and more disenchanted with existence. All the characters seem to have a problem with cocaine and an inability to love. (is there a correlation?)Kevin Spacey is fun as himself and Meg Ryan is surprisingly not as herself as usual as a fading single mother party girl who gives fellatio to celebrities in moving vehicles...wacky. the movie is a great ensemble experiment and there are a million great moments that warrant it for multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"A brilliant intelligent film with an outstanding cast","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Had no idea what this film would be like and chose it because of the stellar cast. It is not upbeat but it is powerful and reminds me of the work of the late Paddy Chayevsky. Every player in this film is real and immediate. Chaz Palmintieri is frightening and real. Sean Penn is a lost character in the power broker world of Hollywood. Kevin Spacey is the dry and cynical voice of reason. Anna Paquin shows that she simply cannot play a role badly--ever. It is strange to see a film where the dialogue is the most important aspect. There are no significant effects. Yet the direction is tight. Despite the minimum of action the powerful interaction of the main characters keeps interest throughout. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Acting !","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After viewing this picture, I became a big fan of Sean Penn,(Eddie),The Interpreter,'05, who showed his great acting abilities in playing a very hard role to portray on the screen. Meg Ryan,(Bonnie),In The Cut,'03, played the role of a dippy blonde who would do anything for Eddie and I mean anything. Robin Wright Penn,(Darlene),Nine Lives,'05 had the hots for Eddie and Eddie had a ball making love to her quite often during the film. Well, after all, they are husband and wife. Garry Shandling,(Artie),Town & Country,'01 make a few brief appearances and tried to add some humor to his role, which was so so. This is a very strange story, but is really down to earth and has a cast of great actors who did a fantastic job of presenting way out people all mixed up and high on DRUGS! "},{"Title":"this movie needs more than one viewing to really hit you, but it's great","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i have a difficult time with the blithe dismissal of the film by the other reviewer. the first time i saw the movie, i thought it was all of those things pretentious, overblown, overlong, etc. but i somehow was drawn back to it a few more times, and as i watched the film more, i began to see the depth that initially escaped me.the thing that changed appreciably to me was my initial assessment of the dialogue as one-dimensional and silly BECAUSE OF BAD WRITING. the truth, if you pay attention to the actual behavior of penn and spacey and palmintieri, is that these characters are one-dimensional and silly because that is truly what they ARE. it isn't poor writing but excellent that gives the characters these traits. the three main characters are all vapid, burnt-out, self-indulgent yuppie Hollywood efflua - and these people really exist; i've met enough of them that the performances in hurlyburly are uncanny.the movie is so deep in some ways that it strikes you as vapid and indulgent - this sounds like terrible doublespeak, but describing hurlyburly is hard. the most important theme of the entire film is that of communication. indeed, penn, spacey, and palmintieri engage each other in circular, solipsistic pontification endlessly for the bulk of the movie, constantly evaluating, re-evalutating, and essentially flogging everything they say or do (spacey's character, by nature, does this less, but he is perhaps more effective as the level-headed of the three). more striking is that none of them actually pay real attention to each other outside of gathering information that benefits them materially or emotionally - there is no RECIPROCATION. at the conclusion of the film, when penn's character is half-suicidal and cranked up, sobbing in the hot-tub about how empty he feels, it is the supposedly useless tart played by paquin that pinpoints the problem, with characteristic simplicity the thing that matters is communication and understanding - precisely the things that penn and his friends have no grasp of. one wonders about what happens after the movie ends (theoretically, of course) does penn figure it out and wise up? or does he realize that he and his friends are incapable of this simple alteration, and eat a bullet? some of the greatness of hurlyburly is that this fate isn't shown to us hopefully we think on it.now, i know that this sounds like a lot of self-help drek, and to an extent it is, but hurlyburly succeeds even here even though the sentiment about interpersonal (and hell, intrapersonal) understanding and communication is stupidly simple and often abused, it still ends up being the only real salve to the insanity of the main character's life.I could go on, but after a bit, my commentary will just confuse things. watch IT or watch it AGAIN. HIGHLY recommended for those with patience. "}{"Title":"Adapted from a play - so it'll be a bit talky","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think it's a strong ensemble cast.  Sean Penn was pretty good as a total cokehead weasel.  Much of the surprise is in just how depraved and empty they really are.  It's not strongly plotted, but it does have strong characters.Probably more appreciated by folks into acting than folks into the possibilities of film.   "},{"Title":"Some of the best films are about nothing...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not only are some of the best films about nothing, they may also feature characters so lacking in redeeming features you'd throw yourself under a train in order to avoid them. Here, there's not one but seven self indulgent, self obsessed losers who seem to exist solely to force their neuroses on other people. Eddie and Mickey are casting agents who live together in the Hollywood Hills. Their 'friends' are Phil, a cocaine addled actor, and Arnie, an obsequious producer. There's also Darlene, sometimes Eddie's girlfriend, sometimes, Mickey's; Donna, a hitch hiker; and Bonnie, a single parent stripper. During the course of the film they drink, get stoned, go to a funeral, oh, and talk at interminable length about, well, nothing. Mickey's opening gambit is - 'So, Phil, your personal life's a shambles, how's your career?' and that pretty much sets the tone for the rest of the movie. The characters are so unpleasant, so self obsessed, it's hilarious. The constant repetition of motifs - alcohol, drugs, profanity, sex, paranoia, and morbid introspection, goes beyond exploitation of those things, and paints a very black picture of the male psyche. Few actors are prepared to appear as repellent on screen as Sean Penn is,and he's never been as repellent as he is in this. Chazz Palminteri, as Phil, is frighteningly moronic. 'I could kick your eyes out and feel nothing' he says to Kevin  Spacey's Mickey. Spacey has one electric moment of acting, when he breaks down in tears in the middle of a dirty story. Apart from that, his familiar mannerisms are ideally suited to the souless character he's playing. The film's best moment? Eddie What would it take to make you mad Mickey? Mickey Hey, I guess anythings possible.  "},{"Title":"Amazing screenplay","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I watched Hurlyburly practically the whole time I was thinking damn this movie has to be based on a play and if it isn't they sure as hell could make a one terrific play out of it. Well, end credits revealed me that Hurlyburly was originally a play after all and it's really not hard to believe it. Mostly every scene takes place in this one building and the ingenious screenplay is so full of amazingly enjoyable dialogue we hardly find it in a so-called traditional drama.Of course the acting made the experience festive. Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey in the leading roles were phenomenal as usual. Robin Wright Penn and Meg Ryan played the female parts splendidly. Funny thing is, I didn't even recognize Chazz Palminteri! I mean really, I watched A Bronx tale just recently but he simply looked so different in this one. Somehow...chubbier. How much can a bloke change in five years time?Well if we want to talk about a true transformation just take a good look at Anna Paquin. This was the little 11 year old girl who's debut role of Flora McGrath in Jane Campion's The Piano was awarded with an Oscar. Like I said, five years can really change someone. She was absolutely sensational in Hurlyburly, beautiful, sexy and downright irresistible. Hurlyburly is extremely clever, stylish and entertaining black comedy for people with a good taste for dramas. If Shakespeare would be alive today and he would create a modern play I guess the man would probably come up with something like this. To put it in one word wonderful! "},{"Title":"A Powerful, compelling must see movie!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I suppose on the surface 'Hurly Burly' looks like one of those satirical expose's of Hollywood excess but i think to pigeonhole it as such is to maybe miss the point because despite it's obvious fixation on the decadent, ultimately vacuous lives of it's characters, Sean Penn gives a vivid portrayal of a man who has become so removed from his emotional self that even emotions themselves have become in someway suspect.  He is a man lost in a world where everything is a cliche and even communication itself seems redundant (eg. the blah blah blah's inserted at the end of Penn's and Spacey's sentences).Nothing seems real in this stifling, sincerity free environment (a situation not helped by the mountains of cocaine he imbibes throughout the story).Penn's character flounders through the film clinging to doomed love affairs and deceitful pseudo friendships in an attempt to remind himself that he is still a human being and not just some robotic consumer unit.In that sense 'Hurly Burly' is more existentialist angst than moral fable or media satire and is all the more refreshing for that. Spacey is magnificent as Penn's charming but ultimately soulless flatmate and Chazz Palminteri gives a splendidly unhinged performance as Penn's aspiring actor client.Although Davids Rabe's screen adaption of his play can often look exactly that the dialogue brims over with dark sardonic wit and there are some truly hysterically funny scenes that so accurately capture the derangement of drug psychosis it is almost painful to watch.Ultimately though the film's melancholy tone takes precedence and in the final analysis one almost feels ashamed for having laughed at all. "},{"Title":"This is what drugs make you.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly is one of the most realistic films I have seen ; it shows a group of Hollywood's man with a lot of money,whose lives are destroyed by the drugs.It's one of the few films that shows (in a very realistic way),what usually do the rich peopletake drugs.That's the human nature;you do what can hurt or kill you (only for the pleasure of the risk),without think about how you can finish (probably dead).The film shows too what the cocaine makes to youto destroy completely your brain(like you can see in the character of Sean Penn),making you paranoid;thinking about things that aren't real.The performance of Sean Penn can looks excessive,but it's absolutely real;if you take cocaine,you will finish like him....with the brain totally destroyed,making it you loose all what you love;your friends, your family(the only thing about cocaine that don't shows the film),and probably the most important thing the love of your life; somebody you never will return to meet like her... So,if you want to see (in an absolutely real way), what drugs can make you ,see this film.And don't think I'm the usual person that talk about something knowing nothing about it;I know perfectly what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"It's about the mythology, stupid!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since most of the reviewers just don't get it, here it is in what I hope is plain english. The characters are the modern day myth makers, they make films, the stories that are suppose to help us make sense of our times. Hmm. The stories they make are shallow and pandering. They see no meaning in their lives. They take drugs in a desperate attempt to obliterate their angst, ambivalence, shame, confusion, fear (of women among others), paranoia, blah, blah, blah. After the suicide, Penn's character attempts to make sense of it with anagrams etc. A feeble attempt to find meaning in a meaningless note from a lost soul. He has no relevant myths to help him deal with the loss or anything else for that matter. As Penn's character says to Ryan's, Do you think the ancients had these problems? Hell no, they had valuable and relevant myths. Why? 'Cause they weren't trying to make money for a film studio! Is technology changing our culture so fast that we can't make up the mythology quickly enough to deal with it? We have the technology but do we have the mythology? Blah, blah, blah! "},{"Title":"Did you make the deal? -  He said he liked it! - Did he give you a check? - No. - You don't have a deal.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Sean Penn and friends are hanging out in a pretty nice house in Hollywood, getting stoned and having loooonnnnnng conversations about nothing. Massive amounts of drugs will loosen the lips. Or is it a Hollywood thing to babble on and on? It's all hurlyburly gobbledygook.There is no plot. There are just Hollywood types hating themselves and taking drugs. The first thirty minutes was good. The conversation Penn has with Spacey about his girlfriend was hilarious. It starts in the morning and continues until they get home that night. The Hollywood players sort out their lives with drugs and alcohol while coming to grips with the fact that they are all pretty miserable people.The talking never stops in this movie. I was drowning in inane chatter. There is only so much babbling I can take. Hurlyburly exploded way past my limit. There were a few funny scenes at the beginning but Hurlyburly eventually chokes to death with its non-stop group catharsis session.  "},{"Title":"How bad is this?","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was attracted by the incredible cast - but could only stand to watch the first 30 minutes and regret waiting so long. I cannot find a single positive comment to make about this film. True I wasn't really in the mood for a misogynistic, substance-fuelled, dialogue-driven examination of people I don't know and don't care about - but I usually stick any movie out until the end. I simply couldn't give this film a mark so I had to give it a one. Such a shame, a stellar ensemble cast is a terrible thing to waste. "},{"Title":"See it only for the curio value of the cast...","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... as I did, and marvel.  For they really are quite phenomenally talented.  Even Meg Ryan! She can ACT!  All of the performers nearly manage to wrench a quality movie out of what is otherwise two hours + of self indulgent jerks spouting vapid dialogue whilst under the influence of illegal substances.  Alas, even they are not superhuman, for they ultimately fail.  However fascinating I find it to watch Sean Penn/Kevin Spacey/Anna Paquin et al do their actorly thang, the vehicle they use needs to have something faintly original and/or profound to say.  Unfortunately, this doesn't.  You mean sections of the Hollywood glitterati are shameless, shallow, selfish and drug addled?  No!  I would never have guessed!  Pull the other one!  American Psycho skewers the yuppie universe much more accurately and in a much more entertaining way than this, because it has a director who is knowing and can poke fun at her subjects; something which apparently THIS director cannot do. "},{"Title":"Junk Cinema","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went to see this piece of crap at a really nice art-house in Newton MA and I couldn't believe how ridiculously bad this film is.Think plan 9 From Outer Space and if you have seen this POS and think not shame on you because films are suppose make you care in some way or another and I can think of nothing less important than the creeps bums and assholes depicted in this film and not very well depicted at that.One dimensional sets crappy creepy dialog stupid plot it is all there.The last time I laughed at a funeral scene was when I saw Cat Ballou and it was meant to be funny but not this one.I was surprised to find out that it was supposed to be touching.Touch this morons! "}{"Title":"A mostly fun time with serious scum, but over stays its welcome","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" David Rabe's play adapted to the big screen is a mild success about a few Hollywood power players who snort and drink their way into self destruction and seem to hate themselves more than they hate each other. It's one transgression to the next, whether it's hooking up with a deranged under aged girl, infidelity and enough coke snorted in one night that should have lasted most users a lifetime. This is essentially a play, shot on 35mm and the dialogue is sharp and witty, but around an hour in, Hurlyburly looses momentum and becomes a repetitive series of atrocious behavior, coupled with even more bad behavior. It just gets numbing and these vacuous people and this minimal structure can't sustain a two hour running time. The acting is great from all involved and there's enough laughs watching these monsters misbehave to give this a mild recommendation. "},{"Title":"Theatre Lives!","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is very much like a stage play, (not surprising since that is where it came from). It is all in the dialogue rather than action; interaction between two or three characters only most of the time, sudden changes of mood and dynamics, more cerebral than visceral. It is more expansive than a stage play though, even though it has that feel about it. The screenplay includes nice cinematic touches like the car phone dialogues where one car over takes the other and he shouts at him as he goes past. A similar thing was done from the balcony of the flat earlier in the film. There are also some qualities of a Michael Mann about it with the use of architecture and music as film elements.The film grew on me as it went along. One of the things that made it difficult perhaps, was that none of the characters were very likable, but the acting by all of them was a tour de force. Nice to see Meg Ryan given a chance to do some real acting instead of being just pretty-pretty set decoration. It's a film that is hard to take in one sitting I think, and will bear repeated viewing with more coming out each time.This film is likely to appeal to people who liked such films as Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Glengarry Glen Ross, Le Diner de Cons and others which have a stage play feel about them. Who said that theatre is dead? "},{"Title":"Some wonderful performance, but...","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn as per usual delivers the goods - he truly has developed into one of the finest actors at work today - oh how I wish he'd do some stage work! I love the play this film is based on, so I know the material well. Anna Paquin and Gary Shandling are also fantastic - they completely nail Rab'es dialogue and complex emotional interiors. Where the film falls apart is in the casting of two crucial roles, Chaz Palminteri as Phil and Kevin Spacey as Mickey. Palminteri doesn't seem a natural with Rabe's dialogue, I am constantly aware that he's acting; the same can be said about Spacey, he brings the same schtick that he always drags out, the emotionally cold and creepy guy. Someone like Christopher Walken would have really been fantastic and believable in the part. There are some nice directorial touches of opening the play out and making it more cinematic, but not enough. This is a dialogue heavy piece, which I love, but too often for the medium we have to sit through scenes where we're told about events and not shown them - for instance the vibrator incident, this is mildly interesting hearing about it, but it could have been more revealing and hysterically funny showing us the incident! "},{"Title":"a movie full of itself, which would be fine except...","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hurlyburly is filled with characters whose vices are so thick that we're made to think we care for them despite everything. But the thing is, most of these guys, with some exceptions in scenes, they're without redeeming characteristics. The film might be a fine anti-Cocaine ad, to be sure, as there's barely a scene where someone isn't snuffing up the nose (it was filmed in 1998 but written back in the early 80's, which makes just a little more sense), but as far as giving any thing close to a (bleep) about these guys is tough. And I know that's not the main goal, I know it's not. We're meant to wallow in with these men who have all of this time to luxuriate in bulls*** and do their drugs and screw around with girls like Anna Paquin (who, I did like, is never identified by age making it all the more questionable), and how they are at best misogynistic and at worst... well, SVU handles guys like these sometimes pretty well.Perhaps the intention in David Rabe's script, and certainly I could see it being that for the stage where it was originally done, is that they're in a nihilistic circle of their own making, filled with drug- laden anecdotes and partying and screwing around and all that stuff that Hollywood people do (and hey, it's the world by Mulholland drive so it's that kind of terrain), and they're just trying to get by each their own way. But it's how characters speak that becomes uneven. Sean Penn's Eddie is a paranoid mess who is fine for a few minutes when we see him clean and sober, and then right back to being a dick as soon as he's back on the powder. Kevin Spacey's Nicky seems more cool-headed and rational, but is so vindictive that, perhaps comparatively, comes off best but among the real world still fails at humanity (maybe by default). And Phil, that's a whole other ball of wax, a man so neurotic he makes Woody Allen characters look like the Beaver Cleavers.The women are a little more of a mixed lot, with Darlene (Robin Wright Penn, not too oddly enough Sean's wife) the most sane and clear-headed and rational. It's mostly in Hurlyburly a question of being so thick into the muck of decay that it just becomes self-indulgent. And the way characters speak tends to go on and on, mostly with a guy like Phil who just has too many words up his sleeve for someone who should have more of an instinctual, guttural way of talking like a primitive beast. It's not the talk of movie people but theater, and that's one of the big slip ups here, and not an uncommon one with adaptations which is to not have the right tone for the screen. Sometimes the dialog can be agreeable, maybe close to funny (the scene where Phil throws Meg Ryan's character out of the car, and what leads up to it, is amazing). But too much of it is over-loaded with language.The acting should be what saves it. Sometimes it does. I mean, look who is over here after all, Oscar winners and other notables. But when Garry Shandling ends up really taking the acting prize (and most notably with a scene where he talks with Penn through a glass table) you know there's something not quite right. Spacey is fine but he could do this part in his sleep; more curious would've been to see Christopher Walken, who originated the role on Broadway, in the role as it would've been so unusual for him. Penn has his moments where he connects emotionally, but the rest of it is in such predictable ham-bone mode that it becomes laughable; most excruciating is a scene where he keeps begging Meg Ryan for a BJ, and it gets to a point where Tommy Wiseau would be needed as a dramatic stand-in. You're tearing me apart, movie!Palminteri seems the most mis-cast though; I never really believed much of what he was saying, and only once or twice did it look like he was even slightly well-off in the role. He keeps on making these things with how he speaks (though it might be akin to how Phil talks) and it's just odd and embarrassing, considering that the man can act in the right role, usually in urban street-wise stuff. A neurotic is not for him, and he has to play one to such a psychotic extent and looks a little dumbfounded in some scenes why he's even there! And it's not all on the director's fault, at least, maybe, I wouldn't think so entirely. He does keep some scenes moving along to try and bring some cinematic quality to it. But when it stalls into its theater-setting, it shows. I don't want to be too hard on the movie, and yet it's tough when there's such high stakes a dynamite cast, a drug-fueled set-up that allows for so much potential drama. The results should be fantastic. And instead it's the kind of hot-headed pretentious bally-hoo that makes people hate Hollywood people they're heads are so far up their asses they don't know where the sun shines anymore. "},{"Title":"This is really significant like and has drugs","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A reflection on something - I think - with drugs, sex and stereotypical wannabes all enmeshed in a sort of nihilistic parallel world that means whatever their actions, nobody in the real world sees through them. The problem with such obtuse symbolism is that it has to lack focus to suggest representation, but in lacking focus, needs to say something significant to make people think its worth stating. This film says nothing significant about people who don't matter. Subsequently (aside from a few obviously more enlightened reviewers) who cares about what happens to them. I watched, waiting for enlightenment but aimlessly plodding direction and bland cinematography left an occasionally interesting dialogue and tireless actors flailing around, probably hoping something good might come in the editing. Unfortunately it didn't. "},{"Title":"Witty dialogs","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is about 4 Hollywood friends having drugged up conversations about various topics.I watched the first 20 minutes of this film 18 months ago, and I could not bear it so I switched it off. I decided to give it another chance today. Fortunately, I think this film is not as bad as I thought. This film is full of witty dialogs. Sean Penn's character's jealousy is well portrayed. I also like Kevin Spacey's intellectual and cool image. It is an interesting film, but there are some dull moments. It reminds me of the other Kevin Spacey film The Big Kahuna, which is also dialog heavy. I think The Big Kahuna is better though, as it has a central plot. "},{"Title":"pretentious and misogynistic","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As this movie went on, it became more and more painful. At first, the main characters (all unlikable) simply offend with their horribly misogynistic lifestyles. It becomes more offensive that these are people not presented as low life scums, but professional people who simply have messed up behind-the-scenes lives.About the time you start to wonder how this movie attracted such a cast, you start to notice the dialog. The original screenplay writer was obviously attempting to put profound commentaries in the mouths of these characters, but the words sound very strange coming out of characters who are so messed up. You have a hard time believing these characters put this much thought into anything.In the spirit of treating women badly, Meg Ryan gets the worst dialog of all (not to mention how this horrid gang of men treat her). It is hard to believe her character is simultaneously a prostitute seemingly willing to do anything and someone with such sophisticated observations coming from her head.Despite it all, I still gave this movie a 4. The movie wants to have a point, but doesn't. It wants to make you think, but doesn't. Still, even with bad material, how can you not appreciate the acting talents of Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey? "},{"Title":"Better on stage?","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are lots of things to like about this. The constant stream of verbiage is great, a continuous barrage of words that almost make you want to run for cover. Like the people in the film, very entertaining for a couple of hours but you wouldn't want to spend your life with them. The texture of the film is dream like, as if the whole world was drugged up and though the camera doesn't move much from the main characters' house it all feels disjointed and not quite real.Then there is the acting. Sean Penn is the stand out. You can enter into his confusion, his needs, his despair and his fractured humanity. Kevin Spacey's role's comparative normality is well done too. He is a charming surface with a vacuum underneath. Chazz Palminteri is also great, never putting a rational thought together, scary and vulnerable at the same time.It is an actor's piece and all of them give a good account of themselves. Having seen the film one wouldn't mind seeing it on stage. It seems to need a live audience. As for what 'Hurly Burly' is really about, well it was beyond me. "},{"Title":"Fine Movie, Probably a great play","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie on a friend's recommendation and I was not disappointed.  Don't expect ANY plot, just character development. I enjoy movies that show character development and treat sacred subjects in a very different light than my everyday experiences.  I feel these movies make me think outside my box and stretch me.Great movie when you want to Think.Favorite scene  Donna, tired and talking to Eddie at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic dialogue, or TOO realistic?","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ever since I became aware that actors in films do not generally speak the way we do in real life, I have been wishing for a movie that attempted just that - real-life dialogue.  I was surprised to see so many people claiming the dialogue was unrealistic. Maybe this is people's reaction when they hear characters hesitate, get confused, mis-speak, and all the other things people do in everyday conversation.  I was impressed to see the script include all of these types of details.  I've never done coke like the characters in Hurlyburly do, but I've caught myself and others talking confusedly the way they do all the time.  Real conversations are rarely clear and concise; neither is the dialogue in this movie. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest ensemble acting performances I have ever seen","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is an incredible amount of energy, intelligence and life in this movie.  I suspect that most of its critics here got caught up and turned off by some of the superficials--the drug use, sexual talk, etc.--and ignored the humanity of the characters.  That is a huge mistake, and they missed a great movie.  If I were going to make the argument that Sean Penn is a great actor, Hurlyburly is the movie I would cite.  His complex portrayal of Eddie, a funny, sad, frenetic, depressed, passionate, brilliant, childish, pathetic, loving, authentic individual is incredible.  Spacey is up to his usual high standards here, too.  This is the best I have ever seen Palmentieri.  His angry, funny, lost, violent, sad character is almost as complex as Penn's.  Shandling is even good, and so is Meg Ryan.  Actors should really study this film to see what great acting is all about, and writers should study it, too.  See this movie.       "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be quite an interesting experience.  My main reason for purchasing the film, is Kevin Spacey.  Every movie I have seen of his, I have enjoyed, and then I come to this.  His character, I will admit, is the only one I found to be interesting in the film.  It took me a while to figure out exactly what this movie was about.  Sean Penn, I found amazing in I Am Sam, and as I watched this film, he progressively in my mind, was Sam.  That is all I can picture.  Now, the talent they had for this film was absolutely amazing, and Kevin Spacey shined.  Chazz Palmenteri's character had some interesting issuse's with his life, however, his acting seemed forced.  Meg Ryan, is Meg Ryan, she always will be the same girl in every role she plays.  If you are looking for a thought provoking movie, this is one for you, however, be prepared for some slow going. "},{"Title":"A most excellent film...","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of my top five favorite films of all time.  The dialogue alone is reason enough to watch it. It's full of excellent actors and very close to life characters.  The characters are really raw and pathetic and the actors do an amazing job of portraying them.  I highly recommend this film to anyone with good taste. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, the best thing about this movie was Anna Paquin...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had SO many huge stars I thought it couldn't be that bad...I was wrong.  It was just one of those movies that was all together...awful.  But Anna Paquin's character Donna stuck out in my mind, not just because I respect Anna as an attract but because of how perfectly she portrayed the character she did which let me say, is different from every character she's played and I loved and noticed her first.  I couldn't watch the whole movie, I just taped the parts with her and moved on. "},{"Title":"good performances in an awful film","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Really, really bad, boring plot. What saves Hurlyburly (actually, doesn't exactly save it) is the acting. As always, great Sean Penn and great Chazz Palminteri. Kevin Spacey is his usual cynical self (we've gotten used to seeing him shine in crappy pictures) but that's about it for this one. Anna Paquin disappoints and Robin Wright-Penn is the designated blonde who doesn't bring anything to the table. 1 for the plot, 7 for the acting > 4. "},{"Title":"What pertains to your life in the great flow of everything?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What pertains to your life in the great flow of everything? What is friendship? What is love? How do we deal with it all?Great acting, great script, great dialogue (if you don't mind it being too perfect i.e. not realistic). Good for educational purposes/discussions. Adopted from a play. "},{"Title":"Misogynistic, stagy, and about as funny as a root canal.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A group of fine actors play utterly egocentric monsters in a testosterone-scented shared house where women are mere sex toys (with the occasional banal line of dialogue when a string is pulled). Spacey's character is the most sympathetic, possibly because we're used to seeing him as a villain, but Chazz Palminteri was much more likeable in the Usual Suspects. The closest this gets to comedy is when Eddie (Sean Penn) character tries to read some significance into Phil's (Palminteri) death. Apart from a few scenes in cars, it looks and feels like a stage play, and sounds more like a two-hour whine with occasional pieces of rant. "},{"Title":"Acting more than brilliant","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie itself is a pretty correct, but not 100% developed portrait of the start up- Generation, psychologically and sociologically not rich enough to justify its length. Its best parts have the absurdity of some Ionesco-plays. But if there exist movies where an actor can make the whole thing worthwhile, then this is one of them. Sean Penn is breathtaking, avoiding no risk in exploring its character (above all, no risk of appearing ridiculous) and giving some tragicomic scenes that you cannot describe - you have to see it! Especially the scene with Meg Ryan in the balcony is a masterpiece worth of - at least - five Oscars and being shown in acting schools as a demonstration. "},{"Title":"Syntax, sins, and Self Obsessions","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not the greatest film adaptation of a play, but with, what might be called the greatest ensemble cast ever, it becomes a great film.  The roles are dialogue are so complex, that it is spellbinding to watch it performed flawlessly by every actor aboard.  The movie is subtlely compelling and has resulted in many people I know imitating the semantic wonders of this unbelievable screenplay.  Conversations about the differene between flip and sarcastic, death, women and the meaning of life will stick with you for a long time.  Penn is the most believeable business man cocaine addict in film history.  Spacey shows us again why he is the actors actor.  Chazz is in great form, Anna Paquin and Gary Shadling are great surprises.  And though it seems very awkward from her mouth, Meg Ryan as the ballon dancing hooker, is something to be remembered.  It'll require intelligence, insight, an open mind and two hours to be changed by HURLYBURLY.  "},{"Title":"impressed by the acting","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey does not disappoint.  The level-headed, self-moderated, sincere character he plays is absolutely dead-on.  It's a little typecast, but he really brings the guy to life--someone has to balance the manic/panicked/ultra-emotional 'Eddy.'Sean Penn I've never liked.  Typecast?  I'm not sure; i was very impressed. The character was just on.  He made the wordiness of his character work; he runs the gambit from being a manic, totally slammed on cocaine--to a defeated, sober man, stripped to his very humblest.Robin Wright Penn is beautiful and effortless in her performance.  The nuances of her character (the constant tucking of the hair behind her ear, the nervous hand movements, avoidance to make eye contact) made all the difference; she plays a great insecure, preoccupied, and indecisive woman.The rest were good, but I can't tell if it's because the leads were so good, or that they couldn't breathe the same kind of life into the script.  Anna Pacquin was not at all comfortable with her lines.  The looks are there, but not the acting--and I've seen her act.  She just doesn't seem comfortable with the words.A generally insightful movie, with clear roots to the stage.  I felt I really had to get over my dislike of some of the characters, as well as the structure of the movie.  Structure meaning that it doesn't exactly seem to follow the same kind of formula cinema usually follows.I'm always moved more by the things I feel I can go back and mine for more insight and thought distillation.  I know I didn't get all there was to get out of this movie having seen it only once.  And that's a comforting thought.  Had it been superficial and heavy-handed, the acting would've been for naught.  Like 'She's So Lovely.' "}{"Title":"Coke+Paranoia+sarcasm+Hollywood+Destiny+Penn/Spacey=Great Film","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story is set around a big modern house in Hollywood where four friends hang out played Kevin Spacey, Chazz Pallminteri and Sean Penn.  They take way too much coke and have the most delirious but at the same time most profound conversation making the film both interesting and hilarious. It's like Hollywood Through the looking Glass.  Tough this film is based around dialogue it does not lack in pace due to an incredible script and magnificent acting.  However this film is not for everyone.  If you planned to switch your brain off go and get Rambo out.  The dialogue is sometimes a bit confusing, which is not much surprise when you think that the characters are on drugs and pretty much confused otherwise.  Sean Penn's acting is incredible.  He is at the centre of the play and portrays Eddie, a paranoid and confused man who has obviously no idea what he is talking about.  His house-mate played by Spacey reeks patience and sarcasm without limits. His best friend, played by Chazz is a short-tempered man obsessed by destiny with a convincing pseudo-logic!  Don't worry this film is not too intellectual it just requires a bit of concentration on the dialogues, but trust me it's worth the ballad.  "},{"Title":"a drug and heart movie highlighted by great performances","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If anything, you will not know what to think of this movie.  There are points where you will feel yourself laughing, and others where you will feel yourself breaking new ground in your emotional stability.  HurlyBurly is a film that bases its existence on getting its viewer into the character. Sean Penn is often not the actor Sean Penn.  Kevin Spacey can not by the two time Academy Award winner we all have come to know so well in the last decade.  These are people, and the whole way through it is as if we are watching the whole thing through the eyes of a camera on a CBS voyeur show.  Even though these people are drug-addicted Hollywood Sharks, and most of its viewers probably aren't, there are numerous ways of relating to the characters, and feeling every one of their anxieties and depressions, upliftments and feel-goods.  It is a very depressing, often hard to watch movie, but, I guarantee you, it does pay off in the end, and since you are these characters, you will feel the end.  This review made about as much sense as the movie will make to you in the first hour, but nevertheless, it's good and unlike any other movie you will see in your life.  (Oh, and by the way, it's from a play, so most of the action will take place in one room and it will involve, long, continuous shots)  Also recommended  Glengarry Glen Ross.   "},{"Title":"That your ego in your pocket, or you just glad to see me?","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stylish, lugubrious Hollywood players trade volleys of self-obsessed dialogue, pause to take huge amounts of drugs and have sex with teenaged runaways, and then ponder The Meaning of It All.  Preposterous?  Overdone? Yeah, but this adaptation of David Rabe's wordy play has secret weapons Penn, Spacey, and Palminteri, each full of a different acid.  Penn, in particular, often looks only seconds short of brainfry, and it is casting genius to put him alongside the supremely easy-going monster Spacey.Hurlyburly is a smarter exploration of the loss of self than Leaving Las Vegas, mainly because its characters are imbued with 10,000-watt tongues (everybody, from producers to teenagers and strippers, riffs triumphantly in arch, knowing prose, so that when Penn's character resorts at one point to a dictionary to look up the word accident, we get an unintentional har-har). But like Leaving Las Vegas, it also tests your patience by immediately presenting inner decay so advanced that there is nothing, thematically or plotwise, that can take the exploration further after its first forty-five minutes.  There is no character development, only attitudinal recycling, restatements of cynicism, perpetual wallowing.  There is little to say about the women in the cast (including Penn's wife, Robin Wright); their roles are mainly props.  Menace hangs over several scenes, supplied by Palminteri's presence as an ex-con turned failed actor and even worse metaphysician (he must have had access to Sartre in the slammer), but we get so many assurances of impending doom that when it comes, there is no dramatic weight.  Much better at this kind of thing are Neil LaBute's films (Your Friends and Neighbors, In the Company of Men), which manage to cover this psychic and moral territory with pacing, surprise, and event -- and more believable language.As an adaptation, Hurlyburly can do little more than sprinkle in a few locations in order to try to breathe visual life into its vast plains of dialogue.  (It's telling that the most affecting moment is a 5-minute long recollection by the characters of an awful event in the past, related while they stand around in the dining room.)  There are some peaks, but there seem to be many more low-lying depressions, stuff that sounds so thick and writerly we can't believe it springs from the mouths of human beings, and to break up this stagnant air the characters suddenly...move outside the house onto the terrace!  Yes, the character study here is powerfully claustrophobic, the acting very good.  But repetition makes these 122 minutes feel a lot longer than they should be. "},{"Title":"Good acting and dialogue","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this film is filled with great dialogue, I wonder whether it lost something in the transition from the stage to the screen--I've never seen the play on stage, so I don't know. Hurlyburly does lag at times, but are often times filled with great moments of truth. My favorite line has to be from the Anna Paquin character Donna, who basically makes a great point by saying It's great when people know what each other are talking about  That's all the characters do, talk talk talk, etc. While the characters are basically the most despicable bunch of people you would never want to be in a room with, at least the actors playing the parts are superb. Sean Penn is great as Eddie--he doesn't go too far over the top. Kevin Spacey, despite an awful hair style, steals scenes as the sarcastic Mickey; Chazz Palminteri is suitably dull and rough as Phil; Garry Shandling basically plays himself; Meg Ryan tries to break away from her typical performance with her role as a stripper, but comes off as the least credible of the cast; and, Anna Paquin in a shockingly different role as the teen runaway Donna, willing to trade her body for a place to stay. Good film, though when I first saw it, many people walked out of the theater.Grade B "},{"Title":"Everything & Nothing","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Put some of the top-notch actors together, blend in some everyday-joe conflicts and you've got HurlyBurly. You could say that it's a superb movie, that the acting is so real, you can actually go on and on with good words about this movie.....that is if you're a idiot!The truth is that the movie is about everyday moments in all our lives. OK maybe we all don't experience the very same conflicts as they do in this movie, but then again that isn't what the movie is about either. It's about how people act & react in different moments of their lives.HurlyBurly is a movie about everything & nothing, it's about things you already know & things you'd don't give a damn about. It's a great & bad movie. The movie makes as much sense as this comment. "},{"Title":"Weird, pretentious as hell, compelling and over the top","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  See this movie. Don't expect a conventional storyline. Catch it on a late sundaynight. It will make you think. What it is all about is emptiness, loneliness and meaninglessness. What the hell are we on this planet for? The question everyone asks himself once in a while. The struggle for love, the struggle for excisting. The dialogue is mismatched with the characters. People like that do not speak in that way. But it is done on purpose. The characters speak the words of the writer, his thoughts, his dreams. This is pretentious for sure but it works , strangely enough. Other than MAGNOLIA for example. That was insincere, bad pace, bad acting (by most), too long and selfconsious. Hurlyburly is not a brilliant film but it IS worth seeing for Penn's totally freaked out character and Spacey's terrific performance (what else is new?).8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A little quality gem in drama, reminiscent of Less Than Zero.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though a little slow paced here and there, this is vintage material for both Penn and Spacey lovers, and Hollywood industry haters. Although it doesn't much deal with the industry directly, it reflects the desperate emptiness of the players involved. This is very, very much a dialogue driven ride, but who would object to that if you pit the likes of Palminteri, Penn and Spacey against each other. The coke induced introspective chit chat is at times plain hilarious. The acting is Oscar worthy while Penn's and Spacey's acting powerhouses are awesome as always, Palminteri, in a part very much unlike the usual cocky Italian mobsters he is often typecasted in, gives a memorable performance as a suicidal manic depressive victim of the insanity that the vitriol mix of Hollywood and coke is famous for. The story is pretty thin, in terms of events creating a story arc, but I have seldom seen shallowness depicted so strikingly dead on the mark. The message of it seems to be that you can never hide from being human after all, especially not if you are covered in all the coke and money in the world, and once you come out of hiding, you may not like what you see in the mirror, and then it may be too late. This film will not brighten up your day but reflecting on it will. Go see it. "},{"Title":"** out of ****; Grade C","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Collection of late 80's L.A. trendies sorting through a sea of unhappiness, attempts at love, and drugs.  Talented cast gathers for an exercise in nothingness, with Penn, Spacey, and Ryan making the most favorable impressions.  Palmintieri deserves an award and a blow to the head for creating one of the most insufferable characters ever to grace the big screen.  Stunning passages of delivered dialogue fail to cohere, creating an experience that occasionally exhilirates but mostly drags. "},{"Title":"A good film for an Insomniac","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No this film doesn't put you to sleep. It does however, provide a strange sense of enlightenment. I managed to write three poems after seeing this film. The characters are a bit unusual which appeals to the poet in me. My favorite characters include Darlene, Donna, Mickey, Eddie and Bonnie. I watched this with a former friend who dissed Kevin's do. I think Spacey can pull off ANY look he has. I am slightly biased though. I'll be honest the male characters are offensive. You should realize this film does portray the male leads as needing the women in their lives. A good lesson if you ask me! This is not a mainstream film. However, once you give it more of a chance you might experience a film too many others have foolishly shelved to the sidelines. "},{"Title":"Actors' special","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The stars who appeared here had obviously very much fun doing this. I would have, being an ex-actor myself. The director should have done a better job to alienate the movie version from the original play. This would do well on stage, but overplayed, predictable, theatrical and thus dull.  "}{"Title":"Perfect Movie of It's Kind","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie is about a circle of drug using and abusing  Hollywood friends who are very wordy, take their thoughts very seriously and follow their own morals. These are not characters everyone will want to know - but it's superbly done and the characters are all types you might expect to find in that milieu.The Sheryl Crow song during the closing credits ends the movie perfectly. The film is very modern in it's post religious outlook in that it suggests that there is no inherent meaning to life and that this is nothing to be depressed about. "},{"Title":"Good news speaks with loud clear voice. Bad news..........","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  has absolutely nothing to say. Using the idiom of this film, we are treated(?)to the spectacle of watching some very talented actors proudly masturbate all over themselves and each other without a hint of shame or embarrassment. Philosophically, HURLYBURLY is a vacant lot in the dirtiest part of town where nothing grows except toxic weeds. What sort of mind would be interested in the rodents that crawl around therein? Answer. We all had better be interested because these rodents have left their nest and are infecting and destroying our culture. They wear many hats, some of them very large, and often are hard to spot. Intelligent, clever, quit-wits, good-looks, compassion and caring are all parts of the facade. At bottom they are empty loathsome creatures with a voracious appetite for anyone who doesn't share their depraved sense of life. Ditto for those that do share their view. One last point, they are very good hunters. Be careful, lest you be dinner.(Oh man, this film really speaks to me!)     "},{"Title":"Fantastic acting does not save this film","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The acting is amazing and the screwed up characters are excellently portrayed.  Unfortunately, the quality of acting and directing does not save this film.  The script is convoluted, the actors mouth the nonsense fed to them by the script writer, and not much makes a lot of sense as they engage in philosophical conversations for much of the film.The film started strongly, but then went round and round in circles, going nowhere.  Pity.If you're looking for a good laugh, then film is NOT for you.If you're looking for suspense, then film is NOT for you.If you're looking for action, then film is NOT for you. "},{"Title":"123 minutes of....?","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  123 minutes of please select oneA) The semantic disembowelment of the human psyche B) Superior actors vying to hold their own against one another C) Utter psycho~babble which is, in turns, unbearable, unwatchable, unlistenable and basically worthless D) Completely self~absorbed E) All of the aboveYou decide.The Penns are, as always, magnificent.  Spacey is in his element, again fooling us into thinking that he just might be heterosexual.  Meg Ryan is a delight, and Anna Paquin is all grown up.  Shandling plays himself and Palminteri's character is loathesome.The answer is E ~ so if you like these actors, you might enjoy this film.  The DVD version includes two audio commentaries, neither of which redeem the film.  "},{"Title":"An Addicting Ride Built on an Award-Winning Play","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurly Burly is an excellent example of how established film actors can stay true to their theatrical roots with a modern and compelling big-screen adaptation of a successful stage play. The real star of the show is Sean Penn's presentation of Eddie, who often finds himself lost in space, coke, and humorous paranoia that comes out in the form of endless talking jags. Penn played the role on stage in 1988 and brings his experience to the film. Also a veteran of theatrical adaptations, Kevin Spacey is right at home in the role of Mickey, playing Penn's more stable and sensible roommate & business partner. Together the two play host to a colorful pageant of characters passing through their home in the Hollywood Hills, showing the experiences that bond men together, and the competition that often threatens to pull them apart. "},{"Title":"Dialogue and Demons","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are afraid of looking in a mirror...see this film, you will then feel good about yourself.  While many a review trashed this picture it is only because it doesn't play to the average moviegoer.  Why?  Because you need an above par IQ to understand it.  While I hate that excuse for people not liking a movie (You didn't get it), I think this movie is one that was misunderstood.  The machine-gun dialogue is brutal in its attack on so many topics.  While Penn and Palinteri play off each other perfectly, Spacey is the scene stealer.  This may very well be his greatest work.  Paquin is also a bit of a scene stealer in another way, she is like a dove in a flock of dirty pigeons. I have just seen it and plan to re-examine it in a few weeks, but it truly blew me away.  Many people will go out and prefer to see garbage like Toy Story or the war movie of the week, but like Spacey says Good taste has denied me many things. "},{"Title":"Another play transcribed beautifully into film","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A film adaption of David Rabe's play is crafted expertly through the strength of acting, dialogue, and meaning. At first glance, films that derive their anime from dialogue adapted from a play may not capture everyone's imagination but if the acting and plot are strong, wonderful moments in film can be achieved such as Hurlyburly. Kevin Spacey and Sean Penn excel on their part to bring to life the brutal contradiction of what it means to be a human being in a post-modern world. Spacey is perfect in his portrayal of the cold, dead-pan, sarcastic and well-adjusted character in response to Penn's dysfunctional emotive and caring personality. In what must be considered a dark outlook on the changing face of humanity in the world today, the play works beautifully on many different levels introducing colorful characters to drive the plot home. If acting and thinking are your taste, then you will enjoy this film. A successful transformation of play into film not seen since Glengarry Glen Ross. "},{"Title":"VERY UNDERRATED!","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are so many bad reviews of this movie it's unbelievable.  People seem to hate it.  Then there are other reviews that compare it to Happiness, In the Company of Men, Your Friends and Neighbors. True, all of these seem to be these really mean-spirited movies. This is true here as well with one exception those films were comedies ( I think) and this one is billed as one also. Well, it shouldn't have been.  It's actually very sad to see these characters, sad but true.  I'm sure these people exist out there somewhere; rich, pompous, over-priveleged, educated, jaded, sport-f*cking, junkie a-holes. These characters are living in some warped ego-driven reality until one of their own becomes dissatisfied with the inhuman, unfeeling lifestyle they lead.  He has a paranoic, psychotic breakdown that seems to have been building for some time and starts questioning the existence of himself and, I don't want to use the word friends, so let's say people he socializes with. This is the basic plot. Everyone in this movie is perfect, I am convinced that Kevin Spacey does not do bad work.  Let me also quickly clarify, I don't think this is anything genius. Nor do I agree that any characters make any profound personal revelations that could be applied to all of us. No, this is just these characters attempting to find themselves and pretty much failing. I don't agree with any of their personal views, I mean after all, they're just junkie a-holes. But, THIS MOVIE IS ENTERTAINING AS HELL AND DESERVES MORE PRAISE AND LESS BEING SLAMMED AS GARBAGE!! RENT IT AND AT LEAST BE ENTERTAINED BY TOP QUALITY ACTING. "},{"Title":"Realistic Picture of Over-Drugged People","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When asked by a friend what this was about I said, Drugs and misogyny.  I then added that the movie does not approve of the characters' lifestyles. Many people have said that Hurlyburly was awful because the characters spoke too intelligently through the drug haze and too unlikable. It's obvious to me that, while these characters are very intelligent, despite the drugs, everything they say complete b.s., meant to be pseudo-deep, much as most people on drugs are wont to do. Sean Penn's character comes closest to being a good person, but the drugs and his lack of a backbone get in his way.  His and Kevin Spacey's acting are superior as always. Since I haven't said it yet today, Kevin Spacey is a god. Thank you. "},{"Title":"great actors, terrible script","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The trailer for this movie made it look quite excellent so i was excited to see it.  What a joke.  The acting is, of course, great.  It would be virtually impossible to have an ensemble of such talent and not have at least the hint of genius. However, the dialogue is so shallow and so transparent i could barely stand to keep watching. It was as if the screenwriter, who i'm sure constructed a great play from these characters, wants us to believe that just because coked up freaks can use ten dollar words every four seconds that makes them deep and insightful when truly they are all just pathetically sick.    This plot and script must have played out much better on stage, but in it's film version it just came out so convoluted and silly.  The only good, solid character was Darlene and she ended up looking like queen of sluts through the eyes of Eddie and he was supposed to be in love with her.   I usually love unconventional films where there may or may not be an obvious pro/antagonist, but to at least have one marginally likable character would have benefited this film greatly.  That character potentially could have been  Meg Ryan, but, the disturbing story about the presence of her daughter rendered that impossible.  Overall a twisted movie that could have been really brilliant, but ended up just plain annoying "}{"Title":"Very rich, very funny, very well-acted","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The cast is phenomenal, and predictably, the acting is top-notch.  These are not very attractive people, from a personality point of view.  Eddie is neurotic, paranoid, and manipulative.  Mickey is calculatingly manipulative. Phil is dangerously unstable.  Darlene is by turns endearingly flighty and ruthlessly self-centered.  Yet all of them live and breathe in front of you. Even if you've never met someone like Eddie, you know he's out there. They're all out there.  With any luck, they don't hang out together.Okay, so it's dialogue driven.  Stop whining, already.  Just enjoy the beautiful language.  It's easy to craft a detailed character through action.. Try doing it through words.  Then, throw in deliberate as well as unconscious self- and other-deception.  If, after all that, your characters are still clear and true, you are as strong a writer as David Rabe.Three acts, clearly visible in the film.  The first is, as first acts generally are, mainly to set-up the characters, their relationships, etc. It's also very funny (the cell phone scene, just to name the most obvious). More important than establishing the characters, which is done remarkably quickly, this act establishes the tone of the piece.  You know what these people's lives are about.  Everything that happens later in the film, as impossible as it is to predict, and every background detail that is added along the way, slips snugly into the framework as initially established.The second act is the funniest.  It's one year later, and not much has changed.  This fact alone is rather disturbing.  As manipulative and coldly backstabbing as Mickey is, Eddie is still living with him in some sort of (adequate) friendship.  What does that tell you?  This act also introduces the biggest surprise of the film... Meg Ryan.  I never knew she was an actress.  Well, learn something new every day.  The dramatic arc of this act is a wonder to behold.  It's all one sequence, with no significant temporal gaps at all.  It's all dialogue, without even the frenetic scene changes of act one to provide the illusion of forward moving action.  And it's brilliant.  Act two, as vital as it is to the overall development of the film as a whole, could stand magnificently on its own.  Act three takes these lives, these strained relationships, and attacks them with a crow bar, smashing them apart.  Phil's death, the initial catalyst of the final collapse.  Eddie's ultimate break-down.  The return of Donna from act one, far wiser, in a way, but no less lost than Eddie when you get right down to it.Does Eddie learn in the end that he underappreciated his true friends Phil and Artie?  He thinks he does, but he doesn't.  The tragedy of this film is not the senseless death of Phil, it's the senseless life of Eddie.Throughout the whole film he's barely staying afloat, not making progress but not quite going under.  He goes under (literally), is rescued (miraculously), and is returned to his point of departure.  What happens one year later when he sinks again?  That is the central tragedy of this very very funny film.      "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Hurlyburly.  I thought the actors were excellent, and worked well together, and they were all extremely annoying.  Kevin Spacey was the best. Anna Paquin was good, too.  The movie was a little too long but it didn't really matter cause I found myself lost in it.  I really liked Mickey's house. Ciao. "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting but Disappointed in Writing","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I believe that the actors did a marvelous job.  It is always a pleasure to watch Sean Penn or Kevin Spacey work.  The producers did an excellent job of attracting top-rate actors to this film.  Meg Ryan did such a good job playing against type that I had to check the credits to make sure it was her.However, the dialogue in this movie -- this exploration of semantics -- has all the characters speaking the same and using vocabulary that they wouldn't use.  The character of Donna, a teenage vagabond, has a philosophical conversation with Eddie at the end of the movie which I doubt she would be interested in having and would, in any case, not be using the vocabulary she was using. "},{"Title":"Couldn't even finish it.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only made it through an hour of the film before vomiting, justlike Sean Penn! What a waste of time. The characters were all sodisgusting, I was rooting for the drugs the whole time. It wassad to see Meg Ryan so ugly and skanky. Garry Shandling was theonly cool part of the mo "},{"Title":"SAVE YOUR MONEY!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gawd, this is such an awful film. I agree with the comment above that one sits there hoping a character - any character! - will die, preferably all of them. It's the most pretentious, unbelievable, incredible (meaning having no credibility) and overwrought film I can remember seeing in a long time. The Chazz Palmentari character is so ridiculous that you have to wonder if there could ever be a person so idiotic, so unbelievable and so badly drawn. And why would these other characters hang out with someone so stupid, violent and so worthless?  Yipes, this movie really really sucks. "},{"Title":"Stylish but plotless, didn't pass the 30 minute test.","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of a great cast!  After 30 minutes I still couldn't detect any hint of a plot, nor did I have any interest in any character.  I'm glad that TV offered up a good fallback position, playing Monty Python's Meaning of Life, or the evening would have been a complete wate of time.Don't bother with this movie! "},{"Title":"Tiresome","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A team of top-notch actors spends 2 hours taking drugs, having sex, and pontificating about their emotions. Great acting here, especially from Penn, but the characters' endless druggy rantings grow old quickly. Garry Shandling has some funny moments, especially when he invites himself to accompany Meg Ryan and her daughter to Disneyland (pretty funny implications here, if you've seen the film).  Various scenes are worthwhile for their superb ensemble acting, but overall this film struck me as pretty pointless. "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Someone up there said ...the people who didn't like it don't like to see the ugliness of everyday reality.. I dont think so. This is supposed to be reality? A really cool guy (Spacey) lives with an annoying screaming whining drugged up little moron (Penn).This film is over the top. Secondly, its amazing that 'Sean Penn' while very highly drugged up can speak for ages about philosophy.Unrealistic.I only saw it because i was on holiday in Italy and it was the only english speaking film there.Only go and see it if you really have to. Its a very difficult film to watch, what with Penn always talking in that (Agggh!) STupid Nasal Whine!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A good cast laboring in vain toward a stale conclusion","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great cast with this one, and it appears obvious that everyone is acting their buns off, But the vision is sophomoric. It's as if the writer/director was thinking of something lofty, profound. But like a lot of profound discussions and ideas folks have after seven beers at 300 in the morning, the light of day reveals that the whole thing is rather banal. The realizations and insights that the characters labor toward at best would be very ordinary, not worth a movie, but in fact ring false. Yawn.  "},{"Title":"Omigod, I know these people!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eddie and Mickey must be pulling down some good bucks as casting directors, because they live in a fabulous pad up in the hills (where most of the scenes take place), drive BMW's and rack up horrendous bills on their cell phones.  They are HAPPENIN', baby, living the high life in L.A.  But, wait a minute...it looks like BEING high is pretty much what their lives are all about in the long run, because their existences are empty, futile and shallow, so they seem to do a lot of coke and weed to try to have a better time.  Eddie (Sean Penn) is especially unhappy, so he does more drugs than anybody else and  then goes into long, coked-out, nonsense raps. Have you met anybody like these guys?  Well, I have and they are dead-on.  This play is real, as far as I can see, and maybe the people who didn't like it don't like to see the ugliness of everyday reality.  The person who compared this to Glengarry, Glen Ross is absolutely right and as I watched this film, I thought of that movie, also...excellent ensemble cast throwing red-hot lines at each other like arrows.  Sean Penn especially was awesome, but I thought all the actors did incredible jobs.  I loved the screenplay, too, but felt that it petered out in the last 15 minutes and never really had a resolution. Favorite scene  Sean and Robin driving in the car trying to decide where to eat and escalating into a WWIII level argument...I've BEEN there! "}{"Title":"what a waste of time","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well,all I know is I want the 2 hrs. back in my life that I spent watching this god-awful movie. Considering that I had it on DVD as part of netflix's 15 free DVD rentals so in actuality I paid nothing for it and am still complaining,that has to tell you something. Maybe I just wasn't in the mood to watch 2 hrs. of people doing drugs,etc....  Kind of a downer of a movie.  "},{"Title":"Disgusting. Star-studded cast cannot carry this joke of a movie.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Someone find the script writer and hang him, please. This movie is only for you if you enjoy watching people snort coke, drink, scream at each other, have incoherent, apparently deep philosophical discussions, engage in sport sex and pass out on the floor. No socially redeeming qualities, no visible point at all. Can you sift through the stupidity and detect a plot? I couldn't. "},{"Title":"Good actors struggling to rise above the material.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" About halfway through Hurlyburly, I thought, I really hope someone dies soon. I almost didn't care who it was, but someone in this movie needed to be dead. Preferably all of them.Not that the movie ever pretends that any of its characters are likable in any way it revels in sexism and depravity.But I wanted someone to die just to shake them up, to shake the movie up. Can we have something close to a real interaction here, I silently begged, something not fueled by drugs and/or pseudo-intellectual one-upsmanship?What I saw as the major flaw of the movie will be its saving grace to many people the flashy writing. Any one of the vastly different characters could deliver any of the lines - they're like puppets, flapping their jaws as the writer/puppetmaster speaks for them. For any degree of believability, the writer needs to stay firmly behind the curtain - and Hurlyburly's writer will not.Kevin Spacey manages to lend reality to his character, in spite of the writing; Sean Penn has the same effect, but with less consistency. In fact, the performances here are pretty good - they're just hamstrung by the disconnect between what they're trying to portray and what's coming out of their mouths. Other than that, Meg Ryan is simply way too adorable for her role, though she valiantly attempts a degree of scraggle, aided by unwashed hair and smeary makeup.There are some moments when the actors rise above the material, including a wonderful fight between Eddie and Darlene (played by Sean and Robin Wright Penn) that progresses from car to side of road back into the car. But the good moments couldn't stop me from checking my watch. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite films.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has the wittiest dialog in any movie ive seen before this it was the dialog in His Girl Friday with Carey Grant. Hurlyburly surpasses its wittiness by a long shot though.  I watched this movie three times the day i rented it and it only got better that was like a week ago and today i just bought the dvd so ill see it like another 30 times within a year probably. It is the best movie of 98 and wasnt even nominated for a single oscar that makes me very mad.  I could go on but i won't.... blah blah rapititah. "},{"Title":"Great rental if you don't mind emotionally damaged Hollywood low-lifes and fringe players.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I see Sean Penn's name on a film it's a green light as far as I'm concerned. Why? Because not only is Penn an amazing actor, but the films he's in are always a little- to way- unexpected, and Hurlyburly is no exception. Penn is the coke-snorting (Scarface would be proud), 8 a.m. joint-smoking, cigarette-inhaling, twitching, emotionally wrecked nucleus of the story. Kevin Spacey, Gary Shandling, and Chazz Palminteri are the equally, yet uniquely differently, damaged electrons in shaky orbit around him. The glue that holds the whole atom together is mutual self-loathing, and the morbid desire to wonder what happens to the drowning man after he goes down for the third time.The film is very talky (don't forget it's based on David Rabe's play) but the dialog always manages to come back to something anybody (read you or me) might say if sufficiently coked up, on Valium, and on their third joint. The whole cast is excellent, especially Penn and Shandling, and watching Meg Ryan looking fried out, smoking a reefer, is always good for a kick (she's good, too). My two complaints were Kevin Spacey (who I think might be one of the more overrated actors) who goes through the film being ironic and detached (big stretch), and Palminteri who manages to play yet another thug (big surprise there), although neither is there to do more than support Penn's coke-addled rantings.If you like to watch films about sleazy, damaged people on the shadowed edges of Hollywood, 'Hurlyburly' is for you. And while you're at it, grab John Schlesinger's 'Day of the Locust' with Donald Sutherland as wiggy Homer Simpson (yep! this baby came out in 1975) and Karen Black, that paints an even more dismal picture of what Hollywood can do  to the less than successful.  "},{"Title":"An actors movie....","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is what I call an actors movie. Low on props and big on the acting. The movie doesn't concentrate as much on the setting as it does on the plot. Although the setting does set the mood of the movie. Four guys living the Hollywood life with drugs and girls. Kevin Spacey does tend to repeat the same persona in pretty much every movie he makes. He is a great actor though. Sean Penn is great as a guy who doesn't really know what he's doing. Chazz Palmenteri again does a great job and Garry Shandling is always funny. One thing though that disappointed me was the use of Meg Ryan. Her look isn't really cut out for the part she played.... "},{"Title":"Excellent movie if you are in the mood to pay attention","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to chuckle after reading Andrew's review of the movie, wondering whether or not he is being flip, sarcastic, or just one of those uppity film students that I cannot tolerate.  I think that describing something as a vessel of inarticulate pretension and then following that description with a phrase like, Spewing a mass of verbiage in lieu of meaningful thought... is kind of like calling someone ignorant and spelling it incorrectly.As for the movie...David Rabe remained true to his play in this adaptation for the screen, and I was thoroughly impressed by the acting as well as Drazan's interpretation of the characters.  Anna Paquin was wonderful and if you close your eyes, Kevin Spacey's character might as well have been played by Steve Martin. Chazz Palmitieri was an interesting casting choice.  The cinematography was excellent.  Keep an eye out for how many shots are taken using a reflection rather than a long shot in order to include more than one character at a time.  This movie is not watered-down for the masses, and if you are not paying attention, the humor will slip by you.  Personally, I found it alternating between funny as hell and uncomfortably disturbing.  My one major criticism is the bad stage-combat.  It's almost giggle-worthy.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As stated by Andrew below, this movie evokes Neil LaBute's works. The difference is that this movie has real thinking, feeling, breathing, fragile characters, as opposed to the unlikable allegorical cartoons that populate LaBute's works. The performances in Hurlyburly are fabulous all-around. It's hard to imagine that two scene-stealers like Penn and Spacey can do a great scene together, harder to imagine that Shandling steals every scene from them!Highly recommended, especially for those who want to like LaBute but think his movies are crap (like me). "},{"Title":"Castor Oil is more fun than this movie!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Self indulgent Hollywood crap!Quite possibly the most God-awful movie I've ever seen.  The actors must have been drugged to ever commit to this putrid hash.  It is a boring, non-stop stream-of-consciousness diatribe with no artistic or social redeeming value.  Don't walk, run - away from this movie!  "},{"Title":"Total waste of time","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a total waste of my time. After the first hour I had to fast forward it to get through the mind numbing bore. What was the point of this film.  No one in the movie had any redeeming qualities. They all should have sped down Mulholland Dr. at 100 MPH. "}{"Title":"I watched it, rewound it, and watched it again.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you didn't like Barton Fink or Fear or Loathing in Las Vegas, you won't like this film either, but if you aren't looking for Fivel Goes West, or something with Sandra Bullock, you'll probably love it.  I rewound it about five times just to re-hear everything Kevin Spacey's character said.  I laughed out-loud and found it easy to appreciate as a people story. "},{"Title":"great ensemble cast, but...","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although the great ensemble cast of Hurly Burly, including the nice Meg Ryan as a drug addict, delivers the story line excellently, the story itself lacks a hook.  I found myself straying from the movie at times due to lack of interest.  Nothing new was introduced to sustain my interest.  The story itself is good, but what is lacks is substance.  The movie is scene after scene of the same thing.  Kevin Spacey is great as always and Anna Paquin's character is underused.  If you want to see a movie with a great cast, this is the movie.  If it's a great story, I'd suggest looking a different way. "},{"Title":"Ham and Eggs and the meaning of life","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do people really talk that way? Somehow, I don't think so. Humorous??? I chuckled twice. Dark? Brooding? Here's a movie that tries to be profound and deep, but is inevitably a mish mash of ramblings. You don't care about one character and end up wondering what planet they're on. Some interesting phrasing but never lets up! Can anyone just take a break from thinking? For a second? Sean Penn does his Sean Penn thing. Kevin Spacey sports some kind of blonde medieval hairdo. Good cast hamming it up in a wasted movie. Hyped Soundtrack was forgettable. See it at your own risk. Fear and Loathing In Las Vegas was more entertaining, if you like this sort of movie. "},{"Title":"what motivates them?","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some stage vehicles just don't translate--they look, well, stagey. This is one of them.. You would think that a cast of talented actors, a playwright of note, and an experienced director could figure this out before grinding the camera. Why does ONeil never translate well to the screen?  Too much repetitious yada yada (or blah blah blah herein) Movies are supposed to move.  This one gestates. There is nothing wrong with the acting here--they did what they were told to do. But who cares?  Maybe I just hate druggie movies.  Isn't life stupid enough without having to pay to hear drivel? I suppose one could justify it by saying ensemble acting is an art form, even if reciting the phone book. Does anyone have the vaguest idea why these people are so obsessed with themselves?  Did they materialize from dustbunnies under the bed?  Who are they and why are they saying all these nasty things? Self=loathing maybe? Been there, heard that. Compare this to MY DINNER WITH ANDRE.  True,that doesn't move much either (except background extras) but IT HAS SOMETHING TO SAY that piques your interest. All I'm moaning about (and there were a few morbidly fascinating scenes, I'll concede) is that if we're going to condemn moviemakers for hurling violence at us--let's not veer in the opposite direction with a tedious verbal onslought. All sound and fury.  No substance.  Too bad. "},{"Title":"Curly","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw Hurlyburly, I can't understand why some of the reviewers here hated it so much. The acting is great, (though Paquin looked a little out of her depth at times). Penn and Spacey are giants. Maybe just a little too long though. "},{"Title":"Incisive, Biting","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Witheringly clever and well acted.  As quotable in its own way as any film I've seen. "},{"Title":"Funny like a head wound.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Over-acted and without a real point, Hurlyburly collapses under it's own weight. Somehow, watching hedonistic narcissists try to find a reason for their coked up existence isn't that enthralling. Kevin Spacey is brilliant as usual, giving his lines an acerbic sting.  Sean Penn is all free association and limb flailing. This movie is definaiely dark, but is sure isn't a dark comedy. Somebody should tell the director that just because his characters are patheticly ridiculous and in a drug induced forum debating life, sex, power and death, it isn't ha-ha funny. It's funny like a head wound. "},{"Title":"A truly great film!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly is a work of art! Featuring Kevin Spacey, who is one of the finest actors available today, this movie is, albeit a little strange, and VERY talky, an excellent piece of fimmaking. Kevin Spacey and Sean Penn both give superior performances in this film based on the play from David Rabe. "},{"Title":"Good and bad.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had really mixed feelings about this film. I have always respected Sean Penn, and while he certainly had a ton of interesting dialogue to share I found myself always waiting for Kevin Spacey to come back into the scene. Another thing that was interesting was to hear a constant stream of metaphysical thoughts and ideas interspersed with threats of violence (all through a thick Brooklyn accent) coming out of Chazz Palmintieri's mouth, but he was just shy of pulling off his philosopher-thug character. The two best performances were actually from Gary Shandling and Meg Ryan in supporting roles. Worth a rental, but don't be afraid to fast forward through Sean Penn's scenes with Robin Wright. I wish I had. And Sean Penn's little Wayne Newton mustache also bugged the hell out of me. I know we weren't supposed to really like or even identify with his character, but it was just begging to be ripped off his lip. Spacey has a few particularly insightful lines about friendship and why we keep some people around when we probably shouldn't. I liked it, but it dragged near the end and Penn was chewing the furniture a bit too much. "},{"Title":"an opinion that is not favorable...","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A waste of money, time, and brain activity.  I expected to be somewhat entertained because of the players, but I was disappointed.  I think highly of all the main actors in their ability to crank out excellent films (except Penn)and I thought such a great gathering of them would outdo any movie ever made.  This movie was filled with dialogue that just makes you wish duct tape could go from your living room, through the television, and cover some lips.I was never amused.  I never weeped.  I was never very shocked.  At first I tried to think of where the movie was heading and within the first half hour I wished it was heading back to the video store.  The plot was nonsensical in all aspects.  I endured the whole movie but it was difficult.  I didn't see anything that made this movie even remotely socially redeeming.  Steer clear of this one. "}{"Title":"Why would anyone make this film?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When Sean Penn was profiled recently on 60 Minutes, the interview started with him in a funk because he and Hurly Burly hadn't been nominated for any awards. After seeing this film its not hard to see why, though. Penn seemed to have some creative control of the movie since his patently over acted and obnoxious character takes up a good part of the film, even though he was totally outclassed by Kevin Spacey and Meg Ryan. It's surprising to me a studio head would even give the go ahead to such a pointless, inane drama and how they roped in such expensive and usually circumspect performers. It's kind of a middle aged buddy movie, but what exactly motivates or keeps these characters in a permanent adolescence is left a mystery. Penn's character runs on a cocaine, has group sex with a 16 year old girl, strings along his girlfriend, unable to make a commitment.. and blathers and obsesses about not 'loving' himself.. well.. come on bud.. what's to love. I guess they're trying to appeal to Boomers and Gen Xers mid life crisis meets guy sensitivity group with girl hangups or something, but it really sputters and confuses from the opening credits. "},{"Title":"Not just great performances","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every single actor in this movie does an incredible job...this movie reminded me a lot of Glengarry Glenross in its style.  If you want action or an enthralling plot, you'd better look elsewhere.  If the movie was this good, the stage play must have been great.  Just check out the cast on the trivia section to see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Well acted but not a must-see","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly left me confused.  The writing was at times genius and at times mind-numbingly boring.  Certain scenes were blatantly overwritten (anyone else get tired of the 'blah blah blah's?)--the movie is basically about a lot of drug-saturated men in an apartment (most of the film takes place there; occasionally they go driving or to the supermarket) talking about their relationships (or lack thereof) with various women, some of whom show up at various times, and trading philosophical views on life.  Of course, these are philosophies spewed by people who are almost always on cocaine or 'weed.'  The direction of the movie is quite inventive, lots of camera angles are very artistic and worth seeing.  The acting is also quite good, especially by Kevin Spacey in the sort of sarcastic, deadpan role that he does so well.  Sean Penn got on my nerves after a while, but I admit he did play the role well.  The final scene between him and Mickey (Kevin Spacey) is pure genius and worth watching a couple times.  Meg Ryan is also noteworthy as a druggie stripper (not exactly You've Got Mail).  Overall, the movie is too long, and the dialogue can get VERY tiring.  Oh, and Anna Paquin cannot act.  Fans of Sean Penn or Kevin Spacey will most likely enjoy their scenes.  Otherwise, take it or leave it. "},{"Title":"A play on the Big Screen","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Love and Death (1975) there are a couple of places where Woody Allen and Diane Keaton have very humorous dialogue that begins something like  Love is subjective. But subjectivity is objective when you consider the irrationality of the rational. Or some mumbo- jumbo. In Allen's film, it is amusing. In Hurly Burly, however, it is nothing but strange. I don't know where these characters supposedly went to school, but they speak to each other like I would expect Harvard psychology professors to speak, rather than a bunch of friends in the entertainment business. Not to say that the film was not interesting. I was fascinated by what these people were trying to say. It's just that most of it was garbled, elegantly presented garbage, and that ultimately, nothing was solved. On the other hand, the acting was superb. Sean Penn, while still slightly over-the-top, was excellent, Kevin Spacey was as dry and as brilliant as I've seen him, and the rest of the cast performed solidly. The one exception to this was the disappointing Anna Paquin, who came off as rather bland in her minor role. Though I do appreciate much of what the film tried to convey (the world is in shambles, people are terrible to each other, drugs don't help, etc.) I was confused as to how the film- makers expected to handle all of these issues satisfactorily. Simply having a key character cry about them does not do them justice. As a character play, it succeeds to a degree, but as a film it falls short. "},{"Title":"do not drive or operate heavy machinery during the film","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i appreciate the filmmakers *nearly* successful efforts to bring to film this unique, dramatic character study... but let me just say that when i saw that blank-eyed sixteen-year-old in her soaking wet cut-off shorts and smutty halter top sandwiched between two forty-five-year-old men... well, something inside me withered and died! especially since kevin spacey and sean penn are actors i truly love and admire. however, i was impressed with myself that i was able to sit through the whole movie despite it having been populated entirely with extremely LOATHSOME characters, and i emerged with my will to live basically in tact. "},{"Title":"unlikeable, misogynistic, drug saturated characters","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly more than lives up to the definition.  This film more than any I can remember portrays personal and group turmoil and confusion.  I can understand how many would not enjoy this film. There is so little of a positive nature in it.  That said, I do believe it to be a good film in many respects.  The film was well written (Dave Rabe, playwright) and directed (Anthony Drazan).  Between the two they produced a work with interesting characters and dialogue.  If you don't like listening to A LOT of dialogue, you will not like this film.  The casting was excellent.  I am not a Sean Penn booster, but he was perfect and brilliant in the part of Eddie, the drug sotted lead. Kevin Spacey as the sarcastic, flip Mickey as his roommate was good as well.  Chazz Palminteri as the violent, mentally slow Phil and Gary Shandling as the shallow, fast talking Artie round out the male leads.  The female roles are all played brilliantly as well.  Robin Wright Penn as Darlene, the unpredictable girlfriend of Eddie and Meg Ryan as Susie(?), the easy stripper were very good, but the best was Anna Paquin as Donna, the homeless young woman used as a sex object was so much more.  Ms. Paquin was great and I look forward to seeing her in the future.  It is difficult in the beginning to have any feelings for these characters, but by the end of the movie some empathy if not sympathy developed.  The filmmakers do not expect us to like these intelligent talented (with exception of Phil) characters whose lives are mess of their own making, but some understanding not acceptance develops.  One criticism might be that it is about ten minutes too long. It began to lose a little steam in the final scenes.  This is not the type of film I usually like, but I must say I did appreciate Hurlyburly.  Three stars!!! "},{"Title":"Stupid and disturbing!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Someone, sometime ago decided to write a play that talked about everything (love, life, death, drugs, sex, desperation and fate) in two hours' time. Very ambitious. Some years later, someone else turned that play into a movie. Surprise! It didn't work out. This is one of the most disturbing movies I have ever watched. I don't know if it was any good on stage, but on screen it is just pathetic. The boring plot, the terrible script (do real people ever talk like that?) and Penn's overacting make the thing almost unbearable. Especially in the end, when the movie goes over almost every Hollywood cliche, I almost threw up. Many bad movies have some things to like about them. This one has nothing at all. An incredible waste of time. "},{"Title":"Top notch","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sean Penn's best acting to date...overall brilliant performances by the whole cast...looking past the film's superficial dark subject matter, there is something much more ingeniously black in the whirl of dialog... "},{"Title":"Not bad but not good","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurly Burly made most people in the theater hurly. Seeing it produced 4 walk outs (the second most, there was 6 idiots that walked out of the awesome Velvet Goldmine). I liked the acting and the conversations. They seemed smart and played like The Last Days of Disco on drugs. The movie however is quite dark and the talented Anna Paquin is wasted as a teen runaway. The movie is enjoyable at times pointless. Also remember the movie is quite desturbing, not as bad as the very funny Happiness but they use al ot of drugs in this movie, (thus the Sheryl Crow song that uses the lyrics I dropped acid on Saturday night in the end credit's song There goes the Neighborhood.) I give it 2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Nice...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw Hurlyburly yesterday and, well, at the end I got quite bored Not because the acting was bad and all but because it was too long The movie was too long, the conversations were too longAnd when it begun this was all quite funny, but after a while you get used to it and after that part it gets annoyingAll together, I think I would have loved the movie if it was a bit shorter, but now I got bored and irritated by the same kind of conversations over and over again. Too bad, this could have been a better movie...  "}{"Title":"Amazingly pretentious, boring and pointless","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I sat (uncomfortably) through this film becoming more and more staggered at just how it got made at all. The script itself makes the acting look embarrassing, and it fundamentally becomes a waste of time for everybody concerned. If you avoid seeing one film this year, make it this one. "},{"Title":"great acting!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked Hurly Burly! In fact, I saw it twice! Call me strange, but what's not to like? It has fantastic, top notch acting by the two best actors around (Penn and Spacey)and a terrific script. If you're not into character and/or dialogue driven pieces this is not for you, but if you are it is just great. So what if you don't like or understand these people! HELLO!!! It's just a movie! Sean Penn was amazing. But Kevin Spacey - geez! He was simply magnificent!!!. Kevin Spacey is absolutely the best actor on the planet (and without a doubt, the sexiest man alive)! True, it's not for everyone, but it is worth seeing for the acting alone, the wonderful acting, the spectacular acting. You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"SHUT UP!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That's what I felt like yelling as well as stomping out of the  theater, but I restrained myself.  Yes the acting was great, no  this wasn't the typical hollywood film, but the dialogue just  wouldn't end (or get interesting)!  And despite all the gabbing,  you never get to really know or care about any of the characters.  Definitely the most boring film I've seen since  Sphere, but I was expecting that one to be boring.  I had to sit  through it, but please, spare yourself "},{"Title":"Hurlyburly - movie, or mess?","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched Hurlyburly as a second choice after Affliction was sold out.  I have never seen so many people walk out of a movie.  Sean Penn, Kevin Spacey, and Chazz Palminteri can do nothing to save this coke-snorting, endlessly pedantic, bad Mamet-wannabe.   "},{"Title":"Great acting, poor writing...","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a showcase for the acting talents of Mr. Sean Penn, Hurlyburly is a success. As a film, it doesn't fare as well. Hurlyburly is an exercise in frustration - Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey turn in excellent performances, and Robin Wright Penn, Anna Paquin and Meg Ryan all offer solid support as a trio of emotionally stunted women. The film's downfalls though are all too glaring - Chazz Palmintieri succeeds in displaying a great deal of frustration and anger yet doesn't build a complete character, and the writing is all over the place. At times incomprehensible, at others just plain stupid, the script fails to give the audience a cohesive story or a set of characters that they can connect with. On a good note - Meg Ryan is hilarious as a single mom prostitute, managing to give an otherwise one-note character a bit of depth, and creating the only truly accessible character in the whole film.  "},{"Title":"Hurlyburly Intense performances","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personally think that this movie wonderfully expressed the talents of all the actors involved. Kevin Spacey and Sean Penn are a perfect pairing and compliment each other very well. The movie was able to show how messed up life can get no matter who you are and how drugs and violence play a role. However it does provoke different opinions from its audience. I loved the movie and one of my friends absolutely hated it, so it delivers to a specific taste. In my opinion this is a sophisticated movie with very good dialogue and superb acting.  "},{"Title":"What a bizarre film!","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I set off to see Hurlyburly today, knowing I was going to see something different. Basically, it's not your typical Hollywood flick. It isn't one of those movies you can just go to and veg out. You have to think and follow the film and process it all in.I was impressed. The cast gave some wonderful performances. ) I was especially impressed with Anna Paquin, Meg Ryan and Kevin Spacey!I did have a slight problem though with the way the script seemed to be wrote in another language half the time. It was like it was trying to be cool because we can use big words. For the average viewer this is a movie theyd have to watch 3 or 4 times before you fully get it.Other than that it was wonderful and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for a different kind of movie.  "},{"Title":"Boring, stupid, useless, and POINTLESS!!!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A complete and utter waster of my precious two hours.  The entire movie could have been made in less than 60 seconds by simply showing people getting coked up, a car crashing, people getting more coked up, people having sex, people crying, and people getting more coked up.  The tagline for this movie should have read Come see how f*cked up our characters are! They're stoned!  They're coke addicts!  They're a mess!  Who are these people?  Do you really care?  Does it matter?  Just give us your money please, because we sure don't care about anything else!  An absolutely terrible movie.  It never went anywhere, you never got to know the characters (they never even said what these people did to earn such a big house and so much money and cars and coke), and it was just downright boring.  You might like the movie a little more if you're a stoner yourself, but for the vast majority of us that aren't, this movie is a waste of film and of time.  "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this movie, but alas, the bubble was truly burst.The individual performances from a fine cast were wasted in the mire of trite observations on the day-to-day drug preoccupations of the characters. Having been through the excesses of the seventies and eighties, I was looking forward to an insightful view of the sector of society that the film is written about, but instead got a view that consisted of clich after clich.Frankly, in my view the writing and direction were just awful.  One of my biggest disappointments in the past year or two.  "},{"Title":"If you're not a fan of Spacey or Penn, don't go see it!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I adore Kevin Spacey and have to admit that the reason I went to see Hurlyburly was because I was anxious to see his newest film. I was in for a surprise; I did not enjoy the film as much as I expected to. The performances in the film were excellent but the film itself was not so great. I was sorely disappointed with the result after much anticipation. Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey do an excellent job of portraying their characters; however, the film just flops once Eddie, played by Penn, is alone with the other characters other than Mickey, played by Spacey.I was bored by the end of the film and ready to bolt out of my seat even though I was pretty certain that there were several scenes with Kevin Spacey left. I have never left a movie but I was incredibly tempted to do so during this film. It wasn't the complex language, the characters, or the actors that made it so incredibly dull; it was the plot, itself, that just didn't rise out of an acclaimed Broadway play. I believe the greatness of the story got lost between the translation somehow.I wish I could say that I loved this film but I can't, obviously. I'm just attempting to be honest and unbiased when I say that it was definitely not worth going to the movie theater for. Rent it on video where you can easily turn it off or fall asleep and not feel guilty. 2 out of 4 stars "}{"Title":"can you say incredible acting?","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the cast of this film simply blew my mind.  sean penn was beyond outstanding, and kevin spacey was perfectly type-cast as mickey. robyn wright-penn as always was spectacular, and a high-five for meg ryan for venturing out into the world of quality movies. "},{"Title":"preachy but a tour de force of acting performances.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Incredible acting performance from Sean Penn (what else is new) Kevin Spacy is great but under-used, Anna Paquin will rip your heart out with her the little girl that society threw away performance.  It's a little preachy, and gets off into a couple semantics tirades.  But if you can get over that and the sight of seeing Garry Shandling doing drugs, you'll get an acting class full of performances including a very believable Meg Ryan as a coke head Stripper (who knew she could play a real role other than being cute?). Not to mention Robin Wright Penn and Chazz Palmenteri...don't go expecting a lite hearted romp, but If you enjoy a character driven dark side of hollywood film...check it out. "},{"Title":"A pretentious attempt at profundity","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurly Burly was, from beginning to end, a pretentious attempt at profundity. Sean Penn's character expressed an endless and irritating litany of platitudes - were there any moments of enlightenment or resolution? I don't know, and by the end of the movie, I didn't care. Kevin Spacey was probably the only bright spot of the entire movie, but I was so mentally exhausted by the puerile characters, that his role was pretty much a wasted effort.  I suppose if you're from California, you might find the satirical display of Hollywood on drugs somewhat comical and entertaining, but for me, I just couldn't wait to leave the theatre . "},{"Title":"Bland and been there before...","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Hurlyburly' Imagine a film experience equal to rubbing your knees with a steak knife.  `Hurlyburly' is a serious waste of time, talent, and patience.  It's being nice to say I despised this film.  It's such an endurance test, it's not funny.Sean Penn, who rarely acts and we get him in two films in one weekend, is firing on all pistons for the 125 minute running time.  It's old even before it begins.  Penn is capable of so much, and yet he wastes his time trying to avoid what he considers `Hollywood' material.  So what does he play here?  A drug inducing, morally ambiguous film producer.  In fact - EVERYBODY - seems to be playing the same role.  The fact that this film started life as a play adds to the fun, because all they do is talk.  And talk about nothing they do.  This is the same crap we have seen over and over again - Hollywood, drugs, Hollywood, drugs...OK, WE GET IT!!!  Only this time it's yelled at you.  Meg Ryan must have been doing a favor because this is beneath her.  The same cannot be said of Kevin Spacey and Chazz Palminteri - because they blow already.  Shot blandly, staged atrociously, and just so disgustingly pretentious...I'm out of breath.  Utter garbage. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  See this movie for no other reason to see acting in its purest form. Everyone puts on a show and most notably Sean Penn gives the performance of his alreadly illustrious career. The diatribe between Penn and Kevin Spacey is completely engaging and excellently paced. Finally, a movie that concentrates on dialogue and character development instead of special effects. The movie is long lasting over two hours but you end up wishing it would go on another two hours. Go see this film! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen in 1998.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly is by far one of the best films I've seen in 1998.  The script is incredible.  Every LINE of dialogue is intelligently written.  The characters are wonderfully unpredictable and charismatic.  The performances of Meg Ryan, Kevin Spacey, and especially Sean Penn are utterly genuine and hilarious (in a disturbing kind of way).  This is definitely Sean Penn's best work.Oh yah... and Kevin Spacey has proven once again that he is the smoothest, sexiest man alive...     "},{"Title":"Save your money.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the worst movies I have seen.  Chazz Palminteri's acting was terrible.  He was incredibly unbelievable.  The writing overall was awful, particularly with respect to Palminteri's character.  No one talks that way!  The movie attempts to be philosophical, but is merely pompous and pretentious.  "},{"Title":"Kickin' ass, and takin' names.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sure, some folks might say the dialogue is unrealistic.  But there's enough good one-liners in this flick to keep me going for a while.  Chazz is the man, as was Kevin Spacey.  As mr. Zamir put it, this is Dawson's Creek with adults.See it now.  "},{"Title":"What a Cast!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hey, it's another movie about nihilism run amok in Hollyweird! Without the powerhouse cast this movie would be unwatchable, but with the likes of Sean Penn, Kevin Spacey, Chazz Palminteri and Gary Shandling(!) menacing the screen, how can you say no? Meg Ryan finally gets to play the hooker with the heart of gold and pulls it off nicely. And little Anna Paquin (The Piano & Flyaway Home) is maturing, er, well, never mind (she doesn't actually show anything...).Penn is to the way-too-wired sleaze-bag what De Niro is to the Mafia hood, and I guess this is his Godfather II. The movie makes men look as ridiculous as ever, but then aren't we?!? As in real life, women fare only slightly better... "},{"Title":"Top notch acting","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The acting in Hurlyburly is top notch.  Excellent performances by Sean Penn, Kevin Spacey, Meg Ryan, Garry Shandling and Chazz Palminteri.  The best scenes are the opening exchange between the characters of Eddie (Penn) and Mickey (Spacey), which is a conversation that takes place over the course of a day in various locales and the closing exchange between these same two characters in which they discuss Phil's (Palminteri) note.   "}{"Title":"Funny but too knowingly clever","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie, exposing the shallowness of some of the people in Hollywood but it was at times a little too self-consciously clever.  I guess that was the trade-off.  I mean, I know that people in Hollywood aren't stupid, but at times, it was not enjoyable to hear all this stuff.  Like I said, it was just too self-conscious.  However it was funny.  All the main characters give excellent performances.  It is a very interesting movie and reveals the true ignorance of these people...just a little difficult to bear the cleverness of their conversation at times.   "},{"Title":"Sean Penn's Reason for Acting","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kevin Spacey does his usual mannered priss; Meg Ryan and Chaz Palmintieri are unsubtle and poor; the direction is unexceptional. But David Rabe's play is superb (and the cut-down, however it may displease fans of the play, is adequately expressive of the play's meaning). And Sean Penn is absolutely extraordinary--it's the best performance of the year. He gives the play a reason to have been sitting around for years. He wouldn't have done it as well as a younger actor; and I honestly don't think there is an actor working today who could have played it better. "},{"Title":"Two hours of neuroses presented by a strong cast.","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For two hours, we're exposed to the neuroses of Eddie, played by Sean Penn. For me, this was too long to focus on the single character. However, strong supporting performances by Kevin Spacey, Chazz Palminteri, Anna Paquin and Meg Ryan make the film worth watching. Provided that you can put up with a group of pathetic, disgusting and hateful characters, there's much interesting commentary on the human condition. "},{"Title":"Drug-addled creeps hate women","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd like to know what director Anthony Drazen thought this film was about, because it's hard to know from what's on the screen. From watching the major figures overact, it appears this film is supposed to be yet another indictment of Hollywood, or at least one of Hollywood's subcultures. I'm sure there are people like this in Hollywood--drug-crazed, sexual predators surrounded by the most sexually pliant women imaginable (Post-pubescent Anna Paquin, showing up uninvited to crash at the Hollywood Hills house that Sean Penn shares with Kevin Spacey, asks Penn, Would you like to f*** me before I go to sleep? Or this With her 6-year-old daughter watching from the front seat, Meg Ryan's character is described as having given a blowjob to a stranger in the back seat of Sean Penn's car because she's been told that the stranger needs to relax). But what's new here? Who hasn't seen this stuff a hundred times? Who doesn't already know this subculture exists in Hollywood? And where on earth won't you find a subculture like this?There's some humor of the I recognize that one variety for those of us who've spent time in drug-induced frenzies. In fact, most of the humor is of the snickering insider variety. Giving Penn a Venice best-actor award for playing a member of his own in-group smacks of the incest this type of film is always in danger of slipping into.Kevin Spacey is the best thing here, but Spaceyphiles may  begin to see the emergence of Spacey cliches the dead-pan delivery, the trenchant distinction, the dryly uttered cutting remark; we've seen this same character a few times now, albeit in different situations.Gary Shandling is wasted as a character Drazen doesn't quite know what to do with, and Meg Ryan is unconvincing as an amoral and air-headed party girl whom an unraveling Chazz Palminteri throws from a moving car. Like the others, Palminteri's acting is revved too high here. In fact, the only actors not over-revved here are Anna Paquin, who seems like she's in a different film entirely (or confused to find herself in this one); and Robin Wright Penn, managing to be believable in a fiction that asks the audience to suspend not just disbelief but common sense.This is a good film to see if you don't get enough of a testosterone fix from the Super Bowl. This is not a good film to see if you are offended by the traditional treatment of women in American film. Or if you expect a film's director to express a coherent point of view. "},{"Title":"Ready for some pointless conversation?","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly - go see it only if you are dedicated to one or more of the actors.  However, be prepared to be disappointed, especially by Chazz Palimenteri's acting class performance.  Anna Paquin's as a hitchhiking street kid is also painful to watch, especially when the script tries to put her character in a wise wild child role.  There's little or no point to the film, but it is realistic in that the characters ramble on about nothing, are self-absorbed, speak in code, hide their feelings, use petty bickering to cover up what they're really fighting about.  Basically go to the movies to watch people act like the people you know.  Or wish you didn't know.  Who needs it? "},{"Title":"Powerful acting","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK -- I'm clear about why Sean Penn is considered one of the great - or greatest - actors of the generation.And Kevin Spacey is right there with him.Everybody else did well too.The difficulty is that they do such a good job of taking you into the hurlburly drug scene that it is painful at times to be there for two hours. But definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Miserable Hollywood guys have no clue Only a girl is wise.","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The message of this film seems to be that all men are pitiful and women sometimes can be wise. At least some girls can.Buddha-like runaway Donna (Anna Paquin) explains things to drug-addicted, over-intellectualizing Eddie (Sean Penn), while Mickey (Kevin Spacey) and Artie (Garry Shandling) crack jokes, often at the expense of violent, confused Phil (Chazz Palminteri).In Donna, we see Anna Paquin, whom we first met only five years ago as a little girl in The Piano, as a sex object. Not only is she very sexy, she also acts very well indeed.Sean Penn's Eddie, on the other hand, is a basket case. This is vaguely amusing at first, but his histrionics quickly become wearing. Three minutes of his weeping and frowning would have been more effective than the thirty or so which we are subjected to.Kevin Spacey gives an amusing and understated performance, which is not so very memorable, but Chazz Palminteri's Phil has few really likable qualities.Meg Ryan is pleasant in a small role as a druggie slut, and Garry Shandling, in another fairly small role, is as amusing as ever. Robin Wright has a few good scenes as Darlene, the love-interest.In the end, however, the film seems rather empty and strangely unaffecting. It tries to push many emotional buttons, but somehow fails to do so. It also appears to be trying to have a message, but it wasn't communicated very well, unless it is the message at the beginning of this review.If you are a real fan of any of these actors, go see the film. Otherwise, don't bother. In the end, this is one film without a real plot and without a real point.  "},{"Title":"I would like to know what specifically the title means.","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seeing what all happens in Hurlyburly, I get the feeling that the word refers to a whole bunch of things getting thrown together, but I don't know for certain. But I can say that I liked the movie. A scathing look at the lives of several Hollywood people, the movie pulls no punches. There's Eddie (Sean Penn), a beyond-pathetic twerp; Mickey (Kevin Spacey), possibly the smarmiest person alive; Phil (Chazz Palminteri) and and Artie (Garry Shandling), losers in their own respect; and still more undesirable individuals.I see that the movie was based on a play. It certainly has the feel of a play (a confined setting). One of the most interesting cast members was Meg Ryan, playing a character very far from her usual roles (Eddie, if your manner of speech is any indication of what's in your head, you're lucky you can stand up!); she's almost chilling here.Overall, I recommend this one. Just understand that it focuses on a pretty ugly topic. OK, so maybe Kevin Spacey is getting typecast as the cynical jerk, but he always does a good job with his roles in my opinion. This is one to see. "},{"Title":"Ugly Beautiful People","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I sat through this whole movie and truly thought it sucked. Not that it was badly done, exactly. Maybe because it was too well done. I moved out of LA because I got tired of the self-absorbed druggies who believed they truly appeared wise and cool as they spouted useless dribble, which, because of their drugged up state, sounded wise to their own ears. So, sitting through an entire movie where every moment was filled with that sort of character and every single character was that sort of character, was fairly painful.Sean Penn's did a great job of playing a simpering weakling who wanted to be like everyone else. He continually watched the moves of the other characters and really looked like he was watching them to decide what feelings he was going to express. His whole being said Love me! I want you to love me! Is that okay? In a sub-society where the biggest cars, the biggest houses, and the highest price tags are what make someone a success; where being like us rather than being like them is not only a good thing, but the only thing; and where the slightest misstep can make you tumble off of the tight-wire of popularity, people tend to lose themselves and just start becoming mirrors of their rivals, trying to maintain top-dog status. Look through any People magazine, how many stars do you see with their own style? Their own way of talking? Their own way of walking? The key is Be like the other guy. And in real life, the pressure gets to much, sometimes, and you end up with people like the characters in Hurlyburly.So, nope, I didn't like the movie, but if art imitates life, then this movie is truly art because there are pockets of almost-humanity out there that are filled with this kind of life. Did the general population need to see it? No, probably not. But, hey! Star Trek, with it's thousands of alien nations was a popular series, so I can see where someone would think a movie about an earth-bound alien society would also bring in the audiences. Although, now that I think about it, there was a much shorter version made, years ago. It was a 30-second commercial where the dialog consisted of two lines This is your brain. This is your brain on drugs. I think they should have stopped while they were ahead. "},{"Title":"HurlyBurly - 8 years on...","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" HurlyBurly arrived in cinemas in late 1998 and took less than 2 million dollars at the US box office, but HurlyBurly was never intended to be the next Hollywood blockbuster.Adapted from a David Rabe play by Rabe himself, the film stays faithful to the play by using few locations and much interplay between the main performers.Telling the story of several fictional actors trying to make their way in 80's Hollywood, HurlyBurly gives an insight into the desperation and fragility of the life of an actor.Penn, Spacey and Palminteri play the part of Eddie, Mickey and Phil respectively, and all deliver performances that make us believe in their characters. The problem with this film though is not the acting which is top notch throughout, its in the pace of the film. Long monologues and conversations are the cornerstone of a good play, but its difficult to hold the movie viewers attention with just interplay for two hours. Admittedly it can be done, just see Glengarry Glen Ross for a perfect example of this, but while the acting in HurlyBurly is almost up there with Glengarry, the script simply isn't.HurlyBurly can only really be recommended to those who enjoy plays, as the script simply isn't good enough to hold most movie-goers attention.http//www.filmcritic.zoomshare.com "}{"Title":"Do not waste your time on this movie.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite having an all-star cast, this is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. The acting is terrible and the dialog is almost as bad. Sean Penn's performance almost made me wince with empathy for a good actor doing his worst performance. Kevin Spacey and Meg Ryan tried hard with the material, but they couldn't resurrect the script. I don't know if the real problem was the acting or the script or the director, but it all added up to a waste of time. I see that the other reviewer thought it was a great movie. Either tastes are really different or someone is doing some promotion. I rate this movie better than a made-for-TV-movie (barely). My wife gave up and went to bed. To give you a reading on my tastes, I agree with Ebert and Roeper ~80% of the time. "},{"Title":"Hurly Burly","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's 111am and I just finished watching the film for probably the 6th time of my career. As I slowly grow older it seems to affect me in different ways each time I view it. I've never been able to identify with a character in such immense desperation as Sean Penn's Eddie. Throughout the movie he is in constant battle with his mind and the reality of the world that he finds himself living in. He uncoils down to the center of his deepest insecurities and confusion and then proceeds to look to the people he has surrounded himself with for some answers. I think we've all felt this type of absolute need to make some sense out of our world. It's my opinion that Sean Penn absolutely spearheads this role and, as per usual puts every fiber of his being into becoming it. There is no shortage of strong performances in the film, Kevin Spacey, Chazz Palmateri and Anna Paquin are all very impressive. It is Penn however who is most engrossing. Through his angered rants he commands attention during the length of the completely dialogue driven movie. This film is for anyone who has ever questioned the absurdity of our own existence. It's a pleasure to watch and I believe that it succeeds in its ultimate goal of reminding the viewer of what should really be focused upon in life. rise n' shine. "},{"Title":"out of the mainstream type of movie. Excellent!","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I went to see this movie I had no idea who starred in it or what the movie was about. The characters were off the wall, the story line was not complicated yet it still kept my attention. Sean Penn was always good at playing different type of characters. It's great he keeps playing diverse roles.This is what a REAL actor is about... not sticking to the same old typecast. I would recommend this movie simply because it's a movie that is original and the characters are people that you would know on an everyday basis (somewhat). The movie doesn't go overboard with the storyline itself neither.It pretty much shows the daily life of these successful but lost directors,producers, friends etc.. Also it shows what happens when you lose touch with yourself and how your life can go into a downward spiral if you do not take control. "},{"Title":"Blahblahblah, Inc.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"         Hurlyburly is mostly a waste of time.  Based on David Rabe's play about a group of successful LA types drowning in their own misery (with drink, drugs, and empty sex to help them on the way down), it drones on too long about too little, the big-time cast wretching its way through it until a bigger gig comes along.       Centered around two Hollywood bigwigs who share a posh home in the Valley, Kevin Spacey plays the glib, smart-ass role in which he excels, but too often gives the impression of going through the motions, drawing on past attitudes and inflections from other films.  He is, in truth, doing Kevin Spacey's act (though a great act, I admit) rather than creating a newly formed character.  Only an assured confrontation scene with Sean Penn near the end saves his performance from the truly banal.  Garry Shandling turns up playing his usual dysfunctional Jew, but he's completely out of place in this setting.  The smallness of his range and the pettiness of his plight, idiosyncratic hallmarks of the stand-up comedian are more suited to clubs or TV.  And Chazz Palmintieri is repellent every minute he's on screen.  His crude, doltish persona is suited for playing small-time gangsters and not much else; he can't articulate the dialogue he's given. When he's given cuss lines to speak, blended in with words like realm or inasmuch, he's simply not believable.  This is either bad casting or bad screenwriting.  Personally, I think it's both.  In another scene, he cusses out a pretty young girl because her good looks interfere with his football watching.  But the scene doesn't come off because even the swearing has a writer's touch to it, a poetic lilt that Palmintieri is unable to convey.  And later on, when he kidnaps his own baby from the maternity ward, he falls flat again, because, as an actor, Palmintieri possesses so little humanity, one cannot believe he is the type of man who would be touched by the beauty and delicacy of a newborn.  It is an earnestly rotten performance.     About the only one who puts any effort into this thing is Sean Penn, but the material is beneath him. A roadside meltdown with his girl friend over a choice of restaurants is funny and adept, but a lot of his scenes seem overwrought (a coke-addled lament of the wrongs of the world, for instance).  This is not entirely Sean Penn's fault; he is simply trying to breathe life into a corpse.  But it's at least partly his fault because he should have known it was a corpse.   Meg Ryan and Anna Paquin also appear, doing nothing of any significance.  2** out of 4            "},{"Title":"Superb acting in an all star cast","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly is undoubtedly an underrated movie.  Although it tends to drag on and some of the dialogue is rather unnecessary, the acting of Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey especially, shine right through any faults that this movie might have.  Chazz Palminteri, who usually pulls off some top caliber performances, didn't quite convince me in the part of Phil. Check this movie out, its well worth the watch. 8/10 "},{"Title":"No spoilers here I didn't wait for the end","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My Video/DVD shop manager recommended this turkey. It bypassed our cinemas (wisely) but it's pity it didn't skip going to video and go straight to the Recycle Bin. One can sum this up as a movie made by, with and for the stoned, which may be your bag ? We all think we are deep and coherent under the influence and so do our co-conspirators if they're in the same condition. I managed to stay with the film (but not the non-existent plot) for an hour until the buddy 'improv' dialogue brought my patience to an end. Surely the actors were actually high for some of their 'streams on unconsciousness' but that's no use to the poor viewer since they can't pass on the joint or blow on to us. What a terrible waste of talent and money and I'm sorry to see so many able actors and actresses compromising their ideals for this load of codswallop. (Yanks may have to look that one up) "},{"Title":"A dreadful excuse for a movie. I want my life back.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is possibly the worst I have ever seen. It features a collection of very fine actors, but do not let this fool you. If you are thinking 'it can't be that bad' - IT CAN! It might even be worse. If you are tempted to watch this film, just sit in front of a blank screen for two hours and this will be more rewarding. I, and my two friends, felt sullied by this rubbish. The script is pretentious, pointless and not funny. The acting is hidden under a swamp of attempts to be cool or possibly satirical (we couldn't tell for sure). The film is soooooo slow, sooooo dull, and sooooo annoying. I want my money back! And my two hours! And my respect for all the people involved. "},{"Title":"Pretentious","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pretentious farce about a small unlikeable group of Hollywood reprobates who are given over to waxing philosophic under the heavy influence of drugs. Drug-induced banter poses for creative dialogue and becomes tiresome very quickly. Waste of some fine acting talent. "},{"Title":"Braindamage","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's slightly annoying when, having seen a film as dire as this, somebody deranged enough to have enjoyed it insinuates that you simply didn't 'understand' it (ie. You're not intelligent enough).I like Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey, and I was curious as to why I had never heard of this film before as they are both 'major league' actors. From minute one, I didn't know where this tripe was going. The entire premise of trying to keep you interested  by the ridiculously pretentious and contrived dialogue got old very quickly. Based on a play, it seems far to much like a play on film, and a pretty iffy one at that. The various tools that the film uses to distance itself from the mainstream have been utilised to much better effect in countless other movies. It didn't go anywhere and, as a consequence, I did go somewhere - down the pub! The pub being a valid example of where I can pick up 'realistic' and 'interesting' conversation if I so wish.I'm not entirely sure how the executives managed to pitch this to the studios. I'm even less sure how Penn and Spacey chose to appear in it after reading the appalling script. If I was them, I would buy the rights to this rubbish and destroy all the evidence that it ever existed. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has no redeeming qualities.  I wish I could take back the time I had wasted on this drivel.Too bad ALL the movies characters were not in the car that went over the cliff, I might not feel as dirty as I feel after this ended. "}{"Title":"A tedious act in self-indulgence, I couldn't even make it through the whole thing","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hurlyburly is hands down the worst film I've ever had the misfortune of seeing. For starters, it doesn't have a single sympathetic character, let alone one that the audience can even bear to share two hours with. It's slow paced (that can be a good thing - just look at Shadowlands, but it isn't here), boring beyond belief, and just plain annoying. Watching a few characters we despise in the first place self destruct is not my idea of a good time. It even got to the point where I just turned it off, after an hour or so. I'm surprised that I even got that far.It's labelled as a comedy, but garners only a single laugh, in the first five minutes. Sadly, the film boasts an outstanding cast (sadly because I wish that they had gotten together on a better project). Though I'm not a fan of Sean Penn, Chazz Palminteri or Garry Shandling, I respect the work they've done in the past, and there's no doubt in my mind that they are good actors. Both Anna Paquin and Meg Ryan, two of the best actors in their respective generations, are underused, but again, neither are playing characters you'd want to see overused. Kevin Spacey is, besides Haley Joel Osment, my favorite actor (yet, ironically, Pay it Forward, which featured both of them, was a beyond mediocre film), but it seems that he picks films that really aren't very good, or have box office prospects, either of which necessary. He was in Swimming With Sharks, one of my favorite films of all time, American Beauty, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, and a few other great films. That is the Kevin Spacey who is one of my favorite actors. But that same actor was also in the substandard Big Kahuna (another picture without any characters with redeeming qualities), Doomsday Gun, and now this.The sets are bland, the writing uninspired, the story nonexistent and the actors wasted (in more ways than one). Do yourself a favor and give this a hearty pass. Actually, what I'm trying to get at is AVOID IT AT ALL COSTS.0/10 (yeah, that's right, it's a first for me) "},{"Title":"hamfest","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Everyone in this cast is wasted. The movie has no point. All the talented cast does is banter about stuff that I could care less about and they dont even attempt to be interesting. The movie,story and everything about it drags. Someone tell Gary Shandling to stop making movies, he is terrible.  The movie tries so hard to be edgy and a strong drama but it fails. I cant believe Sean Penn or Kevin Spacey agreed to do this movie? Were they hopped up on coke? * "},{"Title":"Awful, pretentious, wannabe drivel.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Terrible.  This pretentious, wordy garble tries desperately to be what it is not -- a humanistic dialogue film in the vein of Magnolia.  Good performances are helpful, but since all of the movie's characters are written exactly the same, they can't save it.  Add sex, drugs, and violence to Dawson's Creek and you get Hurlyburly. "},{"Title":"This monkey's gone to heaven","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Somewhere below someone has given this film a rating of 2 out of 4. I'm curious as to how that figure was arrived at. Was it because earlier he stated 4 people had walked out? Is 2 out of 4 the same as 4 out of 6? Or should it be more like 7 out of 14? Either way it is a rating system curiously appropriate to this film, whose protagonist tries to decipher every permutation of meaning in a moment to control an ultimate destiny, which suggests the film may be due a sort of 4 minus 2 rating. The writer David Rabe is no Chuck Palahniuk who may be no more than a figure of Tyler Durden's imagination which makes Chuck an 8 out of 0. Rabe appears to consider himself a bright spark but does not trust his audience to be in the same league. Unable to have a useful Basil exposition character like the Austin Powers film, he has his characters laboriously explain the meaning behind a scene such as the teenager brought to the house by one of the men. In case we didn't get it they spell out to each other that she is there as a sort of pet. This 'people as pets' line I suspect Rabe borrowed from Pink Floyd's 'The Wall', a similar piece of self pitying navel gazing which I'm surprised the Penn character didn't snort Cocaine off in an arch bit of post-modern irony. Later on Meg Ryan (whose oral technique is praised by the men suggesting an 11 out of 11 rating) helpfully does the Basil exposition bit again by telling Penn that a microscope would be required to see his good points, just in case we had missed the point of an hour and a half of bludgeoning. It seems insecurity is not restricted to the fictional characters.Don Rickles famously said to Frank Sinatra during his stand up act that he had seen 'The Pride And The Passion' and that the cannon's acting was great. Well, I've seen 'Hurlyburly' and the moustache's acting was great. Derivative, so that gives me only a 4 out of 9 for stand up and Sean Penn a 3 out of 7 for acting. The moustache gets 12 out of 13 for the same and 6 out of 8 for defying gravity through some epic scenery chewing. Kevin Pacey gives the usual no pulse glib performance that may wake everybody up to the fact that he's an over-rated actor. He's 0 out of 1 in this and 2 out of 3 elsewhere. Garry Shandling plays Gary Shandling to perfection giving him a 9 out of 9 rating. Chaz Paliminteri gets a 19 out of 20 for knuckles. Pacey starred in a similar diatribe against Hollywood called 'Swimming With Crocodiles' but the long list of end title credits on that film and this suggest that the industry can't be as awful as depicted here if so many people are willing to work in it, giving Rabe an 8 out of 12 for disingenuousness and cutting edge actors a 9 out of 13 for vanity. Originally a stage play, the action is not opened out much and given this, the hand held camera work seemed an unnecessary indulgence giving Hulyburly an overall 0 out of 0 for tripod wear and tear.My rating? I give it a 16 and a half out of 18 and a half. Oh, alright, half a bit more then. "},{"Title":"Kindly phrased, this movie is pointless drivel.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A stellar cast whines incessantly about their existentialist woes in a movie so bad it boggles the mind. If you have a choice between 2 hours of root canal surgery or watching this movie, it's a no-brainer head for the dentist.  "},{"Title":"Inept and overwrought","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The high powered cast gives their all (and more!) but cannot overcome the film's obvious flaws. First off, the story is thin. Things go from bad to slightly worse. The end. Secondly, Rabe the screenwriter is far too deferential to Rabe the playwright. While one can readily accept stylized dialogue in the theatre, on film the same dialogue sounds contrived and artificial. (If you think this is an arbitrary generalization, take a look at Dustin Hoffman and Dennis Franz in Mamet's American Buffalo). And the ending, from an emotional perspective, serves only to further alienate the audience. Did the director and writer actually expect us to mourn the passing of an utterly unsympathetic psychotic? I, for one, couldn't wait for him to go and was only sorry that he didn't pop off sooner. This is clearly a play that should have never left the stage (where its strengths could be applauded and its weaknesses overlooked). A misguided effort from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Isn't a movie, is a shapeless thing !!!!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is really a bad movie. Is long, boring and the movie don't have story. You see a pack of people on drug who say a lot of stupidity.The actors are good ( mention to the excellent Meg Ryan ) but the problem is the script. NO STORY resume the screenplay !!!Is just a trip, not a movie. Please, DON'T make A SEQUEL !!!! "},{"Title":"Anyone who likes this movie is lying.","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is among the worst movies I've ever seen. The only reason anyone likes it is because nobody understands what the hell is supposed to be going on here so they just figure it's one of those artsy subliminal type films. Instead of admitting they don't understand this fine form of art, people give it a great review instead. Let me tell you that this movie sucks. There's no plot. It's boring as hell. If I wanted to watch a bunch of freaks doing drugs for 2 hours I'd stay in my dorm room. I admit that Sean Penn gives a good performance, but it's too bad that he has no role. Kevin Spacey What's up with you? I love you, man, and you turn around and shove all the love I've given you where the sun don't shine! What's WRONG with you? And Meg Ryan should under no circumstances play a drug addicted whore. That's almost as bad as when she played Jim Morrison's girlfriend in the doors. Yeah, that was a great choice of character. Hurlyburly is a sucky movie. I'm sure the play is just dandy if you're into sitting in a theatre for hours watching something that makes no sense (hmmm, that's what the movie was like). Don't torture yourself if you haven't already seen this crap. And if you have, I feel for you, man. "},{"Title":"Unbearable","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't stand this movie.  I don't necessarily have to *like* the characters in a movie for it to work for me, but it helps if I don't actively HATE most of them, the way I did with Hurlyburly. Sean Penn is a brilliant actor, and he and Robin Wright Penn have one good scene together, but that's about it.  An absolutely painful experience.   "},{"Title":"SEE THE PLAY!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes a stageplay can be translated into a beautiful movie, with great dialogue and good character development.  Movies like The House Of Yes, Noises Off, And Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead all accomplished this. However, I feel that Hurly Burly fell FAR short.  The play itself is Dialogue-driven, which is all well and good on the stage.. but on the screen it makes for a boring string of trite diatribe after trite diatribe.  The actors, (who were far too eloquent to be human seemed to spew out dialogue that does not flow naturally in human speech.  The lines sound as if they are being read from a book, which , again, works in a play, but not a movie.  I will give the actors credit, though.  They did a very good job of portraying the characters.  The fault here does not lie in the presentation, but the writing.  So if you want to see Hurly Burly.. go and see the play.  If you want to see a GOOD translation into a move, see one of the films I listed above.  "}{"Title":"Four self-centered rich losers sit around and do drugs for two hours.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That about sums it up. This movie tries to make up for what it lacks with a cast of household names and lots of bad boy behavior, failing miserably. The actors babble on and on as if they were directed to make sure there's not a silent second in the entire film. The worst part is none of it is believeable. Anyone who knows anything about drugs would know that someone full of cocaine and marijuana would not be capable of the thought required to make the speeches the actors were making.Rating 1....Don't waste two bucks renting this one. "},{"Title":"Hated It!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is awful because nearly all the characters had their personality development stopped in their late teens, probably by excessive drug use. It also runs too long, considering the lack of action. You'd think such a talented cast would have crafted a more entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm no filmmaker, so I'm not sure what makes dialogue interesting .  What I do know is that this movie was extremely boring.  I had no interest at all in what was being said probably because I had no interest in the characters. I didn't hate them pity them like them, it was as if they were mindless robots in a bad video game.  In fact, bad video game characters are more thought provoking than the coke snorting nobody's  in HurlyBurly.  Why Kevin? Why?  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzz","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eight people began watching this with me.  About 45 minutes into it there were only two left and one was asleep.  Then I fell asleep as well.  I love Spacey and Penn, but they couldn't turn this script into anything remotely interesting. "},{"Title":"Are you high?","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't when I watched this movie, and I will admit I couldn't bare to finish it.  I am so disappointed that Kevin Spacey, a high ranking actor in my book, was in this pit of a movie.  It was like being in a room with a bunch of drunk, drugged out, over-paid jerks that thought they were insightful and funny all in one.  Nothing made sense, not a word. I kept hoping it would pick up until I had to just turn it off out of boredom. It goes to show you that names don't make pictures. I give this movie the Please God destroy every copy award for I feel it isn't worth the plastic it takes to make a VHS tape. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with every negative comment about Hurlyburly. Poor acting and directing. Presumptuous, unfocused dialogue. Sketchy characters. No plot. Nary an interesting development in the entire movie save for Anna Paquin, yet even she had no purpose. Whether any of these things was intended is irrelevant; the film sucks. "},{"Title":"Two of the most painful hours of my life","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sure the subject matter is disturbing, competitive men and their confused and sometimes evil relationships with women.  Even more disturbing is that I wasted two hours of my life watching this badly written, badly directed and poorly acted excuse for a 'thought-provoking' film.  I say poorly acted instead of badly, because I hate to rank the acting as low as I hold the writing and directing.  The actors have the excuse of a crummy script. Here's an exercise.  Take every pretentious thing you ever heard a self important 18 year old ramble about and write them all down. There you go you've written a script as good as Hurlyburly.  Character voices blend, dialogue rambles unchecked and some of the actors haven't even got the fundamental concepts of who their characters are.  1 out of 10.  Dreadful.  "},{"Title":"vomit","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" **Some spoilers**I can't believe that this garbage still gets viewing seven years after the fact. This thing had a great cast, and absolutely the worst story, dialog, etc. Typical late 90s trendy artsy if you don't get this, you're just a Philistine garbage. A rating of one is actually too high. I wanted to put this at about a negative 2, but the folks at IMDb have to draw the line somewhere, I suppose. I saw this movie with a guy who worships David Lynch, and he HATED this movie. If that doesn't tell you something, nothing will. This piece of garbage would occupy 2 slots on my worst movie list, and I'm stupid for having paid money to see it.Advice If anyone arrives at your doorstep with this turd, and says Hey, I've got a great movie to watch 1. Inform the person you have to spend the next two hours cleaning your toilet (more productive) or you've got a kidney stone to pass (more pleasurable). 2. Inform said person that if they were truly a friend, they would never have brought this movie in the first place. 3. Tell same friend to return the movie, demand his money back, and seek professional counseling the next day. If you need to watch the messed up, drug-laden lives of others, THEN YOU NEED HELP. 4. Promptly close the door on the former friend, and go back to what you were doing, content with the knowledge that anything...yes even passing a kidney stone...is more enjoyable than watching Hurly Burly. "},{"Title":"What your basic movie should have...","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching Hurlyburly (yes, I did make it to the end, isn't that amazing) I began to wonder what a movie should at least have to even call it that - Some sort of story, direction, line, whatever you want to call it. The feeling that after you finished it, you're thinking okay, this was a movie. You may have liked it or not, there's a story told and it ended at the end of the movie (which doesn't mean a movie can't have an open ending), it should just have the feel of 'a movie'. Clearly, Hurlyburly hasn't. This babbling doesn't have a point and could have gone on and on for another 2 hours (isn't that horrific?). - We should feel for/with/against the actors. They bring some sort of emotion upon us. Whether it's love, hate, fun, anger, anything. Personally, I couldn't care less about these so-called interesting Hollywood guys. - Good acting. Not every movie can have top-notch actors in it, but if you DO have them don't waste it like that. Particularly Spacey should feel ashamed after watching his 'performance'. - Now, if you don't qualify on each of the above (as Hurlyburly so painfully clearly didn't), you should at least be able have a laugh at the movie. But I didn't. There were no nice puns or jokes in the entire movie, not a funny situation, nothing. Just 2 hours of blahblah with no direction, bad-ass acting and characters I couldn't care less about. Don't waste your time on this drivel, people. 1/10 (and I don't give that too often). "},{"Title":"Coke-snorting casting agents, cigarettes, sex, drugs, divorce, baby, etc.","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie falls somewhere between mediocre and near-garbage. Great performances by Sean Penn and Kevin Spacey could not save the terrible writing; the bad writing and poorly conceived story are the biggest problems with this film, which is especially disappointing as it was adapted from a stage play, which is usually a good indication of a gripping dialogue/story/character-driven narrative, a la David Mamet, whose fantastic work this pretentious trash is unsuccessfully trying to imitate. The dialogue is overblown it feels like it was written by a seventeen-year-old boy trying to sound smart. It's also extremely repetitive; Sean Penn is given the undesirable task of having a perpetual coke-fueled emotional meltdown, and the problem with this is that it means nothing to the viewer if it's ALWAYS HAPPENING. There is also a groan-inducingly saccharine tugging-at-your-heartstrings moment that tries to show how really deep down these guys aren't such assholes, and this moments only further poisons what little sense of genuineness this movie has. This movie thinks it is hipper--and far more intelligent--than it actually is. "}{"Title":"Frigging fantastic","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I`m sad to see that so many people that don`t understand this film bothers to comment on it. If you haven`t seen it, don`t listen to the people telling you it`s not worth it. It is, most definitely. Of course everybody have different taste in movies, but you have to be pretty stupid not to be able to appreciate this film, unless maybe you have The Lionking as one of your favourites. This film certenly pertaines to life. "},{"Title":"A waste of talent and time","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk, talk, snort, take a hit, talk, talk, cuss, snort, puff.That's about it for hurlyburly, a monumental waste of talent. The cast is outstanding, which made me want to rent it. But the movie isn't about anything. A slice of life of four drugged-out, self-absorbed Hollywood types that has virtually no plot, little action and no point isn't exactly my idea of a good movie.   The title doesn't even make sense.  "},{"Title":"Something insipid this way comes...","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Acting 10, Script 1.  Hurlyburly is from that unfortunate postmodern school of theatre that has declared anything resembling a story or plot is forbidden.  While people may get away with this on stage, on film it becomes deadly -- or at least deadly dull.  We're left with a bunch of great actors spouting dialogue that, while brilliantly written, adds up to nothing.  Even worse, every character speaks with the same voice despite their backgrounds. The only attempt to differentiate is to have teen-waif Anna Paquin use the word ain't.Never mind that the characters are unsympathetic losers to the extreme, the camera work is plain sloppy and (for LA residents) the attention to geography is laughable.  (Hint the view out Sean Penn's front window is about eight miles away from the view out his back window, and you can't drive south through Hollywood and wind up in Glendale pretending to be Burbank.)  Okay, suspension of disbelief and all that -- and normally I wouldn't pay attention to little things like that, because they are just vagaries of production.  But, the fact that they did stick out so much despite the thespian pyrotechnics on screen says a lot about the weakest element of this enterprise -- the script.In short, skip this one, even on video.  Rabe picked the wrong quote from the Scottish Play for his title; Hurlyburly would have been better named A tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.  A bit long for the marquee, perhaps -- but at least it would be honest advertising. "},{"Title":"Good plays don't necessarily make good movies","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Hurlyburly on Broadway and liked it a great deal. I don't know what happened with the film version, because it was dreadful. Perhaps some dialogue that works on stage just sounds incoherent on screen. Anyway, I couldn't wait for this film to be over. The acting is universally over the top. Only Kevin Spacey has it together, and he seems like he knows he's in a bad movie and can't wait to get out.   "},{"Title":"what a colossal waste of film","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not funny, it's not interesting, it's not well shot, you don't care about the characters, not one single one of them. There's nothing that engages you in the narrative flow, you really could care less what happens. Big, big waste of time and talent. "},{"Title":"Spacey is the only one worth watching","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only thing that got me through this movie was the chance to see Kevin Spacey deliver his lines. He was perfect in the role of the articulate cynic. But one has to wonder what his character was doing there. He seemed more intelligent than the others, yet he stuck around playing stupid games with them. Pretty depressing and pointless film, much like the lives of the people it depicts.The actors were all big name stars and one wonders why they wanted to be in this film. I see that the original stage production in Chicago and New York also had big stars. I guess it was an opportunity to spout out some colorful dialog, but I must be missing whatever other value the story has. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is boring and pointless. Only someone who thinks liking boring and pointless movies makes them look sophisticated could possibly enjoy it.The characters talk non-stop about the most uninteresting things imaginable. There may be real people like that out there (I've met them), but they're not the type I want to pay to watch on a screen. In the end one of them commits suicide, which is about the most unimaginative ending imaginable (geddit?).The acting is terrible. That is, unless you count people playing themselves as good acting. Spacey and Penn play the same character in EVERY movie. That isn't good acting. Sometimes they're in good movies, simply because the character fits. If they want to be remembered as good actors, they should expand their range. Basic stuff really.Do yourself a favour and give this a miss. Unless you're the type who thinks it's intellectual to like the boring and the shallow, that is.  "},{"Title":"tale told by an idiot, full of sound & fury, signifying...you guessed it!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Suffice it to say that whatever impact the play would have on stage has successfully been transferred to the screen by all involved.Just, try not to listen too closely to everything that the characters played by Sean Penn and Chazz Palminteri have to say.  Those guys speak in PARAGRAPHS, nonsensically, over-analytically, super-something-somethingly. You'll get cross-eyed, same as Austin Powers did in his sequel, trying to figure out the paradoxes and redundancies of time travel.  It's just not worth the heat and effort.Okay, good points  Kevin Spacey is marvelous as always, despite some elitist, highbrow critics calling him a parody of himself.  I'd see him if he got cast as the next Anakin, for crying out loud.  Heck, all the performances are great (Anna Paquin's is especially a hoot), and everyone plays drug-crazed Hollywood denizens with indisputable accuracy.  If anyone has proof that drug-crazed Hollywood denizens do not act like this, I'm all ears.  Cinematography good -- love the hand-held stuff, thankfully it's not overused -- sets are gorgeous, etc., etc.Plot  at the center are a pair of Hollywood casting directors (why casting directors?  any reference to Hollywood or show business at all is superfluous; they might as well be garbage collectors) spin in their sometimes-crossing orbits, mix with drugs, easy women, friends-for-hire, and expensive lifestyles.  Booze, coke, pot, some Valium.  There's a big lug of a parasitic actor-friend (Chazz Palminteri, who sees this stuff through his own playwright's eyes, which is sometimes good and sometimes not), a girl who is a cross between a gift and a piece of furniture (Anna Paquin, in a bit of my-choice-in-post-Oscar-scripts-is-a-heck-of-a-lot-better-than-Tatum-O'Neal's (which is correct) casting), a hooker who does her biz in front of her toddler (Meg Ryan -- no viable explanation), a miscellaneous schmuck (Garry Shandling), and some other folks.  Oh, yeah, there's Sean Penn's character's wife, played by real life wife Robin Wright Penn.What to say?  Well, no one is speaking in any voices that in any way resemble real human beings.  They all talk like the playwright, David Rabe (assuming he talks this way -- what a bore he'd be).  This gets awfully tiresome, awfully quick.  Can't we have some play-turned-movie where only some of the characters speak in high minded, uber-articulate, drenched-in-pseudointellectual drivel, and the rest (i.e. the ones that matter) stand back and talk like normal folks?  Is that too much to ask? Excuse me, I'm going to go see Clerks again.  At least Kevin Smith's high minded, uber-articulate, drenched-in-pseudointellectual drivel is funny and thought-provoking.Oh, almost forgot -- any philosophical relevance or dramatic power intended by Rabe is muted by all this nonsense.  Otherwise, Hurlyburly is capably mounted by director Anthony Drazan, faultlessly performed, and about a half hour too long.  "},{"Title":"Awful film","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I could go into a long exposition about this movie and why I disliked it...but I won't. The characters are truly horrible people, real as they may be. I found myself detesting them completely. I can't relate to this film in any way. The only thing I can conclude is that it must have been made by self centered Hollywood types FOR self centered Hollywood types. Palminteri's character is probably one of the worst screen characters I've ever seen. As I mentioned earlier, most of my stomach wrenching was in direct result of this guy. It's a bizarre film, and in the least, it'll leave you being thankful for your normal life. "},{"Title":"Yes, but","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I certainly don't want to discourage talky, intellectually ambitious movies, but why not try to get it right?  They might even make money and encourage studios to invest in more talky, intellectually ambitious movies.Of course, everyone wants to like Hurlyburly, but the movie fails to meet us half-way.  With real visionary filmmakers like Neil LeBute (regardless of whether you like/agree with his work, he is a visionary) out there, why waste so many actorly resources on vessels of inarticulate pretention. Spewing a mass of verbiage in lieu of meaningful thought is no more clever (okay, slightly more clever) than Prince attempting to look cool and mysterious in Purple Rain by not saying anything.That said, there were certainly enjoyable moments in Hurlyburly, especially Anna Paquin's speech at the end, and Penn's reaction to it (God, but men do need women. If we just listened to them more, everything would be so easy). Also Chazz Palmitieri had some interesting facial expressions.  I love Kevin Spacey, but I'm starting to think he should just appear as himself in every movie, or at least as his persona.  Check The Ref for Spacey before he became a parody of himself. "}]