[{"Title":"Slow, slack, but still satisfying","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You don't turn to Wim Wenders when you're looking for nerve-tightening suspense. Though written (by Nicholas Klein, with Wenders) in paranoid-thriller form, the script lacks even a nubbin of McGuffin to anchor the narrative. Two stories run in parallel Bill Pullman's an action-film producer gone missing after an attempt on his life; Gabriel Byrne's a  NASA computer jock on loan to a mysterious satellite surveillance project. Just as yuppie cop Loren Dean is on the point of tying the two tales together, the movie's over, the plot unresolved.Oh, well Los Angeles (mainly Malibu, Santa Monica, and Griffith Park) looks great (cinematography Peter Przgoda), and Wenders has an uncanny ability to get actors to feel comfortable in their skins. The most notable skin in question is Traci Lind's her role as a stunt-woman turned aspiring actress would have made her a star in a more mainstream movie.If you're a Wenders fan, don't let the commercial failure of this film put you off Compared to, say, 'Far Away, So Close' it's as electrifying as 'The 39 Steps.' And somehow, as usual, Wenders's almost childlike intensity of gaze makes you look harder, too. The aroma of the film lingers, even as its substance slides through your fingers like sand. "},{"Title":"Too much ambition","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A film producer who escapes death by murder and chooses to lead a simple life afterwards, a group of good Mexican gardeners, a second-rate movie actress who becomes jobless, a police officer who is not happy with the filing of his case, a Salvadoran maid whose family has been shot by death squads, a NASA employee who knows too much and his old father who doesn't want to exchange his old typewriter by a computer, a mysterious project of ending up violence in the world by putting everyone under surveillance, with all those ingredients what could a movie director have made? Surely an excellent movie. This one however is too much ambitious and produces rather poor results in comparison with that ambition. Where the contrast between dream and reality, love and greed, poetry and vulgarity could have been explored we are left with a story not bad in itself but not very deep and not especially moving. "},{"Title":"The State of Control","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie a few times, and I have met very few people who liked it as much as I did. I see it as an artful expression of all the critical thoughts in philosophy, sociology etc. that show how genocide, ultra-violence and fascist methods of population-control can develop out of all the promises of order, justice and peace the the modern state makes to its citizens. Also, the dialogue has absolutely superb moments, as when Mike the fugitive of the state says to his wife confronts his ex-wife with the words Who can I turn myself into? Well I see who you turned yourself into.... A lot of people seem to dislike the loose ends and unexplained shifts that the characters make - but I say, in that very absence of rigid structure the film makes a parallel to the manifest ambivalence of modern life as a citizen Our greatest protector is also our greatest threat. "},{"Title":"It takes violence to snuff violence","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not surprised that a child would not understand this movie.  To me it was very meaningful, but only in terms of lived experience in jobs and politics.  It's really Brave New World, where authority figures keep order by putting up cameras everywhere and intervening to eliminate anyone who is disorderly or criminal.  Violence is a huge preoccupation, but only tolerated as make-believe -- but the make-believe gets confused with real violence.  Control, transgression, power are the pivots of the well-to-do.  Ashcroft stuff.But the Mexican and immigrant families offer a warmer, truer alternative. In the end, they are more powerful because they are free and can think.  The Kinko's episode, in which the police are defeated from taking control by their own preconceptions, is a good example.  As underlings, laborers, the Mexicans understand what's at stake and they are everywhere, invisible to their employers.  The intellectual technician doesn't catch on until it's too late.I'm told that what I saw was a re-cut and that the early version was indeed chaotic with a lot of loose ends.  All I can say is that now this is one of the videos I rewatch and ponder. "},{"Title":"mmm. five is generous.","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How 'bout a four? Visually, there are some great moments. I think the most interesting scenes are those where there is no dialogue but the camera follows the characters as they inwardly contemplate what this all means (Bill Pullman, Andie McDowell). Unfortunately, we as the viewers are also given (too much) time to contemplate what it means. Everything is WAY too understated. The movie slows to a stop in many places. You start to like it (the romance with Kat and the investigator, the interaction of Bill Pullman's character and the Mexican-American people) and then it doesn't follow through. The dialogue at the film school, in which the characters give a monologue for a class is probably the most interesting dialogue. Some rap, some tell a story, some recite their own poetry. That was the most moving part of the movie. While Wenders has a important point to make, it doesn't come through clearly and the viewer is left uncaring, uninterested. Maybe the only thing that could have helped the End of Violence is more good ole fashioned...violence <g>. "},{"Title":"A movie producer is kidnapped and goes on a silly adventure...","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The End Of Violence!!! How grand-sounding! Another hopelessly pretentious and clumsily made drama as only Wim Wenders can make it.From all the German directors who ever made it outside the confines of Germany he is easily the worst. At the very beginning he gives us a taste of nonsense to come Pullman informs us that he went into movie-making because as a child he was afraid(!) of movies (and people in general). First of all, I've never heard of movie-phobia, and even if such a person existed outside of Wenders's silly fantasy world they would probably end up in a lunatic asylum at best, and not as a successful yuppie. The next nonsense is Byrne telling a friend that the reason he doesn't drive is that he wants to have as little to do with modern technology as possible; meanwhile, he works in an observatory, surrounded by amazing high-tech gadgetry! Driving a car, by comparison, is like living in a cave! This wasn't meant to be Wenders's humour but an attempt to define Byrne as a complex and fascinating character. The attempt failed. After Pullman, the hot-shot producer, more-or-less mysteriously survives the kidnap and attempted murder, he is virtually adopted by a Latino family! And works there as a gardener or something for months to come! Weird, yes, but in a dumb way. All the while it is so obvious that the bald grim-faced guy is responsible for all the nasty goings-on. Then there is the detective who starts his investigation by flirting with a stunt woman(!)-turned-actress and later professes his love to her even though they still barely know each other! After they have sex, she rewards him with info as to the whereabouts of the missing Pullman. It's all so silly, so inane... The same detective hugs McDowell (Pullman's wife) during the interview! In between all the absurd and far-fetched goings-on there are the obligatory deep European moments we have a black woman recite poetry - or modern poetry - which is so painfully PC, not to mention pointless, stupid and so very dull. After she finishes her pretentious little poem (about her father playing with her vagina) the stunt woman approaches her and says that she never met her daddy. How deep is that?! Later on, a badly-written black character raps more poetry and gets an applause for it; we later get to see his penis, which is also obligatory in deep European art films. What's the point of that fight in the bar?! Utterly pointless. And what's with that dialogue between Pullman and McDowell at the end? What's all that nonsense about? Dumb, dumb, dumb... The mark of every bad director is to have children behave like adults, so why should Wim be an exception? The little Latino girl philosophizes about not having a chance to see her dead father but we can't always get what we want; this, coming from the mouth of a 7 year-old! She also says something in the last scene but by then I was almost half-asleep so I don't remember it.But what can one honestly expect from a person who makes a movie that is partly scripted by Bono(?!) in which he casts a rank amateur such as Milla Jovovich, in a piece of garbage known as Million Dollar Hotel? It is monumentally ironic and arrogant that Wim makes a brief mock-attack at Schwarzenegger early on in the movie; the latter may be a bad actor, but his contribution to the world of film is already about a hundred times that of Wim's. Wim even attempts brief self-satire (if I may call it that) by having the Hungarian director (Kier) make a sarcastic remark about making a mistake to leave Europe to make movies. In reality, Wim should thank Satan, with whom he must have a contract, that he ever got a chance to direct at all, let alone for Hollywood. As is plain to see, I have used many exclamation marks in this review; the movie is full of absurdities, bad dialogue, and is rather pointless. But the ! is more a reflection of my hatred towards talentless, pretentious European directors than this particular movie - as insipid as it doubtlessly is. Leonard Maltin actually refers to this film as gorgeous to look at but even he wasn't so gullible to give it a good rating. "},{"Title":"The beginning of boredom","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The End of Violence is a clutter of stick figures wandering through a messy story about some sci-fi big brother government project being tested in Los Angeles. The film trades interesting characters for interesting situations, connects the dots too late revealing too little, and ends in a self absorbed coma about as flat as warm beer. Nonetheless, the film has a respectable cast, a garnish of neo-Beat poetry, a brooding noir feel, a good soundtrack, and some husky-voiced philosophical narration by Pullman making it a par watch for the needy couch potato. (C) "},{"Title":"Heady movie forgets its brain","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think I've ever seen a movie that is so cerebral yet so poor at the same time.  Wim Wenders is certainly revered in the film community for his offbeat ethereal productions (i.e. Wings of Desire), however, nothing profound or comprehensible can be extracted from his latest effort.  It is as if four or five scripts were dropped in a studio parking lot by some clumsy intern and what was left was thrown together so that somebody wouldn't get fired.  There are some common links between the characters but what does any of it have to do with the underlying plot of satellite surveillance?  I kept waiting for the film to decide which plot it thought was most interesting, but it remained undecided to the very end.  This was a frustrating experience to say the least.The most aggravating aspect of this film is the fact that none of the parties involved appear to incompetent, so how is this movie so bad?  Maybe I missed something...The one saving grace of this film is the performance of Udo Kier as a German director.  He alone mutters the one or two lines that managed to get me to crack a smile during this disaster.  "},{"Title":"Controlling street crime in L.A.","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wim Wenders The End of Violence is a film that evokes the director's own work. Also, we are reminded, somewhat, of Antonioni's Blow Up because of the elements the director has brought to the movie. At any rate, this is an enigmatic piece of cinema that will divide the audience. Some will love it, some will hate it; there's no two ways about it. It might help to take a second viewing, as things will, no doubt, fall into place.The film focuses on Mike Max, a powerful Hollywood producer, who we meet at the beginning of the story. Mr. Max, like all key players in the industry must be wired to all kinds of devices in order to keep on top of the movies, the trend, and the gossip, associated with making movies. When his wife Page wants to talk to him, she calls him to his poolside perch to announce she is leaving him.The other important character in the film is Ray Bering, a laconic man we watch going to an observatory where he works. There are a lot of monitors in the place, and we realize Ray is spying on what's happening in the outside world, a sort of Big Brother Voyeur, if you will. When Mike Max is kidnapped by two hired assassins and he is taking under some highway overpasses, it registers in one of Ray's monitors, but being so far from the scene, he can't determine who it is. Ray believes that by controlling the street crime, the violence will disappear.Max, who didn't die, is found by a group of Mexican gardeners who take him to the home of one of them without asking him questions. This proves to be Max's salvation because he stays out of harm's way. To make matters worse, the producer was told at the start of the story a lengthy FBI file has been found in his email. Mike Max, who is producing a movie, now in production, can't prevent Page, who realizes her husband might be dead, to take over the film and his business.There are a few other narratives going on, but suffice it to say, they all come together at the end, as we realize what has really happened. Wim Wenders, who made this film much earlier, seems to have pointed out to last year's Crash, with its multiple stories happening also in Los Angeles. Pascal Rabaud's photography gives a different look to this L.A. in the picture. The music of Ry Cooder, who went to collaborate with Mr. Wenders, gives the film another dimension with its enigmatic score. Nicholas Klein's wrote the screen play with Mr. Wenders.Bill Pullman has great opportunities in the film. This fine actor never ceases to amaze for his range. Gabriel Byrne is seen as Ray Bering, the man overlooking the street crime he wants to eliminate. Traci Lind and Loren Dean are fine as well. Anddie MacDowell appears as Page, the ambitious wife who takes over when her husband disappears. Legendary director Sam Fuller has a small part as Ray's father. The ensemble cast does a wonderful job.Wim Wenders directed with his usual fine style this moody film that is worth a look by any movie fan. "},{"Title":"Know what to expect, and you'll freakin LOVE this film","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...or as I like to think of it, THE END OF VIOLENCE is the greatest scifi crime thriller that never was.As always with Wim Wenders, the plot is fantastic. But, as always with Wim Wenders, the movie isn't about the plot, and those who expect to be carried by the plot will be disappointed. In the same way WINGS OF DESIRE had a great plot about angels but was not a fantasy; in the same way UNTIL THE END OF THE WORLD had a great plot about a high tech dream machine but was not about technology; in the same way LISBON STORY had a riveting plot about a missing person but was not a mystery, here we have the same Wendersian formula which he pulls off flawlessly.The plot, if you're curious, is about a futuristic God machine that can eliminate people with the push of a button. Designed ostensibly for crime prevention & surveillance (the old to protect & serve - where have we heard that before?), it gets out of control and takes murder & corruption to the next level of clinical perfection. Caught up in the game is Mike Max, a movie producer struggling with his own intense xenophobia and paranoia, which, like a disease, he himself spreads to society through his films.That's all I'll say about the plot because (a) I don't want to ruin anything, and (b) like I said, the plot is secondary. What's really important, as you watch this movie, is to pay attention to the thought-provoking dialogue, the philosophical allusions and the overall metaphor of the situation. If you can tune into that stuff, then you're set for a great experience.I'll give you just one example of the philosophy. There's a scene early on where they talk about the observer effect (you might recognize it as the paradox of Schrödinger's cat which you can look up on wikipedia). This is the fundamental theme of the film the idea that, even by impartially observing, we change the situation or in some cases destroy it. As one of the characters says, it's like flipping on the light to observe the darkness. What a poetic & appropriate analogy.This movie is choc full of that kind of stuff, and you may miss it if you're expecting car chases and gunfire. No, instead you get the ultimate anti-violence violence film, and I gotta give Wenders a standing ovation on being the first director I've seen pull it off. A lot of movies in the past have carried a message of anti-violence; yet the films sink to the thrill of showing violence themselves and often glorifying it (the biggest example would be Norm Jewison's classic ROLLERBALL), and this becomes confusing if not outright hypocritical. But in this case, we get a chilling depiction of the epidemic of violence without showing any blood & guts to excite our savage instincts. It remains an intellectual film, not visceral. Don't get me wrong; this movie is plenty suspenseful, and on more than one occasion it'll have your heart flopping like an electrified noodle. But it's all done by way of the mind. To me, that's what makes this depiction of violence all the more effective & frightening the way it's so clean & neat like in a video game. And without any fuss, someone's head could just go pop.This is the best film I've seen in a while. I'm only taking off a few points because I wished it was twice as long & had more monologues, like some of the older Wenders films. But I have to say this film sticks to its objective and delivers a perfect product. "}{"Title":"Missing a cohesive thread","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most disjointed films I have seen. It almost seems like the had material here for three or four distinct movies. One was a government conspiracy style movie. The second was a traditional cop investigates a murder and falls in love with one of the people he meets movie. The third was how wealth and corrupt relationships and twists reality into a ball of twine.One positive was the photography. Nice cinematic shots of cities and other scenes. "},{"Title":"Violence would be preferable to this","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wim Wender's The End of Violence is a rather disjointed and uninvolving piece of film-making. It wants to be a tale about how violence affects our lives and how, once exposed to it, we find ourselves fundamentally changed. It might actually succeed if it wasn't busy confusing the audience and boring them to death at the same time.As the film opens, we are treated to a day in the life of Hollywood producer Mike Max (Bill Pullman), who is busy wheeling and dealing through multiple phones and computer connections, all the while ignoring his wife, Paige (Andie McDowell). While he is out during the day, he is kidnapped by two not quite bright hit men who are killed in a mysterious fashion and Mike Max manages to escape. He is found dazed by some Latino gardeners and Mike decides that he needs to hide from his old life to protect himself while discovering that violence, which he has peddled in action movies, is a bad thing. Meanwhile, Paige has taken over her husbands company in his absence and developed a relationship with a recording artist named Six (K. Todd Freeman) who provides the love she was lacking in her relationship with Mike. Also meanwhile, technical whiz Ray Bering (Gabriel Byrne) is busy putting the finishing touches on a high-tech surveillance system that the government hopes to use to bring violence in the city under control. However, Ray begins to suspect that the system is possibly being used for nefarious purposes and is trying to get someone to listen to him. And yet elsewhere still, stuntwoman turned actress Cat (Traci Lind) is getting her big acting break in Mike's latest film, and she finds herself somewhat smitten with detective Dean Brock (Loren Dean) who is investigating the disappearance of Mike.As you can probably tell from the above paragraph, The End of Violence has a lot going on. The problem is that little of it is compelling and because the film is busy juggling so many plot threads at the same time, several of them seem like afterthoughts. The subplot featuring Paige's involvement with Six, for instance, has absolutely no emotional resonance for the audience because we barely know these people. The film also takes a lot of side trips to inexplicable scenes where people gather at performance art sessions to get some bigger message across, I guess, but they just end up being pointless and drawing the film out even more.Wenders manages to suck the life out of most of the scenes in the film. The acting is uniformly wooden and unconvincing, the characters are little more than bodies going through the motions, and the plot is half-explained and developed. Take the plot thread of Ray trying to discover the truth about the surveillance system. It is revealed eventually that he has actually already been in contact with Mike about it with the hopes of revealing the system to the public, but the film has so many pieces moving around that it takes forever to make the connection between those two characters.The film also features dreaded voice-over monologues that are just silly and pretentious. The anti-violence message, what there is of it, is also heavy-handed, to say the least. In one scene, Six speaks to Mike on the phone and gives us a long explanation about why violence is good and people revel in it. You can practically see Wenders on his soapbox while this scene is going on.I suppose this movie is supposed to be a thriller to some degree, but there is little that is thrilling about The End of Violence. It is a monotonous bore of a film that comes to a rather abrupt ending without really dealing with all of the issues it seems to want to explore. Instead of an end of violence, I'll take an end to this particular mess. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, measured film","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like most of Wenders' films, _The End of Violence_ is not an action fest, or driven by the sort of manufactured heightened drama that mainstream films are crammed full of. Instead the focus remains on human characters and interesting ideas. The characters include powerful film producer Mike Max (played by Bill Pullman) who has, to some extent, lost touch with his own humanity, as he makes a fortune creating incredibly violent action movies; his lonely wife Paige (Andie Macdowell); a high-tech research scientist Ray Bering (Gabriel Byrne) who is also lonely and tending his ailing elderly father (a nice cameo by Sam Fuller); an overly-sincere forensic detective named Lowell Lewis (John Diehl); and stunt-woman turned actress Cat (Traci Lind). Interesting minor roles are played by Todd Freeman as a Hollywood-darling rapper, and Solidad St Hilaire as a Hispanic maid who proves to be more than she first appears to be.Wenders places this ensemble in contemporary LA, where Ray Bering is setting up an ultra-secret cutting-edge satellite surveillance network that promises to end the possibility of crime -- or, as rapidly becomes clear, the possibility of privacy as well (during testing phases it's telling how Bering finds himself snooping on people arguing or crying in their apartments). Some time before the beginning of the film, Bering has met Mike Max and given him his name and phone number, and the producer is clearly mulling over the encounter in the opening scene. Others, somewhere, are also aware of this meeting, as becomes startlingly clear when two thugs attempt to kill Max -- but are themselves mysteriously killed by outside forces before they finish the job. Max flees the scene and disappears from his former high-profile life.This is just the beginning of a story that turns many people's lives upside-down and encourages us to examine our preconceptions about ideas such as violence, law and order, privacy, the responsibility of art, and how big business thrives on all of the above. Fascinating film, but not one for those looking for car chases, explosions, and empty action melodrama.Ron Henry "},{"Title":"Random, sluggish and boring","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It didn't feel like it had any central thread.  Nothing really grabbed my attention.  There were a number of promising potentials, but they were never followed up on.  Through most of the movie, I didn't know what the hell was going on, and I wondered if the whole thing was Wenders' private joke.Many of the characters were either annoying (actors playing their pretentious selves), or just big blobs of nothing.Pointless non-sequitur slug of a movie. "},{"Title":"A near-masterpiece for the right person","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No, this is not the perfect film for everyone.  In fact, it may be the sort of thing that you need to be in the right mood for... Then again, there are those that loved City of Angels, but thought that Wings of Desire was slow and boring.This is the anti-Joel Silver film.  Forget the explosions, End is clearly disdainful to the successful formulas that make Hollywood films work.  The pace, while not as slow and deliberate as Paris, Texas, still takes its time, and allows the viewer to explore all sides--not just of a shot or a line, but a moment.  This is one of Wenders' great strengths, his disregard for hammering things home.  He has such a poetic sense of subtlety, that very few film-makers have ever matched it.  To some, this will feel like plodding, and misdirection, but it is a choice, a very clear choice, that works perfectly in what it tries to accomplish.There aren't any elements of End that I thought could have been improved much.  The dialogue seemed a bit rushed in spots, but technically, everything else is terrific.  The ensemble cast complements itself well, there are some great cameos, such as Sam Phillips accompanying a hand-held tape player, and the soundtrack ia gorgeous.  The themes are as rich as apropos as can be, and the visuals are so well thought-out they could have come from Kubrick.This is a slow-paced, heavy, convoluted film.  My vote for film of the year. "},{"Title":"Such beauty...!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is an astounding movie, and as others have noted, it is precisely the kind of movie that passes most people by because it rocks so gently as to be almost imperceptible.The first time I saw this, I was disappointed. 'Until the End of the World', to me, is a brilliant piece of work, with more beauty, reverie, and complexity than any ten average films put together.So...I was ready for some heady stuff with 'End'. But the movie seemed to be lost, missing in action.But six months later I watched it on video, and I realized I was looking at an entirely different movie.Then I watched it again...and again, and again, until I'd seen the thing ten times, including one where I only listened to the film, to see if I was simply addicted to Wim's luminous visuals.What you realize is that this film is cooking up some very threatening ideas about the quality and nature of love, and the companion six degrees of violence and hatred. It is really about the way in which fear and love pulse in contrary and similar ways, much like particle and wave, dancing together.It's also a fantastic critique the confederacy of dunces and the manner in which we manufacture enemies to suit our paranoia.I must say that there are few directors that move me as much as Wim Wenders, and I have to  confess that I have cried many times over the beauty and grace of some of the scenes and visuals in this movie. Much like Robert Altman or Atom Egoyan, Wenders cares about people, believes in their struggles, and he creates tension that moves them, at least temporarily, to understand their natures more fully.A masterpiece, if a masterpiece means your heart moves even slightly...PS Ry Cooder's soundtrack is brilliant! "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Movie with an Unexpected Ending","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not a mainstream movie, but that does not mean that it is bad. The End of Violence is a very good movie which has quite a lot within its frame work. It is somewhat slow and when watching it for the first time it seems that there are scenes in the movie that could have been left out, they did not seem to add to the overall plot of the movie, and that tends to put me off. These scenes though, namely the poetry reading scenes, do indeed add to the plot in a very subtle way and are very important in the development of the characters, two of whom are minor characters in the movie. Even then, the poetry that is read out depicts the major theme of the movie, and that is the enemy that is within, not the enemy without, and the realisation of the characters that the enemy is not out there, but in amongst us.When watching the movie we must constantly remember the title because that helps us understand what the movie is about. It works in two levels though, in a social level and in a psychological level. The social level of the movie is about a new security system which can monitor all the city of Los Angeles. A man can sit in one room and see almost anywhere in Los Angeles. He watches crimes happen and he watches criminals get caught. The problem with this is that congress does not know about the system and if they found out about it then big problems would happen. They must keep it secret at all costs it will end violence but at the cost of people's privacy. This seems to reflect Orwell's Nineteen Eighty Four where big brother knows everything.The psychological aspect of the movie deals with a film producer name Micheal Max. Everybody knows and loves this guy, but he is not loved by all as he is abducted by a couple of hit men and was about to be executed. Micheal Max has an obsession with violence, he says that when he was a kid he was scared of the movies and then he became a film producer. This suggests that he desires to master violence by controlling it in the forms of movies. Though he tries to master violence, he cannot master his life. His relationship with his wife is falling apart as he just does not spend anytime with her. She begins by just wanting to leave and ends by taking everything.The plot of the movie comes out when he receives an email from somebody containing confidential FBI information. Then he is abducted and one assumes that it is because of the FBI document. This is someway true, but the killers are nothing more than idiots. The film does not reveal who attempted to kill him, or why, but this document remains somewhat important, though we are never told what it is. This movie never really wants us to be sure. It lets us make up our minds about things but does not tell us if we are wrong or not. What we are really doing is watching Micheal Max come to understand and conquer his fear of violence.There are three main male characters, Doc, a forensic scientist who is investigating Mike Max's disappearance, Mike Max, and Ray, the operator of the surveillance system. The characters have little contact in the movie but are connected. There are three women that are directly connected with each of these characters, and two of these women interact with one of the other males characters. Max's wife, the first one, speaks with Doc, but her role is that she drifts further away from Max. The actress is loved by Mike as a friend, but her role is that she builds a relationship with Doc. Then there is Sue, the Mexican cleaner, who works under Ray. They fall in love, but at the end of the movie she exits with Mike Max, after both have given up violence. The casting of the three male characters was done in a way that they all were similar in appearance. These characters were linked in this way and also in a way that they were trying to bring an end to violence. Mike Max has been discussed, Ray is trying to bring an end through the surveillance system, while Doc is a police officer trying to uncover the truth. It is interesting that the police are not interested in the truth, they have their theory and are not at all interested in the truth.There is a lot more in this movie, but to bring it up would mean watching it again and studying it closer. This movie is very good for those who like movies which make you think. The ending isn't conclusive and you don't realise it is there until you get there. It comes as a bit of a shock because there seems to be a lot of things unresolved, but when you look back over the movie you realise that they have been resolved, but not in the way you expect it to be. The movie tells you numerous times that it is not a typical Hollywood ending, such as Mike Max's comment, I hate those conspiracy movies where the beautiful woman gets killed. This is not a typical Hollywood movie and thus does not have a satisfying ending for those who want one. "},{"Title":"The end of Wenders!!","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it is a poor movie, nothing happens, ever!!, but that's no reason, I mean if you saw Stranger Than Paradise (1984)of Jim Jarmusch you see a movie were nothing happens but still rules, anyway, I think Wenders sold out, he started with this movie, and later selling his Wings of Desire script to hollywod, very disappointing! "},{"Title":"Cruelly abrupt movie about a cruelly abrupt movie","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Great actors, characters and story building up to a dissatisfying oh-my-god-it-can't-be-yet ending. It's almost a cruel joke that in the movie is an aborted movie production. Am I just not deep enough to see the point? I must be so shallow that it seems like the original writer/director/producer team were all shot before the movie was done and the cleanup crew left more loose ends than a tide of Malibu seaweed. There is a beautiful little existential paradox and message. But we were so much enjoying the story and all the substories and loving the characters that to just quit on us like it did was cruel. The inbred credits led me to expect a much more coherent wrap up. "},{"Title":"It's when things are upside down and you start to like 'em that way.","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wim Wenders(Buena Vista Social Club Paris, Texas) is not for everyone. His films are slow and methodical. They do not hit you hard, but creep along unwinding in layers so that you can savor them like a fine single malt scotch.This film came out before Crash, but it is still that same format. There are many stories going on at once, and they are interconnected.Bill Pullman (Independence Day, The Grudge) is a movie producer (Mike Max) who finds himself in a situation that allows him to change his life. It wasn't such a great life anyway. He was only married to Andie MacDowell (Groundhog Day, Four Weddings and a Funeral). How can a man stand that! But his situation has been observed by a computer scientist that is working on a new tool of Big Brother to watch our every move. Like they don't have that now.There were some very interesting characters floating through the story. This was Traci Lind's last movie (?). She was an actress who lost a job when Max's movie gets shut down, and she runs into him, and she connects with a cop who is pursuing her and working the case, and he connects with the computer geek and well, I said it was all interconnected while separate stories are going on.It's Crash. It's Babel. It's both. It's neither. It's about life. It's about Big Brother. It's about relationships between the races. It's about Hollywood.It's Wim Wenders, so it takes some effort, but it is worth it. It's not about sex and violence it's about people.Besides that it has Ry Cooder's music. "}{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie fascinated me to the degree that I watched it twice and recommended it to several friends.  While I agree with some of the comments of the person who didn't care for the movie, overall I enjoyed it, mostly because of good acting, its music and the what's going to happen next atmosphere set by the film .  Granted, the twists and turns of the unusual and unlikely plot took some figuring out.  It was almost like a David Lynch film, only not so bleak.I especially enjoyed the sound track. "},{"Title":"useful movie","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a catalog of all things students should not do if they want to learn how to make a good movieAvoid very limited actors like Pullman and McDowell,avoid cliches like the stupid black junkie rap singer,the friendly to Americans Spanish workers,the victims from El Salvador death squads,the mysterious government men willing to kill everybody etc.Avoid plots like this one which lets almost everything unexplained.Avoid characters who behave in a way unbelievable to everybody like those in this movie.Specially don't play the favorite game of some contemporary directorsjust beautiful form and nothing else behind it. That's why I consider this movie a very useful one. "},{"Title":"what is this about?","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I expected much of this movie, since I think Gabriel Byrne and Andie MacDowell are fine actors.  But what a disappointment!  It did not really bother me that it was a very slow movie (although I almost fell asleep sometimes), but for me, the story was a big question mark.  I have seen complicated movies before, but I always understood them (Usual Suspects, Memento, Mission Impossible, ...).   I would not recommend this movie to anybody, it is boring and it makes no sense!  "},{"Title":"A game for pseudo-intellectuals - and it's terrible!","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A movie about the business of making movies in all its vacuity and of recording things on camera. This is Wim Wenders' Le Mepris and his Rear Window, (it's all about looking and not about seeing), and it's full of movie references. Sometimes they are about the only thing to distract you from all the ennui and the lack of anything remotely interesting happening up on the screen. In place of believable characters and a decent script or lines you might want to listen to Wenders fills his screen with images that are supposed to engage us on a movie-buff level. The film's like a game pseudo-intellectuals play; you fill in the blanks and if you can guess the better film the blanks come from, all the better, you get brownie points. In other words, this is pretty terrible, the kind of unmitigated disaster only a great director could make when he starts believing his own hype. I mean, Wenders can't lay the blame entirely on the cack-handed script; after all, he co-wrote the original story with script writer Nicholas Klein. I was going to say it goes deeper than that, (or aspires to), but deep isn't really a word you want to use when reviewing this pile of horse dung. OK, it looks terrific; what more can I say? Oh, except he talked the legendary Samuel Fuller into appearing in it and he's terrible, too. "},{"Title":"An exploration of American culture","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think of The End of Violence (1997) as an exploration of a subset of Americans that's intended to reveal some prevalent aspects of American culture. The story is a neo-noir that has a definite plot, and that plot centers around a secret government surveillance project that, if revealed to the public, would lead to its rejection. The powers behind the project don't want it to be revealed, and they use violence to stop any leaks of information. Their purported goal is to reduce or end crime and violence by means of this Big Brother - 1984 monitoring, but their means include violence. This is a basic contradiction because means turn into ends and power becomes an end in itself along with becoming arbitrary. Objective justice is replaced by the whims of those holding the power.In the story, the two main protagonists caught in the intrigue are Bill Pullman and Gabriel Byrne. Pullman is a movie producer who gets pulled into the web when someone sends him an e-mail about the project. Byrne is a highly-placed loyal technician within the government agency surveillance project, but it dawns on him what the power means when he sees it being used. He realizes that his own life is dispensable to his superiors because of what he knows.The story is told in a digressive way that takes us into the lives of these two men and a number of people with whom they interact. Parallels are drawn by the script and Wenders between the power of Hollywood higher-ups to terminate employment and movies and the power of government agents to do the same. A contrast is made between those who exercise violence and those on the receiving end. A contrast is drawn between those who are established and those poorer people who are treated as servants, hired help, oppressed and invisible. Those Mexicans or Hispanics who provide Pullman with a hiding place and a family atmosphere are depicted as living a much more balanced and fulfilling life than his own has been, and that his wife (Andie MacDowell) is experiencing in his absence when she takes over his job. The movie also fits in some black experiences via a rapper (K. Todd Freeman) and a poetess in acting school.Wenders is attempting to depict but not analyze in depth an economic-political arrangement by showing a cultural outcome and some people within it. The government center of it is violent and becoming more so. Even the higher level people in it are subject to forces beyond their control that mimic the violent. Producers can close down productions quickly and terminate employment. High class lawyers can be fired at will. This, in the Wenders view, parallels the surveillance conspirators killing people at will. Everyone of substance gets caught in the system. Those at the lower rungs who aspire to raise themselves and become more secure run into forces they cannot contend with. These people include a Central American woman who has been inserted to help Byrne, a police lieutenant who cannot make headway in the case of the conspiracy that he suspects, and a would-be actress (Traci Lind).This is not a conventional thriller. It lacks clear resolutions. Some people lose. Some hang in there. Some break even. The system goes on. Lives go on, but changed. As a story, its style is subdued and drawn out, wistful, contemplative. The script almost goes out of its way to avoid directness and direct comment and replace it by vaguer allusions, references, and more poetic feeling. "},{"Title":"Strange look Hollywood","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wim Wender's The End Of Violence is a relentlessly strange, near inaccessible film about the inner workings of Hollywood, the secret methods the government uses to prevent violent crimes, and several key characters caught up in a series of bizarre events in the L.A. area. Nothing about the film is forthcoming or obvious, you've got to sit there for the two hours, observe what's unfolding in front of you patiently, and only later after some thought, try and determined what it all means, if anything. It's such a free flowing, non specific narrative that you really have no choice but to use the images, impressions and episodic scenarios to make sense of it, as opposed to the story as a cohesive whole, which it's not. Bill Pullman plays Mike Max, a high ranking movie executive, who after experiencing extreme stress stemming from both his difficult wife (a sexy Andie McDowell) and a huge deal he's supposed to close, finds himself making rash decisions, and suddenly on the run from the law. He finds solace with the large, hospitable family of his troupe Mexican gardeners, led by Henry Silva. Parallel to this, we see Ray Bering (Gabriel Byrne), a mysterious government operative, perched high above the Hollywood hills in a secret observatory, tasked with trying out a brand new, clandestine security system which spies on the citizens below. He finds himself distracted when he falls in love with a Mexican girl that his bosses send to help him with paperwork, leading to perhaps hers and his jeopardy, at what his higher ups may see as a breach of security. Rounding out the roster are Pruitt Taylor Vince, Nicole Ari Parker, Rosalind Chao, Michael Massee and Udo Kier. Byrne brings his usual stressed out, bleary sadness to the role, and indeed it's a tragic turn of events which he handles beautifully, going from cold, cranky tech room dweller to warmhearted lover who can make the ultimate sacrifice. Pullman is wonderfully listless, seeming to have almost walked out of a David Lynch film, bringing his sinister yet everyman affability to new heights. It's a film that a lot of people dislike, because in the traditional ways, it really isn't about much of anything that you can pin down, and in the end doesn't answer any questions or come to a cathartic, engraved resolution. But it's this up in the air quality that I really liked, a linear yet airy, fluid chain of events that don't even seem to be really based on a script, they just sort of...happen. Mood and feeling are what this ones about, not logic, theme or structure. Fine by me. "},{"Title":"Gobble Gobble","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This should have gotten the Jury award for biggest turkey of the year. People think that if the actors talk in some sort of mumbo jumbo they must be expressing something prophetic... in this case pathetic. Oh it's a product of LA all right, self absorbed and searching for the meaning of life in a place which has already determined that the meaning of life is the fast lane. The protagonist not only gets off the fast lane but falls off the track all together. The acting by some of the principals is bad. The acting of some of the supporting cast is laughable. The director must have been high on life or pot for this is really one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Given material that has merit, the director has produced a few fine works... this is far from one. I doubt if most people who actually paid money to see it lasted to the end. Why bother? I got it in the remainder bin of Comcast... those free movies they allow you to see. They should pay people to watch stuff like this. "},{"Title":"Doesn't ring true.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite some very fine performances, the whole milieu of this doesn't ring true. As a parable of a sort, it could be acceptable, especially if the setting was a European country, but as set in the US, it is flawed.Wender's image of the US, while the big players in the film industry seem fairly on target, isn't altogether natural. The portrayals of different races is either too stereotypical to be realistic or overly simplistic. It's possible that this is intended as part of the commentary on the how violence can be controlled with the use of violence by the state, accompanied by the loss of privacy and certain liberties. As such, it is still a flaw.Quite believable is Henry Silva as the patriarch of a Hispanic working class family, not believable is his overly meek manner, as is the case with all the others in this group.Still, with the flaws, I'd recommend it for viewing for having a rather thought-provoking premise. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it, but I kept falling asleep","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some people say that Europeans can't help but make boring films. It comes of their closer cultural ties to classic sculpture and painting and other *static* forms of art. Such cynics are wrong; many European films are creative and vibrant.Not this one, though. Great actors and powerful themes are wasted, along with reams and reams of celluloid. It's got something to do with privacy and violence and intimacy. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"A definition of The End of Violence","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The End of Violence. Define it. Well, I'll try... Ciby 2000. The late 1990's. Irony. Satire. Subplotting. I could go on, but I won't.The casting scared me at first, Pullman, Byrne, MacDowell. Not exactly a dream team for me. More like the other way around. But, they work surprisingly good portraying these characters. The story is complex. And the subplots are many. And most of them both unusual and interesting. The dialogue is smart and often very funny, but not in the punchline-laugh-here kind of way. More like the punchline-by-the-way-smile kind of way.The End of Violence is not at all as pretentious as its title. De facto, compared to Wenders' Der Himmel über Berlin it is down to earth. But neither is it near the masterwork of Paris, Texas. But The End of Violence is better than its reputation. And the overall casting is very successful. Particularly I think Loren Dean and Traci Lind stand out. They both deliver some great ironic lines and the super cool Lind acts in a film in the film (where the director is played by Udo Kier) in which The End of Violence makes fun of itself in general and Hollywood and the whole American movie industry in particular. The End of Violence works better as a satirical film than a big-brother-is-watching-us and the-government-is-after-us film. They just seem to can't get those right, can they? But there are too many already, that is even if you don't count The X Files. "}{"Title":"Confusing and hard to understand","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Mike Max, played by Bill Pullman, is a producer famous for his brutal action films.  One day he receives a phone call from his neglected wife Paige, played by Andie MacDowell, saying that she is leaving him.  Mike is then kidnapped by a couple of bandits.  He escapes and hides with his gardener's Mexican family.  Meanwhile, Ray Bering, played by Gabriel Byrne, is watching the city through hundreds of small video cameras.I am unsure of the relevance of that last piece of plot information, as I am unsure what the filmmakers were trying to accomplish by putting it in, and it has no relevance to anything else in the film, unless I missed something.  There is almost nothing to the story of Mike Max either, it practically just ends where I left off.  And then there are these weird group therapy type meetings, with some weird speaker making some weird speech which doesn't further develop the plot or provide anything interesting or contribute in any way to the film.  Why was this film made?  All it contains are two very limited plots, hardly enough to make a film out of.  I can't say there's really anything special about the acting, either.  The End of Violence ends up being a very confusing piece of work, and I had no idea what it was really about, it was too difficult to understand.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level Coarse Language, Low Level ViolenceRating 43 out of 100 "},{"Title":"convoluted with truths","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is true what many people have been writing about this film it's quite an untwined mess. There are so may ideas and themes, but nothing seems to thread them together into any kind of cohesiveness. But the two themes of surveillance and disappearing intrigued me...in Los Angeles, it really does seem like you could disappear by joining up with Mexican gardeners, even if you stood out among them as being of a different race; this city is run by a visible underground of minority workers who do a lot of the labor-type work for the comparatively fewer upper-classes. It's nothing new but it's a simple reminder by Wenders about how race and perception of status still hold powerful sway in contemporary America. Government surveillance for the ostensible reason of protection already exists in L.A., you see cameras everywhere, especially at busy intersections to catch red light runners. But who else is watching? Essentially, Wenders is capitalizing on themes that are very real and current in the modern world, but again, there is no cohesion. Explanations are seemingly nonexistent. Is he trying to say that we really don't have any way to truly know what larger forces are controlling and/or monitoring our lives? Still a worthwhile film, but definitely not his best. "},{"Title":"A plate of Spaghetti","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just like the freeway interchange that is one of the focal points, this movie is full of ideas and plot lines going everywhere, but nobody gets off.There are at least 4 different and potentially fascinating movies here, unfortunately, we only get to see portions of each of them.  Worth seeing as inspiration for characters, and some interesting cinematography, but otherwise, it's a loser. "},{"Title":"Wim Wenders at his least accessible best","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is something about Wim Wenders films that limits their appeal. Certainly, many people who came away from 'The End of Violence' were filled with a sense that what they had just seen was confused and poorly constructed.But Wenders' strength (both in this, and in his earlier work) is his ability to paint themes with his characters indirectly. It requires some patience by the viewer, and perhaps is not a good starting point for those new to Wenders talents ('Wings of Desire' or 'Paris, Texas' are both slightly more accessible).It is impossible to criticize anyone in the cast - nor to single out any one cast member for praise. They all deliver their roles with simple understated perfection. It works as an ensemble piece better than any film I can think of. If you require a clearly demarked plot or a tangible set of lead characters, 'The End of Violence' will not suit you. But if you are the kind of person who could sit in any bar anywhere in the world, and be intrigued by what is going on around you - or if you have ever enjoyed any of Wender's previous films - you should definately see this film.  "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whim should have seen Coppola's The Conversation one more time before venturing into the Hollywood film world and his fascination with gas driven leaf blowers. He makes so many assumptions and is captivated by the Latino culture which only serves to add to the affectation of any intent he may have had in his loathing of violence. He fell in love with one of his own quotes about Sax and Violins a few years back and then tried to build a conspiratorial plot with absolutely no clarity or direction (as in where did he want to go) and in the process assembles a kind of Altman, Lynch cast of actors who do nothing but take up space without being memorable. The waste of art direction he employs in the Edward Hopper set and the never ending monotony of the scene played there is like a foreigner enjoying his first trip to Universal City in its naiveté....he eats up Hollywood and its seduction like a giant pretzel which is what this film resembles in shape.Andie MacDowell must never, ever, ever reveal her body again.She is pear shaped and must know it. "},{"Title":"CPR unnecessary, patient died on cutting room floor.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film seemed to wander about aimlessly, stumbling over obstacles such as a definitive plot. Faced with two choices, falling asleep or dying of boredom I opted for a third choice and changed the channel. I have no idea how it turned out but I doubt the loss of this knowledge will have lasting effects. "},{"Title":"Wim Wenders is lost in Hollywood...","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I honestly saw no point whatsoever to this film.  Unlike the vast majority of Wim Wenders' movies, this movie had no warmth in it either in the story or method of creation.  I didn't identify with any of the characters, nor did I so much as like any of them.  I also have to wonder why talented actors such as Udo Keir, and indeed great directors like Wenders wasted their time IN Hollywood, WITH Hollywood 'dime-a-dozen' trash actors like Andie MacDowell and Bill Pullman, when their work in the past has been featured with such fantastical eloquence and inspiring style.  After being spoiled shamelessly over and over by Der Himmel Uber Berlin and Paris, Texas, this film is an utterly complete disappointment. 6/10 only for Wenders and Keir!  Nothing else deserves anything but a puzzled look of mild pity. "},{"Title":"Sigh - Even Andi Couldn't Save This One","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The high point of this movie was seeing Andi in a very pretty white bra & panty getup. Unfortunately, enduring 90 minutes of the most boring film I've ever seen to get that 5 seconds is a tradeoff I'd just as soon not make again.  "},{"Title":"... and the other one gives a high five","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the first half of this Wim Wenders movie everything came in a mysterious, David Lynch-alike story - or was it just the presence of Lost Highway-actor Pullman? In the second half I started feeling like a little school-boy, Wenders telling me again and again violence is bad, bad, bad.... I actually could see his forefinger instantly swinging in the air! So what's it all about? Violence is bad, films about violence are even worse, so if we all stop producing and watching films that include violence, the world would be a better place? That's naivety at it's worst. A generous high five for the first half. "},{"Title":"A Fine Film","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although there are some flaws, (some of the scripted dialog will make you wince) this is a beautiful film worthy of tremendous respect.With The End of Violece Wenders continues to bring a transcending warmth to the big screen and in doing so, he beautifully takes the hero down the mythic, archetypal hero path of separation, initiation, return.Each scene in the film is strikingly beautiful and gorgiously  shot in the widest aspect ratio that Wenders has used to date. It must suffer greatly if not seen in the letterbox format.Not perfect, but with forgivable flaws, The End of Violence is surely one of the best films of 1997. Certainly one of the best films to come out of Hollywood in quite some time. "}{"Title":"A Great Film!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The End Of Violence is a philosophical film about, well, violence. There isn't any blood or stuff in the film, though. So don't let the name of the film confuse you.Still, it's probably Wenders' most mature film to date. I think Mr. Wenders handled the subject very wendersly. It is a good film for them who actually like real films. "},{"Title":"The violent end of audience'pleasure (DVD)","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beware of the brand if Wenders can deliver some inspired movies (Stay, faraway so close, Antonioni's Beyond the Clouds), he can also offer the worst like this one. A little reminiscent of Lynch's Mulholland Drive for a personal trip into Hollywood, this movie is my worst movie of the year.Nearly, all the scenes add nothing to the story so it's long, dull&#x85; It's funny because Wenders shoots actually my feelings MacDowell phones her husband saying she is bored. And the moment I prefer is when the director says the movie is finished! The only tasteful thing is the locations For LA, the exterior sets are rather beautiful (the observatory) or very modern art (the highways). The shot of the filming set inside the movie looks a lot like the Hopper's painting Night Hawks (the famous realistic bar, if you prefer..) So, this movie is a gallery of paintings (only visual) and I prefer the Lynch's gallery. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Good Cast, Not Sure About The Director Though","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was just shown on United Kingdom television at three o'clock in the morning and it took me totally by surprise as I had never even heard of this movie before. Its a good movie but I just wonder how much of an influence the David Lynch film Lost Highway had on the casting of Bill Pullman, he's a decent actor but whatever happened to his career? He seems to play these type of roles very well and its a nice surprise when Gabriel Byrne pops up on-screen. If you get the opportunity to watch this film then its definitely worth a look-in if you need to pass a few hours of time. Often the direction behind the film could be improved and their are some loose-ends which could really do with being tied up but some of the imagery and ideas are of sound mind and as thrillers go this is from a good period in the genre. As registered in the Vote section I could only give this film a six out of ten due to the average directing and loose-ends. If you like Lost Highway by David Lynch and also featuring Bill Pullman then The End Of Violence is another film you will enjoy "},{"Title":"Excellent slow-paced and observant conspiracy movie.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is more about people adapting to change than about thrills. Bill Pullman is a very successful producer who uses people.  His wife decides to leave him, but at the same time he gets caught up in a bizarre plan to introduce a pre-emptive high-tech crime-intervention system based on the ubiquitous Big Brother cameras that we've all become so used to in the developed world.  All though he actually knows nothing yet, he's targeted for assasination.  He finds refuge with his Mexican gardeners, and, while trying to discover why he's now hunted he goes through an epiphany of his own.  This film is full of lovely characterisations.  It's much more than a conspiracy movie. "},{"Title":"Yawwwnnnnn! ZZZZZZzzzzzzz","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I'm just stupid. I wonder why any actors would subject themselves to a movie without a plot. Poor dialog, endless dribble supposed to be 'new age' poetry or 'Noir' 'Hip' ??? Bill Pullman seems to be in a coma throughout the whole movie. Still haven't figured out why he stayed so long in self incommunicado?? As for traci Lind, Define this movie for me, PLEASE! ,Terrible, defiine terrible,= The End of Violence. Of course, as always, this is just one mans opinion. "},{"Title":"Plot?  We don' need no steenking plot!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Oh    my    gaaaawwd, what a stinker!  Rented this.  On paper it looks good - good cast, director, intriguing sounding premise.  Started watching, and waited for the film to develop.And waitedAnd waitedAnd then the credits rolled, with nobody having said or done anything of any import whatsoever.  I have seen plenty of poor films, but everybody involved in this one should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves.  I'm surprised none of the actors torched the celluloid before it could reach a screen. "},{"Title":"This is a great film full of much truth and courage.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film touches upon elements of government surveillence tactics that many producers and film makers would'nt dare for lack of courage. Many films have been produced over the past recent years dealing with intrusion and the violation of individual persons privacy and sense of self. This is one of the best. It's sincere and honest and has much depth. It is based upon something very real that poses a serious threat towards every living person upon this planet. I love this film! Sam Fuller... rest in peace good man! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the tradition of the road movies this piece by Mr. Wenders is one of my favorites. He is able to build a metaphor of several compelling issues the role of technology in every day life; the role of authorities; the relations between several ethnic/racial groups; the very role of the movie/culture industry. His mastery as a director, as well as the quality of the script and, last but not least, the quality of the Soundtrack are key issues in this, of course, subjetive opinion of the film. "},{"Title":"A look at rhythm in film","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wim Wenders films have a certain fast and slow quality which I can only describe as rhythmic. This film is a fine example of that. It is slow, yet still tense. It has numerous peaks and valleys of momentum. It is beautiful, thought provoking, and a mixed look at loneliness and freedom. Bill Pullman actually acts here and Byrne actually fits into a film for once. The only weakness is the actor who played Doc, who looked constantly out of place here. I would recommend this film to people who like to take in their movies and not just watch them. "},{"Title":"California dreaming","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wenders in California, a European view of all those sunsets of yours, of the immigrants, of Hollywood and its wheel of fortune, and of violence, of course, which can only end when violators are scared to death by something even scarier than themselves. Wenders can find poetry and dreams in everything, even in Andie MacDowell. Again, something for those who are searching for the untypical. "}{"Title":"This movie sucked with teeth!!!!","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Attn possible viewers;   This is the biggest stinking pile of crap I have ever wasted my money and time on. I wish I could have that 2 + hrs of time back. I would rather watch all of the Friday the 13th movies consecutively. I cannot believe sweet little andie McDowell took a part in this peice of garbage. I believe my opinion has been expressed. People - Drill screws through your feet, it will be less painful.   Disgusted and Embarassed,   Mr. Hipp "},{"Title":"A glaring exception","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When philistines who can only appreciate the usual Hollywood formulas (things that go boom, John Williams scores, spoon-fed plots, etc.) think of artsy-fartsy European films, this is the kind of thing they must have in mind. This exercise in directorial masturbation fits the stereotype of the art-house yawner to a tee. The actors (most of whom are very fine) seem to be staring into space throughout the film, as if wondering how possibly to fill the yawning voids in their long, drawn-out scenes. The various stories all have promise, but are never brought together in a meaningful way that would convey the argument the director is obviously trying very hard to make. Like the actors, the excellent score and cinematography are not enough to save this ponderous, self-indulgent film, which manages to be intellectual without being intelligent. European directors have long understood that movies can be both, as well as compelling and memorable. Unfortunately, The End of Violence is a glaring exception to this rule. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen. I mean it.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you have ever considered renting The End of Violence, don't bother. It is, without exaggeration, the worst movie I have ever seen. From the aimless plot lines to the poor direction, this movie is definitely one to avoid. If you want to see a really bad movie, watch Plan 9 From Outer Space. At least there was a half-assed coherent plot.  "},{"Title":"The Living End","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Actor Bill Pullman had the misfortune of being in the two biggest and most confusing turkeys of 1997 following up Turkey #1 released in February of that year Lost Highway with Turkey #2  The End of Violence seven months later.Big time movie producer Mike Max, Bill Pullman, who specializes in making ultra violent movies become himself a victim of violence when he's kidnapped by two carjackers who are about to blow his brains out without even bothering to send,to Max's loved ones, a ransom note! As things turn out it's the carjackers who end up with their heads blown off not Mike who's later found by a group of friendly Mexican migrant workers lead by their leader Juan Emilio,Henry Silva,who take the barley alive Mike in as one of their own.It's when your trying to figure out what this is all about in pops computer whiz Ray Bering, Gaberiel Byrne, who watches on his over 250 TV screens in the Griffith Observatory everything that's happening in the L.A metropolitan area and sees the situation that Mike finds himself in. As we soon find out Ray had been trying to get in touch with Mike in having him make a movie about the end of violence in the US in the many hidden and exposed cameras being installed by the US Government that can catch almost anyone committing a crime and in the end have them brought to justice. Ray who's working for a super secret US government organization that spies on its people has been getting second thoughts in if he's doing the right thing for his country and wants, through Mike, to have the agency that he's working for exposed before it can do any more damage.While all this is going on Mike's old lady Pace, Andie MacDowell, is getting fed up with him in just how square or not with it he is and plans to dump him for her new boyfriend Gangsta Rap artist Six O One, K, Todd Freeman, who just happened to be in Mike's latest picture. Pace want's Mike out of her life but doesn't went to leave empty in not getting some of the millions that he has that she, in being in an adulterous affair, would never get in a divorce settlement that's if Mike even agrees to it! You begin to wonder if Pace together with Six O One had anything to do with Mike's kidnapping that has now backfired on them. Undercover as a Mexican fruit and vegetable picker Mike's soon finds out what all this, his kidnapping and attempted murder, is all about and that leads to a number of tragic events including the murder of Ray who want's desperately, in him making a movie for him, to get in touch with Mike. ***SPOILERS*** Ray in fact was tracked down not by Mike who tried to keep himself hidden all throughout the movie but LA detective Doc Block, Loren Dean, who's a big fan of Mike's movies and has been having an affair with one of the stars in his movies stunt woman and now aspiring actress Cat, Traci Lind. Before Ray can as much open his mouth and tell Doc what's going on he's shot from long range by one of the goons working for his boss Brice Phelps, Daniel Benzali. It's Phelps in his fear that Ray was going to expose what he and the government is up to in ending violence by unrestricted surveillance of the population used violence in order to shut him up.The movie ends on a high note with Mike now happy and unknown to the outside world as a poor 2 dollar an hour migrant farm worker starts a new life for himself that's far more peaceful and serene then the one, as a big time Hollywood producer, he lead before. Fruit and vegetable picker Mike is now eagerly looking forward to live and rub shoulders with the oppressed and downtrodden masses and is more then willing to give up his life as a multi-millionaire big time Hollywood producer that gave him, together with his ungrateful wife Page, nothing but trouble and headaches anyway! P.S Check out cult director Samuel Fuller as Ray's pepperoni pizza eating dad Louie Bering who passed away shortly after the movie The End of Violence was made. "},{"Title":"Take smaller bites, and chew longer","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Because my favorite film Of All Time is by Wim Wenders (who created the brilliant Wings of Desire), I compare ALL of of his films to that one, whether or not it's fair. Wenders takes HUGE bites out of the philosophy sandwich, and sometimes can't get it all chewed, swallowed, and digested. I liked his early film Hammett for its direct story and period feel. Wings&#133; took on MAJOR issues, but did not lose sight of the need to focus. The End of Violence wants to be a few films, and none are treated to a full exploration. It's part crime drama, part marital drama, part Hollywood biz drama, and part exploration on the subjects of privacy, violence, perception, and secrecy. That's A LOT to pack into one tasty bite, and nothing is fully appreciated. Wim ease up. Take one subject, make a full film. Then, take another subject, make another full film. You can do it. Again. All of that said, the acting is good, the score is effective, the photography often striking, the characters often interesting, and some scenes are very memorable. "},{"Title":"Had alot to think about","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The End of Violence was a film that made you think about something different. It strayed away from the stereotypical plots that you see in most movies today and had something else to say. I understand that it is a matter of opinion, but if you like visuals and action more that thought and something a little more in depth, this movie's not for you. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was a bit confusing, but interesting in a way. The scene cuts were too jumpy; I couldn't tell what was going on. The acting, however, was decent, but the plot was kinda...strange. An interesting idea, but this movie just doesn't develop it that much. "},{"Title":"I can't rate it!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I truly couldn't make up my mind about this movie; I consider myself someone with artistic vision and capability of understandment and I actually did find amazing the version of Violence that the movie exposes -like the fact that a bullet can simply fall from the sky and kill ya!-. But I couldn't decide if the visual artistic spectacularness (The simple and profound shot of Byrnes' father just sitting there after he dies or some masterly compositions of landscapes)and some great lines (Try to watch the earth from the sky...)forgives facts like that hideous casting of Bill Pullman for the leading role or that stupid clichè of the Mexican sub-culture or the common place of the maid from El Salvador full of injuries and crying because of the Death Squads.There are some things that you simply shouldn't do in a movie   -like wasting loads of time in characters that are not important for the plot or explaining the premise of the movie (The maid's daughter pointing to heaven They're watching us... 'Faraway so close'??) and other faults like that which I can't understand in a person such as Wim Wenders.Nevertheless I do recommend the movie for its best moments and deep approaches like the fact that the Only person capable of killing Pullman was his own Wife!Watch it and dare to rate it! "},{"Title":"Definitely not a formula film","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I complain so much about how boring it is to watch the Hollywood formula  films and then when something truly unique comes along, I find out just how  'formula-ized' I am.  An unusual film - I found some of the poetry readings  the best part - and two of our favorites, Bill Pullman and Andie McDowell  were definitely challenged by this 'different' kind of movie and performed  well.  This is a movie one would have to watch multiple times to really  understand its several different aspects - no spoon feeding here.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing movie for those with patience","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the other comments people have made, I truly think this is a good  movie. I don't think it's for everyone, it isn't going to have a whole lot  of action, violence, or sex in it, but that is sort of the point after all.  I thought the movie had very interesting characters and a well balanced  plot. To me, this movie seemed almost like poetry, the way the characters  would interact. Not poetry in a bad artificial way, poetry in an enjoyable  way. And not too arty either. "}{"Title":"NOW I get it!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I TRULY regret what I previously wrote about this movie... it has absolutely nothing to do with what I think about it now It is one of the most perfect masterpieces of all times. Why are all those clichès sooo obvious? Because we are supposed to observe the human beings as specimens under a microscope... because we are supposed to study people from the sky; these little people, these worn-out types of people that we are used to see in the movies. Now, the film isn't telling us to do this in our every day life just to do it during the film, so we can understand it.Is it not obvious? most of the time the camera is above them the first time we see Byrne, we're floating above him and we kneel down to see him better. At the end of the film, the camera rises to the sky and away, as if that was its home. And the action of watching is clear throughout the whole story Pullman can't live without a screen in front of him, TVs and computers are key to the plot, Byrne spends his days surrounded by observation devices, and is a voyeur by nature when peeking through windows... just like we are when observing these people. And remember McDowell? She practices Bird-watching once... like we practice People-watching.  And what about the poetry sessions? A showcase of stereotypes.The most important story in the film is that this guy, who is the producer of the most violent movies of Hollwood, discovers (after a face-to-face encounter with raw violence and fear of death) that the violence expressed in hollywood films has ended. This is told to us not only by Pullman's voice, but by the movie itself... wanna see how obvious this is? all the violent filmmaking we see ALWAYS takes place Inside Edward Hopper's painting a painting that is a symbol of Old-Fashion American Style, like the characters and the story in Max's movie. After discovering this, (and also due to a sub-plot with the government) the guy decides never to return to that Hollywood world. Since we (the audience) make that discovery too, the movie itself forgets about classic violence and gets filled with a more subtle, superior kind of violence... want a proof of this? The agent doesn't kill the girl from El Salvador in a classical-shoot-out kind of way there's suspense, gun-pointing and threat... but it doesn't happen. Maybe he DID kill her, in the concept of killing of this New type of violence we don't know.Do you want to spend hours enjoying the highest filmmaking? Hours of harmless, amusing thought? Watch The End of Violence, really...  (And look for the wonderful surprise of a Tom Waits song!) "},{"Title":"Hollywood antidote","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The End of Violence is one of those wonderful films that's impossible to sum up in a few lines, it's no wonder it's been so misunderstood by those who expected a formulaic Hollywood action/intrigue flick. The framework of the film is itself a subversion of Hollywood film genres; Wenders uses our expectations as a springboard into a rich, multilayered insight into human action and reaction. Plot is almost dispensed with entirely in favor of the personal nuances of story seen in the  characters. A very sharp, intelligent film. "},{"Title":"I'm a computer scientist. This is Hollywood. What's not strange?","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Painfully, Wim Wenders pushes us through two hours of convoluted story, comatose characters, and an array of random lines all attempting to connect at some point. What begins as a political thriller slowly devolves into a poorly executed social rampage on lies, privacy, law, and corruption. Nothing in this film makes any sort of coherent sense. Byrne plays a computer nerd that is searching for that shred of human decency through the lens of a Government issued spying device that currently surrounds Los Angeles. Bill Pullman plays a business Hollywood producer that will put money before any living soul. Somehow, these two have met in another life and this is where our story begins. Thankfully, Wenders decided not to show us any pre-story, so we are forced to watch the consequences of an unseen action. So, struggling to keep up, I watch as an unused Andie MacDowell stumbles through her lines obviously not comfortable with her character. Then, out of the middle of nothing, I witness the detective that should be solving the surrounding case instead trying to fall in love with a struggling actress that Pullman gave a big break to. This is the perfect example of random lines trying to connect, but never do. Mix in this big Government conspiracy and you have the entire half-eaten pie known as The End of Violence. Reminiscent of a fever dream, Wenders tries intentionally to build this film into a budding social commentary on Hollywood and the control of our Government in a very 1984-esque fashion, but fails. One of the biggest failures of this film is his use of poetry to do &#133; well &#133; something. Whenever I thought that I was on the right path, that the film was suddenly going to come alive, I was quickly sidetracked by narrations from other characters in the form of beat-poetry. What?This is a pure example of what happens when ideas are more powerful in the mind than on the screen. I could see where Wenders wanted to go with this film, but unfortunately, it never got there. You could tell that he was one of those kids in school that would write a report about a very heated topic, but never really put any meat on the issues. He would just jumble through the motions, hoping to hit a chord with someone &#133; anyone.What a sad, sad film.Grade * out of *****  "},{"Title":"Absolute G-A-R-B-A-G-E","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't hated a movie this much in a LOOOONG time. This is the FIRST movie that my neighbor and I have turned off before it is over.....ever!!! BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOORRRRRRRRRRRIIIIIIINNNNNNGGGGG!!!!!!!!! What was it about!?!?! I mean, I can't for the life of me figure out what was going on in Lost Highway (Bill Pullman picks strange scripts) but I still liked the movie. End of Violence had no point!! I was drifting in and out of unconsciousness while only to be woken up from time to time by my neighbor's What the hell is going on here!??.................skip this movie at all costs........ "},{"Title":"Horrible, Horrible, Horrible!!!!!!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I now know that I have never disliked a movie because The End of Violence gives a new meaning to the word unbearable.  It is an utter scum-pit of a movie.  Save yourself the pain. "},{"Title":"Really bad movie","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was a really, really bad movie.  I cared nothing about the characters and wouldn't have minded if someone shut off my VCR halfway through the film.  This movie made Siskel's top 10 list?  Please. "},{"Title":"Are we all being watched?","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film went way over my head. It involved a government conspiracy of some sort in which hi-tech spy satellites were being used to lower the murder rate. I liked the picture, but understood little about what the story was all about. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but not the best of the year","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found it good, with magnificent landscapes, some interesting moments, but not so much to say it is the best movie of the year. Sure Wenders is a great director, it's a work well made, but not so easy for a mass market. The plot remains a little unexplained (maybe this is something Wenders wanted), I think the story isn't conducted at its end, leaving us with too many questions unanswered. I don't think this is the best movie made from Wenders, I think for example that Until the end of the world is more intriguing and developed in a better way. "},{"Title":"I gave this one a 5","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film has some interesting moments, but is weighed down by far too many  uninteresting ones!  The stunt woman character was endearing, the idea of  government-run security cameras everywhere was intriguing, but there is no  story here.  The film is handed the ball but just doesn't run with it.   That's to bad -- I was really looking forward to seeing it.  I gave it  every benefit of the doubt, but in the end it left me unmoved, slightly  depressed, and a little confused (I assure you the confusion was not my  fault).And while Siskel thought it one of the best movies of the year, Ebert did  give it a thumbs down.  Like I said, the movie has a few good scenes, ideas,  and characters, but you could live a perfectly happy life without having  seen this film.  "}]