[{"Title":"Amusing and well-acted","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music From Another Room is the story of Danny (Jude Law), returning to his US hometown after spending over 20 years in England with his father, who has now passed away. By coincidence, he runs into the Swan family, who his father and himself used to be acquainted with, and especially one of the daughters, the beautiful Anna (Gretchen Mol), catches his attention. Before Danny moved to England, he helped setting Anna to this world by removing the chord that was twisted around her neck during her birth, and at that point, he exclaimed a wish to marry her someday...This is first of all a romantic comedy, with Danny's chase for Anna as the main plot, and quite a lot of interesting sub-plots and characters. It is most enjoyable, and in the end a real feel-good movie. The script is intelligent, and at times, extremely funny. Especially Danny's landlord, Mr. Klammer, has got some killer lines early on.The acting is also excellent. Jude Law is his usual self, well-acting and beautiful, Brenda Blethyn can do no wrong on the screen, it seems, and Gretchen Mol shows that she is more than just a pretty face. But the real stand-out performance is Jennifer Tilly as the blind sister Nina...I'm really wondering when she's going to go get the recognition she obviously deserves... A great cast all together.The film has a few flaws, the most notable being a rather predictable story, but excellent acting and witty writing more than make up for that. Overall, Music From Another Room is a highly recommendable romantic comedy, far better than most straight-on-video stuff. "},{"Title":"Where do I begin?  So many good points...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, if you're in the mood for a slightly nutty romantic comedy, go for this one.The subplot, with Jennifer Tilly's performance as a shy, sheltered blind girl, reluctantly coming out of her shell, is totally luminous (sorry 'bout the cliche, but no other word fits), without resorting to the corniness of A Patch of Blue.  To me, it was actually a more affecting story than the main plotline.The other actors do a great job, especially Brenda Blethyn (what do they teach in British acting class?), Martha Plimpton, and Jayne Adams.  The story moves along nicely, and one event seems to flow naturally into another.My guess is, if there had been an A-List Hollywood star on board, like, eg, Bruce Willis, this little film might have gotten quite a bit more recognition.  But the chemistry would have been completely different.Bring a date and some popcorn, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great Screenplay-Weak Lead Performances","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Music From Another Room is certainly recommended viewing, for what it is and despite what it fails to be. Writer Charlie Peters constructed as good a screenplay as you will ever find in the straight romantic genre. Unfortunately there is a failure in the execution as director Charlie Peters drops the ball in his casting decisions and in his efforts to extract the necessary performances from the two leads, Jude Law (Danny) and Gretchen Mol (Anna). And solid efforts from the supporting cast are not enough to make up for these key deficiencies.Peters' story was inspired by Tolstoy's Anna Karenina. It is Danny's fate, shortly after arriving in town, to stumble across Grace Swan (Brenda Blethyn) and her family who he has not seen since he was five. Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. At age five he had assisted his physician father in delivering daughter Anna (like the book the family's three daughters are named Anna, Karen, and Nina). Seconds after Anna's birth, 5 year-old Danny had vowed that they would one day be married. But there is no indication in the screenplay that the grown-up Danny has come to town for this purpose, on the contrary he came to be with another woman who he has fallen in love with but who dumps him and moves away shortly after his arrival.Peters should get credit for a great title, as Music From Another Room is a metaphor Danny uses to illustrate how he has felt in the past when he was in love. The idea being that love is like listening to a favorite song playing in the distance and coming back on the same beat of the song when it has been periodically drowned out by closer noises.He should also get credit for the originality of the two-headed coin flip sequence; which sets up the film's resolution according to the flip of a regular coin. The irony being the characters' ability to flip this device of randomness/destiny into an exercise of their free will.Although not a comedy, the film is has a lot of charm and some funny moments. Even with its flaws it is better than average but this does leave you regretting that Peters did not recognize his limitations as a director and bring in someone who could have better executed the ambitious vision of his screenplay.The problem is that the quirky and original elements, which make the screenplay so good, require exceptional performances from the lead characters who must non-verbally convey a whole lot of character motivation as well as several moments of profound revelation. For actors up to this challenge (and for a skilled director), the roles offer a wonderful acting for the camera opportunity. For Law, Mol, and Peters it is way too much to ask and the result is strained and unconvincing. Which means that the mixes of sadness and joy, fate and free will, ignorance and revelation never achieve the dimensionality they should have. The failure to fill in the blanks with behavioral information combined with elements that were deleted in the editing process introduces an element of incoherence that ultimate undermines an excellent story.Law (who has certainly demonstrated acting ability in most of his films)has stated that he regrets doing Music From Another Room and that he let himself be talked into the part. This may actually be true as he certainly gives very little of himself to the performance. The interesting thing is that the part actually has more potential than roles he has chosen and into which he has thrown a lot of energy.Brenda Blethyn and Jane Adams turn in great performances and one can only wish that Adams and Mol had traded parts.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I had seen Jude Law in the Talented Mr. Ripley and was intrigued to find this little film on Cinemax one day. It is well acted and not slow or dragging. It is surrounded by a great cast and Law and Mol were both splendid. But this is a lot like Return to Me in that it's finale is predictable. But the film is so charming and easy to get interested in. The characters aren't boring but rather have quirks that make them watchable. Not a masterpiece, but if you catch it on cable sometime give it a look. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Flawed and incoherent","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Music From Another Room is an interesting title. It doesn't make any sense until you see the film in which the phrase is part of a slightly silly metaphor about the nature of love. However, the title actually made me watch the film, along with the promise of well-known actors Jude Law, Jennifer Tilly and Brenda Blethyn.The film is funny at times and lovable in the way we expect from romantic comedies - the opening scenes of young Danny's participation in a baby's birth is a good example, full of sweetness and humanity from Brenda Blethyn and young actor Cory Buck. But this is basically not a very good film. The major problem is in the directing and the editing which are without elegance and with plenty of flaws. Too many parts of the film are unfunny. A large part of the latter half of the film is strained and repetitive. The intended mixture of sadness and joy is handled too unoriginally to be anything but indecision.On top, the storyline is incoherent Danny's immediate crush on a girl he hasn't seen since her birth is not backed by anything other than Gretchen Mol's nice, but perhaps rather bland appearance. For the most part, the character is described as a closed and slightly dull personality, and Mol plays it with a stiffness to match.Jude Law is a splendid talent but his part much too romanticized and fundamentally uninteresting. Jennifer Tilly plays a blind girl who is provoked into experiencing life more than she has; she is good, but not excellent. In the end my favorite actors here are Brenda Blethyn and Jane Adams, both in fairly small parts. "},{"Title":"A real gem of a film","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just like the other comment above, I had never heard of this film before but saw it (twice!) on the in-flight entertainment of a long flight back from down under.  The overall feeling of the film is a bit like a condensed John Irving novel (Hotel New Hampshire)  a sprawling storyline concerning an eccentric family with delightful sub-plots involving the births, deaths and loves of the various members.  But because the film works on a much smaller scale than a huge doorstop novel, the characters are developed very economically in the film.  However, thanks to an absolutely inspired bit of casting, with the likes of Jeniffer Tilly and Brenda Blethyn as the dying mother, the film works extremely well.  And of course the chemistry between the two leads, Jude Law and Gretchen Mol, is undeniable and provides much of the appeal of the film.  An absolute must see love story which skips beautifully over the potential cliches of the genre, and will have you laughing and crying in equal measures. "},{"Title":"True romance shines through","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first began to watch this movie, I thought, OH BOY this is going to be BORING! The plot did not make a whole lot of sense and the characters seemed to be picked out of nowhere. There was nothing cohesive about this movie at ALL!! Then, Jesus appears (the character named Jesus that is) and the audience is drawn away from the main romance (which at this point seems to be beyond any hope) to a side romance that is truer to life than anything I had ever seen. The instant and simple bond between Nina and Jesus was almost electric. It was not sensual or erotic, it was sweet and endearing. It was how love SHOULD be. Its the kind of romance/friendship/love that everyone looks for. One that is selfless and kind. It is worth watching this movie JUST to see the Nina/Jesus romance.... This movie proves that side romances are indeed the best, because they restore our hope in what seems to be an impossible goal. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful and touching movie. It made me cry without being too mushy. Jude Law is a beautiful creature, and made this film worth my time, since I had never heard of it prior. If you love love, fate, and destiny, then you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"A Decent Story with Excessive Subplots Saved by some Good Acting","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MUSIC FROM ANOTHER ROOM was written and directed by Charlie Peters the film script would benefit from some judicious editing. Yet as a light love story it is fast moving despite diversions in the plot and in general gives some fine actors good screen time.Danny (Jude Law) as a five-year-old lad assisted in the complicated birth of his friend Grace Swan's (Brenda Blethyn) child Anna (Gretchen Mol) and at that moment declared he would marry Anna someday. Twenty five years later Danny returns to Los Angeles from his home in England and encounters the mature Anna who is now engaged to Eric (Jon Tenney), falls in love, returns to the neighbor family of his childhood where Grace greets him with effusive warmth. The family is a dysfunctional one Anna's sister Nina (Jennifer Tilly) is blind and dependent on Anna; brother Billy (Jeremy Piven) is married to suicidal Irene (Jane Adams); cynical feminist sister Karen (Martha Plimpton) is a man-eater; and the father cares for Grace as she is stricken with a terminal illness. Anna resists Danny, but Danny's influence on the family is like 'music from another room', and results in positive changes in each of the family members Nina finds love with Jesus (Vincent Laresca), a kitchen worker who introduces Nina to dancing, love, and independence; Grace opens her longing for Anna to experience passion instead of just caring for everyone; and the concept of fate and love and passion is stirred vigorously.Jude Law is his usual appealing self and makes his role credible. Jennifer Tilly does a fine job realizing Nina and her transformation, and Brenda Blethyn gives us a heady dose of Brenda Blethyn, which is always welcome. There are many problems with the film, the most significant one being Gretchen Mol who doesn't take her character beyond paper doll and certainly doesn't seem an adequate reason for Jude Law's unswerving attention. But as a film it works well enough and does provide some food for thought about the true meaning of love. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard great things about this movie.  They were all right!  Even my boyfriend ended up sitting down and watching it with me and he enjoyed it, too.  Jude Law was excellent as was the supporting cast (especially Jennifer Tilly).  I highly recommend this movie!  Two thumbs up and a box of kleenex.  "}{"Title":"Weird  mixture, but effective","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found myself hating and loving this movie throughout the entire running time.  Other than Gretchen Mol, there are some good performances, but the screenplay fails time and again to latch onto a real emotion or life-situation.  I really like Jude Law but I think he was supposed to have turned this part down when it was offered.However, the movie was made for me by Vincent Laresca, who played Jesus. He was so unbelievably nice and loving to Jennifer Tilly's character that I cried at his performance.  Thank you, Vincent, and congratulations on your career. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and passionate.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music from Another Room, while flawed in a few aspects, is generally both intelligent and passionate.  It's almost like a period piece but set now which probably makes it something of an enigma to the average (particularly younger) movie-goer.  That's a shame, because it's original in that respect. Jude Law and Brenda Blethyn are great.  And it's Jennifer Tilly's best work.   "},{"Title":"Well-done romantic comedy with an excellent performance from Jude Law","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music from Another Room is a light-hearted romantic comedy about a persistent chap with his heart set on one woman.  Jude Law's engaging performance as the lovestruck Danny itself makes the film worth seeing. Jennifer Tilly (Anna's blind sister, Nina), Vincent Laresca (Jesus, Anna's boyfriend/husband), Martha Plimpton (Karen, Anna's feminist sister), Jane Adams (Anna's gun-toting sister in law) also deliver wonderful performances in their offbeat supporting roles.  The only significant error is in casting Gretchen Mol as Danny's Anna, because Mol never allows us to understand why Danny or any man should bother with the bland and one-dimensional Anna. Mol's Anna is unlikeable from beginning to the end of the film and unfortunately never seems to be worthy of Danny's admiration.  "},{"Title":"Somewhere in this movie, there was a good story","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" But it didn't come out right. It's as if they started out to make a serious film and then handed it over to a Wes Anderson type at the last minute. Plot lines that start in a good direction turn unexpectedly goofy. And some side plots that are meant to add humor--Martha Plimpton and her gun, for instance--are simply annoying.Jude Law plays a scrawny bakery delivery boy who doesn't know when to shut up, and Gretchen Mol is the uptight sophisticate of her family who is already engaged to a man who is perfect for her. He drives the right car and bails her family out financially--she needs those things. So when he wants to buy her a book for her birthday instead of a flowered knit cap--well, Gretchen's character isn't the flowered knit cap type, and all the romantic lecturing of Jude's character about the hat vs. the book, however right in theory, doesn't change that. The movie never satisfactorily established why Gretchen would fall for Jude--in fact, the scene (SPOILER ALERT) where Gretchen and Jude get together, and then the next day she can hardly look at him--that was true to character. What happened later was not.The best and most believable characters in the film were the mother, well acted by Brenda Blethyn, and the blind sister (Meg Tilly) and her boyfriend, Jesus. I loved Jesus! One last comment--whoever chose the music for this film should be shot--there's one really bad top-40 pop song that cues in more than once when Jude and Gretchen go for the kiss, and it cheapens the scenes. "},{"Title":"Great Romantic Flick!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so great at what it is - a beautiful, romantic story. It doesn't pretend to be anything else, although it does explore some family issues. It's a classic story of a codependent heroine (Gretchen Mol) nurturing her helpless family, being wooed away by passion! She knows it's not practical, and that passion never works, but what if? Her passionate suitor (Jude Law) simply will not take no for an answer, and is in relentless pursuit, saving her family from themselves in the process. Finally, he makes our heroine sick of herself, by buying into her logic and trying to persuade her exactly why passion never works and that he must leave. She finds herself having to make the argument for passion!No, this movie doesn't make you think, but isn't that nice once in a while? It's a great date or break-up film. If you enjoy sappy British humor and silly codependent families, watch it! "},{"Title":"i feel robbed of 105 minutes","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I generally like to check out straight to video movies because i have found many gems and this is not one of them.  This movie is poorly acted with the exceptions of Martha Plimpton Jane Adam, and Brenda Blethyn, they are the reasons that i gave this film a 3/10 as opposed to 1/10.  What got me more than the acting because we all know that their are great films out there that contain sub-par acting, was the god awful editing of this film.  The story is so jumpy that you never get a chance to really identify with all of the characters.  Gretchen Mol is a classic beauty but not a good actress by any means. "},{"Title":"Jude Law makes the film a very sweet romance overall","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a film, it rates an eight but as a romantic movie it should get a ten.Jude Law is absolutely adorable as Danny, the love sick artist/delivery boy who never forgot about his first true love Anna, whom he spotted when he helped deliver her as a baby in an emergency as a child.Gretchen Moll plays down as Anna, the safe and boring caretaker of her blind sister. Anna is young but acts like an old lady, having no dreams or fantasies, acting like she has no life or future.Anna is so dull that her blind sister Nina, played by Jennifer Tilly and her unexpected romantic partner Jesus (Vincent Laresca) completely steal the romance of the film.Brenda Blethyn is their ill mother, who tries to help Anna and her sisters find the secret to a happy life.Danny spends all his time trying to win her attention and love, but to no avail. The end is almost predictable, but enjoyable. Jude Law makes this film a winner. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Harmless","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a perfectly sweet film, without the usual American / Hollywood over-the-top treatment.Other than the waste of Brenda Blethyn the cast were well balanced and just about believable.This one really is a movie you can take a date to. "},{"Title":"Good stuff for sentimentalists","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music From Another Room is a romantic comedy with the sweetly sentimental flavor of a Hallmark or Disney production mixed with the occasional reality check to keep the goo from getting too thick. Sporting a fine cast, this dreamy film about a motley family and birth and death and love offers a fun scene to scene linear flow, keeps the sentimentality in check, builds its predictable love story, and manages several subplots all the while holding interest and easing a somewhat difficult buy-in resulting in a good all around romantic flick. Not for cynics, Music From Another Room will play best with sentimentalists. (B) "},{"Title":"Sometimes not taxing is what's needed","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes a sweet love story with a predictable ending is just what is needed.  As far as morals go, turn on the television at any time and the morals are far worse than any in this movie.  That is not to say I agree cheating on ones spouse or having sexual intercourse with just anyone is acceptable; it is however a really minor part of the movie.  It is really about a young man who teaches an entire family how to love through his love of one of its members.  If you want a sweet non-taxing romance, this is a reasonable choice.Jude Law makes everything believable.  "}{"Title":"Criticism","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music from another room was based on Drama genre. Actually, what makes it nice is the purity and the simplicity of the character's lives. The definitions that LAW and MOL make between themselves are very well organized. But there's something I'd like to know...Has the movie Proposal (starring Robert Redford, Demi Moore) been made before that (1998) or not? I guess you know what I mean...the coin thing...the coin with two identical faces, the same as the one in Proposal.Benjamin "},{"Title":"genuinely funny","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was genuinely surprised by the realistic humor in this great little movie as I had heard nothing about it before viewing it.  The interactions between the characters (especially the Swan family) are realistically funny.  Even their casual dinner conversation made for strikingly true comedy in this small film. "},{"Title":"Sweet Movie... horrid sound track","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched Music from another Room on cable last night, having never heard of it before, and thus having no expectations. I was met with an almost tragic example of what could have been a really good, (if somewhat cliched), film, marred by being packaged for a teen audience.The story is about a young man who meets a woman in who's birth he had assisted some 20 years earlier. This woman is the normal center of her bizarre family. The interplay between the family members, and other supporting cast, is quirky and original, and there is some dialogue dealing with love and death that is truly moving. The cast and writers do an impressive job of bringing out the personalities of a number of characters with minimal screen time, and manage to be both funny and touching. This should have been a sweet, worth while romantic comedy.However, the whole experience was tainted for me by the rediculously prominent use of the oh-so-annoying song Truly Madly Deeply. No, it wasn't just played quietly in the background, it completely underscored all of the romantic scenes between the two leads, and was played during the credits, it was very upsetting! Granted, the whole boy-band phenomenon was just beginning to come to the forefront of American music in 1998, but that doesn't make it any less bad. I found myself feeling really sorry for the cast and film makers, because the choice to use this song totally undermined all their good work, turning a potentially good film into a teen-flick, (that probably went over the heads of most of the young people to whom they were trying to sell it).With marketing choices like that, it's no wonder this movie bombed... too bad! "},{"Title":"A story that combines the fate, romance, and comedy with a brilliant set of actors.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stories about fate tend to be overdone and cheesy, but with the help of actors like Jude Law, Gretchen Mol, and Jennifer Tilly (who offers a brilliant performance) the familiar storyline becomes moving while also hilarious at times. The supporting characters help to make this movie one that you can look back on and laugh for years- and it still remains a beautiful love story. "},{"Title":"A story that combines the fate, romance, and comedy with a brilliant set of actors.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stories about fate tend to be overdone and cheesy, but with the help of actors like Jude Law, Gretchen Mol, and Jennifer Tilly (who offers a brilliant performance) the familiar storyline becomes moving while also hilarious at times. The supporting characters help to make this movie one that you can look back on and laugh for years- and it still remains a beautiful love story. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy of some good points","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film last year on a cable network.  The only reason I chose to watch it is the fact that I am a fan of Jude Law.  This film is a very predictable romantic comedy, that can include a few laughs and a few tears. Some of the acting is a little over-dramatic, which may cause the viewer to stray away from the film.  The target audience for this film is most likely to be women from the ages of 20-40, and young fans of Jude Law and Gretchen Mol.  I highly recommend this film to those who happen to enjoy films about confusion in love and about how family can be involved in a person's decisions in life. "},{"Title":"Underrated and well done","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie with a wonderful story.  The romance is not bad but the side stories are what really give it life. And the characters were really good and well-cast.  Jeremy Piven is always entertaining - man, he needs more roles. As is Martha Plimpton.  Gretchen Moll was a little flat but not too bad - Jude Law carries her well so it's not that noticeable. Overall, I'd give it 2 enthusiastic thumbs-up. "},{"Title":"Interesting film, but the ending...","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film had a lot going for it, an interesting story and good actors as well. Jennifer Tilly was a bit unbelievable as a blind person, but that was the only complaint as far as acting goes. My biggest problem was the ending, it seemed almost as if it had been shot months afterwards as a redo or something, it didn't seem to fit well and was incredibly predictable and actually very poorly acted. It disappointed me greatly because it had been such a good film up to that point.  "},{"Title":"almost satisfactory in stringing together","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had an amazing plot... however, the transitions (especially the conspicuous musical crescendos with one song in particular blaring in and out throughout the movie, destroying any power love seems might have harbored) were sometimes awful and the script was often terrible with obscene, unrealistic, and out of place sexual discussions. One scene in particular seemed completely out of place Jude Law (Danny), in front of the entire family tells everyone about how he felt falling in love. In reality, this would never happen and the only thing that sustained this film long enough for me to see the end was the acting itself. A great performance by Jane Adams as an insane wife to a cheating husband and also, congrats to Jennifer Tilly who proves to us once again that she needn't be type cast so often as Candys or Mindys. Overall, I give this movie a C+. "},{"Title":"disappointed at lack of substance","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jude Law and Gretchen Mol look so perfect together  I was enraptured just watching them. However, despite a quite brilliant cast of wonderful actors, this film comes crashing down with a script that is overly sentimental and a saccharine pop soundtrack. People in the real world do not have the opportunity to compose eloquent soliloquies at the perfect moment and if the script had been a little more realistic and human the film may have been saved. I only feel this film is worth mentioning because I was so disappointed at it's real lack of artistic substance where it had the potential. It is almost as if it is an art film parading as mainstream, or perhaps (even worse) mainstream masquerading as art.  "}{"Title":"A real tear-jerker!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't heard about this movie till I saw it in our tv guide a couple of days ago and even then the only reason it caught my eye was the fact that Jude Law (one of my favourite actors) was in it. Although I've definitely seen better acting coming from him in other movies, I was very impressed. Being a helpless romantic, this was a very appealing movie and there were many touching moments. The soundtrack was very complimentary and the tune of Savage Garden's, Truly, madly, deeply was appropriate and placed conveniently at the right moments. For anyone who enjoys a good romantic comedy - I definitely recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A whimsical, yet improbable romantic comedy","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An enjoyable, light-hearted romantic comedy, this movie suffers from its improbability.  As in most films that deal with romance and finding that one true partner, the success of the movie often boils down to how believable it is.  And while this movie strove to create that chemistry between the lead characters, it doesn't seem to quite make it.  In fact, the romance that develops between Nina (the blind sister) and Jesus seems to be more likely and likable.  Granted, this is truly subjective, and judging by the previous comments, others disagree.  All-in-all, I'd recommend it for a rental, or better yet, on HBO.  But had I shelled out the cash at the theater, I don't feel I would have gotten my money's worth. "},{"Title":"A nice hopelessly in love movie...","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great for those who were hopelessly in love with someone and the rest of life just really didn't matter at all.  If you think Gretchen Mol is beautiful and you're a guy, you'll fit right into Jude Law's shoes for this movie.  You'll go along with all the lines and feelings.  It's comedic, innocent, and romantic.  You wish this could happen to you. That's really how movies like this work.  Oh, you'll also love the hit single by Savage Garden, Truly Madly Deeply. "},{"Title":"Believe me - don't miss this film","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came across this film by accident.  (Well, not completely by accident.  I believe that Gretchen Moll is one of the most beautiful women alive, and when I saw her name, decided to record the film off HBO.)It is witty, sexy, romantic, and very, very captivating. Sure, there are some bits that stretch credulity, but you will find it worth your time. Martha Plimpton's role is worth the price of admission.  How this film slipped by the theatres I don't know. "},{"Title":"Excellent acting, wonderful cast","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie so much, though I have to admit one of the reasons is because Jude Law is one of my absolute favorite actors.  This movie is so romantic, and how Jude's character pursues Gretchen Moll's character is so touching and wonderful! It is something I'd love to happen to me )  I recommend this movie for people who enjoy well made movies. "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard about this movie because since I am one of maybe five people who enjoy the TV show Two Guys & A Girl, I saw that Richard Ruccolo is in it. He ended up having one line- Have a nice day. And that's if you were paying VERY close attention. But was I disappointed? Nope. This is a wonderful movie with a great script & charming premise. Jude Law is one of the best young actors in Hollywood today & makes it apparent in this movie. The scene with the quarter and the end is absolutely wonderful. Gretchen Mol can't act. But the majority of her scenes are with Law, and he can act well enough for both of them, so all is okay. Jennifer Tilly is wonderful in her supporting role. I really recommend this movie. It's not very well known, but is really a wonderful romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"can't stop recommending....","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot stop recommending this movie! With a well written script and charming, top-notch actors Music stole my heart and put the sweetness back into romantic comedies. I remember listening to someone at the 1999 Oscars saying, We need to write more decent stories and stop worrying about box-office material,  and I really thought this movie captivated that remark.  All this movie did was tell a sweet story about a young's man determination with a young lady he believes is his soul-mate.  And along with this pursued love interest is a crazy family and clever dialogue. If people are interested in watching more movies about people and their stories rather than shoot-em-up movies with lousy acting, then Hollywood should start making more movies like Music.  "},{"Title":"Charming movie--sans Gretchen Mol","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A unique movie, quirky and not without a few surprises, Music is also peppered with endearing performances by Blethyn, Law, Tilly, and company...with the exception of the flat performance given by Mol.  Kinda put a kink in an otherwise very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"If Harry had met Sally at birth...","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened to catch this sleeper late at night, but it kept me awake through the entire movie.  With a fairly well cast group, I was surprised not to have ever heard of this movie, but if you can deal with the love/romance/cheese theme, this movie is for you.  A bit of a chick-flick, it actually keeps you interested in the plot, which I was worried would be ultra predictable.  If you get a chance, it is, no doubt, a movie that will touch your sentimental side.  See it if you can... "},{"Title":"A movie for those rainy days","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie takes a work of fate, a really screwed up family, and an over-romantic guy, and puts them all together. Classifying the genre of the film is a bit difficult - it contains some light comedy, a lot of drama, as well as romance, yet I wouldn't really call it a romantic comedy. The film focuses on Danny, who re-enters the life of a family who he hasn't been involved in since he helped is father deliver a member of the family when he was five! One member is blind, another is depressed, and when Jesus comes into their lives, no one knows what's going on! The movie plot is surprisingly involved, and is quite well done. The story line was definitely an original. It's not a big screen film, as is just as good watched on video, but I still recommend it for those rainy days, when all you want is something light and entertaining to pass the time. Keep the tissues handy though! 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Tear jerker","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie during it's short release in AZ.  I thought it was a refreshing change.  Just a lightweight, slightly odd love story and family tale.  I really enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"An above-average tear jerker, a real sleeper","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie, and don't even know if it's been released in the U.S...but I saw on the way back from London in August.  I had tears in my eyes at the end...and that doesn't happen often to me.  Some good writing, good acting, and good subplots involving the rest of family make this a film to watch.  It's worth your time to seek it out on video on pay-TV.  "},{"Title":"I loved it. I wish it let me love it more.","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I check my voting history, I see I have voted for movies rather generously. But I never actually gagged to give a movie a 9 and felt inhibited not to go beyond 7. I wish this movie let me love it a little bit more.The story is very simple and popular. Actually, in my country, at least a dozen movies are made every decade on a plot like this one. So, it's not the catchy story or an end twist that people love these kinda movies for. So, when you already know what is gonna happen and how, complete attention falls on things like cinematography and compelling conversations.This movie has wonderful moments. Well, with Jude Law, that is no surprise. I wanted to see this movie for Gretchen Mol. She is spontaneous, but not brilliant. The thing is, for this movie, she did not have to be. But when a sensitive viewer is watching the film, certain things should be left unsaid for his mind to synthesize and derive. If everything is discussed on a round table (not literally), it becomes more educational and less charming. That is what is pulling this movie down. Movies like French Kiss or Addicted to Love never surprised any viewer with a climax. But those films took their breaths away no doubt. I wish this one was a little more subtle and metaphoric. That way, I would not have to settle for a 7.Though there is no surprise in the end, the end is very beautiful. Feels like it's filmed by some different director than the one who filmed the educational speeches. But anyway, this is a lovely film to see. You might find it very good, or just good, depending on how forgiving you are in real life. There is no way you are gonna regret spending your good money on it. I recommend it. Who am I to recommend? You don't wanna know. "},{"Title":"Laughs, love, Law","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I laughed through most of the first hour while admiring the beautiful faces of the two co-stars, rooting for those nice kids to get together, and enjoying the rapid-fire dialog and antics of the heroine's family members. I think the sister-with-the gun scenes are over the top and distracting, and the ending's a little weak, but the writing and acting are, mostly, topnotch. Jennifer Tilly is cast against type and does fine in the role, as does Jon Tenney as that stock character, the jilted fiancé. Romantic comedies are hard to come by. If you can skip the more sentimental scenes, it's a real find. And it's PG-13 -- no murders, explosions, or car chases. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was just plain sweet. I loved it. It's nice to see movies that are romantic and funny during these trying times we live in. I would recommend this movie to anyone that is in love, looking for love, or just needs something to warm their heart. Jude Lawe was excellent, as were Mol and the rest of the cast. I liked the other story lines that flowed along with it and really enjoyed how the ending brought it all together and tied up all the lose ends. This movie was predictable but had you cheering on Jude Lawe and wishing you could be the one he was in love with. The filming was well done, the cinematography simple yet beautiful. "},{"Title":"Touching comedy shows love takes work...","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main reason to see this cute film is Jude Law's likable performance as Danny.He out-acts everyone and steals every scene he's in.He plays a lovesick guy out to win the engaged-to-someone-else- girl he helped deliver when she was a baby and he was 5-years-old.He has quite a hurdle of obstacles.His pursuit is gentle,yet persuasive.He's very charming in it,and females will love him.My husband liked this film also and felt it is true-to-life in some ways-how a person pursues someone who could be totally wrong for them.It's not an excellent film.The choice to have Gretchen Moll as Jude's love interest was a bad one.She acts poorly,and there is a lack of chemistry.However Jude's intense stares at her and genuine obsession make the film a real treat. Yes,there are some amusing moments I won't spoil.Another person I enjoyed in this is Martha Plimpton.Her scenes with Jude are funny,and she uses him to solve a problem of her own.The result is actually the funniest scene in the film.I think it's a flawed yet great little movie.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was brilliant, original, unique and more. The story was such a beautiful one. All the actors were amazing in it (especially Jude Law and Jennifer Tilly) it was so nice to see a movie that wasn't all soppy and typical. This movie is in no way a classic love story. It has twists and turns all through it and the occasional moment of humor. Some of the scenes were so touching. Just an all round great feelgood movie - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, greater cast--- loved the performance of Law,Mol","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Music From Another Room is absolutely fabulous. It is a great romantic comedy and I loved the performance of both Jude Law and Gretchen Mol. After seeing the movie they both became my favorite actors. They are both beautiful and they know how to act. I hope that Gretchen Mol will have a great career and that I will see her in any new movies soon-- she is beautiful to watch!!! I am certain that she is a Hollywood's future STAR. Jude Law already is one,evidence-- Enemy At The Gates and of course Music From Another Room!!! To conclude everything I would like to say that everyone who didn't see this movie yet should go and see it-rent it or buy it. It is worth its money.  "},{"Title":"Teardrops for both laughs and crying","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday, and was emotially surprised since i didn´t have any expectations whatsoever. I enjoyed the passion and the humor, the mix of the american and the british, and the acting and the storyline.I like a story that is about people meeting eachother and people getting transformed by it through interaction and love. Sometimes we shouldn't take life so seriously and even though you are blind, you need to get out there and enjoy life and meet somebody!!!!See this movie if you have the oppetunity and just lean back preferably with your lover at your side or else go out there and get someone!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A great character film with a lot of different things going on.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film starts when Danny is only 5, and helps his father deliver a baby, because the cord is wrapped around the neck, and Danny's small hands are needed to reach inside and uncoil the cord before delivery. Danny and his father return to London where he lives and learns the craft of mosaic restoration.After 25 years, and his father's recent death, Danny (Jude Law) returns to the town and making a bakery delivery, stops at Anna's (Gretchen Mol) house for directions, and remembers her delivery. At that time he had said I will marry her some day. And that is what the film is about. He is smitten all over as he sees the grown up and beautiful, blonde Anna.Where does the title come from? Asked by blind sister (Tilley) what it feels like to be in love, Danny responds, It's like when you are listening to a song from another room, and you are singing along with it, then a passing truck drowns out the music, but you keep right on singing, and when you can hear it again you and the music are still in perfect harmony.  Thus the title, Music From Another Room.I rate this film 8 of 10, for the excellent characters and writing.  Anna is the adult, too adult, taking responsibility for everyone else and not experiencing true passion. One sister is blind, another is a feminist at a theater called Actors Without Dicks. A brother is a doctor but married to an unstable woman who in one scene shoots him. CAUTION SPOILER -- At the end, Danny gave up, is leaving town for Atlanta and surrenders to the idea that Anna will marry her stiff and boring but wealthy fiancee. Her blind sister, who has found happiness and has married Jesus, takes Anna to the restored mosaic, shows it to her, and Anna realizes that she and Danny really are to be together. She rushes to the train station, Danny is reluctant, she reverses an earlier line from Danny, We'll flip the coin, heads I go with you, tails and I'll leave and you'll never hear from me again. He says, I'll call it.  Only looking into her eyes, without looking at the coin under his shoe, he pauses and says, heads.  -) "}{"Title":"My wife and I stayed up late to watch and were rewarded","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We watched out of curiosity, we stayed up late because of the surprising good plot.  Characters were realistic and honest.  Kleenex handy would be helpful, but a movie worth watching for sure.  Although a good love story, definitely not a chick flick.  It demonstrates the power of true love and honest feelings. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Little Film","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the little film that could. With a fantastic cast including academy award nominees like Brenda Blethyn, Jude Law, and Jennifer Tilly, and a cast of other actors who are wonderful in thier own right, how could you go wrong. The story is wonderfully done, slowly drawing you into its beauty, it winds around you till you find yourself immersed in it's splendor. Jude Law is wonderful as (Danny)how he is completely smitten with Anna portrayed by Gretchen Mol. She denies him at every step and yet he still proceeds, knowing that she will wake up soon and realise how much she truly loves him. Meanwhile, his undying love for Anna begins to spill over onto her family as they all begin to deal with thier own particular love problems. At the very end it touches even the most non-romantic of individuals, by showing them that if you believe strong enough true love will prevail. "},{"Title":"It was fate.","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was fate that I was flipping through the channels and came upon this movie. There are some movies that have their flaws, but still leave you with a smile. This is surely one of them. Jude Law (Danny), with his charming good looks and sweet British accent, shines in this movie. It's a shame that this movie did not make theaters. He was a delight to watch. Jennifer Tilly (Nina) is such a talented actress, and she too was great. Music From Another Room is about a little boy (Danny) that aids in the delivery of a baby girl (Anna). 25 years later, they cross paths again. Danny instantly falls for Anna, but Anna is already engaged to Eric (rich guy). While getting to know Anna, he also gets to know her family Nina (blind sister who is afraid of the world), Karen (cynical sister), Billy (rude brother that constantly cheats on his wife Irene), and her parents Richard (does not believe in love) and Grace (a little crazy). The songs Truly, Madly, Deeply by Savage Garden and Day after Day by Julian Lennon were perfect for this movie. If you enjoy light-hearted movies that make you laugh and cry, this is the movie. I love this movie. I give it 10 stars.     "},{"Title":"A Terrific Movie From Start To Finish!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happened to catch Music From Another Room on HBO, and what a wonderful surprise!  I don't seem to remember hearing much about the movie when it was released in theaters, but it's sure worth watching at home! The writing was superb and the casting and performances were right on the money! There is still romance in the movies, without the need for sloppy, gratutitous fluff, and that says plenty!  "},{"Title":"...Music to my ears.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not only are the actors great, but they all brought something different to the film.  This movie probably won't make you cry with joy, but you'll be close.  Sure, this is a romantic movie...but there are some hilarious parts. I don't think Jude Law, who plays Danny has been better maybe Gattaca. He plays the guy that every girl is looking for but somehow passes up.  I must say that Jeremy Piven who play Billy, is totally funny...on the paranoid side maybe...but undeniably funny.  I recommend this movie to anyone, check it out.     "},{"Title":"definitely worth a rental","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this movie on Cinemax a few weeks ago.   I think Jude Law was outstanding.  Gretchen Mol (prior to her stint in The Thirteenth Floor) plays an uptight, control freak who is attracted to Jude Law's character. Interesting supporting cast with Tilly and the character of the mother....Martha Plimpton is sort of wasted in the movie though. Overall charming flick. "},{"Title":"Where did this movie come from?","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film on a boring Memorial Day afternoon. I just turned on Cinemax and became engulfed in this true romantic sleeper. All of the actors were great, the writing was great, and it had a comedic sweetness to it. I had never heard of this film, but now it has become one I cannot miss when it comes on Pay TV. This film is very good, and should be seen by more people. If you ever turn on and see this film, watch it and enjoy. It is a true must see flick.  "},{"Title":"Let Fate Be Your Guide","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall I loved this movie even though it took too long to get to the plot. As the movie started out I began to regret that I was watching it. Just as my hand went for the remote I saw Jude Law. He kept interest in the movie during the first quarter of it. As the movie progressed it became more enjoyable. I began to enjoy the other stories that revolved around the love the young English artist (Law) had for the woman who's life he saved (Gretchen Mol) when he delivered her 25 years earlier. Superb performances by Jude Law, Jennifer Tilly, and Martha Plimpton make this movie rent-worthy. Gretchen Mol's performance in the film was (and lets be brutally honest) AWFUL. Her character is less than grateful to the man who saved her life and Mol's acting is less than grateful to the casting director who gave her the part despite her inability to perform it. But overall I say if you are in the mood for a good romantic comedy rent Music From Another Room and hopefully you will enjoy the storyline and performances as much as I did! "},{"Title":"One of the best romance movies!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would never go to a cinema to see this kind of movie. But I got invited to the press projection and I went. I'm not not I bit sorry. Usually this type of films make me hurl, but this one had it's story it wasn't too sweet, just right. And a fact that Gretchen Mol stars in it, it's just a big plus. A must see if you're a romantic freak or if you want to take your girlfriend to the movies!  "},{"Title":"Unreality at it's highest point","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this kind of film funny, touching, and oh, so romantic. And so totally out of touch with the real world. But so what? It's a movie....and a pretty good one at that. Perhaps if I watched this film enough I, too, would find a small portion of passion in my life. Perhaps, but most likely, I would remain a hopeless cynic and merely murmur, ah, love, so romantic, so wonderful, so utterly unattainable. "}{"Title":"An all-around bad movie","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If a movie is going to have a lot of formulaic plot points, then it has to be executed perfectly in order to be enjoyable. Never Been Kissed is a good example of a movie which has a very conventional plot, but is thoroughly engaging because of good acting, well-placed comedic moments, and good directing. Music From Another Room has none of these, although it's obvious that it's trying for them. The movie starts out as if Jude Law's character will be focal point of the story, but actually it's Gretchen Mol's character that the story revolves around. There are the usual scenes where Mol's character is supposed to grow, but most of them do not work. I'd blame this mostly on the script. I found it awkward and unnatural. It is not always clear what is going on in the characters' minds from the things that they say, although there are plenty of close-ups of the various characters which, I suppose, are meant to make up for this. There is the classic final scene where Mol's character is supposed to realize that she should be with Law's character, but it doesn't resonate in any way. It doesn't ring true because it fails to tie together everything that has been going on in the movie up to that point. Overall, a disappointment, since I thought this movie had the necessary elements to be a good romantic drama/comedy.  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Terrible plot premise (I want to marry a baby! WTF?). Horrid direction and stiff Phantom Menace level acting across the board (at least with PM the actors had the excuse of green screen stare). Some of the most on-the-nose, painful dialogue I have heard this side of an after school special. And don't get me started on the awful 90s fashions...hooboy. Some decent actors in this, but they all seemed lost and confused...which was welcome company to my own bewilderment. I can't believe I wasn't time watching this thing. I kind of imagine this thing was made by some sort of automated bad script writing program.It wasn't even so bad it's good...it was just bad. "},{"Title":"Not funny or romantic","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Music From Another Room was one of the last movie to come out of Orion Pictures. They were so far gone when this movie was finished that they didn't even release it to theaters. Though that's probably for the best, because I can't see an audience for this loser. It's a cheaply-made affair, with sets and other production values making this look like a made for television movie. The movie also has a very low key feeling. While this is better than being strident, it also mutes a lot of the emotions the characters are trying to express. But there's a bigger problem with the two lead characters, and that is that they are not very likable. They are kind of dumb and seldom show a sympathetic side to themselves. Strangely, the subplot concerning the heroine's blind girlfriend finding romance works a lot better. It's kind of clunky, but these scenes show enough charm that you'll wish the movie had focused on those characters instead of the Judd Law and Gretchen Mol characters. "},{"Title":"for moraleless days......","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not used with romance movies but they're useful on some days. like this one and specially the blind-test riding scene! superb idea. and GRETCHEN is so attractive........... (she can also be viewed on THE 13TH FLOOR) in the same order watch MARTHA MEET FRANK DANIEL LAWRENCE, SHE-S THE ONE, PICTURE PERFECT. bye "},{"Title":"Found it a Waste of time","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Found this movie a complete waste of time.I did not like it at all. It's billed as a comedy but it is not funny!It should not have been produced at all, it's a waste of money.  "},{"Title":"great, funny movie","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!  I saw it because Jude Law was in it, but I was impressed by the whole cast.  The writing and the acting were both superb!  I laughed so hard during the pig scenes.  I don't remember hearing about this movie being in theaters - which is too bad.  I think it would have done well.  Very romantic and of course Jude Law is gorgeous and does a wonderful job!!!  Would see it over and over! "},{"Title":"Cute but ordinary","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'd seen the shorts for this movie and wasn't going to bother but some friends rented it. Really no surprises here. The story is predictable and evolves in fairly traditional ways, boy helps deliver girl, boy moves away from girl, boy tries desperately (and sappily with that lame poem) to win girl back, finally they get together. The 'romance' is cute but nothing particularly endearing. Putting aside the gutter morals, Anna and Danny are clearly going to be together in the end. If you want something soft and lovey, this might be for you - it's certainly not too taxing. 6/10 "},{"Title":"gretchen should've stayed in the other room","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A way predictable, albeit quirky romantic comedy with some amazing performances.  I simply can't get past how flat, one-dimensional, whiny and well just HORRIBLE Miss Mol's portrayal of Anna was.  Jude Law should win an Oscar for making me believe he actually cared about her.Brenda Bethyn was great, especially in her introduction of Danny to the family and the sibling performances (Tilly, Piven and Plimpton) were all on target and delightful.It's really a cute film, just takes a major suspension of disbelief to buy into the all-too-predictable ending.Last scenes I'd like to have seen.  After all the Anna Karennia imagery (subtlety was not the key here), Anna Swann gets to the train station and says, I'm so sorry for this performance while throwing herself in front of the train.orDanny says, Tails. "},{"Title":"A Simple Twist of Fate","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a little boy, Jude Law (as Danny Kowalski), helped deliver a baby. Because his hand was small, young Danny (Cory Buck) was able to reach in, and uncurl the umbilical cord from around the neck of the baby. So, the baby girl is born healthy; and, the little boy, who will grow up to be Jude Law, declares, I'm gonna marry her. Twenty-five years later, Law returns to Los Angeles, from an education in London. He loses his girlfriend, and has trouble finding employment; he's a tile artist. Then, while delivering a cake, he returns to the house where he long ago delivered the baby; she has grown into beautiful Gretchen Mol (as Anna Swan). Law falls madly in love with Ms. Mol, and wants to fulfill his childhood pledge to marry her; but, she is pledged to another man.Swan family matriarch Brenda Blethyn (as Grace Swan) enables womb-reaching Law to become a employee/companion to the family; but, despite his close quarters, he finds Mol a tough love-nut to crack. Law is a very likable leading man, but his romantic interest in, and rapport with, Mol is nil. He might have been better off considering Martha Plimpton (as Karen Swan). The most entertaining relationship occurs between blind sister Jennifer Tilly (as Nina Swan) and Spanish savior Vincent Laresca (as Jesus). By the way, they meet in a nightclub where males are stabbed for refusing accept an invitation to dance; still, the place is crowded.Director/writer Charlie Peters includes many references to Tolstoy's Anna Karenina. Julian Lennon's Day After Day leads off a sweet soundtrack. In short, the leading relationship would have been more interesting with Ms. Plimpton as Anna. Ms. Blethyn and Mr. Laresca contribute strong supporting characterizations.***** Music from Another Room (4/24/98) Charlie Peters ~ Jude Law, Gretchen Mol, Jennifer Tilly "},{"Title":"Fate the last refuge of the truly desperate","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Music From Another Room is a film that makes you fall in love with movies and that perfect girl you've always had a crush on but never dated.Simple in it essence, yet, if you explore it further it must have been truly a labor of love.It begins with 5 year old Danny helping his father a Military Doctor to deliver a baby girl when her birth was held up by a pair of coiled umbilical cord around her neck.Little Danny later vows to marry the baby girl when he grows up.Flash 25 years into the future,5 year old boy has now morphed into Jude Law(Danny) and baby girl is now the lovely Gretchen Mol(Anna Swan)all blonde and gorgeous.Danny,lately just back into the neighborhood of Los Angeles after spending 25 years in London has just broken up with his girlfriend.As fate would have it,boy meets girl again (Jude Law meets Gretchen Mol)The catch is,Girl is engaged to be married to a rich,stuffy and decidedly boring Eric.Will boy win girl?Will fate intervene?Will true love triumph?Are they meant for one another?Or was it all just an interesting experience 25 years ago?I saw Music From Another Room in 2004 on cable TV at a time when I was an intern in Paediatrics.I guess it was the opening track 'Day after Day' by Julian Lennon that persuaded me to sit down and watch this quaint little film.Seeing Jude Law as one of the credited actors was also a bonus.This movie was so many things at so many level for me.I was in LOVE with this cute pharmacist at the hospital where I was working and I was in need of some inspiration.She was already seeing someone at the time much like Anna Swan was when Danny stumbled into her again after 25 years.Seeing Danny's passion for Anna was my encouragement to throw caution aside and pursue without fear or shame.Danny's love was indeed so enormous it spills into everyone's life in the movie and indeed including mine.Passion makes you do crazy things and it is passion and love that truly inspires.I even borrowed Danny's love poem to woo that cute pharmacist. 'Wanted,wanted Anna Swan etc,Armed and dangerous is Anna Swan,My heart a bell already struck etc etc'I thought it was such a delightfully witty,endearing and charming little poem and still do!I thought that Jude Law and Gretchen Mol made a very lovely couple indeed.The chemistry was tangible and the attraction was undeniable.Whilst Jude Law was undoubtedly the Star of the film it was Gretchen Mol's Anna Swan that caught my heart whilst Jude Law's Danny gave the movie its' Heart.Gretchen Mol's character Anna Swan struck a chord with me.I could only wish that I too like Danny could one day end up with someone remotely like her in the future.The melding of classical literature,that of the late great Russian novelist Leo Tolstoys' Anna Karenina with contemporary character was sheer genius.I think Charlie Peter had it spot on at the ending, reuniting Danny with Anna his true love at the train station.Life should always be this good!Danny's range of expression throughout the entire movie conveyed his character's feeling remarkably well and Gretchen Mol's portrayal of Anna's own inner conflict torn between passion for Danny and guilt over Eric was extremely touching.She was perfect for the role and so lovely! I loved her look of adoration for Danny when she stole a glance at him as Eric read the anonymous poem written by Danny to Anna during the garden party and her expression of rapt anticipation and expectation at both the coin tossing scene first at Klammer's bakery and later at the train station as Danny was about to leave for Atlanta.Despite the movie's flaw as pointed out by so many before me,Music from Another Room is still my favorite romantic comedy.It is its little imperfections that makes it truly a unique gem.Only the wearer could appreciate it for its sentimental value.Congratulations to both Jude Law and Gretchen Mol for convincing and spirited performances and writer/director Charlie Peter for sharing with us his delightful little vision.Music from Another Room is my idea of that perfect little movie that is both beautiful and charming in its simplicity that manages to restores one's faith in Love,Passion and Fate.It is truly a heart warming tale that I urge new viewers to share with your loved ones. "}{"Title":"Crikey!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's get one thing straight - a film is made for entertainment purposes only. Unless you look at March Of Tne Penguins. A film is not made to be perfect or to contain 100% correct information. No one is perfect, so stop bad mouthing every single film ever made, so what if they didn't get it right about the baby in the beginning, you have a PHD in Biology or whatever? I doubt it. It's a film, watch it and enjoy it or don't bother watching it. I enjoyed it, I like Rom-Coms. It's a good film, with good acting, and a good storyline. Jennifer Tilly is an amazing actress; perfect for her role, I'm sure it was extremely difficult to play an innocent, blind girl, and we all know how wild Ms Tilly was in the 80/90's! She managed it. And Gretchen Mol, fantastic, I hope to see her more in the future! "},{"Title":"Where Are the Military Advisors?","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another film without proper display of a commissioned officer's rank insignia. In no branch of the services are Captain's bars (Navy Lt.) worn stacked with the bars one above the other; rather they are side by side with the bars vertical. The Army physician in the first scenes of the film is shown wearing them erroneously which to us former servicemen, is almost laughable. As I titled this, Where Are the Military Advisors? "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!! (aka I Love Jude)","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would definelty recommend this movie to anyone, my main reason being Jude Law. He is a wonderful actor and completely makes this movie what it is. Also, this movie is full of great quotes. Know this I would marry you yesterday Also, dont miss the conversation between Danny and Anna's fiance!! I give this a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Music From Where?","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Music From Another Room has Jennifer Tilly , (Bound, Bullets Over Broadway) and Brenda Blethyn (Secrets And Lies) in it, both terrific actresses, as well as Jude Law, who reminds me of a younger Christian Slater, so it came with some credentials. The plot is essentially standard small town America romantic comedy/drama fare with one interesting plot twist- the boy was the midwife for the girl! That's pretty unique in the history of film I think. The delivery  is presented in a curiously sanitised but memorable scene and the five year old midwife is particularly clever. There's apparently no blood and the newly born looks about three days old. No wonder the little fellow decides that this baby will be the woman for him.  No mess!!) Years later by accident he meets the girl and her family and pursues her until she catches him in the time honoured tradition. Other than the girl's birth there are some other interesting moments in Music From Another Room, mostly to do with Brenda Blethyn's character Grace. She does the big stuff of life particularly well. Apart from having babies with a bit of a yell and a laugh, as you would perhaps tend to do with a five year olds hands inside, slipping about, she also dies with style and humour, in a fashion that I hope that some of us can at least match. Sentimentality, an admirable emotion in any clean faced romance, can slip to the bothersome sometimes though. The delivered miracle baby grows to become Anna (Gretchen Mol) and guess what. Jennifer Tilley's character Nina, Anna's unfortunate sister, is blind! Roll out the sympathy.Jennifer Tilley is a terrific actress and does what she can with Nina but Music From Another Room just hasn't got the enough bite for the quality of the cast. "},{"Title":"OK for the gals","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rail-thin, greasy-haired Jude Law falls for rail-thin, bizarrely-coiffed and made up Gretchen Mol in this uneven romantic comedy about a guy down on his luck who meets a gal from an eccentric family -- and decides he's going to marry her. He actually first meets her when she is born, but then doesn't meet her again until 25 years later. The only thing standing in his way is her highly successful, very handsome and unflappable fiancé, played by character actor Jon Tenney. Her mom is played by Brenda Blehtyn, but this is not a Bletheyn movie and she is relegated to intermittent appearances. She also has a younger sister (Jen Tilly) who has been blind most of her life and hasn't been out of the house in a good long while. There are several other quirky family members lurking about, including a married brother with an eye for the ladies (played by Jeremy Piven), although none of these folks get enough screen time to make much of an impression. The editing or perhaps the script itself leaves something to be desired. And unfortunately, there is absolutely no chemistry between Law and Mol. None. Zip. Zilch. This quasi-chick flick is recommended for undiscriminating female viewers only. "},{"Title":"Danny and the Swans","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not having a clue what this film was about, and without better things to watch, the title hooked us, as well as the cast. Then it started and frankly, the film is a far fetched story with characters and situations that don't ring true. The basic problem of the film is the script that writer/director Charlie Peters created as the basis of the movie.The acting is uneven at best. Jude Law plays Danny who is in love with Anna, the young woman he helped bring into the world. We just don't believe Danny, the tile man, will come back to pursue Anna, at all. Gretchen Mol is somehow stiff with Anna, who appears as though she doesn't care about Danny and does everything to get him away. We don't believe, for a moment that Nina, the blind sister, played by Jennifer Tilly is real. Not only that, but that she is lured out of her world when she meets the loving Latino waiter at that seedy club doesn't make sense, besides, even if she can't see, her family surely would have objected to the situation. Brenda Blethyn, Jeremy Priven, Martha Plimpton, and especially the wonderful Jane Adams, don't have a thing to do.Most comments in this forum refer it as cute, we could only add, to watch it at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Hampton, VA","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was disappointed.  I saw a mini trailer of the movie and was intrigued, especially after seeing Jude Law in Gattaca.  The story was paper-thin, and Jude Law was good, and so was Brenda Blethyn, but...  Well the difference between the trailer and the movie was that Gretchen Mol did not open her mouth.  Once she did, all credibility was lost to me.  She has a voice and a pose that are simply unsuitable for the role.  I thought the character was supposed to be world-weary from trying to rescue her family, so I kinda imagined someone like Jodie Foster.  Instead, because of her shrill voice and strike-the-pose mannerism, she was like a disgruntled supermodel.  Yecch. "},{"Title":"Awful  -  Unforgiveably Bad  -  Unbelievably Horrible!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Awful, awful, awful!  And those were the best scenes!This movie wasn't worth the tape it was put on!  It was just unforgiveably bad!  The acting was so bad, we ended up laughing through the whole film! The dialog was ridiculous at best!I wouldn't make my worst enemy to watch this  - I'd be accused of cruel and unusual punishment!Save yourself from this piece of absolute trash! "},{"Title":"A whimsical romance between a five year old boy and the infant he delivers, twenty-five years later of course.","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't you hate it when you see the credit list at the head of a film and you're practically pinching yourself because you think you're in for a treat but the sad truth is you're not. Man, I hate that. This mess of a film (which I wondered why it wasn't released theatrically until I actually saw it and then got my answer) had potential; great cast, great concept, but miserably poor execution. Jude Law plays the lovelorn hero in this tale who's convinced the object of his affection, played by the luminous Gretchen Mol (baby change those curls already!), will somehow complete his romantic and wandering existence. As we see this melodrama play out, the film's shortcomings are evident. Unlikable secondary characters appear and disappear for no reason (Martha Plimpton is gone for about 45 minutes, why!), comic timing is nowhere to be seen, and the film's uneveness sags like a belly over a tight belt. What this film needed was intense restructuring so that the point of this story could come into focus but alas as handled by the inept Charlie Peters (thanks to IMDB I read your credits) I found myself fast forwarding the film to alleviate the pain. Man, I hate that. "},{"Title":"I Agree With The Law","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is, at best, a fairly good TV movie. It is predictable but starts with an interesting premise. It appears that the positive opinions were mostly generated by virtue of Jude Law having been it. It is the ultimate Chick Flick.The actors are rather good. Gretchen Mol was fantastic in ...Betty Page and is likely to become a super star. Actually she is much more attractive ten years later. Also, the makeup is quite bad.Piven is a class actor of the Chicago school. Although I am not a fan, Martha Plimpton is an OK actor. Jane Adams too is a fine actress.Bottom line, this is a poorly written, shabbily directed movie that is more intent upon wisecracks than real dialog. "}{"Title":"Inaccurate birthing scene","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The pivotal birthing scene is absolutely ridiculous and inaccurate. I caught the last half of the movie on cable and liked it very much. Then I watched it from the beginning and the film was ruined for me. For the record, I am an obstetrician. Although a cord around the neck (nuchal cord) can cause fetal distress in labor it will not impede birth. A cord around the neck cannot be diagnosed by palpation until after the baby's head is delivered. Although a hand could be passed into the uterus to palpate such a cord it would be extremely painful to both the woman in labor and the person doing the exam. Such intra-uterine techniques were used prior to the twentieth century and required extreme strength on the part of the accoucher (birth attendant) and took a long time to complete and were fraught with danger. They are simply NOT used in modern day obstetrics. "}]