[{"Title":"More extraordinarily stunning cinema by Takeshi Kitano","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"61 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-bi (1997) is Japanese film maker Takeshi Kitano's masterpiece along his Sonatine (1993). Hana-bi reminds me pretty much of his more recent film, Brother (2000), which still has much more humor and positivism in it. Those who have experienced Sonatine may ask can a film be even more beautiful and brilliant, but Hana-bi is at least as masterful, if also different. The film stars again the director himself as Nishi, a police man who learns his wife suffers from some extremely lethal disease which has taken her speech, too. She is going to die soon, and all Nishi has in his mind is to make his wife's last weeks as enjoyable and nice as possible. He is forced to deal with Yakuza in order to get some money for her medical care and other plans he has for her last days, and that leads of course to troubles with the gangsters as Nishi isn't able to pay back his loans. Nishi's partner is another tragic character, who is shot and paralyzed for the rest of his life during one shoot out. Also one of Nishi's partners is shot dead in a scene, which belongs to the film's most powerful scenes and it is shown as a flashback, in the usual silent and symbolic style of the director. What follows is all the great elements we've learned to wait from this artist from one of the greatest cinema lands in the world, Japan.Hana-bi is almost unbearably sad and emotional, and its most tragic character is Horibe, the partner who is paralyzed and totally abandoned by his wife and children after he loses his ability to move and be like his used to. The scenes in which Horibe tells to Nishi about his loneliness and that everyone has left him are extremely powerful and really make think about the values of one's own life for the second time. Horibe finds some kind of way to express his sadness through art and painting, and he gets a great gift from Nishi, one of his last friends who understands him and would never leave him like the others did.The shoot out flashback is also one memorable segment in this film, and it is in its slow motion one of the most beautiful, yet shocking depictions of violence ever possible. Hana-bi has some very strong scenes of violence, and it all erupts again as rapidly as always in Takeshi's films. Weak souls resort to violence very often, and the result is always just more violence, death, depravity and pain, both physical and emotional. I will stress again that those who think Takeshi's cinema is gratuitously violent (or Japanese cinema in general, i.e. the work of Takashi Miike and Ishii) miss the whole point as his films absolutely never glorify violence or present it as a noteworthy tool; his films analyze violence and show many aspects of it, without hiding or embellishing anything. His films are as important in this level as they are in cinematic element level as some of his usual trademarks are absolutely unique and stunning, and Hana-bi is definitely not an exception.The music is again by Joe Hisaishi, who composed Takeshi's films Sonatine and Brother plus some others. The soundtrack in Hana-bi is again one key element of the film, and it is perhaps closer to Brother's than Sonatine's, but still all these three films have unique and masterful soundtrack which is full of emotions. The greatest element of all, however, in Hana-bi are the paintings by the director himself, who painted them after his nearly fatal motorcycle accident in 1994. They are stunningly beautiful and staggering as they combine different types of nature's beauty in very unique way. The animals combined with flowers are so wonderfully effective and their power is taken even further by the music. This symbolism creates so powerful experience that it almost requires the viewer to cry for the characters, but also for the cinematic magic this director has created.The usual wry humor of Takeshi is almost completely missing in Hana-bi, but there are some little bits, which are still in right places and work as fine as they always do. Still, this is the most inconsolable film of Takeshi, and be sure to watch the whole film the end credits included, since there's one extremely purifying image coming, in the tradition of the finale in Brother. Despite Hana-bi being so sad and harrowing, the very end is again very relieving and belongs among the greatest endings of all time. Another film with similar ultra-powerful image at the end is Lars von Trier's Breaking the Waves, another masterpiece from the 90's.I just cannot imagine loving some other film maker's work more than Takeshi's, and he is among the greatest cinematic artist I know, and it is not a surprise he's from Japan, since Asian film makers are usually the most personal and stunning and don't have any restrictions for their work like in Hollywood film makers usually have as they have to keep the ratings and commercial things in mind. Fortunately Takeshi has been able to do his films completely free, and I really hope he can continue it for many years to come. Hana-bi is his brightest masterpiece. 10/10 immortal cinema. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air. It's rare poetry -- a sentient piece with unflinching strength. MUST SEE for film appreciation buff.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's lyrical poetry sensitive, eloquent, visual, hard and soft edges simultaneously, and sparing dialog. There's no need to tell all -- all is conveyed in the paintings presented, in the words spoken by supporting characters, in facial expressions and gestures. It's minimal -- nothing's gratuitous. The story is told mostly visually, unhurried, not even a hold-up scene -- that feels leisurely, too.It's a story about a cop, miles apart from Hollywood commercial productions. The treatment writer-director Kitano delivered is unlike any seen before. The central character, Nishi, he has guts to live or to die. He's a darn good cop, Horibe his partner confirmed. (Horibe, whose poignantly restrained performance by Ren Osugi, is more than just a supporting role in the film). Nishi has two close partners one (Tanaka) died in action and left a widow, the other crippled in action and confined to a wheelchair. His wife Miyuki (a wonderfully quiet performance from Kayoko Kishimoto) is in the hospital; she's been ill for two years; their daughter died earlier. These details are given to us through casual conversations from supporting characters and flashback memories reflecting Nishi's constantly attentive mind in spite of his mostly blank face.He's a caring man. But when he is ignited, incensed by injustice or anyone's action or words that get in his way, his reaction is the other extreme of his subdued gentleness inside an unhesitating steady strike or continuous multiple blows, or emptying his bullets into a corpse. He has a lot of pent-up emotions ready to explode. Nishi is an honorable man; he felt responsible for the misfortunes that occurred to his two partners. Perhaps it's guilt; he has to do something to amend the situation. There are crime depictions, including Yakuza related segments. His physical reactions to thugs are unflinching to the point of brutal yet they are essentially graphic -- at times in powerful silence.He's a pensive man -- we can tell he's constantly thinking. There are occasional comic relieving pauses we see him taking a moment and even breaking into a smile, e.g., when he beckons to play ball with the two workers on the street while at a stake out; his brief exchange with the junkyard owner was revealing. It's all paced in good measure.It's a quiet film yet strong and deep, filled with human frailties and vulnerable situations. The relationship between he and his wife is beyond words. There are little mutual gestures between the two of them -- so much is expressed silently. Sometimes it's straight to the point short questions from Nishi to his wife -- and this could be delivered to us in voice-overs. The camera gives us serene scenic landscapes seaside view with a horizon -- waves rolling in being a repeated theme; snow scenes; a temple with a big bell and a few wandering cats. It also embraces the paintings and still lifes (e.g., a wooden puzzle game and two dessert plates on a table), giving us deliberate meaningful close-ups. In HANA-BI, silence speaks louder than effects of any kind.The film touches on aspects of life and living -- relationships of working partners, husband and wife, and being human. It's a canvas Kitano thoughtfully creatively painted on film -- broad strokes, little poignant details here and there, vibrant solid colors and imageries. Words are sparse. Simple and yet not at all simple. It could be evident that perhaps he did it all for love? His love for his wife certainly shows. Throughout the film, his face seemed void of emotions -- hardly flinches -- and in the end, possibly a flinch or two did cross his face. Perhaps he's resigned to fate?The music by Jo Hisaishi at times is reminiscent of European film scores, e.g., flowing tune following a car leisurely cruising along the seaside road at some Riviera of Italy or Southern France. It complements the story in soothing tempo from beginning to end. Kitano's FIREWORKS is in perfect cadence -- an excellent piece of film expression. A rare gem.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Drama's Anywhere.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took at least three repeat viewings of this film before I felt I was ready to review it here on IMDB. The first time I played the DVD I felt a strange sense of detachment as I tried to absorb what had been played out before me.Kitano plays a detective with huge burdens on his shoulders. His wife, Miyuki) is dying from cancer, a trusted partner & friend (Horibe) is in a wheelchair with nothing to occupy his mind other than to paint landscapes & think about suicide now that his wife & family have deserted him. And to cap it all during an undercover operation headed by Kitano a young detective (Tanaka) is mortally shot & killed because of a blunder on Kitano's part.Having been subsequently kicked out of the policeforce, Kitano has to cope not only with the loss his job (and income) but to come to terms with his guilt regarding the dead detective, Tanaka, his emotional feelings & absent love for Miyuki as she sees out her last few weeks. And finally, Kitano has a great deal of sympathy & loyalty to his former partner & friend crippled in a wheelchair.In typical Kitano fashion he decides to rob a bank, pay off his debts to the local Yakuza warlords and spend the rest of the money on his crippled friend, Horibe; Tanaka's young widow and Kitano's dying wife.Being a big fan of Kitano I wasn't disappointed by the style of the movie. His directional trademarks are visible through most of his films flowers, beach scenes, picturesque landscapes, beautiful & haunting music (by the ever dependable Jo Hisaishi); face-to-camera shots and of course a sense of helplessness & defeatism within the lead actors themselves.But what I wasn't quite prepared for was the melodrama & pathos the film revealed to me. Unlike most of his other gangster/police movies such as Brother, Sonatine & Violent Cop, the violence seems secondary to the moving, sometimes harrowing scenes of Kitano & Miyuki holidaying together, trying to relive some of their past love & passion for each but only to find there is nothing but loss & grief.Kitano shows a great range of emotions in this film from being a tough & very unforgiving man with his dealings with the Yakuza (the violence is sharp, sudden & very graphic). While at other times he is a man totally lost in a world of sorrow & pity, a man who finds it hard to grieve, to own up to his mistakes & guilt, a man who only now realises how much he will miss his wife after spending so many years staying away & not appreciating her needs whilst doing his job in the police.The ending is absolutely gut-wrenching, but to be honest it was of no real surprise since there are similar outcomes in most of Kitano's films, especially Violent Cop & Sonatine.The cinematography is absolutely outstanding, coupled with the haunting score of Jo Hisaishi (who also did the score for my favourite Kitano film, Sonatine). Kitano's direction is also beautifully paced with very tight editing & not a single shot is wasted.The acting as well, is top drawer. Nothing needs to be said about Kitano's performance because it is that good. But the support from Kayoko Kishimoto (Miyuki), Ren Osugi (Horibe) & Yûko Daike (Tanaka's widow) is truly excellent and never weighs the movie down with too much manufactured & false melodrama so typical of Hollywood (especially movies starring Robin Williams).As I said at the beginning of this review I had to see this film at least three times before I felt compelled to write about it, such is the power & strength within this film. Kitano's humanity is very redeeming  & reveals to our Western eyes the true values of Japanese tradition & family relationships, especially with regards loyalty, friendship, love & coming to terms with one's guilt.I recommend this film to anyone who takes an interest in movies of this kind. It may appear to drag at times, and some of the shots seems uneven & redundant on first viewing. But give it a chance because after about the second or third view more & more of the film's inner strengths will brim to the surface leaving you aghast & begging for more.*****/***** "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Hana-bi' is one of the most impressive movies I've seen in the last ten years. Writer/director/star Beat Takeshi (Takeshi Kitano) is best known in Japan as a comedian and TV personality, so this movie is even more astonishing to outsiders like myself. Takeshi has a very laconic and charismatic screen presence, and is no slouch as a director either. It's difficult to describe the feel of this movie, and its poetic use of violence. Peckinpah's brilliant and misunderstood 'Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia' comes to mind, as does Cassavetes' 'The Killing Of A Chinese Bookie', Ferrara's 'King Of New York' and 'Bad Lieutenant'. 'Hana-bi' reminds me of those movies but Takeshi adds his own unique voice to the material. I was knocked out by it, and I cannot recommend it highly enough to movie fans who are fascinated by the relationship between art and violence. I don't think calling this movie a masterpiece is an exaggeration. Absolutely essential viewing! "},{"Title":"Brutally Poetic and Beautifully Summing Up Rage, Wounded Love and Loneliness; Hana- bi Is Perfect Cinema","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano, the actor and director of Hana-bi certainly has left an imprint on Asian cinema. Managing to differ between playing brutal, yet sensitive characters to directing films centred on hard-boiled, cops vs. criminals plots. Takeshi Kitano remains one of the finest actors in cinema, most film viewers were introduced to his acting after watching Battle Royale, which has had a huge effect of his recognition. He is an actor who can bury himself deep inside a role, becoming a dark, disillusioned character and being cast as characters who are usually coming to terms with the guilt of their past. Well known for his deadpan style he has developed into an icon of modern Asian cinema.Hana-bi is the haunting, powerful, thoughtful tale of a severe police officer who retires from the force after his wife gets leukaemia and a fellow officer gets paralysed from an accident that he blames himself for. The film follows the tragedy and self-destruction in the man's life who wants to help the people he loves before it is too late. The narrative of Hana-bi is one that moves with a fairly slow grace, perfectly suiting the film's mood and structuring a detailed and enigmatically twisted plot.Hana-bi is a prime example of minimalist film-making, providing a poetic journey of self-discovery and accepting the effects of anger. Hana-bi is far from an aggressive film, even though the violence is stark, abrupt, restrained, brutal, unflinching and at times strangely beautiful in its film techniques. The literal translation of the title Hana-bi translates to fireworks, which is a metaphor for the brief explosion of life we live. The pensive feel is relaxing rather than brooding, flooded by sudden flashbacks of violence, which wonderfully grab the viewer's attention. There is also an element of dark humour paced throughout the film, which makes you laugh, but also makes you ponder the film's deep philosophical, moralistic and nihilistic imagery.The acting from the entire cast is stunningly provocative and moving, edged with the factor of such a brilliant script, yet it is a film that does not rely on language as a key factor. Few performances have moved me with such provoking and eventually challenging studies of human characteristics, emotion and psychology. The metaphorical, subliminal and emblematic cinematography is marvellous at carefully capturing some of the most unforgettable imagery in cinema. The haunting score is truly remarkable n its aching sophistication and elegance, ultimately helping define a clear atmosphere. It is undoubtedly a pessimistic film on the surface, although still being a film that holds hope under the façade.Hana-bi is perfect cinema. Few films come quite as close to its breathtaking brilliance and overwhelming nature. Sublime, in every sense of the word, its beauty will knock you right out. "},{"Title":"Kitano's Masterpiece!","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano's Hana-bi aka. Fireworks of 1997 is a sad, funny, violent, melancholic, brilliant film, an absolute masterpiece which is, in my opinion, one of the best movies of the 90s. Hardly ever have I seen a movie which is this memorable and unique in both its tragic and its funny moments, as it is the case with this ingenious work of art.I am a big fan of director Takeshi Kitano, who also stars in the leading part (as 'Beat' Takeshi) in this, and Hana-bi is my personal favorite of his movies.Yoshitaka Nishi (Kitano) is a mostly calm, but occasionally irascible and ultra-violent cop, whose wife Miyuki (Kayoko Kishimoto) is terminally ill of leukemia. After his partner Horibe (Ren Osugi) is wounded, and another police officer is killed, Nishi decides to quit his job at the police and spend more time with his dying wife. In order to help Horibe, who is now in a wheelchair, and the dead police officer's widow, and in order to make the remaining time as comfortable as possible for his wife, Nishi, who also owes money to the Yakuza, needs money and he is determined to acquire it.There is no doubt in my mind that Takeshi Kitano is an absolute genius, which he has proved by writing and directing this masterpiece. But not only is Kitano a genius as a writer and director, his acting performance in Hana-Bi is also uniquely superb and one of a kind. Nobody else could have played the role of Nishi with such brilliance as 'Bito' Takeshi Kitano, who rarely says a word in the first half of the film and is (nevertheless or therefore) absolutely impressive in his role of the cop with the constant poker face, which typical for Kitano. By the way, the impressionist and very original pictures which are shown occasionally throughout the movie were also painted by Kitano himself.The rest of the acting is also great, Ren Osugi delivers a particularly memorable performance as Horibe, Nishi's partner who is struck by fate and has to live in a wheel chair, and Kayoko Kishimoto is great in the lovable role of Nishi's dying wife.An absolute genius as a writer, director and actor, Takeshi Kitano is without doubt one of the greatest cinematic multi-talents alive, as far as I am concerned he is one of the greatest cinematic multi-talents who have ever lived. Hana-bi is arguably his greatest film. "},{"Title":"A Kitano film of unparalleled power and beauty","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-Bi is well-known as being Kitano's most critically acclaimed and iconic film to date, and with good reason. Despite a backlog of excellent films (Violent Cop, Sonatine, A Scene By The Sea, etc), the reason Hana-Bi stands out as arguably the finest is that it so beautifully captures a personal time in Kitano's life and blends some of the more eloquent features of his persona not heavily represented in his other works. That title alone; Hana-Bi (In Japanese, combining 'fireworks' with 'sunflower') represents an almost poetic change in Kitano cinema, conveying a combination of sub-meanings and representations making the film strongly multi-layered with many possibilities for interpretation.Kitano gives one of the best performances in his career as Nishi, the hardened cop looking after his dieing wife. Despite his stone-cold exterior and tendencies to explode in a violent rage, he is nonetheless a weak, broken, and tired man, haunted by some colleague's recent deaths and injuries and daunted by his wife's nearing death. Kitano is able to convey such an emotional stretch with sincerity, making this 'man of few words' one who the audience nevertheless bonds with throughout the film.The supporting players are excellent. Kitano regulars; Susumu Terajima and Ren Osugi give exceptional performances as troubled men in an emotionally crumbling world. Osugi, in particular, plays the disabled Detective Horibe with such intensity and unfathomable depth. The numerous scenes of Horibe seated infront of Kitano's token sea-view, staring silently with Joe Hisaishi's fantastic score soaring over the top conveys more emotion and moves the audience to tears in a way words never could. It is this which makes Kitano such an incredible director, of not just Japan, but contemporary cinema as well. His dialogue is irregular, yet powerful, and his distinctive taste of visual style combined with beautiful music and emotionally rich characters creates further emotional intensity within film, powerful cinema which is undoubtedly absent in recent Hollywood works.I have read that Kitano films are an acquired audience taste, and not suited to everyone. That maybe true with more shocking films such as Violent Cop, but if you've not yet experienced the undeniable magic of a Kitano film, where better to start than the very best? It is certainly a film which needs to be viewed many times, as although the first time will leave you stunned, watching the film further allows you to notice more subtle qualities, as well as experience the film again.In closing, I hope that wider audiences will experience the power of Kitano's work, and in particular, Hana-Bi It is a film unlike any other you will see, and no review can do it justice. You must see it for yourselves. "},{"Title":"A Japanese masterpiece","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kitano's Hana-bi is something quite special, a film where images of violence and beauty are juxtaposed.  The violence is deadly, but certainly not gratuitous or pointless. The beauty is the love story, the happiness between a cop and his wife.There are 3 main stories in the picture, each one given the time it deserves. The film is beautiful to watch, the camera work is slick and amazing.The direction is faultless and no frame is wasted. The film's images speak out, they are very powerful. The long silences add so much to the film, the director really knew what he was doing.The screenplay is almost in the shadow of the awe-inspiring images, but does give the picture a deserving foundation!The performances are 101% perfect, very authentic!The film's musical score is beautiful, it feels very isolated from the images which only adds to the raw ambience, it's perfect!This is a Japanese masterpiece, see it in wide-screen! "},{"Title":"A collision of beauty and destruction","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano's 'Hana-Bi' is something of an oddity. True to his previous efforts as director, the film contains its fair share of shockingly-graphic violence, and yet at its heart lies a touching tale of love, loyalty and devotion. For the entire running time, Kitano (who, aside from directing, also wrote and starred in the film) treads a perilously fine line between the two thematic extremes; it is an intricate balancing act that, if attempted by a less-talented filmmaker, might very possibly have turned into a complete cinematic disaster. Nevertheless, the director manages to pinpoint this perfect centre of balance, and the clash of beauty and violence combines to create a jarring amalgamation of conflicting emotional responses. We, as the audience, as simultaneously repulsed and entranced; as a whole, 'Hana-bi' is one of the most beautiful film experiences of the last decade or so.The title of the film itself acknowledges these opposing visual styles. Whilst the Japanese word 'Hanabi' translates to 'Fireworks' (the title under which it was released in the United States), the addition of the hyphen to the title ('Hana-bi') emphasises two individual components of the word, which translate respectively into Fire and Flower, the collision of destruction and beauty/renewal. Much of the film concerns a cop named Yoshitaka Nishi (Kitano), who is forced to retire after a shooting on the job leaves his partner, Horibe (Ren Osugi), paralysed, alone and confined to a wheelchair. All the while, Nishi is still coming to terms with the impending loss of his wife, Miyuki (Kayoko Kishimoto), who is slowly dying from leukemia. As any grieving husband might do in such a situation, Nishi decides to quietly rob a bank, and he then uses most of the proceeds to fund a final loving family holiday for his ailing partner.The scenes between Nishi and his wife are among the most touching I've ever witnessed. Miyuki has only two lines in the entire film, and so the couple spend most of their time in complete silence and quiet reflection, and yet you can truly sense the affection that they both have for each other. Their love is completely unspoken, and this makes it all the more touching when Miyuki does finally speak. Another touching character is Horibe, the loyal police force partner whose crippling injury leaves him alone and depressed. After attempting suicide, Horibe receives painting materials in the mail, and he commits his emotions to canvas, finally uncovering a reason for his continued existence (importantly, the artwork we see in the film was actually created by Kitano in 1994, after a near-fatal motorcycle accident). The film's phenomenally moving soundtrack was composed by renowned Japanese composer Joe Hisaishi, in his fourth collaboration with the director.There are very few negative criticisms that can be said of 'Hana-bi.' One possible item is that the film's unusual flashback structure made some plot-points difficult to follow, and I'm still unsure of which cop's lonesome widow Nishi was in the habit of visiting. However, that's the only critique that springs straight to mind. All in all, 'Hana-bi' is a gloriously assorted blend of violence, love and gentle humour, and a first viewing is not likely to be forgotten in a hurry. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Japanese film surpasses Anythin Hollywood can do!","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Recently picked this film up on DVD having recognised Takeshi Kitano in Battle Royale. I Thought at best it would be Moderatly entertaining. I was so Wrong.... This piece of work (directed and starring Takeshi himself) is without a doubt the Most Enchanting Magical Compelling Moving film i have ever had the pleasure of watching. The Imageary in the film is powerful and is backed up by a moving story. Takeshi plays a tough Tokyo cop who is ruthless on the beat, but obviously calm and gentle around his terminally ill wife. When His Partener is Paralysed in an attack he Realises lifes to short so he Decides to Take his wife around japan letting her see and do everything she ever wanted to do. there is not much dialoge between takeshi and his wife but the emotions are played out superbly with brilliant performances from both Of them. The movie grips you and doesnt let go right up untill the Shocking Conclusion. The film is just perfect and is a work of art in itself as a visually stunning and charachtor driven piece of perfect film. I Love it "}{"Title":"Drop Dead.","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-bi (AKA Fireworks) is written and directed by Takeshi Kitano. It stars Kitano, Kayoko Kishimoto, Ren Osugi and Susumu Terajima. Music is by Joe Hisaishi and cinematography by Hideo Yamamoto.Yoshikata Nishi (Kitano) is a loose cannon police detective who quits the force after a tragic incident results in his partner, Horibe (Osugi), being confined to a wheelchair. His retirement brings him the time to care more for his seriously ill wife Miyuki (Kishimoto). Nishi can find no peace, though, more so as he has borrowed money from the Yakuza to pay for his wife's needs, and they are growing impatient for the repayment...Very early in Kitano's superb slice of Japanese neo-noir there is a piece of graffiti on the wall, it says Drop Dead, while Hisaishi's music is a devilish accompaniment to the scene. It's ominous and foreboding, setting the tone for what is to follow. Pic is deliberately paced, beautifully so, with the opening nonlinear approach and scattergun shifts in time adding a sort of psychological maelstrom to the impending narrative darkness.Yet to suggest it as a perpetually bleak picture is doing it a small disservice, for Kitano (himself working from a damaged psyche that occurred in real life) has this adroit eye for poetic beauty and human tenderness that marries up with bursts of violence and emotionally shattering passages of play. And it works brilliantly, with stabs of humour also filtering in via the outer frames. Nishi the character is a force of nature and a walking - brooding - contradiction, a man pained behind his sunglasses, his expressionless visage amazingly still saying so much. When he explodes the impact is doubly strong, mainly because dialogue is so sparse, but the interwoven visuals - very much a Kitano speciality - strike an almighty chord for the story. To which we edge towards the finale, which unsurprisingly brings beauty and infinite sadness.Unfussy camera work, sabre sharp editing (Kitano & Yoshinori Oota), elegiacal musical arrangements, art, kites and Kitano's intense performance, this rounds out as film making greatness. In fact, a masterpiece. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Takeshi Kitano is great as always, and this movie is the true masterpiece of a genius. It truly has everything a masterpiece needs - excellent actors (Susumu Terajima,Ren Osugi and Takeshi Kitano himself - the usual Kitano crew), perfect directing, awesome plot and script, and a unique atmosphere, which is created by a mix of sorrow and joy, drama and humor , violence and love, which properly balanced create this great movie. His movie is realistic and shows us one of a million ways a man can honorably end his life. It doesn't suggests or judges anything, it just draws a picture so beautiful and real, that you can only admire it. 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Explosions in the sky","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a perfectly judged movie. The peerless Takeshi Kitano moves almost wordlessly through this film conveying moments of genuine tenderness alongside vengeful violence. The mastery with which he alternates between the tender and the brutal without ever losing the pathos of his character Nishi's situation is stunning. As ever Kitano reaches for the simplistic as opposed to the bombastic - admirable for a movie peopled with comic book violent yakuza and characters shattered by the unfairness of life's mandatory dealing of the cards. Telling the story in violent flashback, Kitano balances his tale with a beautiful understated romanticism laced with comic tenderness. This is the film the deft editor, visionary director, multifaceted actor and comic genius was born to make. "},{"Title":"A tragic clash of beauty and violence - a story of inevitable death","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply one of the greatest films of the last ten years, and possibly beyond.POSSIBLE SPOILERSAlthough this film is likened to Violent Cop, in the way Sonatine is to Boiling Point, this film shows more than just a technical improvement in Takeshi's work.  it is no secret that this film was directly influenced by Takeshi's brush with death and that horrible experience shines through this work with a stillness and beauty that makes one weep.  The graceful settings of Japan, from the beach to Mt Fuji, and the sad, lonely paintings (painted by Takeshi himself in the wake of his own brush with death) provide a colourful array of images that provide the film's visual beauty.  This is complemented by the relationship of Nishi and his wife - also quite still and sad - as they endeavour to make their last few moments together the best moments of their lives but always tainted with the knowledge that it will all come to an end, and very soon.In typical Takeshi style this grace and beauty is contrasted by scenes of brutal violence.  Many praise this contrast for achieving a balance in the film.  Although generally true I find that it is actually more beneficial in some cases to view the contrast and clash as exactly that.  Nishi lives a troubled and violent life, one that he is stuck in and this makes it impossible for him to have a happy ending.  He relies on this life and indeed uses it in order to find a quick fix to his problems, which naturally does not make them go away.  He starts the film as the cop character we always expect from Takeshi and immediately becomes the classic tragic figure and he knows he has been punished.  All he can do is try and make it as bearable for the person he loves before she dies.  The true sadness lies in the fact that she seems to be paying for his sins.END OF POSSIBLE SPOILERSThis is Takeshi's masterpiece.  A serene, violent, minimalist and incredibly sad movie that does more with nothing that many directors could ever do with everything. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Takeshi Kitano has created one of the most beautiful and powerful works in cinema.  A true artist in the best sense, Kitano mixes stunning imagery, a beautiful score and moving performances to help remind us  why we love the movies.  His use of stillness and sparse dialogue imbues each shot with beauty and power. His bursts of violence and expert use of editing create some of the most gorgeous and breathtaking shots ever seen. Kitano has mastered emptiness intrinsic in works of great art and anyone interested in possibly the most talented person working in film today needs to check out this brilliant film.   "},{"Title":"An overlooked masterpiece from the 90s","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-bi may appear to be a standard cop action thriller from a simple plot description, but nothing could be further from the truth. Takashi Kitano's masterpiece is a slow moving meditation on human nature. Its violent at moments to be sure, but the action consists of short bursts of gun play that are stripped of any romanticism. They're all the more effective because of how sparingly they're employed. If anything, Kitano has much more in common with Yasujiro Ozu than John Woo. Kitano has fashioned a fascinating character study, one whose actual meaning is very abstract and difficult to decipher. The film's subtlety requires multiple viewings to fully appreciate. The film has a transcendental nature whose beauty is difficult to describe in words.Kitano is both a masterclass director and actor. He's best known as a stand-up comedian in Japan, which is odd because of the amount of seriousness he invests in both his positions. His lead performance is tough but has an amount of unexpected depth. Hes truly one of cinema's most charismatic performers, and he has this amazing presence despite the minimal dialog. His direction is slowly paced, but perfect. Not a single moment is wasted in this film. Hana-bi is one of the 90's most overlooked masterpieces, a decade known for its lack of depth or subtlety. (9/10) "},{"Title":"Exploding into oblivion","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-Bi (Fireworks) didn't have quite the impression it had on me when I first saw it at the cinema some 13 odd years ago, but then I've seen a lot of films in those 13 years, not to mention most of Kitano's back catalogue. It's not quite the existential odyssey I remembered it to be, but its quality still shines through.Hana-Bi is a bridge between Kitano's earlier yakuza films like Boiling Point and Sonatine and artier fare like Dolls. It still has moments of explicit violence but is essentially a subtler, more meditative film - albeit a less focused one. Once again, Kitano is lead actor as well as director, here playing Nishi; a cop who leaves his job to go away on a road trip with his dying wife, Miyuki. Running parallel to this is the story of Horibe - his old partner on the force, who was shot in the line of duty and is now semi-paralysed; wheelchair-bound and alone. Horibe tries to find new meaning in life through painting, taking a different path across the wilderness to Nishi but ultimately arriving at the same bleak point.In the scenes with Nishi and his wife, there's a convincing sense of long-abiding intimacy, but little dialogue between them - perhaps because there's nothing left to be said at this point in their lives. The comfortable silences and Nishi's compassion (made all the more striking by his violent run ins with the yakuza loan sharks who haunt his final days) have an emotional resonance that doesn't really need any exposition. Hisaishi's elegiac score has its own pull on the heart strings as well.As is always the case with Kitano, the imagery of the film is deliberate and meticulous. The lingering stills of his own paintings are mysterious signifiers. What exactly do the stamen-headed creatures symbolize? The painting of fireworks, echoing the bittersweet sentiment of the film's title, seems to be about the lives of the protagonists - transient, vibrant, exploding into oblivion. "},{"Title":"valueless","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Detective Nishi is a deeply troubled man; his partner Horibe has been left paralyzed from the waist down after a botched stake-out, while his own wife Miyuki is diagnosed as having terminal cancer. Nishi resigns from the force and resolves to take Miyuki on a second honeymoon before her death. But the gangster loan sharks are soon on his tail.I can understand good things of this film. However,Hana-bi is received excessive estimation, this is not interesting for me at all. the theme is love of pair and friendship. it is not described deeply. I don't like the screen because it is always dim. There are funny scene for a change.But I love the music! the music is made by Jyou Hisaishi who is my favorite songwriter. "},{"Title":"A man by the sea with or without his wife","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano not only writes, acts in, directs and edits this meaningful fable, he also paints the artworks that are a strong element of the film. Kitano is supposedly known for his violence, but this movie has more to do about the repercussion of violence--and about life and death in general--than showing actual violent scenes. The violence is there, bursts of explosive violence, but it is short and strategically edited.Nishi, the protagonist, sees his partners die or get injured in the line of duty. One of them, Horibe, becomes wheel-chair-bound. His wife leaves him and he contemplates life and death staring at the horizon beyond the sea. He starts to paint to express himself and save himself from boredom and sorrow. Nishi, sick of his work leaves the police force to spend some time with his dying wife. The doctor just released her from the hospital and she does not have much time left...Kitano chooses to focus on the underlying emotions rather than dialogue as most of the scenes with his wife are silent. At first, this is unnerving, but slowly, as the movie progress, we understand that there is nothing left to stay.The score of the movie is its strongest point. Accomplished composer, Joe Hisaishi (who worked with Kitano on other projects as well as with Miyazaki's animated films) outdoes himself with poignant classical music that, unlike Nishi, speaks volume. He would win the Award of the Japanese Academy for this.Some good cinematography can also be observed at times. Kitano's paintings are interesting and vibrant. They add yet another level of complexity to this intriguing piece of film. All in all, a very well made film. "},{"Title":"touching and incredible profound movie","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-bi is visual poetry, it says so much without using words.it is brilliantly directed because the movie delivers such an intense mood,the music by joe hisaishi also plays an important role in this moody film.But what it really makes the movie so profound and moving it's minimalist style, all the characters in the movie show very little emotion and yet takeshi kitano makes the film so touching by only showing the sea, the sky,the flowers, the paintings,along with joe hisaishi music.the true power of the film is that it doesn't say very much in terms of speaking,but it says a lot with its stunning images and music.I recommend this to all who want see an introspective,profound and thought provoking film. "}{"Title":"Impossible to dishonour!!!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An amazing film with an amazing story and an amazing background, because I haven´t seen any movie which tells a plot about deep love and self-sacrifice more moving than Hana-bi does! Loved the symbolic language and the unbelievable beautiful score nearly made me cry! The film is full of emotional poetry, told in stylish, elegant pictures, what is so intense, you won´t find this in any other movie again! However before you fade away into total sentimentality some outbreaks of heavy violence will rouse you from your dreams! Director and main actor Takeshi Kitano won the first prize of the film festival in Venice/Italy with his masterpiece. This guy made some of the greatest films from the 1990s and if you check out gems like Brother, Sonatine or Violent Cop you´ll surely share my opinion! The only spoiler why is this brilliant piece of cinema not in the top 100, not even in the top 250 here on IMDb?!? "},{"Title":"close to perfect","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a way it is a typical Beat Takeshi movie. The cool, silent guy that knows how to use his fists. Violence, crime and bloodshed. But there is another side to it. In the end, it is probably the love story that is closest to being perfect. Yes, I think the last quarter is a perfect description of (coming to?) love someone. And it is silent, using terrific beautiful images. A must-see. I will have to watch it again and show this to my friends. "},{"Title":"Modern cinema can't be any more gratifying","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first viewed this film in England and I was blown away by its awesome use of slow motion shooting scenes and violent imagery.  Admittedly, I and a lot others who have seen this picture are not experts on Yakuza violence. Being ordinary law abiding citizens, we wouldn't really know what exactly represents true scenes of mob violence, would we? However, we may be able to visualize how such images might be like given the literature and news which we are frequently exposed to.  The action in the movie and its consequences are very believable given the true life accounts we have read about, seen or even heard.  The character Beat portrays is after all a quiet yet serious individual whose loyalties are unwavering and who would do anything to perpetuate survival.  Those who have watched the film will however, discover the great irony of this need to perpetuate survival, at the film's tragic yet liberating ending.There is also a very touching love story between the unfortunate cop and his ailing wife.  As a sub-plot, this love story is engaging as Beat hardly utters a word to his obviously devoted wife and then suddenly takes her on a vacation at a very quiet and scenic Japanese destination.  The cinematography and colours during this part of the film are magnificent. While the couple are finally living their lives, Beat receives an unexpected visit from his Yakuza creditors who are all efficiently disposed of in Beat's usual merciless style.  Those with some sense of humour would no doubt appreciate the manner in which Beat transforms a car into a police vehicle which he subsequently uses to perform a bank robbery.  The robbery scene is itself a farce of what is normally portrayed by mainstream film makers.  The movie would preferably have to be watched more than once in order for its understatedness to be fully understood.Yet another feature of the film that had me gobsmacked was its soundtrack. The music is unnervingly sad and stirring with brief infusions of excitement depicting the more passionate moments shared between Beat the husband, and his wife.  These passionate moments are then quickly superseded by the despair which dominates the rest of the film's already surreal ambience. This has undoubtedly got to be  Beat's finest moment to date and must be watched by all those who pride themselves as being true afficionados of cinema.Truly a landmark in film making and a fine reason not to spend good hard-earned money on Hollywood (and especially Bollywood)insults.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful doesn't do this film justice.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I simply cannot think of a better word to describe this film. Everything from direction, to acting, to the musical score is breath-taking. This is the first film by Kitano that I have seen and certainly will not be the last.  The film moves at a deliberate pace, Kitano being subtle to the point of highlighting how important every aspect of this point was to him. The violence is meaningful without being gratuitous, the love between him and his wife is touching without being sappy and the acting is... well, exactly what you could want it to be. I know some people find this movie boring, and that is conceivable, but for those of you who don't find it boring, I know you've found something that you'll appreciate for the rest of your film-watching life. When was the last time you embraced the celebration of life and numerous killings in the same film, without thinking. Not often, I'll bet. Hana Bi, is without question, simply beautiful. Watch it like you would a flower, or a painting, and you'll appreciate is simple, subtle beauty for what it is. "},{"Title":"wow! what a strangely beautiful movie","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  what a breathtaking film. again, proof you don't need constant inane chatter, or explosions, or NOISE to make a great movie (or just a plain old movie). i'm not sure what it was exactly - my mood, the music, the characters - but i was drawn in very quickly. it was a very human film. rife with emotion, tension. characters so caught up in their lives, problems, so completely shell-shocked by what's happened, they prob'ly don't know WHAT to say. i found the scenes between nishi and his wife especially moving. it's not clear how long they've been married, but we know that the last few years have been very tough. nishi seems reluctant to visit her at the hospital.perhaps they've run out of things to say to each other. what do you say? to each other in that sort of situation? still, you gotta love ol nishi for giving it (communication) a shot, even if it takes robbing a bank to buy himself and his loved ones a little time, space, and resources to do it in. visually, the movie was stunning as well. using the paintings as part of the story, and as sort of a visual 'foil' for some of the violence (perhaps even a 'canvas') was a stroke of brilliance. gawd, beat's a pretty cool painter too.well, im babbling, to be sure. i wish i could somehow capture the feeling this movie gave me - it would a whole lot easier to explain how it affected me. definitely a movie and a moment to be savoured........early today, i got into a spirited argument at work with a couple of colleagues regarding film - specifically, they were berating me because i had not yet seen the latest 'Star Wars' epic. I went so far as to say i had no intention of doing so, or rather that i was just not interested in seeing it (ive never really bought into the whole thing, altho i have seen the previous three). From there we got off on this big debate about film, film snobs (i guess i was being lumped into this category), hollywood vs art films...that sorta thing. of course, as these playful arguments tend to go, we agreed to disagree, and no feelings ewere hurt or anything like that. but during our heated little discussion, we began discussing just WHY we/people watch films in the first place. to be entertained, was the other's reply. this person then went on to say that if out of all the movies they saw in a year, let's say, if 10% were pretty darn good, and 1% of that 10% were exceptional, than they were happy. well, this made me think....no way, man! -  i want to see 99% great exceptional movies. i want to feel that amazing charge/rush/call it what you will all the time! instead of wasting my time with mindless dreck like 'batman forever', i want to be moved by movies like last night', 'breaking the waves', or 'hana-bi. sometimes it's hard to find joy, why look for it in places you know you wont find it?thank (insert deity of choice here) for movies like HANA-BI. "},{"Title":"Too slow and deep at times but mostly emotionally engaging and impacting","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nishi is a cop who is very good at his job but whose personal life is impacted with loss &#150; a dead child and now a dying wife. When his partner is put in a wheelchair by a criminal and another officer is shot dead, Nishi finds himself plagued by guilt over his part in it all. Blaming himself Nishi tries to do the right thing by his partner Horibe and the widow of cop, while also trying to salvage some happiness in what remains of his time with his wife.I came back to Takeshi Kitano about the same time as I left the Movies You Should See podcast. I left it because I don't think it is as good as it could be and at times offers no real insight into a film other than describing bits however I give them a mention because they reminded me that I had only ever seen one or two of Kitano's films and that it had been some time since I had even seen those. So it was that after watching Brother, my rental site threw me Hana-Bi and I was looking forward to it due to the praise on this site and indeed the podcast itself. The expectation was not unjustified as Hana-Bi is a film of pain and beauty that is well worth seeing even if it is not the image of perfection that some would have you believe.That statement is bound to attract a low vote on IMDb but what can I tell you? That it was slow and quiet is not a problem for me but it is a feeling you get watching the film and it is not helped by some scenes feeling irrelevant within the context of the story. This is not a real killer but I felt that the slow pace needed support and seeing two minor characters argue about a fender bender (for example) saw my interest dip and the slow pace start to be felt. Otherwise though, the silence and pace suits the material and the style of the film. The violence is quite subdued (in regards what you actually see) because it occurs in the edit of the action &#150; so the actual impact is mostly unseen. It doesn't matter though because the main thrust of the film is less the outward violence but the internal suffering of all the characters. The film does wear this aspect a little heavily at times and some will feel that some sequences are right on the edge of being pretentious and there is no point in denying that it does walk this line here and there.However for the majority it is a really well observed and emotionally engaging story built on the silent but emotive presence of Kitano as writer, director and star. As writer he has, it could be argued, left a lot to the actual making process itself since the script must have been a few pages. As director he sets the pace and I like the way his static style works within this story but it is his work as actor that always mystifies and impresses me. How he can convey so much while also appearing to be doing nothing at all I'm not sure but it somehow works and fits his style in other disciplines. He is well supported by Kishimoto, with whom he has genuine chemistry without betraying his character's nature. Osugi is not that great and it is with his character that I found the film close to being pretentious, not the actor's fault of course but I never felt for him as I did for Nishi.Hana-Bi is very slow and quiet and I can totally understand why some viewers will throw it in very early on. However sticking with it reveals a film that manages to be violent, introspective and emotionally engaging at the same time, all wrapped in the style of Kitano, who is creative across the board. "},{"Title":"The BEST!","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the best film ever made by Takeshi Kitano(The master; P). It's dark look on a man with a life in ruins is spectacular. I can only recommend this film. It is one of the best movie's the world have ever seen  D. I like the screenplay a lot(It's very usual for Kitano's films)it is the best i have ever seen. I also like the little use of dialougs, between Nishi and his wife ther are almost no dialouge but a picture says more then a 1000 words;). The use of violence are very good. There are a lot of blood and it is the Kitano violence that i really love about his movie's but of course also the little use of dialougs.Thank You very much for a master work Takeshi Kitano!!!! "},{"Title":"Glue","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being that the very first Kitano Takeshi film I watched was the bittersweet comedy Kikujiro I had quite a surprise waiting for me when I popped Fireworks into my DVD player almost three years ago. Instead of the loquacious, witty character he played in the former film, the audience is instead presented with the stony, taciturn Nishi who could give a blank piece of slate a run for its money for a deadpan expression. Not knowing quite what to expect and having the whimsical images of Kikujiro still in my head, I was a bit disappointed with the film when I watched it the first time, but after repeated viewings and having viewed most films in which he has directed and/or acted has given me a greater appreciation of the film which many still consider Kitano's masterpiece.A very quiet and sometimes brutal man, Nishi works alongside his partner Horibe to keep crime, yakuza, down in the streets of Tokyo. If this job was not stressful enough, Nishi has also recently suffered the loss of his daughter and his wife has been diagnosed with leukemia. In order to make ends meet and to pay his wife's increasing hospital bills Nishi is forced to borrow money from the yakuza who he is supposed to be keeping off the street. However, unlike most who are in dept to the yakuza, Nishi is unafraid of those who he is in debt to and even goes as far as to pierce the eye of one yakuza with a pair of chopsticks. With his stoic nature it seems that Nishi is willing to endure his life's situation for as long as it takes. However, one-day Nishi's world is turned upside down.While on a stakeout with Horibe and two other policemen named Tanaka and Nakamura Horibe suggests that Nishi go to the hospital to check on his wife. Refusing to do so at first, Nishi eventually goes after Horibe has egged him on enough. However, while at the hospital Nishi learns that Horibe has been gunned down by a yakuza. Later, while stalking the yakuza gunman, Tanaka gets killed and Nakamura is injured. With his rage beyond boiling point, Nishi empties his gun into the body of the gunman. Losing his career as a cop, Nishi decides to make amends with his former coworkers and their families, but his methods are far from normal.Beautifully scored by Hisaishi Joe, Hana-bi is a bifurcated film depicting the life of Nishi, and his wife, and that of Horibe. While healthy in body, Nishi seeks the solace of death because all has either already taken away from him or is soon to be taken away from him. Horibe, on the other hand, while having been abandoned by his wife and child because of his injury that made him into a paraplegic, seeks life through other things such as art and the beauty of nature. Also, some of the most beautiful moments of this film occur between Nishi and his wife Miyuki. While nearly completely silent, the two characters are able to share and experience their feelings for each other just by being in close proximity. Such scenes make the hard as steel Nishi look a bit softer, just don't say anything about his wife's flowers&#133; "},{"Title":"Kitanos painting","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Remember seeing this a probably the first movie after a the major works of Kurosawa. What haunted me then and still do is the the still breeze that you encounter at a sunset sitting on some cliffs, close by the sea. That feeling of a greater perception, or strengthened senses that you sometimes get in those moments. When you somehow are almost able to touch the essence of life. Odd facts about the movie first; all the paintings in the movie were made by Kitano himself. If You feel that Kitano look somewhat odd in his right half of his face you're right. According to an interview with him, he had just crashed with a motorcycle, and been treated for it on a hospital. The result is that his nerves in the face were somehow damaged so that he for instance had to wipe his right eye again again since it continued to fill up with tears fluid. I know that the above is a weird intro to a movie with the following resume, but have a look at it;Nishi is an old tough fox of a detective in metropolitan Tokyo. His personal life is in a turmoil though, since he has recently lost a child and his beloved wife has been diagnosed with fatal leukemia. This has already driven him into the hands of Yakuza, from which he has taken a loan to pay the hospital . To make things worse his long time partner gets shot and thereby handicapped, while fulfilling a surveillance job on Nishis behalf, in order to make it possible for Nishi to visit his wife. Another policeman gets shot while he and Nishi is trying to catch the killer. For all this Nishi feels deeply responsible and set him on the track to figure out some way to solve it all. The imagery is deliberately composed to be permeated with stillness, often presented with the characters shot a frontal shot, doing nothing. Then suddenly there is a burst of action followed by other still imagery. Its as if we travel through a gallery of pictures.The editing itself puts no point to being continuous but rather present each individual image as a whole (Deleuze) which in turn make the plot not very linear. The distinctive cutting however never leaves the audience with a feeling of discontent, even though it sometimes takes some figuring when what is happening. The stillness however permits this reflexion and more of it. Dialogue is very sparse and is almost always performed by others than Nishi. Sound itself is treated to heighten the reality in some places. Finally an oddball; the music renders the movie a feeling of some American 70 police movie which is odd if u consider the above.Finally a comment; I doubt you ever regret having seen this movie. "},{"Title":"the absolute tenderness of a violent man","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The main character in 'Hana-bi' is a very violent man. He is a cop, he fights crime, he lives among criminals, he reacts violently because of his profession, and because of the people he needs to deal with, but all this tough behavior hides immense suffering and infinite love. It's not an easy film to watch, and effort is required from the viewer to understand the story. Not only are not narrative rules respected, but the logic of the film lies more in the emotions of the main character, with the temporal plan interleaved with flashbacks that eventually put everything in place, and with elements of plastic art, in a very Japanese way.Director and lead actor Takeshi Kitano have already made us face some of the other tough cops or stone faced samurais. What is different in this 1997 film, maybe his best, is that behind the mask of toughness and violence we discover the human tragedy of a father having lost his only child, and a husband close to losing his wife to a non-curable illness. He will do everything to protect her, to create a wall of protecting love away from the cold winds of the furious world around, and this is the beautiful meaning of this astonishing film, which is after all also, beautifully and incredibly, a love story. "}{"Title":"A good argument for film as art","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very clever film, there is an awful lot going om here and it's well worth sticking the duration for.A rather more personal film than some of his other efforts, hana-bi is beautifully shot, plays like a dream and sounds like they got the angels in to score the soundtrack.The movie makes you contemplate life and existence is the same way meditation does, it takes you away from the hustle and bustle of life whilst simultaniously placing you directly in the middle of an uncontrollable force.  It forces you to make decisions and exercises your brain muscles.So to sum up, if your attention span is shorter than the length of time you can hold your breath under water, give this a miss and head for the action/adventure section. Go out of this aisle, turn left, and head for that one with Seagal waving the gun above his head.  "},{"Title":"No movie has ever hit me as emotionally as this one","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What attracted me into wanting to see this movie was hearing it's beautiful haunting sountrack, even before I knew about the movie.  I read every review I could find about the movie and found such deep and intriguing comments. 99.9 percent of the comments described the movie as violent, yet sensitive and I could fathom how that was possible which intrigued me even more. You have to watch it from beginning to end with no distractions...it hit me with such emotion.  If you can't understand Japanese, it's hard to find a copy with subtitles, which I thought was a bit costly.  I took a chance and bought it...it's a keeper in my collection.  "},{"Title":"For Editing Students","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film should be taught in all editing classes.  Unique, masterful editing choices drive the story and transform a fairly average narrative into an evocative, memorable experience.The way the card game in the car is revealed.  The magnificent use of the dreaded flashback.  The Godard-esque deconstruction of fight scenes.  It's a lovely work.Just check out the bank holdup.  So simple.  So perfect. Amateur filmmakers pay attention.  There's no reason you can't make something like this.  Other than that you're just not good enough.  How's that for a challenge, huh?  ) "},{"Title":"Violent cops and robbers movie about emotions","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-Bi is a strange film. Whether you like it or dislike it, you have to certainly credit it with being unique and unconventional. The narrative is non-linear and the story's structure is constantly prey to the emotions of the cop.'Beat' Takeshi is both the star as well as the director of this acclaimed Japanese film. He is a very gentle and emotionally repressed man who doesn't talk much. However, he is capable of great bursts of violence and rage which make him a force to reckon with. He has a sick wife who is dying. During a routine raid, his best friend and partner asks him to go check on his wife. In the interim, one of the cops was killed and his partner crippled for life. The guilt that this unleashes only increases his sense of responsibility. He plans a single-handed bank robbery to take care of his friend and show his wife some happy memories. He also mixes with the yakuza and borrows money from them.So you see, a lot is going on in his life. Yet what sticks in the mind are the quiet moments - the sea lapping up to the shore, the snow on the trip with his wife, the junkyard where he buys his getaway car. The violence of the cop Nishi's life is not as central to his life as his real problems, responsibilities and the emotions surrounding them. Those looking for a Heat or The Departed will be disappointed by this unique and refreshing look at the life of a cop, a life where extraneous responsibilities and emotions carry greater significance. "},{"Title":"An important movie","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sonatine and Hana-bi were the second and third Kitano movies I had the pleasure to see (the first one was Brother), in a small movie theater. In my opinion, Brother is fine. Sonatine, a masterwork. And Hana-bi, a cornerstone of the seventh art. With Hana-bi, Kitano pushes the envelope of his art and refines his famous trademarks we know mostly from Sonatine. The mime acting of Kitano himself and of Kayoko Kishimoto are accurate. The photography is gorgeous, with many shots looking like powerful portraits, sometimes reinforced by well-selected camera movements. The way the past and the thoughts of the characters are revealed feel sometimes so natural, it is just like if the spectator were on the terrain, not in front of a screen; quite often, the order of the scenes is structured as Nishi's thought, involving even more the spectator in the movie. Hisaishi's music is glamorous and only appears when setting music makes sense (unlike too many films). And obviously, as always in Kitano movies but especially here in Hana-bi, the violence bursts are perfectly inserted, realistic (there's no plot twist to save the hero) and consistent with the plot. Overall, Hana-bi is a fine melt of cinema and poetry it is minimalistic, personal, direct and amazingly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Hana-bi = Fireworks.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still cry when I see this movie. I added it to my own home collection. I love it. Starring Takeshi Kitano, a hard boiled cop who ties up all the loose ends of his life, from his dying wife, his crippled ex-partner, to paying his debts. I saw Hana Bi the first time in the theater, and cried for 30 minutes when it was over. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves foreign films, a little violence, and a whole lot of heart ache. It's much better than Brother which was littered with bad acting; this little known gem is worth your time. "},{"Title":"Kitano's Masterpiece","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched this film I knew nothing of Kitano's work, but I quickly realized I was watching the work of a master filmmaker. Kitano's unique style captures our interest from the start, as he is not afraid to let the expressions of his unique characters tell the story as much as the dialogue does. Hana-Bi is a film that in one moment it can be beautiful and tranquil, and then the next, shockingly violent. If it is machine guns and explosions you want, look elsewhere. This film is engaging study of real emotion and violence and will for two hours make you look at life from a unique perspective. Takeshi Kitano also proves he is nothing short of a brilliant actor as well - and I think he plays one of the best tough guys with a heart character anywhere.   "},{"Title":"Kitano's modern noir masterpiece","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano dives once more into the yakuza underworld and emerges with a fierce performance, as he leads one of the decade's best hidden gems.Kitano plays Nishi, a cop whose life has been slowly crumbling apart and is about to take an even darker turn. He's lost his daughter and his wife is fighting an uphill battle with leukemia. She spends her days at the hospital and, to pay for her treatment, Nishi now finds himself in debt with the yakuza. To add insult to injury, he's also feeling guilty, as his partner, Horibe, has been confined to a wheelchair after being injured while Nishi was visiting his wife. It's here that the film parts into two narratives that of Horibe, who must grapple with his new condition, and of Nishi, who has to repay the yakuza and deal with his wife's inevitable demise.Make no mistake, this isn't an Asian action movie. The film has a very deliberate pace. Kitano often shoots long and almost silent takes, showing us a cold and deadpan Nishi, always hidden behind his shades, even when he's with his wife. In fact, the two barely talk throughout the film, but they're truthful, as if they've been together long enough to tell each other all they had to tell. Sometimes they giggle, or share a more heartwarming moment, but these moments are fleeting. It's in between these long takes that we get another look at Nishi. With flawless editing, Kitano makes violence spark in Fireworks, but that's all it does. Rarely does he linger in the violence or the gore, the act itself is nothing more than that, an action.Both Horibe and Nishi are men to whom life has been treacherous, and yet it's curious to note the distinct way in which these two men react. Horibe is the more vocal of the two, but still seems better at handling his misfortune than the explosive and criminal Nishi. Truth be told, the only pleasant moments in Nishi's life seem to be the ones he spends with his wife, walking by the shore or sitting by the beach, he's calm. However, if he's confronted by his own immoral actions, mayhem ensues. This is mostly how Fireworks plays, like a ticking time-bomb, serene but with the threat of violence always at the surface.The flame that burns twice as bright burns half as long - we know that eventually Nishi will get his comeuppance, but whether he truly deserves it is what's most unsettling about Fireworks. "},{"Title":"Hana-Bi","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this Japanese film in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I obviously would not have known about it without the book, I hoped it would be a deserved entry. Basically Yoshitaka Nishi (Takeshi's Castle star Takeshi Kitano, also directing) a violent and unpredictable police detective, his wife Miyuki (Kayoko Kishimoto) is slowly dying of leukaemia. On the job one of Nishi's partners, Horibe (Ren Ôsugi), gets shot, causing him to become wheelchair bound for the rest of his life, the partner also becomes suicidal, Nishi feeling guilty and blaming himself after the accident tries to help Horibe any way he can. At the same time Nishi leaves the force, in retirement he spends more time caring for his wife, but he needs more money to pay for her needs, so he is borrowing money from transnational organised crime syndicate the Yakuza. Over time Nishi finds it difficult to pay back the dangerous criminal organisation and slowly suffers the consequences, Horibe meanwhile is trying to come to terms with his disability, he takes up painting and creates surrealist artworks. Also starring Susumu Terajima as Detective Nakamura, Tetsu Watanabe as Tesuka (junkyard owner), Hakuryû as Yakuza Hit-man, Yasuei Yakushiji as Criminal (killer on the loose), Tarô Itsumi as Detective Kudo (young cop) and Ken'ichi Yajima as Doctor. The title is translated as fireworks, this I agree with critics is a detective film with a difference, it has sensitivity most of the way, I admit I was paying much more attention to the action, including really violent and gun-filled sequences, but overall it does well with the human element, all in all it's a watchable crime drama. Good! "},{"Title":"Hana.bi","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano's HANA-BI was a very neat surprise to me - I liked Sonatine but it didn't strike me as a masterpiece or anything. I expected something similar to come out of this movie but it ended up being really good, damn good. In fact, it's probably one of my favorite films from the 1990s.HANA-BI (Fireworks) seems to be an unusually personal film for Kitano; in fact, he made it after a motor scooter accident which left him fighting depression (in fact, there are rumors that the accident wasn't unintentional and that he intended to take his life as his depression bloomed). After the accident he took up painting and many of his own paintings are exhibited in HANA-BI. In the movie's context they're painted by Kitano's character's paralyzed friend.HANA-BI shows us how violence and meditative beauty correlate. For example, Kitano's character is a cop who takes part in many brutal and violent shootings, but the film also centers on the tender moments he shares with his wife who's slowly dying of leukemia. The latter scenes truly are the heart of the film. The title itself also suggests a clash of the tender and the violent - HANA-BI is composed of characters for flower and fire. The notion that beauty can be found in sorrow and brutality is also expressed through some paintings of Horibe (the painter character).Finally, the film revolves about ways of handling depression. Horibe, for example, finds happiness in painting and finally gets rid of his past self in the act of splattering paint over the painting he had previously made, a painting of the word SUICIDE lying in midst of a snowy terrain. The main character solves his existential crisis in a different way, but I'm not going to spoil it.HANA-BI is Kitano's masterpiece, without a doubt. Maybe one of several, who knows (I haven't seen many Kitano films). It's a touching, profound and absorbing crime-family story with many ambiguous choices to keep you thinking about it. It's full of beautiful, pittoresque scenes spiced with Joe Hisaishi's unforgettable instrumental soundtrack. It's truly a wonderful film and I can't wait to see more from Kitano. "}{"Title":"Not As Great As Sonatine","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is certainly a Kitano film, through and through. Art, long takes, close ups, silent characters, sudden violence, and wacky humour. It's all here. I have seen many say that Hana-bi is Kitanos best film, but I would probably disagree and say Sonatine is. I feel that the films are quite similar, but Sonatine just does it better. That's not to say that Hana-bi isn't a great movie. Kitano plays a very similar character to his other films. A silent and violent cop who retires from the force due to a certain incident and the fact that his wife is sick. He plays the character well and you certainly feel the pain he is experiencing. What I found slightly strange about the film was the side plot of the partner who was injured and starts to paint to keep himself busy. We keep cutting back to this story, and I couldn't quite place the significance. Looking at it from a very basic point of view, it does nothing to help the plot. Obviously it has a deeper meaning to it, but I can't quite understand it myself. I think I would need to analyse the film more. I almost feel like it may be some kind of personal statement by Kitano. He was involved in a car crash in real life and began to paint after it. Perhaps parts of this film, if not all, is about Kitanos accident and the feelings he had after having a near death experience. That would explain a lot. I feel overall, Sonatine does a better job of doing what Hana-bi tries to do. Sonatine has similar themes, but displays those theme more clearly and concisely, while Hana-bi is much more up to your own interpretation at times. Also, the humour in Sonatine works perfectly, while it feels out of place many times in Hana-bi. That's not to say the humour isn't funny. I actually found it extremely funny (especially a scene involving a camera on a timer), but it just felt quite out of place at times. In the end, Hana-bi feels like a lesser version of Sonatine. Even though Hana-bi came after, I just found myself thinking Sonatine did it better. I got goosebumps from Sonatine, but not Hana-bi. But I think it might be a matter of opinion, and I think this is a great film that should be seen. "},{"Title":"A visual masterpiece, stylish cinematography, sharp violence.","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kintano's visual masterpiece is nothing less than brilliant, blending a mixture of great editing, fantastic cinematography, a stunning visuals. Backed with the always great music of Joe Hisaishi who created my favourite soundtrack of all time for the film Sonatine (1993). Beat Takeshi take the lead play an ex-cop who wants to support his dying wife and give her a happy last memory. Takeshi plays the part more sensitively than his previous roles; throw in some great story telling and scenes full of the directors own paintings which themselves create a better understanding of the scenes, and you've got a genuine masterpiece. Some people may find the violence (which there's not too much of) a little too much for them but the ballet of colour and visuals should quell that. "},{"Title":"Love, painting and poetry...","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't gave 10 because there is some dose of violence in this movie to my taste. However, fading away this violence there is one of the most beautiful stories of love, painting and poetry that I've ever seen.I keep scanning movie forums, looking for these kind of movies. In my view, they are felt with more down-to-earth love stories, which I am finding rare to find now-a-days. The closer I can get from Hana-bi is Poetry by Chang-dong Lee. The reason I love both is the same. They are full of beautiful metaphors to give colour to such trivial stories, realistic characters like Nishi (Takeshi Kitano) and off course, poetic visuals. Hana-bi is worth watching for poetry lovers. "},{"Title":"Takeshi knows what he is doing","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before watching the movie, I had heard nothing of it except for the fact that it was a Takeshi-film. When it got started, I couldn't help trying to connect Hana-Bi and Takeshi's other film, Brother. A story of a man who is involved with the Yakuza, one way or the other by either helping or killing them. A man, who in my opinion, is full of pride and love for his wife though he has a hard time showing her. There's no denying the fact, that Takeshi knows what he is doing, when directing a movie. I couldn't help feeling sorry for him, in this film, even though his actions always left a smile on my face when he took care of things. The sadness of this film, combined with the occasional use of brute force and bullets makes it a movie to remember. I would rate this a nice 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Typical of Takeshi","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was the 5th Kitano's movie I saw (just recently seen Zatoichi, Violent Cop, Sonatine and Dolls). Just as I started to watch this movie I felt like I've already seen it, Kitano as usually performing the main role in his usual style and usual manners. I didn't read any reviews beore seeing it, just a short summary. I did this on purpose because I knew I won't be disappointed and I wasn't, I expected a lot from this movie and I got what I expected. Just as most (at least from which I've already seen) Kitano's films it's a violent, sad and touching story with very sad ending and a pinch of black humour (or at least it looked like that), and that's what I love in his films. Nobody can beat Kitano. I'm on my way to see rest of his films which, I'm sure, will be brilliant just as those which I've already seen. Thanks Japan for this wonderful director!  "},{"Title":"Bursts of violence and comfortable silences","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kana-Bi `Fireworks' (Kitano) 7 out of 10In sumo wrestling the combatant's measured and stately rituals contrast with the fierce suddenness of the matches, which often last but a few seconds.   Takeshi Kitano's fights are brutal and decisive &#150; a chopstick to the eye or a gunshot on the pick-up beat of the measure and it's over.  Most movie fights are like boxing matches, with jabs and counterpunches and snappy dialogue between rounds.  Do not look for extended martial arts set pieces here.  `Fireworks' has bursts of action, but Kitano is more concerned with taking his time to show the different responses to adversity by the two main characters.Like Mike Hodges's Get Carter (not, for heaven's sake, the Stallone remake) the beginning of the movie purposefully is hard to follow.  The viewer is thrown into the plot without standard exposition or background.  Add in some unadvertised-as-such flashbacks and it took a while for this viewer to get `orient-ed.'   But once I did, I was given time to appreciate the comfortable silences between Nishi and his wife, Horibe's paintings of flower-animals, and Jo Hisaishi's sensitive score.  When Miyuki's wood block puzzle pieces are properly assembled, we know Kitano is giving us the clue that the end of the line is near.  Nishi's final moments have the wistful fatalism common in Japanese culture and cinema, so I rightly was punished for predicting a different ending.  Serves me right.  "},{"Title":"A real cherry blossom","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Takeshi Kitano writes, directs, edits, and stars in this movie. He also did all the paintings and apparently wrote significant parts of the music score. You'd think this would stretch him a little thin but the film looks and feel very accomplished.Hana Bi was my first encounter with Takeshi and I found it quite breathtaking. It's the story of Mr Nishi (Takeshi), an ex-police officer at odds with an amoral universe. He's a man with nothing to live for, exuding laconic melancholy and existential resignation as life disintegrates around him.Indirectly responsible for the death of one colleague and the paralysis of another, haunted by reminders of his lost daughter, he contemplates the imminent death of his wife from terminal illness.As the local Yakuza pressure him to settle his debts he decides to take his wife on one final trip.There's a strong sense of `mono-no-aware' throughout, the idea that beauty comes not from the appearance of things but the knowledge that they are fleeting and will soon be gone. It's portrayal of the existential absurdities in life make the violence seem more brutal and give the moments of tenderness he and his wife share their heart-warming beauty.This film reminded me of why I love cinema.  "},{"Title":"A film for fans of film","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An ex-cop plans to rob a bank in a police car in order to pay back the yakuza loan shark to whom he owes money, and then spend more time with his terminally ill wife. Takeshi Kitano has crafted a genuinely moving drama punctuated with shocking violence and off-beat humour. The equally moving cinematography and musical score double the films power, whilst perfectly doing justice to Takeshi Kitano's trademark direction. To add to all this the performances all-round are superb especially Kitano's violent yet just as quiet and sensitive main character, whose own personality is the perfect description of the films style and emphasis on both violence and subtlety. A true present day masterpiece for fans of real cinema and especially recommended to fans of Wong Kar Wai' films.      "},{"Title":"Intelligent, unforgettable cinema -- Takashi Kitano's Fireworks","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fireworks Takashi Kitano's `Fireworks' is a hauntingly beautiful movie, juxtaposing viscous scenes of violence with a slowly paced emotional desperation and cinematic poetry. Critics have tried to sell Fireworks to the western market as a `masterpiece in violence', but it really is a masterpiece in the consequences of violence. As Takashi `Beat' Kitano's character, the gangster battling ex-cop Nishi, is inescapably embroiled in one murder after another, we slowly begin to realize that his life, too, is coming to an unavoidable dead end. The characters that inhabit this films landscape are all grappling with disability, depression or death a defunct cop crippled in the line of duty contemplates suicide after his family leaves him, Nishi's wife is terminally ill with cancer, and he himself is facing almost certain doom after his partner is gunned down on a stake out -- Nishi stalks the screen with a disquieting expressionless stoicism. Written and directed and edited and starring Takashi Kitano, Fireworks firmly establishes him in the world of intelligent, unforgettable cinema. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, simplistic beauty","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Firstly, all of the Kitano movies I've seen, I've enjoyed immensely. When I saw Hana-bi (Fireworks), I was completely and utterly spellbound. Here was a lead charachter, exuding toughness and machismo, but then there was another side to him; a loving, caring side that gave of himself; for the injured friend and, ultimately, for the woman he loved, he would give everything. The most amazing thing, was that for such a strong charachter, he hardly ever uttered a word, which was utter brilliance. The strength of the charachter was brought to the fore by action and deed, the epitome of the notion that one's strength comes not from words but action. On the emotional side of the film, I can only say that when my wife and I sat down to watch this together, not knowing what to expect, at the end we were holding each other tightly and she had tears coursing down her cheeks. This movie satisfies both action and emotional needs of the viewer and superimposes it's varied themes in a seemless, interlocking fashion that doesn't leave the viewer wanting for either element. "}{"Title":"To Love or to die... the same coin","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hi folks! Mr. Kitano strikes again, when I saw this marvellous film I could not stand up, I was shocked. The way that Takeshi shows us love is much more expressive than any Julia Roberts film. By means of the oriental mentality Kitano shows a pair of sad love stories that any human been can understand and share but not many would be able to take the decision to do what Mr. Nishi makes easily. It seems that he knows what is happening and what is going to happen but he does not mind because he is in love and nothing else matters. The way that he shows us the death is only comparable with Ingmar Bergman´s The Seventh Seal. Here Kitano shows death as something daily, something that happens and that is all, you can not do nothing to avoid it. That is the reason why Mr. Nishi confronts it without fear. Sublime "},{"Title":"Better than Sonatine","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I used to think that Sonatine was Kitano's best work, but Hana-bi is finer in every respect.  It is simple storytelling, but has an emotional depth missing from a lot of films, including Kitano's previous pieces.  The filming and editing style is pure Kitano, lean, fragmented and sparse, but he shows a new visual awareness in his use of paintings (Kitano's own) which comment on the characters' emotional states.  In some cases the comments seem obvious, but are no less effective for that.  All the acting is superb and although Kitano's character hardly speaks at all, he is so well drawn and played that he becomes the emotional heart of the film.  For me it is a film about grief and redemption, and is a masterpiece.  But if you found Mission Impossible II challenging, best stay clear. "},{"Title":"A film about love and death. Vintage Kitano","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-Bi is a counterpart to the other great Takeshi movie Sonatine. However, this does not mean that it is inferior to it in any other way. Although the same topics such as typically Japanese samurai like resolution to die and the peculiar relationship with the loved one are tackled with in the same manner they take on a different aspect. Whereas in Sonatine Murakawa was a man who put his own interest over the wishes of his woman, in Hana-Bi Nishi's relationship with his wife takes on a different flavour. If Sonatine was a film about doomed journey of a man, Hana-Bi is a film about love (although it is not romantic in the way Hollywood movies are) it is also a film about Takeshi himself, with the character of Horibe being sort of an alter ego of Takeshi. The best thing about the film is, as with many other Takeshi movies, the way the quiet atmosphere and mellow music of Jo Hisaishi serve as a couner point to the violence and general pessimistic nature of the film. And have a closer look at the final scene on the beach which is what vintage Kitano is about.  "},{"Title":"Hana-Bi (Flower-Fire/Fireworks)","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-Bi, Kitano Takeshi's 7th film as writer/director is something of a departure from the (albeit quite poetic)Yakuza pictures for which he is known in the west.It is a beautiful, lyrical story of an ex-cops coming to terms with his last shot at personal redemption. Kitano shows a warmth and humanity not displayed in his previous films,the scenes between Nishi and his wife being particularly moving. All of Kitano's films have a tableux quality with their long static shots and here he takes this to the logical extreme by using paintings (his own) to display the emotions of a crippled cop considering suicide. Kitano employs his usual deadpan humour carefully at key moments throughout the film, often in the most violent scenes.And nobody else can film a scene set on a beach like Beat Takeshi. Special mention should also be made of Joe Hisaishi's beautiful jazz influenced score. This is Kitano's most mature work, a marvellous intelligent picture from one of the major talents in modern Japanese cinema. Miles Pieri. "},{"Title":"Kitano's masterpiece","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Takeshi Kitano has made some great films before, but everything made before this film flows down to Fireworks, which takes the best elements of his earlier works and combines them into this stunning, touching, surprisingly hilarious tale about an ex-cop's attempt to finance a final vacation with his dying wife through a bank robbery. It's all pulled off in Kitano's usual minimalist style, alternating shocking violence with moments of quiet subtlety and humor. Kitano's direction and acting are the best work he's done yet, and the supporting cast is first-rate. I can't forget this film - a haunting and poetic work by one of the great directors working today. "},{"Title":"Try to make something of life in face of death","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Hana-bi you only find the aggression in the sideline, while the quietness & reflection on past life are the main elements in this movie. As apparent in the very word hana-bi (flower-fire) life is cruel and beautiful. The main characters in this movie are living with the cruel reality of death and the the awareness they should make something pleasant of life before it ends. Great performance of Kitano Takeshi.  "},{"Title":"Prepare to be bruised","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was a little bit familiar with Kitano's more genre-based works like VIOLENT COP before thus, but HANA-BI really takes the elements of the crime movie while transcending it. For an example of a film that mostly failed to do this, just look at Tarantino's JACKIE BROWN. The plot & pacing are as meticulous as the dot paintings painstakingly depicted here; the shocking violence is disturbing and cathartic but never less than completely *felt*. The ending has got to be one of the most wrenching in cinema history. Terrific soundtrack too - one of the very best of the 90s. "},{"Title":"...a big movie of little words","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-bi is a big movie of little words. Takeshi Kitano deserves recognition for every role that he has on this movie he directed, produced, edited and stars as Yashitaka Nishi a cop who does things his way, the hard way.Kitano combines on this movie the rawest and most brutal of the violence with the most delicate and tender human feelings. He mixes them separately on the movie but together in Nishi, a guy who does quite severe when the tough gets going and toughly tender when the tough is gone.Visually the movie is simply a masterpiece every single frame is a splendid image by itself, each detail is there because it belongs there; Kitano and cinematographer Hideo Yamamoto did a superb job letting the images do the job, words supposed to do.Hana-bi is not a thrilling movie even it's about cops and mobsters, Hana-bi is an atmospheric and moody movie were you'll simply witness a tough story about a tough man who has as much from tough as from man.  "},{"Title":"Different film, worth seeing.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised by this movie, it was not even near what I expected it to be.  Hana-Bi was a very visual, sad and thought-giving movie.  The film jumped between different kind of feelings, from warmth and laughter to pain and sorrow.  The overall feeling in my opinion was the realization of the incurable absurdity of our world.  Why try to live by the rules, as there will always be those who make their own regulations?   Being a cop in a big city must be frustrating and scary.  Maybe the only way to cope with that kind of work is to get numb of all that terror.The most impressive parts in this picture were the violent scenes, especially the unusual way of using sound was quite effective  The silence underlined the violence.  I think this movie showed violence in a way it should be shown  As brutal and terrible as it is, how it hurts and how people really suffer from it, this is not the picture you get from Hollywood films.What leaves me with mixed feelings is that in this movie,  suicide was not shown as violent, desperate or insane but as something graceful, peaceful and inviting (snow, light, sea).I did a lot of thinking after seeing this movie and that is rare  I recommend the movie to everyone who wants to see something totally different from the mainstream movies! "},{"Title":"A superior study of a man's rage over the misfortunes that have befallen him","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an important comment on Japanese workaholism.  The two detectives don't realize until it's too late what a mess their lives have become.  The Beat Takeshi character, Nishi,  decides to set things right and when things don't go his way he erupts into sudden rage.  The moments of violence are interspersed along with beautiful meditative paintings that parallel the events in the detectives' lives.  It all leads to a stunning yet fitting conclusion.  "}{"Title":"This is a great Movie","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the Greatest Movies, I`ve ever seen ! Takeshi Kitano Rules ! If You didn`t see this Movie, You are not a Cinema Fan. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to make you uneasy for days...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hanabi is the japanese for fireworks, but being separated these hieroglyphs mean flowers and fire. This title neatly sums up what the movie is all about. Beautiful and thrilling, cheerful and violent, full of lust for life and horribly depressive (especially the finale).The story of a desperado big-city cop trying to avenge his partner's death, help out his paralyzed ex-cop buddy and robbing the bank to take his fatally ill wife to a final romantic journey is, despite the modern setting, a real samurai movie - cold outside and full of passion inside, matters of life and death tightly knit, and a minute of character's silence means more than 10 minutes of dialogue in any Hollywood flick. Also it is graced with one of the most wonderful musical scores in the movie history.A one of a kind film that's guaranteed to leave you feeling  uneasy for days. "},{"Title":"Beat Takeshi's 7th film a Masterpiece","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perfectly integrating image & sound (including the usual moments of silence), Beat Takeshi has crafted another masterpiece.  As usual, the film is not so much about the events described in the synopsis, as it is about the moments in between and the emotions that inform them.  Ultimately, this violence-laced tale becomes a beautiful love story.  The best film I saw in 1998.  "},{"Title":"Guns and emotions","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Impressive ! Rarely have we seen a movie mixing guns, emotions and painting. But Kitano did it and he had create one of the most singular cop movie you will ever see on screen.The screenplay deals a lot about losing something precious that we take for granted the presence of the love one, the ability to use freely our body, the friendship between two persons. Kitano play with the darkside proving that there is always light somewhere in the obscurity.With a very smart editor who proves that you don't need to see the graphic details of violence to understand it, this movie belong at the top of his genre . 9/10. "},{"Title":"Light up the fireworks","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't ever seen another Takeshi Kitano's movie, and know that Tarantino loves his films, but to compare this one with Tarantino's works is just risible. It's not better and not worse, but very, very different...Well, comparisons apart, this is a really great film. In the beginning you feel a little strange cause the scenes creep slowly. When it gets to the middle, though, you discover that all this inertia has involved you in a tender and delicate web.Yes, it's violent too. But this is not the main thing here. While Nishi (Kitano) is dragged into violence by circumstances, he tries hard to find some peace or to give some little ordinary happiness to others,including his wife played by Kayoko Kishimoto.By the way,Kayoko is outstanding making her character with such tenderness without even speaking a word until the final scenes.Light up your fireworks. When you see this film you'll realize that although the movies techniques have increased so much, the main theme should always be humankind.  "},{"Title":"Wow! What a movie!","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-bi comes with an age limit and this is just right. The movie is very violent and very realistic. If you are the type of person that just loves these Bruce Willis type of movies you may not be very impressed with Hana -bi. In Hana-bi the fights don't take 20 minutes, the first shot usually hits the target, the gun is empty after nine rounds have been fired, there is no happy end and you will even see pictures of bullets being fired into cars and dead bodies without them exploding. I think that this kind of reality is really refreshing, all movies should be like this.Is there a negative side to Hana-bi? Of course there is. The movie is in Japanse with English subtitles. This sometimes makes it quite difficult to follow the fine nuances in the conversation. Still it really is a good movie to watch and I promise you won't regret doing so. "},{"Title":"Great film though not for everybody","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only once happened to get my fingers on Kitanos movie Brother, which got me into checking out his other movies. So i got Hana Bi since it had a lot of good reviews. I can actually understand people, that mostly watch action flicks, getting bored by this film, but for those more into poetic films, this is just the thing for you. While short on dialog, the movie is stronger on the body language of all the characters... sometimes there isn't any dialog for more than 6 minutes or so, where you just have to watch in order to understand what he is trying to tell us... For me it the movie was a bit depressing and sometimes hard to follow, but i still enjoyed it a lot. But as i said, this movie is not for everyone.... The movie is about a cop in Japan who leaves the police to spend more time with his wife who is dying of cancer, and if that was not enough to bare with, he also lost a kid and his partner gets shot and paralyzed on the job. Now he has to deal with all these tragedies at the same time... So if you want a comparison, if you liked movies like 21 grams for example, you will love this movie! "},{"Title":"Master of Duplicity","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now that I have seen Hana-bi my obsession has begun to watch all of Kitano Takeshi's films. This film is a must see for its brilliant writing, directing, and acting by Kitano himself. To date this is my favorite that has come out of Japan and was moved by the characters and their depth. I have to say that the music of the film by Joe Hisaishi is the best and most appropriate soundtrack I've heard scored in years. I recommend this film to anyone that enjoys gangster films, but the film is also more than capable of emotionally moving the viewer as well. Kitano Takeshi is cooler than Michael Madsen and Quentin Tarantino (as an actor) combined. The film has a present to it that is alive and spirited. Rent it or Buy! "},{"Title":"Sheer beauty and simplicity...","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like many of Kitanos films he plays the hardass, take no prisoner type who takes no s***, but beneath that lies quite a different fellow. Riddled with the melodrama that inhibits his films I could see how many people (especially those with no appreciation for art, pacing and Human element) may very well be turned off, but to me this film was one of the single most beautiful things I have ever had the privilege to view. The simple underlying message here is humanity, and just how fragile life really is... and just how love is a many splendored thing. What Kitano does all for the love of his dying wife, while being haunted by the guilt of his partners becoming an invalid is to me what true love is all about. Sure, it may be hard at times and even when your back is up against the wall and it seems there is no way out, so you may feel the need to throw in the towel... but perhaps there is always a better way, right or wrong. That's what this film is all about. Aside from that the cast is comprised of the usual suspects from Office Kitano so you can be sure that they click on screen. The film showcases much of Beats own simplistic and childlike artwork as well, and while he may never be heralded and taught in a art college he sure as hell has more soul in his pastel heavy mangaesque artwork than most of the artists they teach in school systems. Overall I give it a definite 10, the ending alone was worth that... painful as it was, it was love, and as many of us know love can really hurt sometimes. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The best Movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's simply a masterpiece. You can't imagine the feelings I had after that movie. Kitano is, for me, one of the best directors in the world. With that film, he raises the top. You cry, you smile, you laugh.... It's wonderful and must be seen absolutely in Japanese version. "}{"Title":"Death Wish meets Ikiru","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Characters are unidimensional. Kitano spends quite some time displaying his own paintings (in the movie they are the paintings made by the paralyzed cop), which I liked, but occupy far more movie time than they were entitled to. Most of the movie is simply boring. Some moments of shock here and there. Some gratuitous violence. A primary and questionable morality pervading it all.   "},{"Title":"A magnificent study of anger, frustration, loneliness and alienation.","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Violent Cop, I wasn't all that impressed. However, after having  seen Hani-bi last weekend, I have to say that Takeshi Kitano is one of  Japan's great film directors - a modern day Kon Ichikawa. Kitano's films like Violent Cop, and Sonatine, have never been released here  theatrically, though Kids Return was screened on SBS - Australia's only  multicultural channel.  Violent Cop, while good, in no way prepares one for the power of Hana-bi. It is one of the most magnificent studies in loneliness, and alienation I've  ever seen. There's hardly any dialogue - it's not needed, as everything that needs to  be said, is communicated through looks and body language. More than that, the visual imagery is breathtaking. I urge anybody  who reads this, to see Hana-bi, no matter what.  "},{"Title":"Two fat blokes eating chips behind me and it didn't matter.","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I actually got free tickets to see Hana Bi when it first came out.My friend and I arrived in the cinema early and got our seats. It was a Friday afternoon session so only about 10 people scattered through the cinema.Just as the film started two big blokes came in noisily and sat directly behind us. They had been to the supermarket and had bought a good half dozen jumbo packets of chips and they proceeded to crunch both the bags and the chips through the whole performance.Usually I would have been pretty upset - but Hana Bi was such an engrossing film it just didn't matter.Kitano, in my book, is produces wonderful ENGROSSING films.I suspect the two guys behind were pretty strongly affected too as by the time the road trip part starts the munching had stopped.Beautiful, Beautiful Film Thankyou Takeshi-san Michael Storer www.ozemail.com.au/~storerm "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is Takeshi Kitano at his best! The story is amazing and amazingly told, although some people may dislike it because of a few seriously violent scenes (no surprise to Kitano fans). Joe Hisaishi has made a great score here, which also comes as no surprise (both great score and cooperation with Kitano). This is not your ordinary movie. Those watching American super productions only sure will not understand it at all, as there are many long, silent scenes, not only without music, but sometimes without sound, you know, Kitano style ;) but hell, who cares about them anyway. This is the best movie Kitano has ever made, in my opinion. Some very deep emotional values out there. A piece of art! "},{"Title":"A gem of a movie","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie far too many times, and still I am touched by its depth, emotion and underlying message. I caught it at the International Film Festival in Toronto, and after 5 minutes of standing ovations, people left really content.This is an absolute gem of a movie. Kitano manages to convey a weighty and heart-felt message through his character, who is a laconic police officer caught up in a complicated mix of Yakuza dealings and personal grief regarding his work and home situation. Kitano also displays another aspect that is stunning his artwork. From what I've heard, all of the artwork displayed throughout the movie, depicting the various animals and flowers, are of his own hand, drawn while he remained hospitalized in a bike accident.A must see movie.  "},{"Title":"Poetry in motion, Kitano style.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fireworks (1997) is an interesting film from the lens of Takeshi Kitano. The movie is about a circle of cops who's lives are changed forever by a violent episode that has scarred each and everyone of them. It's an interesting film and Kitano injects some of his own personal tragedy into it. Kitano's usual players are featured in this film along with himself playing the lead. The camera work is fluid and the direction is sharp and the imagery is amazing. A true work of art. I was very surprised by this film because I was disappointed with Sonitaine and I was a little leery about watching this one. Boy was I impressed.  Highly impressive work from the man. Recommended.A. "},{"Title":"kitano is the man","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is a very quiet movie and the new yorker dvd cover is very misleading when they say it is full of violence.  on the contrary, the violence is sparse and the dialogue is almost non-existent in places.  the tone is set up by the characters' movements and subtle delivery of lines.  there are sudden burst of violence but is offset by the sweetness of the relationship between kitano's charcter and his wife.  it is a very moving film and noone should go into this movie thinking that this will be a blood bath of a movie cos it is far from that. "},{"Title":"Bad Fuse","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are two challenges in building a life with the help of art.The first challenge is the matter of finding good art, sorting it out from background noise. Good art is a communication from a transcendent place through a person or group with the skills to deliver it coherently. This is rare enough. All good craftsmen think they are artists and sell themselves that way.This film is a work of art. Yes, quirky. Yes, some elements are clumsy. He has some paintings he wants us to see, so he shoehorns in a suicidal painter. He needs a suicidal painter, so he...But we tolerate these misfits because the nature of the story follows the Japanese gangster movie convention of being a bunch of borrowed quotes from elsewhere. Borrowing these from Takeshi's artistic world is as fair as from the pop vocabulary. All these projects reference the outside.So this is good art. It resonates. I recommend you look at it.But the second challenge with art is deciding how to relate to it, to use it to build your mind, to work and extend your imagination. You are what you eat artistically. I cannot eat this. No, it is not the violence. Violence in film is merely cinematic tension, to be used like smoke. It is the world that matters. Art is a gateway to a world and you have to be disposed to the target can you use it? Will it help?What's wrong here is that this the flip side of noir. Noir defines a world of random pain, animated by some conspiracy between the viewer and a disembodied fate. But it comes from an intent of humorous exploration, capricious hazard but hazard for mischief, not deliberate pain. Its the deliberate pain we get here, the incessant grinding of the human spirit, and incidentally some valiant tolerance, but only incidentally.If I clove this into my mind, I would be another half step closer to suicide myself. So watch it... from a distance.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Japanese style Falling Down","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beat Takeshi is playing again the role of a calm and silent tough guy. He is a cop this time, and people drop dead around him like flies. But it's not because he kills them, it's because life is crappy and his friends and family either die stupidly and unexpectedly or get terminally sick. In the end, he will do whatever he can to make the last moments of his wife as happy as possible and make right by the people he loves, while the yakuza and his old police colleagues are trying to stop him. Of course, this movie is a depressing one, but it is also about putting aside the inhibitions of society and doing what you think it's right. In a calm and real way, he is just as much a hero as Neo, maybe more, since he does this in the world we live in, where there is no escape from reality. The beat of the movie (little pun, I couldn't help it) is slow and the average user could get a little bored with the 100 minutes of the movie, but this is good for the viewer that wants to think a little about what he is seeing or notice the details. For example the wounded partner of Takeshi Kitano's character, paralyzed from the waist down, starts painting and the results are not only nice, but also deep in meaning. As for me, I liked Aniki more than this one, but I do think that this was the better movie of the two. "},{"Title":"violence and tenderness powerfully interwoven to reveal an Oriental Mind.","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the peak of Takeshi Kitano's film career and also an all-time favorite of my personal collection. Even if I am not watching the film, I have always been rehearsing the sequences in my brain on Joe Hisaishi's wonderful score.Although his film has risen to such height, which means, expressing one's personal world perfectly using artistic media, Kitano is not much talked about outside Japan or Asia, compared to Woody Allen, also once a stand-up comedian and had been enthusiastically hailed by European audience especially French since 90s.Is it probably because a lot people dislike violence and prefer New York elites talking from beginning to the end? Hardly so and most likely just the opposite. Then it must be that people are uneasy to face or comprehend those acts of violence permeated by Oriental Silence (see my comment on Brother for further discussion on this point).It is easy to understand that Akira Kurosawa is a great director, just like Steven Spielberg in USA and ZhangYiMou in China, both happen to be big admirers of the former. But talking about auteur film, theirs are far from it. It is easier to understand their works since they are open to the extent of almost flat. On the contrary, an auteur film is not so inviting and stands in front of us like a giant monster before we have any clue where they came from.It is like Nietzsche with all his originality and self-assurance but hard to be placed right amid European philosophy history, whose existence could only be imagined outside an institutional hierarchy.  "}{"Title":"Kitano, Kitano...","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  - Hana-bi 7.5/10Takeshi Kitano is one talented man. Not only is he a great actor, but also an excellent director. Hana-bi is one of his more praised pieces of work. Detective Nishi (Kitano) is bitter when he learns that his wife Miyuki is terminally ill and his partner Horibe was shot and now tied to a wheelchair. Horibe wants to become a painter, but doesn't have money for that. To help him and a young police widow whose husband was shot dead during an arrest, he borrows money from yakuza. After that he buys an old car, paints it as a police car, and, dressed in uniform, singlehandedly robs a bank. With the money he goes on a final farewell journey together with his wife. I had one big problem with this movie. The concept was built around Kitano's relationships with his wife and best friend, yet they were hardly played up. His wife spoke about five words in the movie, and there was very little interaction between Kitano and his friend. I think this may be a movie that requires repeated viewing to really understand though. Kitano's acting is great as always, with his facial expressions saying so much to the viewer. The movie also features some of Kitano's famous bursts of violences, which are always a sight to behold. The flashback one that we saw several times throughout the movie was amazing. Unless I'm missing something that I'll pick up next time I watch the movie, this wasn't Kitano's best, but was certainly very good. "},{"Title":"Violence and Morals","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie. Hana-Bi owes something to Quentin Tarantino's style and violence, but also to Krzystof Kieslowski's morals (especially regarding the relationship of Nishi and his wife). And this makes Takeshi Kitano an original film maker. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Fireworks' is quite compelling.  It is a hauntingly beautiful movie, full of Japanese aesthetics.Its has a major philosophical viewpoint, specifically that of solitude. The extreme violence should not be viewed as shocker or a thing-in-itself. Kitano plays a solitary, noble type of man, something not easily portrayed in cinema, who uses violence to command those who get in his way.This film is defiantly not for the average gregarious viewer; they cannot comprehend solitude, and the fact that what charms and interests higher natures, and more refined fastidious tastes (men of nobility), seem absolutely uninteresting to the average viewer. "},{"Title":"nothing else is like it","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have a hard time getting people to see this because it looks like a violent cop movie -- and it is.  Except that it's also a meditation on aging, and the texture of life, and a lot of other things.  Takeshi acts and directs and wrote and even did the artwork in the movie.  It falls into the genre of movies as meditation combined with action film, in a way somewhat reminiscent of Godard. But the texture is totally different. "},{"Title":"Civilian Reckoning For Policeman's Sins","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana Bi, the Japanese word for fireworks, literally translates its two Kanji characters as Flowers (of) Fire, the contraposed coupling of evanescent life with violent death. At the core of the movie is its disagreeable moral. Detective Nishi is responsible for the crippling of his partner Horibe, shot on a stakeout while he absents himself to visit his terminally ill wife Miyuki at the hospital. Nishi constantly relives the death of another cop at the hands of an armed robber he was unable to control. In thrall to failure and remorse, Nishi quits the force and borrows money from the yakuza to enable Horibe to become a painter and support the young police widow reduced to working at a fast food stand. In order to repay the yakuza he buys a stolen taxicab from a junkyard, paints it as a police car, dons a patrol uniform, and singlehandedly robs a bank with a toy revolver. While Nishi returns the principal to his creditors, he neglects to pay the interest, knowing full well that this oversight will oblige them to pursue him. The profit from his heist underwrites Nishi's final farewell to Miyuki on a sentimental pilgrimage to Mt. Fuji, as he wipes out his pursuers and flabbergasts salarymen with his retaliatory justice disregaring all native decorum.Kitano's oblique depiction of ultraviolence is both very Japanese and very revisionist in style.  A sixty-second scene in Kurosawa's Red Beard shows Toshiro Mifune, who plays a provincial doctor in Tokugawa Japan, confronted by a dozen yakuza in a whorehouse yard over a sick little girl he intends to rescue therefrom. Encircled by arrogant louts, Mifune somberly dispatches them in a smoothly flowing sequence, visiting just deserts upon each adversary with his bare hands, only to survey the carnage and express his regret of having transgressed the Hippocratic principle to his ambitious young samurai understudy. So Beat Takeshi, boxed in and surrounded by sneering goons in the yakuza Benz, swiftly addresses each of them with a revolver abruptly confiscated from their hapless colleague, then proffers a posthumous admonition to the inert body of a pompadour punk, thrice-thrashed, yet thitherto twice spared. The action is distilled and compressed; the therapeutic protagonist's conscientious alter ego is inverted and mooted.On a break in their journey, as Miyuki squats at a lake shore to water a bouquet of dead flowers, a boorish interloper upbraids her about the futility of her melancholy gesture. Nishi abruptly shoves him underwater and colors the lake with blooming petals of his blood, in a warm-up for dealing with the next batch of yakuza pursuers due to catch up with them shortly. This juxtaposition of sentimentality and ultraviolence retreats from the more tough-minded narratives of Akira Kurosawa and Hideo Gosha, whose stoic brooding heroes Takeshi Kitano obviously seeks to emulate.  But the staccato beat of action punctuating the contemplative portrayal of the hero's love for his dying wife, equally well rooted in the chambara tradition It is evocative of Tatsuya Nakadai soulful oyabun, deferring to the prior claim on his wife left loyally unarticulated by his recovering amnesiac retainer in Gosha's Hunter in the Dark, both in munificence of spirit and operatic surfeit of suppressed emotion. These devices epitomize the Liebestod suggested by the title, a plot device destined to be imitated but unattained by lesser filmmakers. "},{"Title":"violent but beautiful","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Kitano Takeshi's Hana-bi is different from many other cop films.  This film is not about action.  It's more about philosophical observation of life and death.   Nishi is a middle aged cop in Japan. He has a wife who is dying from terminal illness.  They also had their daughter's death before and now they have to prepare for another.  Nishi's partner, Horibe, gets shot during the duty and his family leaves.  At first, he commits suicide but after surviving, he wants to paint but doesn't have money to buy the equipment.  Nishi robs a bank and buys Horibe the painting equipment.  Afterwards, he goes on the farewell trip with his wife.     Nishi's character is very unique he nearly has any dialogues and is always expressionless even he faces the danger of death. He usually seems a nice guy but when he gets upset, he commits brutal violence without warning. When Nishi stabbed an eyeball of a yakuza who was insulting him, it made me jump out of the seat.   Action is not important in this film.  The camera is looking at somewhere else when the characters beat up or shoot each other and only shows the injured or dead people.   Nishi and his wife do not seem to be afraid of the death.  During the journey, they concentrate on childish activities.  There is not a scene they hug each other and cry.  Kitano asserts that even death comes, people always can relax.   The camera does not move much and the music is also calm.  But they are beautiful and go along with the film very well. "},{"Title":"Nice scenery spattered with blood.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess I was supposed to carry that quiet reserve of pity for the main character throughout this bloodbath, but I just could not muster any. After watching umpteen of these good guy with tough luck, hardened by travails, morphs into emotionless automaton with a will of iron,'you're gonna wish you were never born', Charles Bronson clones, I myself became a man on a mission, and went to bed without seeing the end or reading the credits. Great cinematography, showing what a magical place that country is. Still there is that obsession with 'tough guys' and vengeance, always wearing sunglasses and pretty much mute throughout. Next time, maybe I'll make the end. "},{"Title":"The poetry of blood","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's brutality, but it's not melodramatic (as Hollywood might do), and there's gore, but it's not gratuitous (as Takashi Miike might do). It's just right.I'll give you one example. In one scene, we see a violent shootout in a crowded mall. Aside from the gunshots, the scene is completely silent. There are no stupid, hysterical people waving their arms and running about. And while there is a lot of blood, it's not shoved in our faces--a lot of it is handled off-camera. To me, this lets the scene speak for itself with no distractions. It's one of my favourite shootout scenes of all time.Takeshi Kitano is an amazing, visionary director. After seeing this movie, I went on to see all of his other work. It's surprising how he can switch from violence to comedy to art to chick flick on a dime. I believe HANA-BI is a great blend of all his talents.By the way, I should mention that he is a painter, and he painted all the images used in this film. So, around midway, when you see several minutes of paintings, you must realize that it's not random. It all fits in to the director's vision. And (here's a secret... don't tell too many people) stick around after the credits. There are more paintings. Perhaps even a hidden message? I dunno.I rate this movie an 8/10. It lost points only because in comparison I liked his other films DOLLS and KIKUJIRO slightly more. But definitely I think Takeshi Kitano is da bomb. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Sugar and spice","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After an accident where a detective and his partner get in a shoot-out with a criminal resulting in the partner's being shot and crippled, the detective quits the force and decides to spend the last remaining days with his lukemiatic wife. Constrasting extreme violence with light and contemplative humor, Takeshi Kitano's Fireworks is a loving story about the importance of living life and aspiring to enjoy it.I'm not quite sure what all the graphic violence is about, but it's certainly interesting watching the mostly blank-faced Beat Kitano kick butt on a bunch of greedy money sharks that follow him around. Also, the parallel story of the crippled partner and his expressions of suicide through painting are very mesmerizing and beautiful. Indeed this movie seems to take a real joy out of experiencing life as one wants to experience it.It's shot and edited a lot like Kikujiro, so if you liked that one you'll definitely like this. It's a very distinctive style, though I don't know what it's all about. I can't say that his films are my favorite or even the best example of stuff to search for in the video store, but they are fun and friendly, and pretty much accessible to anyone who wants some sweetness with their cinema.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Japanese Juxtaposition","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching my first Japanese film was somewhat refreshing. This movie opened many eyes to fact that Japanese do show their softer side in media. In Kitano's style he has used violence to convey his message. This film is essentially a dichotomy. Showcasing both systematic and emotionless violence but also articulate caring and dedication. Another interesting aspect of this piece is its referral to art. The art and the films composition are both convention breakers. It is obvious to me that Hana-Bi relies more heavily upon the actual camera than actually narrative, which is somewhat basic. Though, its delivery through Kitano's confronting yet classy style makes it an excellent film. Highly recommended to any appreciator of fine cinema. "}{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had happen to see the movie Dolls when had no idea about Kitano. The first time i saw it, i hated it. I thought the director didnt have something to say but just nice pictures. Then saw the movie Battle Royale and impressed with Kitano's performance. By chance i saw his photo on dvd cover and bought the movie Brother without knowing that it is directed by him who directed the movie Dolls. i bought Brother just for having a nice evening without any thoughts im my head but watch funny violence and have fun. but when the movie finished.. i realized how i was wrong about him. he was too deep that i couldnt see at the first time. then i read about his life and watched Zatoichi then Dolls again. i cannot believe that i didnt like that at the first time.. then found this movie Hana-bi.. and i think.. now.. its the movie that i like most. the ones who like this movie should see a scene at the sea. words are meaningless for his movies. he tells with images if you want to get. Kitano is something! "},{"Title":"Poetry but violent","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Takeshi Kitano wrote, directed and played the role of Detective Nishi.  He does something without the need of use words, silently.  His wife has been ill for 2 years and his partner was shot and would never walk again. In the hospital, the doctor told him to take his wife on a vacation. So be it. He owned money to the yakuza and due to this fact he robbed a bank dressed as a policeman.  There are a lot of things told by the supporting actors.  Horibe, his partner paints.  So Nishi tries to help him sending him materials. The poetry is due to the wonderful music, the paintings, the romance expressed without the use of words and the gestures of the characters.  Nishi is violent but warm on the other side.  I couldn't find any line of the screenplay excessively.  He is violent with the yakuza and with anyone who disturbs him.   The painting, the fireworks, the wonderful scenes of the sea, pure poetry.  Amazing movie. I saw it on TV. Never seen at the theater Must see. I was glad to do it.  Really, a piece of art. "},{"Title":"Very interesting.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most shocking film I have ever seen! Takeshi Kitano did his job well. The movie shows us how japanese people see their life. This is a picture of a man, who is tired of living, and wants to do a final journey even if yakuza want to stop him. Must see! "},{"Title":"One hell of a strange film!!!!","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen two films with Takeshi KitanoThis and boiling point. Hana-bi is good but boiling point is just a weird and almost impossible film to understand(I would rate boiling point a 2/5). But this film is so FANTASTIC beautiful.It´s more about feelings then guns.It dosen´t look like any other film I have ever seen. Just a warningFor people who dosen´t like sad endings I just sayThe end is no Hollywood end.4/5 "},{"Title":"Subtle, moving and beautiful","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hana-Bi is one of the best movies of the 90's. It also has the best direction in a movie ever. Subtlety is high and convention is low in this drama about one man's personal revenge on the world. It sounds a bit like Taxi Driver, and sometimes the movie captures the poetic style of a John Woo film, but this movie is a peerless masterpiece, with an absolutely heart wrenching ending. This is a film that is more suited to discussing than reviewing. It's a love it or don't get it experience, but I certainly loved it and for fans of beautiful, first rate cinema, than this is a definite must. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hana-Bi is excellent!","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hana-Bi, known in the U.S. as Fireworks, is arguably the best = Takeshi Kitano's film to date, though some fans prefer Violent Cop or Sonatine a= s his best yakuza movie. I've never been so psychologically affected by = any movie other than this exquisite masterpiece (excuse critic's blurb clich= é). Kitano's first directional effort since Kids Return, he emerged once aga= in as an actor with a tough disposition after the motorcyle accident that l= eft his right face parlyzed. Hana-Bi is an unusual and unique yakuza movie interjected with the emotional and psychological tension so quiet it wou= ld creep under your skin as you've never felt before. The violence is very realistic and is not recommened for the squeamish. But for Kitano fans a= nd arthouse lovers, this is the movie to be seen to either appreciate or despise. It is not overly violent since this is simply the parody of cop= s-and-robbers movies with romantic marriage interlude thrown in to keep the peaceful tension in normal pace and not allow it to manipulate our emotions. A very unusual movie indeed. Four out of ****.         "},{"Title":"Melancholy, violent police film doesn't quite add up","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A slow-paced police film with some striking violence. I suppose it's usual for police films to show some of the officers' home lives, bringing out the tension between their domestic and working worlds. Unusually, Hana-Bi foregrounds the domestic life of its main protagonist, a retired cop with some unfinished business, which involves the terminal illness of his wife. The tone of the film is thus more melancholic than tense. Kayoko Kishimoto, as the sick woman, gives a nicely understated performance. Beat Takeshi underplays his lead role to a greater extent, which may be the main strength of the film. Their life is contrasted with that of Takeshi's colleague, also facing private grief, though this contrast doesn't add enough. More importantly, the shifts between the violent world of loan-sharking and the sad, loyal marriage are hard to swallow. It seems implied as the film ends that Takeshi's character has values looking back to the Samurai. I'm no expert on these values, but was only partly convinced. "},{"Title":"Confused by a beautiful bullet","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I picked this movie up, I expected John Woo style insanity, with guns flaming bullets, bodies ripped in half, all of the cliches.  What I found instead, was a stunning, but incredibly painful and delirious confusion of a movie. This confusion is admittedly on purpose, you're supposed to find yourself lost in the man's thoughts. But it's hard to live his life for the 2 hours you are expected to. It's sick, and many will feel the bile rise from their stomachs. But if you can handle the lack of sanity, you will LOVE this movie.  "},{"Title":"Kitano made a PERFECT film impossible to forget","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Takeshi Kitano is an excellent filmmaker.Fireworks is the movie in which I discovered this great director.Fireworks is a perfect film impossible to forget.This movie contains scenes of graphic and brutal violence.But Kitano put shorts touches of humor to don't make this movie too intense.I can say that Fireworks is a big mix between action,thriller,drama and some comedy(very short).Kitano made a great performance on this movie.Fireworks is a perfect film that should be seen.Fireworks is one of the greatest movies from last years.And thank you,Mr.Kitano,for giving us this masterpiece.Rating10 "},{"Title":"An apparently cold movie","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This story of Yakuza gangsters and policemen is told in a very quick succession of cold sequences accompanied by incisive dialogues including a few short flashbacks. Although sentiment seems to be absent from this movie the fact is that it can be felt underneath above all in the relationship that the tough detective maintains with his dangerously ill wife shown in scenes of restrained but strong affection. We also feel it in the comradeship that unites the policemen to one another. The cut unfolds itself in image sequences apparently disconnected like in Godard's movies but if you pay all the attention to them you'll find the thread connecting them which is made by the activities of the main character played by Akeshi Kitano himself as a detective pursuing the gangsters but at same time borrowing the money he needs for his wife's care from Yakuza usurers with all the disastrous consequences it has. One last word for the sound track music which supplies the story with the lyricism the images seem to lack. "}{"Title":"Just one nameTakeshi Kitano","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is fourth movie that I watched from Takeshi Kitano and I have to say that I'm a little disappointed with this one.I know that this is probably his most awarding movie but I don't think this is his best.Far from there.I find Dolls his greatest achievement.Don't get me wrong Hana-bi is very good movie but I expected something better.It's because Kitano put so high standards and sometimes it is hard to achieve them.The plot is about Yoshitaka Nishi who is cop and his wife is dying of Leukemia.His partner gets shot in the job and he ends up in a wheel chair.Nishi is trying to help him because he feels that somehow he's guilty for what happened.Soon Nishi leaves police so he can spend more time with his wife.All his life he did wright things and know he has to do all wrong things so he can survive.He soon sinks deeper and deeper in his problems that are leading to tragedy.I liked the plot but this isn't nothing new.What is new is Kitano's way in filming this one.His camera is excellent and that part is very good but something about this movie as whole didn't fit perfectly to me.I don't know what that is but Dolls are better to me.I'm repeating myself so I'll quit know.Just one more thing;fans of Kitano won't be disappointed with this movie and also this movie is a great way to become a fan of this great film-maker. "},{"Title":"Totally boring","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If Kitano wanted to bore to death the audience, well he succeeded! This movie lasts about 1 hour and 40 min but it seems 8 hours... and nothing happens. No one even speaks (maybe in Japan they have already discovered telephaty...). Another low point is the acting. We have 2 or 3 good actors, the others are totally amateur-actors, in certain scene is really embarassing to view these poor japanese guys who doesn't know where they have to watch... Also the story (the violent cop who have a tender side) is old, I have seen probably ten movies with this plot more originality please! Final note watching this movie you think that in Japan, mafia people (Jacuza) is totally dumb, there are at least 5 scenes where they seem a bunch of retarded people. "},{"Title":"Sit down and think about it afterwards...","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched the movie after having it recommended by a friend of mine. After the movie was over I thought well this movie was ok But after sitting down and thinking about what I had seen and going through the movie in my head, I realized something. This movie is different from all other movies I have seen, and it is really really good. There is hardly any dialogue in the movie. All is being explained through facial expression and visual pictures and once you see that, you understand how great this movie is. The main character may seem like a violent person, but when you see him with his wife he is probably the most sensitive guy out there. So if you see this movie, take a minute and think about what you just saw, and I bet you will realize that you just watched an amazing piece of movie. I rate this movie 7/10 "},{"Title":"A compelling drama for those with an appetite for Japanese art.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fireworks spends most of it's 100 minute run conveying the despair, agony, and rage experienced by the stone-faced Kitano character, a troubled police officer, while dwelling little on its simple story...the reasons for those feelings. True to traditional Japanese art, the film is clear, coherent, detailed, serene, and simplistic and will likely only have limited appeal among western audiences. Some will regard this film as tedious, artsy, and under-done while others will find it disturbing and compelling. "},{"Title":"Typically whimsical piece from Kitano - bit disappointing","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After all the plaudits laden on this film, and having seen the excellent Sonatine, I was expecting great things from this but was a little let down by it. It's another blend of pretty extreme violence with whimsical, sentimental moments in between, Takeshi is by turns rock hard and a nice bloke, there's some pretty imagery (though the paintings his friend creates, presumably done by Mr Rennaissance Takeshi, aren't all all that great), some crunching violence (pretty much everyone whose path crosses the Beat's ends up nastily dead), but it's just lacks the inspired brilliance of Sonatine. Or it could just be that my wife, sitting next to me loathing every minute, stopped me appreciating it fully. Interesting, but probably not brilliant. "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Hana Bi","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my earliest Kitano movies that I remember vividly was Brother, a movie set in the USA, where he went and set up a Yakuza gang of his own, and introduced his own brand of violence to gain turf. It was upon a recommendation of a friend that I went to watch it (and guess what, my friend didn't have the opportunity to do so!), and since then I was curious about his movies, albeit the more violent ones.Hana-Bi is in this tradition of Kitano movies, either him playing a cop, or swinging on the side of the gangsters. Here, he stars as detective Nishi, a tough-as-nails no nonsense cop who lets his fists do the talking right from the start of the movie. However, his tough exterior is but a shell covering his soft hearted interior, and this is portrayed so well throughout his non-verbal interactions with his lovely wife.And that, in fact, is the crux of the movie, violence notwithstanding. Between his cop buddy and his wife, it is obvious where should one's priority lie. But being the cop devoted to duty as well, Nishi has to be persuaded by his cop buddy to look after his ailing wife instead. Needless to say, things go wrong during the stakeout, and Nishi inevitably feels responsible.Winner of multiple film festival awards including the Golden Lion at the 1997 Venice Film Festival, we follow Nishi in his one man crusade, and the narrative style is distinctively Takeshi. With flashbacks and the non linear narrative presented as a matter of fact, these are but some of the numerous classic moments in the movie, along with his editing style and facial closeups which shows his slight twitches now and then.Nishi is a cop whose bite is very much worse than his bark, given that he doesn't speak much to begin with. And the violence being so in-your-face, it's a wonder how Takeshi could balance stoic silent moments, with noisy action, all in one movie. As the story progresses, we see how his single-minded devotion to his wife made him go against all odds just to spend some quality time with her, though somehow, in a weird sense, those scenes didn't manage to do much for me. Instead I was reminded of the beach scene in his latest movie Takeshis, because of the lust to see blood on screen, and I think that particular scene is a knock on the head for people like me, who always yearn for more blood.This movie also allowed Takeshi to showcase his paintings, and they are beautiful to look at. It's very humbling to think that Takeshi is one heck of a talented person, being able to act, direct, produce, write, paint, edit, is versed in drama, action, comedy, the list goes on. And it's no wonder that for this screening, and the one after, there is a long queue snaking just to get (free) tickets, and those patient enough to be on the waiting list, mulling along the museum hallway just crossing their fingers to gain entry. "},{"Title":"a bit heavy on the mush","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An interesting drama about an agent who takes some time off to spend with his dying wife, and ends up going on a crime spree. The writer/director/star takes a great approach in telling a good story from an emotional and understated angle, but the execution does not quite work.Many scenes drip with sentimentality to the point that they become laughable. Most of the lovey-giddy scenes involving his wife come off as snippets from Mentos commercials.A sub-plot involving a co-worker who gets shot in his place (and paralyzed) then takes up painting peaceful compositions, simply isn't interesting. We are never allowed to connect with his character; and we only know his situation by off-handed inferences of his wife leaving him. The director is quite obsessed with his paintings that grow tiresome all too quickly.  "},{"Title":"KITANO DOES IT AGAIN","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You could describe this film as violent, comic, romantic or beautiful and each would be true. The fact that such themes overlap and mix with one another, is the beauty of a Kitano film.Hana-Bi comes very close to matching the excellent Sonatine. "},{"Title":"an existential ode to violence","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" So, it has come to this. In the top-rated comment on this flick, somebody says Nishi is an honorable man. Really? This is a guy who mainly kills and maims people in the movie. He takes a short break to rob a bank. Honorable? How would you like your kids to go to school with the kids of someone who calls that honorable? Wait, there's more! The person also says we can tell he's constantly thinking. How can we do that? Well, do you know that joke How can you tell when a CEO/politician/lawyer is lying? ... His/her lips move. Well, Nishi's lips never move, so I guess that means he is thinking.Of course, this is existentialism to warm the hearts of the cult of victimization. Existentalism supposedly stresses that an individual take responsibility for the consequences of one's acts. Not Nishi. Borrow money from the yakuza. What, they want it back? Kill them. The cops find out. Kill yourself and your wife.Really honorable. "},{"Title":"Fantastic music, fine imagery, flawed results","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  HANA-BI has many quiet moments and fairly slow pacing.  Unfortunately, during the many thoughtful interludes the viewer is left to ponder about the recent scenes just watched and many questions surface and annoy.For example, why didn't the wheelchair guy drown in the ocean when he was stuck in the sand and the tide came up around him?  There was no rescue seen or hinted at.Can it be true that Japanese police are so inept and unskilled at arrest procedures as to not first remove the suspect's ability to reach for a weapon?  These detective-level Japanese police seemed to have no experience dealing with a suspect.Why doesn't the right eye of the lead character blink?  Having one eye blinking was distracting and it went unexplained.What exactly was the lead character spending all his money on to have to borrow so much from loan sharks?  He was not seen gambling.  Being a non entry-level government employee his wife must have had full health insurance.What was the single man doing all by himself in the middle of nowhere in the nature park?  What was his reason for being there?How in the world could the gangsters find the lead character and his wife up in the far off nature reserve?  It made no sense.And again, how could the gangsters later find the lead character and his wife up in the remote Mt. Fuji resort?  There were absolutely no clues available for these gangsters to even know which country the lead character and his wife were in, let alone the correct specific location at the correct specific time!And a third same question, how could the junior detectives know which few feet of the Japanese coast line to find the lead character and his wife?  The Japanese coast line must be vast.  Were all of these characters supposed to have psychic powers?Two final questions The cute girl trying to fly a kite on the beach -- WHERE did she come from?  She seemed to have no transportation or companions with her.  And why in the world did she still keep attempting to fly what was left of her kite after it was ripped in pieces?!  This was weird.  Unintentionally Python-esque.On the positive side, I loved the background music.  It was dramatic and flowing and added much to this movie.  The photography, imagery and art were pleasing to the eye.One final point, the wife was overly pleasing to the eye.  Not once did she ever come close to looking like a dying sick person.  She looked very healthy.  If anything, these people seemed depressed and mentally ill and not physically sick.  The husband treated his wife as perhaps a newly outed gay man would treat a respected wife... a love of friendship, but not close tenderness.A mixed movie for sure. "}{"Title":"Those Japanese are a strange people...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really don't see how anyone could enjoy this movie. I don't think I've ever seen a movie half as boring as this self-indulgent piece of junk. It probably would have been better if the director hadn't spent most of the movie showcasing his own art work, which really isn't that noteworthy. Another thing I didn't really like is when a character got punched in the face, a gallon of blood would spew forth soon after. I don't know how folks bleed over there in Japan, but I hope they have plenty of blood donors. "}]