[{"Title":"Excellent, but not a romance","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"41 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a phenomenal movie, but I am rather peeved at the way it has been marketed.  When I rented the movie, the blurb on the box luridly touted the forbidden passion between a rugged Scotsman and the most powerful woman in the world.  Other marketing of the film is similar.  That's not what the movie is about at all!!  It is a very sad commentary on our society if a moving drama about terrible grief being assuaged through loyal friendship cannot be accepted for what it is.  Is the American public really that shallow?  I don't know whether to blame movie execs for dumbing down the presentation of their product to titillate the lowest common denominator, or the American public for maybe actually being that way.Diatribes aside, Dench and Connolly are phenomenal.  Victoria and Brown are complex characters with conflicting emotions, and one almost feels able to look upon their souls in this portrayal.  Antony Sher was delightful as the orator/politician Benjamin Disraeli, at the same time both wise and gently pompous.  The makeup job was so good that I actually recognized him as Disraeli before his name was mentioned.If you are disappointed because this is not a puerile romance, shame on you. These are real people with real emotions.  This moving story of grief and friendship is definitely one of the best of the year. "},{"Title":"Fantastic love story","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film is a fantastic love story.  You'll note that I didn't say sex story, because there is absolutely no sex in this film.  And yet most people equate love story with sex, or at least a beautifully shot kiss at the end, complete with a cheesy song penned by Brian Adams.  This, my friends, is a love story with a difference.It is the story of a servant's love for his queen; it is the story of a woman's love for the man who has given her life meaning; it is a story of two best friends, who ignore social circumstances and care deeply for one another.  The story is nearly flawless, combining the historical situation and circumstances with intense and riveting emotion.The acting is outstanding.  Both of the central actors convey exactly what their character is feeling, even if no words are spoken.  Billy Connolly lets John Brown's humanity shine through his rough exterior, and he has a naturalness that is quite inspired.  And Dame Judi Dench gives a masterful performance, worthy of the Oscar (like that's never been said before). Her portrayal of a queen tortured by her feelings and her position in society is the best of the year by any actor, male or female.Hands down the best British film of the year.  9/10. "},{"Title":"A film which carries extra appeal because of personal resonance.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Undoubtedly this film appeals to so very many because of the fine acting, the tenderness of a story about how a man comforts a great human being in her grief, the wit, and the careful re-creation of a period of history. For me personally, however, there was another appealing element - the highlighting of the differences between English and Scottish culture. This seems so often to be brought out very wittily by Sher's Disraeli - in his references to his suffering because of the weather and Scottish food, to this land of Calvin and Knox, and in his barbed comments to English churchmen that Her Majesty is actually becoming interested in Low Church Presbyterianism. It is because I can identify with such traits of character and belief from an Ulster Scot ancestry and because I often see others' failure to understand or appreciate those traits that the film has a degree of personal resonance. "},{"Title":"A masterful, touching, gentle piece of history","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Absolutely brilliant film. No question, we all seem to agree that Dench deserved the Oscar (ok, Hunt was cute in AGAIG but a long way from 'Best'), Connolly is surprisingly good in this very dramatic role (I'm not exactly a huge fan of his comedic work), and Sher was very clever as Disraeli. All in all, a sterling performance by a wonderful cast. But this movie is just a little bit more that just great acting, it is also a moving story of the burdens of office, the mores of Victorian society, the anguish of the death of a loved one, and the blessing of true friendship. This is a very good movie. Don't expect sex, violence or swearing, but if you're looking for a quality film, this could be for you. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is a treasure.  Judi Dench deserved an Oscar for her work.  If I ever see her on the street, I will apologize for the stupidity of the Academy.  Billy Connolly was terrific also and deserved his own nomination. This movie is magnificent; one of the best I've seen in a long time.  Even if you think this kind of thing is too Masterpiece Theatre, I think you would enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Two superb actors at their best","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Mrs Brown is an enthralling piece of work wonderfully crafted by Judy Dench and Billy Connolly. The story is about queen Victoria and the relationship with Mr Brown after the death of her husband. Connolly is superb and maybe should think about sticking to straight acting more often instead of comedy. Although the film tends to tail of a little in the last half hour it is still worth seeing. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Strong Period Drama and Another Brilliant Characterization by Judi Dench","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" MRS. BROWN as written by Jeremy Brock and directed by John Madden (Proof, Shakespeare in Love, Captain Corelli's Mandolin) is a sprightly, entertaining and engrossing study of a moment in the life of enigmatic Queen Victoria. Selecting an outstanding production crew and a fine cast this film succeeds on every level and once again proves to us that Judi Dench is one of the finest actresses on the stage or screen today.The story revolves around the time when Queen Victoria's beloved husband Prince Albert dies resulting in a clinical depression in the queen. She leaves London with her entourage to grieve at Balmoral Castle. There her Scottish Highlander servant John Brown (Billy Connolly) nurses her back to normalcy but in the meanwhile sets up the appearance of an affair that scandalized the British Isles. Disraeli (Antony Sher) visits in an attempt to right the situation but it is Brown's strong personality - an equal match for the wise and wily Victoria - that alters the course of events that returns Queen Victoria to her proper station.Dench and Connolly play so well off each other that their relationship has a wealth of charm, tenderness, bite, wit, and solidity. The supporting cast includes a fine turn by Gerard Butler as Archie Brown, John's supportive and playful brother. The costumes are superb and the cinematography by Richard Greatrex captures the atmosphere of the cloying indoor spaces as well as the freedom of the vast coastline vistas. Stephen Warbeck is responsible for the well-integrated musical score. Highly recommended. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Bill Conolly is terrific!!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Mrs Brown is a good movie with a good storyline ,excellent performances by Bill Conolly ,Judi Dench and Antony Sher. Antony Sher(Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli)adds some humor to the the movie .It was a delight visiting the beautiful Scottish Highlands thanks to some marvelous photography and a very good recreation of the Victorian age. The real show stealer I felt was Bill Conolly(John Brown).He is portrayed as a loyal,charismatic,fun loving Scottish highlander who can dare to defy the Queen's orders .The scenes involving Victoria and Brown are electrifying.It surprises me that a talented actor like Bill Connoly Does not get many good roles.I would definitely love to see more of this talented actor. "},{"Title":"A must see for lovers of British period films","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Mrs. Brown tells the story of the grieving widow Queen Victoria (Dench) and her relationship with a common Scottish horse groomsman (Connolly) whose audacity and devotion won him a position as the queen's closest consort and her everlasting affection.  A wonderfully executed period piece (circa 1860's), Mrs. Brown leans toward fact and avoids sensationalism as it tenders its biographically correct drama about a grieving queen who finds an unspoken love and renewed commitment to life in a most unlikely man. Anyone into British period flicks should enjoy this film's sterling performances, excellent costuming, beautiful locations, etc. (B+)  "},{"Title":"Good, meticulously crafted, no-compromise drama","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is not, as one might think, a romantic film about a queen who falls in love with a subject -- although that's technically its story, and although it seems to aspire to the category of romantic, bittersweet drama. For that it's too harsh and cold, and my experience is that women in particular will be disappointed that at no point in the film will the central characters succumb to their yearnings. True, this is an epic, sweeping, costume drama, but it's one that stays so true in its wish to portray history and reality correctly, that the grand love scenes are ruled out by its no-compromise attitude.Beyond that (it's by no means a criticism), Mrs. Brown is a touching, very entertaining, extremely well acted drama. Unlike many other films set in this era, the sets aren't overdone, and the people are portrayed (as I imagine it) realistically. Despite its focus on realism, it comes off as an extremely emotional (much thanks to Billy Connolly's performance) story about personal and political conflicts.Finally, I believe the political angle of the film will confuse some people who won't understand the issues at stake (this is how my girlfriend reacted -- she couldn't follow much of the narrative in the last hour or so); but those who do will be thrilled. "}{"Title":"Love Does Not Conquer All","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Some believe that marriage is too important a decision to be left in the hands of lovers. No where is this more clear than with love among royalty and it certainly was true 150 years ago. At that time the Queen of England, Victoria tragically becomes a widow. She is very lonely but eventually finds companionship. So begins Mrs. Brown, but sadly a new tragedy slowly unfolds because Victoria's companion is her servant, Mr. Brown. That he can never be anything else but her servant is understood but his heart takes much longer to learn.Besides this powerful premise Mrs. Brown works because John Madden's direction and the editing keep things moving, with many beautiful images shown along the way. The acting by all the major characters is very good. Judi Dench is very subtle in showing many different moods. It is no surprise that she was nominated for a best actress Oscar.A haunting musical score adds to the feeling of the film. It is an excellent accompaniment for what should have been a happy story of love which simply could never be. Mrs. Brown is not heavy handed with its message. It is a tale of the heart and in the end the center of the film is not the Mrs. but the Mr. Brown, for his patience, endurance and care.  "},{"Title":"Fit for a queen","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  We do do movies about dead monarchs well, don't we?  Here's Judi Dench in the role she SHOULD have won the Oscar for, alongside a hairy comedian giving a performance that almost equals hers.  Queen Victoria, it is, in mourning over the death of her beloved husband Albert, to whom she erected countless bloody memorials.  It's a movie about forbidden love, of course. And, er, it's a while since I saw it.  Good movie, though. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  ** Possible spoilers **This film was a delight to rent on a Friday night.  As a history buff (and my college major), I wanted to check this out.  Having previously seen the A&E original miniseries, Victoria and Albert, I was told that this movie picked up where V&A left off.  Not only is it wonderful, it just stuck in my mind.  Billy Connolly and Dame Judi Dench were magnificent in their roles.  The character of Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli was also wonderful.  This movie should've carried more Oscars and nominations than it had.The movie itself is about Scotsman John Brown (Connolly) who befriends Queen Victoria (Dench) who has been in mourning for her husband and consort, Prince Albert, since his death of typhoid in 1861.  It's a nice story that history and non-history buffs will enjoy.  To get the full effect of Queen Victoria's life, rent (or buy) Victoria and Albert, then rent (or buy) Mrs. Brown, and you will then see how the story of Victoria's life fits together.  All in all, I give this 3 stars out of a possible four stars. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted film","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Queen Victoria's slow, painful, emergence from mourning after the loss of her husband Albert, is brought about by the only man amongst her staff who can see her as a woman as well as a queen.  This simple tale is used to paint a picture of the Victorian court so perfectly that you're left with a conviction that this is exactly how it must have been.Certainly the plot restrains itself to the facts  Queen Victoria and her gillie John Brown were friends with a great affection for each other.  That their affection never went further is a certainty and the film provides ample proof of the English class and protocol systems that guaranteed it.The set design and the supporting cast are uniformly excellent. Billy Connolly gives his best acting performance to date, but Judi Dench is breathtaking.  She deservedly won a BAFTA for her performance and should have got the Oscar. (Even the recipient ,Helen Hunt, said so during her acceptance speech.)I can understand how some viewers feel the film is cold and austere, it is, on the surface. But below the surface is a constantly shifting pattern of emotion and passion.  Victorian England was exactly the same. "},{"Title":"An All-Time Great performance by the Dame","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An excellent historical drama on a sweet anecdote from the life of Queen Victoria. Certainly not the stuff for a pompous epic drama, and that´s the film´s strength. What makes it great, however, is the duo of the protagonists Judi Dench and Billy Connoly give acting lessons, at the same time being so subtle about it that I had the impression that each was trying to act the other into the spotlight. I was deeply moved by the Dame´s performance and think she was robbed of an Oscar - a fact which was acknowledged in the Oscar ceremony by the winner Helen Hunt!(not taking anything away from her performance, she was excellent) By the way, a sign of greatness by Helen - chapeau! Obviously, that was the reason for the Oscar for her (great) 8-minute performance in Shakespeare In Love the next year. Still, Mrs.Brown is a great film in all aspects, not just something for Dench-fans. Wouldn´t hurt to check the political history of the time, the background is extremely interesting. "},{"Title":"Unanswered question the key to satisfying, involving film","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie again last night on video, having seen it before. It's one of those unpretentious films that leaves you wondering why you are - quietly - so involved it sneaks up on you. Musing, it occurred to me that the unnamed force holding the story together is the unidentified motivation of John Brown. Why does he become so doggedly concerned with the welfare of this woman - in both her manners and her position the epitome of that English system of class and values he so disdains - even to the point of near obsession? We can see from his other actions and words that it has something to do with responsibility, independence, kindness, strength and weakness, and most of all honesty - he cannot dissemble - but fortunately, the film makers and the actor don't pry. The character is that wonderful thing, opaque yet real, sympathetic yet independent and never cloying - a wonderful antidote to run of the mill characterisation where we, the audience, are forced relentlessly to relate. You really feel as if you have met a man as you might in life. At the largest level, I got out of the film the sense of what is possible - in terms of feeling, of relationship, of kindness to others - to a person when they truly accept themselves and live life on their own terms. "},{"Title":"Film Portrays the Private Life of Queen Victoria and Mr. Brown","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Superb and thoroughly convincing portrayals by all,  but especially Judi Dench as Queen Victoria and  Billy Connolly as John Brown.  Brown is dogged in  his devotion to the Queen.While she is appreciative of and at a point demands  that he remains with her, he is a very unpopular  choice with her children, advisors, prime  minister(s), etc.Even through ridicule and other hardships Brown  remains ever vigilant.  A haunting film, that is  well worth more then one viewing.The attention to detail will please even the most  demanding viewer. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  (Spoiler alert)Yes, yes, Dench and Connolly act brilliantly and their relationship  is touching. Look beyond, though, at the settings - Victoria's pompous, cold, stuffy palaces. Look at the costumes - the women stuck wearing Victoria's modification of the clothes that were fashionable when she was young. Note the ridiculous protocol - when Vicky stops eating, everyone stops. When she dashes off to visit her ill son (and breaks her self-imposed purdah at last) - no one gets any lunch. Is Henry Ponsonby ever allowed to visit his wife?  Note, too, the tartanry - the Victorian reinvention of Scotland (a country very recently conquered and annexed by the English crown). Maybe Brown stands for the real thing - the real Scotsman surrounded by a German royal family carefully singing Scottish folksongs in English translation and the style of Schubert. Neither Vicky nor Brown is perfect. Until he comes along, no one tells her to shut up. His character develops from someone with an eye to the main chance to a man devoted to preserving her safety and jealously shielding her from family and politicians. But he also drinks too much and tyrannizes over his fellow servants - I couldn't watch. An excellent film that picks out many aspects of the time that still resound today. It stays in the mind.  "},{"Title":"Ageing Queen was in her early 40's","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Some contributors have written as if Victoria was already some ageing figure but she was born in 1819 and so was only in her early 40's at the time that John Brown came into her life.She still would have been very much pre change of life so there was always the real possibility or potential of emotions going beyond friendship and mutual respect. Supposedly an incredibly stuffy woman she defied social and family pressure to be seen to find delight in the company of a man of low-ish social status. It would be ridiculous to even contemplate that our current Queen could and would find the psychological strength to enter into this kind of forbidden relationship and friendship had she been made a widow like Victoria in her late 30's. In fact I find it impossible to think that she would be capable of finding delight and be able to appreciate the warmth of a rough and ready but obviously sharp and proud figure like John Brown and fall, for a time at least, like Victoria, under the spell of such a dominating but low-status personality. The current Queen is definitely of the upstairs-downstairs personality and is/has been capable of only appreciating company inside her own narrow social circle, so if she had have faced widowhood at the same age as Victoria, we could automatically discount anything beyond the strictest formality in her relationship with her staff.Both women were/are quite adept and had/have a native intelligence and were/are fools to no one yet we live in an age when snobbery is supposedly dead or at least laying low and that Victorian Britain was this incredibly uptight place, yet Victoria, in her time and place finds both the personal strength and the imagination to defy convention.Wouldn't such behaviour contradicting such pre-conceived images about the up tight nature of Victorian society make such assertions over-simplistic and indicate that the rather shallow and partial perspective we are taught to hold on such an age needs a corrective (UMM always wary of using THAT word these days) change on the rudder? Some of the scenes would seem to beg some explanation. Brown was apparently beaten up and then Victoria was told he had been in a fight through having had too much to drink and at the same time Prince Edward was trying to get Brown the sack. Though this type of semi-biographical film always has scenes and events inserted from a certain perspective for dramatic effect I would imagine that the beating up was real enough and not dramatic license. If this event did happen then was Prince Edward behind the planning of the beating? The fortuitous timing would certainly point to that conclusion.This relationship had tragedy built in. We can only surmise if it is worth someone like Brown to live in the limelight knowing very much in his heart that he is like a moth attracted to a flame and that he was due, after a period of being a essential companion, to suffer years of benign neglect. From what I can gather from the film he was by her side for 4 years at the very most and that he then spent the entire 1870's and early 80's in obscurity once she had re-entered her role of monarch to the British public.In fact the scene with Disraeli on the mountain top shows that he knows that once she is out of the Balmoral & the Highlands that his time as crucial companion will come to an end yet he is unable to refuse Disraeli clear invitation to use his influence to make her re-enter the orbit of being the public monarch. Again I think the Disrali-Brown meeting, whatever it's location, the substance of that discussion, though given dramatic license, must logically have taken place, though the film portrays that the single momentous, as it happen, event that brought Victoria back from the role of grieving widow into the role of Queen one again was Prince Edward falling ill with Cholera.The film is quite brilliant at bringing out that moment which began the marginalisation and eventual elimination of John Brown's reign of influence over Victoria and his eventual psychological and physical destruction. It would be a spoiler to describe the actual scene but it is exceedingly well done and you are left in no doubt that this is the end for John Brown if not for Victoria. So who really then was the tragic figure in all of this??? Had he saved her only to be led inexorably on the road to eventual self-destruction?Maybe the main reason why I related so much to the JB character highly intelligent man who has a commanding presence who is forced to suffer from being subordinate to those of inferior intellect from an inability to kow-tow but is afflicted with a fatal weakness whose consumption dominates his whole life so closely echoes the memory of a Scotsman with whom I was a student 35 years ago.I saw him occasionally in the years after as he failed to rise up the greasy hierarchy and each time, as I saw the physical evidence of his decline, wondered what it is that drives a seemingly immensely strong personality onwards into an inevitable self-destruction and death.Alcoholic oblivion is a temporary fix which enables you to neutralised those feelings of unfulfilled status but whose inevitable result is your own demise.Whilst it may not be an exclusively Scottish way to live and die the culture of heavy drinking seems an incredibly destructive force on otherwise unstoppable charismatic personalities through the generations. "},{"Title":"A story of friendship","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" It's the 1860s, and the aging Queen Victoria is still grieving over the death of her husband, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. A couple of years have passed since his death, but the black-clad Queen has not been able to get out of her state of melancholy, and she has chosen to retreat to her home on the Isle of Wight. John Brown, a servant highly respected by the late Prince Albert, is brought in from Scotland to attend to the Queen. Mr. Brown is determined to lead the Queen out of her misery. Since he is in charge of the Queen's horse, he takes the Queen out to ride the horse every morning, in hopes that the fresh air will do her good. At first, the Queen is stubborn and reluctant to spend time with him. Within time, she gives in and a friendship is formed between the two. Through it all, Mr. Brown demonstrates an unmatched allegiance to the Queen.This movie was incorrectly billed as a love story, but it is actually a story about the power of friendship and how two people from polar opposite social classes (a servant and a monarch) end up becoming friends. In the film, the members of the British aristocracy look down upon the friendship between Mr. Brown and the Queen; when they speak of the Queen, they refer to her as Mrs. Brown. Nevertheless, the bond shared by Mr. Brown and the Queen is merely an amicable one, and that bond is broken only Mr. Brown's untimely death. Billy Connolly cleverly portrays the saucy and arrogant Mr. Brown, while the Queen is played with precision by the very talented Judy Dench. Their performances bring this movie to life, and the movie itself manages to show that friendship can be a powerful thing. "}{"Title":"A peek inside the private life of Queen Victoria","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  It may be an unwritten rule, but it is clearly understood in upper crust societies that sadness is stoic, while happiness is petty.  Mrs. Brown peers into the private life of one of history's most fascinating people, at her most private of times.   Following the death of her husband, Queen Victoria goes into a long period of mourning, taking her empire with her.  Struggling to hang onto her dearly departed she latches onto his favorite employee, a stable master. Under the stern eye of her advisors and children, Victoria forms a friendship with the man that transcends anything considered respectable. Judi Dench plays Queen Victoria to perfection.  Even in her most tender moments, she never loses her dignity, nor her presence.  Billy Connelly is John Brown, her loyal and trustworthy friend, servant and companion. The film is beautifully shot, capturing the bleakness that would have been Queen Victoria's life at that time.  The writing is first rate, blending a small story with epic events, and detailing the picture with occasional glimpses into the day to day life of the time.  Most impressive about this movie is that it resists the temptation to grasp on to Hollywood cliches.  John Brown snubs his nose at the establishment, however he knows his limits.  Victoria lets loose, but never at the cost of her station.   "},{"Title":"Marginal Success Despite Troubling Scenes","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  WARNING  This review may contain spoilers.This film is contrived from the historical friendship of Regina Victoria with her servant John Brown.  To be sure, the makers took license with plot, dialogue, etc.  Thus, if one can suspend historical accuracies for an hour and a half, the result is marginally good.I don't mean to make too much of the fictionalized account of a bygone era's relationship.  However, I do think the filmmakers went a bit overboard.I was happy to see that this wasn't a full blown love affair thrown up on the screen for the sake of a glorified romance novel's bounty.  However, the better part of valor was sacrificed in this film's treatment of the honorable PM Disraeli.  I thought his treatment was not only distasteful but wholly inaccurate.Disraeli was a lot of things, but a traitor to the crown he was not.  The cheap dialogue assigned to his character, his strategy on how he could manipulate the winning system, be it constitutional monarchy or republican government, left me a little wobbly.  In addition, I couldn't help but wonder if the filmmakers meant to cast him in the long dead stereotype of the conniving jew.  This is troublesome indeed.On whole, however, Disraeli is a minor figure in this film.  Perhaps this is another problem I had with the movie.  It begs credulity to think that Queen Victoria really took a friend's (John Brown) views so seriously in matters of state.  Like all great leaders, Victoria was apt to separate business from pleasure.Despite the misgivings stated above, I found this film entertaining and well acted.  The upper crust meets country bumpkin formula is done well, and audiences will enjoy John Brown getting the better of Victoria's snobbish court.  Six out of Ten. "},{"Title":"Judi Dench is Luminous","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The movie is Master Class. Judi Dench conveys more emotion and anguish with one look than most actors do in their entire career. Becoming Queen Victoria is what she accomplishes in this small, independent, but, thoroughly enthralling film. The remaining ensemble is terrific from top to bottom. The movie strings extreme emotion throughout, first, deep sorrow and grief, confusion and anguish, and finally triumph. It keeps you guessing as to the Queen's competence to the throne and the relationship she constructs with Mr. Brown. The scenery is spectacular, both interior and exterior it and Judi Dench will take you breath away. In the end, the movie satisfies on all accounts. "},{"Title":"The Queen's Highland Fling","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" If you are expecting this film to be a romance than skip it. It is about the extraordinary man with the ordinary name of John Brown who brought a Queen out of mourning. Not that a whole lot of gossip about Queen Victoria and her Scot's highland servant Brown wasn't bandied about in their day. That's the way it is in court politics, then and now.Judi Dench is the Queen who when this story begins was getting the unflattering nickname of the widow of Windsor. By the merest of chance in these royal arranged marriages it was arranged she should marry a cousin, Albert of Saxe-Coburg Gotha. She and Prince Albert had a good score of married years with several children. They were so happy that when Prince Albert died of typhoid fever in late 1861, Victoria went into a really lengthy mourning period beyond all normal parameters. The woman would have needed grief counseling had it been available back in her day. She shut herself up in Balmoral Castle in Scotland and made no public appearances. Nor would she allow any of her children to substitute for her, particularly the Prince of Wales. With that kind of mentality operating, a whole lot of people questioned the need even for a monarchy.Into her life comes John Brown, brother one of the household help already at Balmoral and hired to tend the Queen's horses. Billy Connolly plays the rough spoken Brown who somehow even through his tough highland talk, endears himself to his Queen with his common sense and total concern for her well being. Gaining the position he does in the Victorian household, Brown makes many enemies who try to bring him down. The period of the film covers when he arrives in the Queen service in 1866 until his death in 1883. Connolly makes a fine Brown though if the film had been made 25 years earlier, the part was made for Sean Connery.Her Majesty, Mrs. Brown gained to Oscar nominations for Judi Dench for Best Actress and for Best Makeup. Shooting on location in the royal palaces and grounds which are nicely preserved from Victoria's time, the film does have the look and feel of Victorian Great Britain and the troubled monarch who reigned over the Empire.Were she and Brown ever physical? I doubt that very much, the very practical Brown was not a stupid man and would never have pushed his luck that much. But he was a tower of strength for the woman whom he brought out of mourning to take her place which was a large one in the world. "},{"Title":"I loved this film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  There may have been a bit of poetic license taken with the story of Queen Victoria and her Scottish groom, but this is an absolutely wonderful film!  Dench as Victoria and Connolly as Brown are absolutely superb, and the rest of the cast is just as good.  (Antony Sher is brilliant as the shrewd and compassionate Disraeli, and though its not a big role, he is a joy to watch.)  The developing bond between Dench and Connolly is very believable and there is a real chemistry when they are on screen together. When the story begins England is growing very tired of their Queen's prolonged grieving over her now long-dead husband Prince Albert -- she has virtually eliminated her ceremonial appearances and cut herself off from the public literally for years. Problem is, no one seems willing to confront Her Majesty with the fact that it is high time she move on.  No one, that is, except John Brown who recognizes that even the Queen of England needs to be treated like ordinary human beings once in a while.  Their developing relationship is charming and touching.  This is no dry, historical period piece, this is truly a great film.  (Ten out of ten from me, and I don't rate films a full ten very often!) "},{"Title":"Excellent, A Truly Wonderful Movie!","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The promotional material that was released for this film including the descriptions that appear on the box to me bear no resemblance to the film itself. Queen Victoria is suffering from terrible grief after the loss of her husband and the film is about her loyal friendship with Mr Brown. Why they describe it any other way I cannot fathom, perhaps only because they think it will sell more copies (but disappoint more people at the same time). Both Dame Judy Dench and Billy Connelly CBE both play outstanding parts in this film. Both characters are complex and have deep emotion which both stars pull off exquisitely. Anthony Sher is also excellent and with such amazing makeup can actually be confused for Benjamin Disraeli. This film is about real people and these real people have real emotions and that's what this film is about. I only mark it down because of the incorrect labelling of the film by the marketing people. "},{"Title":"Finally..a film that makes royalty seem human...","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This film is about the relationship between Queen Victoria and her personal servant John Brown. While a few have conjectured that their relationship was closer than is portrayed in the film, no real evidence of his appears to exist. However, the film studio marketed the film that way--as if the film was about some sexual or overly-intimate relations existed. The people who actually made the film did a good job of sticking to facts and were probably horrified by the way the film was advertised.The film begins a couple years after the death of Prince Albert--Victoria's husband. His death came as a shock, as he apparently contracted Typhoid from eating fruit and died while still a relatively young man. Victoria was so shocked by the death of her beloved husband that she went into deep depression and refused to come out of mourning or assume her regular duties. Eventually, Brown became her servant and slowly eased her out of this depression and became her closest confidant--and amazing thing since he hadn't an ounce of royal blood. Naturally, this caused a stir--royals resented it and the Prime Minister (Disraeli) was irritated that Brown kept the Queen out of the spotlight--staying with her on a very, very prolonged stay at her home at Balmoral, Scotland. Where all this goes next is something you'll need to see for yourself.As a history teacher, I liked this film as it was more historically accurate than many other films on royalty and British history I have seen (such as Anne of the Thousand Days, Mary, Queen of Scots, The Other Boleyn Girl and many others). In addition, I like how the film focused on Victoria as a person--a real person with lots of foibles--a rarity in movies. Billy Connelly also did a lovely job as Mr. Brown. I lovely film from start to finish.By the way, the apparent paranoia that John Smith had throughout the movie was VERY justified. During this same time period, Presidents Lincoln and Garfield were assassinated, as were the Empress of Austria-Hungary, as well as Czar Alexander II--among others. And, unsuccessful attempts were made all the time--including one on the Emperor of Austria-Hungary, Franz-Josef. "},{"Title":"Top notch all the way","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Dame Judi Dench is Mrs. Brown - that is, Queen Victoria, and Billy Connolly is John Brown in this 1997 film, based on fact, of Queen Victoria's relationship with a Scottsman, John Brown, who becomes her servant. The excellent script is by Jeremy Brock and the director is John Maddon, who does a wonderful job.The widowed, deeply grieving Queen Victoria has basically retired from public life when John Brown, who served her late husband, appears on the scene to help draw her out. Each day, he stands outside with her horse, even though she refuses to ride. Eventually she rides again, and also takes walks. Attracted to his lack of formality, the Queen becomes extremely fond of Brown, making him the object of jealousy at court.Both the stars are magnificent in their roles, and the atmosphere and costumes are perfect. Dame Judi Dench is a queen who is deeply aware of her position and protocol, but also is a vulnerable, sad woman, guilty that her newfound friendship is betraying her husband's memory. One can see her being drawn out slowly by John Brown, and finally enjoying the deep friendship. Connolly is great - tough, uncompromising, and fiercely protective of his Queen, though he realizes after a point that she needs to return to public life.In history, John Brown and Queen Victoria were suspected of being more than friends, thus the name Mrs. Brown, and in a diary was found the report of a deathbed claim by Rev. Norman Macleod, that he presided over Queen Victoria's marriage to John Brown. This really hasn't been proved, but the Queen was buried with a lock of Brown's hair, his photo, and his mother's wedding ring, as well as Prince Albert's robe. Most historians feel it was only a friendship and point out that after Brown's death, she became close to an Indian servant in much the same way. She obviously needed a confidant after her husband died.The cinematography is breathtaking. A truly beautiful film, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Minor masterpiece","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This clever, tightly scripted & edited drama is a gem.  A study in personality, the acting is wonderful throughout and it is also a photographic delight.  A film that will endure as a minor masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film about Queen Victoria's love for a servant after the death of her much-loved husband.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Brilliant drama that is wonderfully written, directed, and acted. Judi Dench gives a staggering performance as Queen Victoria in depression and in happiness. Robbed of the Academy Award, Dench reveals a worthy performance that will remain the best work of her career. "}{"Title":"Great costume drama, well acted and paced","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I must admit that I ever since watching Billy Connolly deliver his take on the country song at Her Majesty's I don't know any actor whom I'd be more glad to see in just about any movie. In Mrs. Brown his gift for comedy comes across as strong as ever but is complemented by the great dramatic acting, which is more than can be said about many a recent comics-turned-movie actors. Or many bona fide movie actors, to tell you the truth. Connolly's duo with Dame Dench is matched perfectly, as the ice and the fire - often taking turns. Many historic films tend to drag their feet at times - or at all times - trying to get the period details in, but not this one. The movie is paced fast enough and offers enough dramatism throughout. The supporting cast is delightful, incl. Antony Sher - who for me forever will be the locksmith Loki from Eric the Viking - very believable as Disraeli.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"superb and fascinating period film","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I knew nothing of the history behind this film, but was captivated from beginning to end.  A very human and scarred Queen of England is emotionally adrift after her husband's death until a common man from her husband's past comes along and helps her out of her depression.  It's a tender story of how the human spirit is broken and can heal through the ministrations of another. A fascinating glimpse of Victorian England w/ excellent acting. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not the biggest fan of costumed period pieces but when I do come across a very good one, I am hooked.  Such is the case with Mrs. Brown. Starring Dame Judi Dench and a fine dramatic turn by Scottish comedian Billy Connolly, the story is about the tremendous grief of Queen Victoria, whose husband's death has left her so devastated that she has retreated from public life, leaving the monarchy in a frozen state of affairs. Connolly's Brown is sent for and immediately infuriates the household by his stubborn ways that begin with addressing the Queen without her permission. His forthright way soon leads the Queen to begin to sample some semblance of a life again, and as their relationship begins to grow, the sharks come out ridiculing the Queen as Mrs. Brown. Connolly begins to take over the entire operation of protecting the Queen with a paranoid streak a mile wide. Always the queen is his paramount concern and this leaves him at the mercy of all sorts of enemies. This is a finely played film with great performances by the two leads, and it is a definite must for fans of costumed drama, and a must see for those looking for a film that is more than explosions and shootings. "},{"Title":"A perfectly-crafted human drama","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An absolute gem of a picture. Judi Dench's acting has never been finer, and Billy Connolly seems born to the role of the stout-hearted Brown. This is a gentle film, but a sharply-observed one, and the political sub-plot involving the debate over the monarch's constitutional role and the speculation over her private life is all too relevant today. The humor is gentle, and Antony Sher as Disraeli inevitably gets the best lines here, but we are never more than a step away from the tragedy of the recent past, or the unhappiness that the Queen feels at her position. Nonetheless, the film is not depressing, just a perfectly-crafted human drama. "},{"Title":"Not quite what you'd expect","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Had I not read the review in The New Yorker, I would have been unprepared for the comic tone of some of the story, which I liked.  I never thought I would like a John Madden film after GOLDEN GATE, but this was good, although problematic.  The tone of the film is often haphazard, and at some points it seems like he wanted to make a thriller.  The film is best in focusing on the relationship of the Queen and John Brown, and Dench and Connolly pull their roles off well.  Antony Sher is also underrated as Disraeli, and provides comic relief without making him silly.  "},{"Title":"Friendship can cross class lines","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  As Queen Victoria is catered to and feared by everyone except loyal John Brown.  Billy Connolly, usually known for his comedy, does a remarkable job playing the strong headed and hearted John Brown- who was with Victoria for 30 years. Judi Dench shows the full range of emotion from grief and surliness to genuine caring for her faithful friend.  It is a shame that his diary was destroyed - the world might have seen another side of the queen who reigned for so long over the Empire. The movie is a deep look into what makes the bonds of friendship work.  "},{"Title":"A masterclass in acting","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Worth seeing if only for Judi Dench showing how to convey everything about a character through acting genius alone. She has virtually no lines for the first half of the film but wonderfully conveys all the feelings of hurt and regal isolation. Her not winning the Oscar was a triumph of chauvanism. Billy Connolly does well too, but the politics may render some parts of the film difficult for those unaware of mid-Victorian British politics. "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie wasn't a boring movie focusing on politics in the eighteenth century but a very well acted and dialogued movie. The movie didn't have any graphic violence and keeps the viewer very interested. A very good movie!  "},{"Title":"A captivating though quiet film by modern standards!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An enjoyable film experience. Well acted and kept the watcher's interest going. Sad but true to life ending. Pity his diaries were stolen and lost to the world. "},{"Title":"","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This was, in my opinion, one of the ten best films of the year. Judi Dench truly deserved the Golden Globe that she got for her performnace. The motion picture was spectacularly done.  "}{"Title":"One of the most heart warming films of the year","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This film shows the true meaning of friendship.  It shows  that frienship can grow from the most of opposite people,  and yet they can care so much about each other.  "},{"Title":"Judy Dench portrays the wrong Victoria!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Victoria was born in 1819 and ascended the throne at 18, in 1838. All portraits of her showed a spritely, cute, attractive young lady. When Albert died in 1861, she was only 42 and her relationship with Brown put them in their 40's and early 50's. Judy Dench played her as an old dowager, much like the photographs we see of Victoria at her Jubilee when she was 68.I think Dench only touched the surface of the stubborness, isolation, and fear Victoria must have exhibited during that period.Though Dame Dench was superb, as usual, I think she missed the mark of both age and personality of what Victoria must have been during the period of the film. "},{"Title":"Billy Connolly!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  An English friend introduced me to Billy Connolly many years ago, telling me he was the funniest man in the world.  And that he may be (check out his comedy performances--he is amazing); but his dramatic talents haven't always been well used.  In Mrs. Brown he is flat-out brilliant.  Judi Dench got more awards (and she was excellent) but Connolly's performance is layered, oracular, ornery, charismatic, overwhelming.  He seems like the soul of Scotland, wrapped in a passionate, sometimes dysfunctional, sometimes rewarding relationship with an England (and its queenly personification) which thinks itself superior but cannot conquer.  I thought it was the best work anyone did in any film in 1997 and am sorry he didn't get more attention--and better roles in other films.  (Beautiful Joe?  The Imposters? Please.) "},{"Title":"Unleashed Petulance","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is two films in one.The first film is about an annoying, celebrated woman, jailed by the forces of the situation she controls. She becomes surrounded by the influence of exuberant intuition. Nothing different here from the many versions of the `Lady Chatterly' template. What makes it different is the second film, overlapped. This is a film about a petulant actress who insists on a certain acting style regardless of what the project demands. That's because she is a victim of the forces at her command she commands them and they command her, forcing her to be the character she plays. It is always the same character, only slightly nuanced. It is a successful character, so we tolerate her most of the time. But there is always an underlying annoyance.Here, she is set free by Connolly who dances around her traditional acting by his sheer intuition. Seldom do the actors so parallel the characters.This is a good film. Madden places the camera around and about the space as if he were part of Connolly's world. Together, we Connolly, Brown and Madden conspire to unfetter this stiff actress, pathologically under the control of her own mannerisms.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"The entire cast was incredibly convincing.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I admit that I had ulterior motives for watching this movie even though I originally wanted to see it in the theatre.  But in the meantime, I saw USA network's Attila and I just had to see something else featuring Gerard Butler.  So I rented the movie this week.  Mrs. Brown is, however, a wonderful movie.  Historically based movies are very intriguing to me.  The acting is superb and Gerard Butler (not recognizable from Attila) is quite good.  Overall, I really really like this movie. It is hard to go wrong with Judi Dench, everything she does is fantastic.  I loved the Scottish accent. Mr. Butler has a particularly thick accent.  His natural charm is very evident in this movie.  In Attila, his incredible animal magnetism is very much highlighted.  In Mrs. Brown, there is this very youthful innocence that is hard to ignore.  Overall, I was not as impressed with Attila, though, I was very much impressed with Mr. Butler.  But not necessarily with his interpretation of Attila.  However, I do believe that it may well have been the directing of Attila rather than his acting ability that was at fault.  In Mrs. Brown he is very convincing.  As Attila, he is not as passionate as I would expect the real Attila would have been.  Somewhere he loses the believableness as a passionate warrior king.  As I said, however, I believe that might have been more from the direction he was given, not his ability.  He is certainly forceful in Mrs. Brown.  I would love to see more of him in upcoming films.  Since Attila will be playing in April, I will watch it again.   Perhaps I missed something.  MRS BROWN WAS A WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL film!  I have watched it several times because it is so good. "},{"Title":"Dame Judi Dench and Mrs. Brown","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The intrigue and scandal surrounding Queen Victoria (Dame Judi Dench) and her devoted Scottish servant (played by stand-up comedian Billy Connolly) rivals any of today's tabloid headlines. Hollister (who is obsessed with the did they or didn't they?) thinks history is brought alive through film. O'Toole would have given Dame Judi the Oscar (you'll be surprised with Hollister's take). Hear in Judi Dench's own words what deterred her from film for so long. O'Toole, groupie that she is, is blown away by her range (from sitcoms to Shakespeare) &#x96; concluding the podcast with a recording of Dame Judi performing in a Sondheim musical. Enjoy the behind-the-scenes look at the making-of &#x96; as well as the historical asides &#x96; what did Queen Victoria bring with her to her grave? There are some things that only the two of them will know for sure. But for the rest of eternity it is one of the great stories of love, commitment, honor and discipline during the Victorian era. Directed by John Madden (Shakespeare in Love). "},{"Title":"an experience","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" one of rare films who gives a new form of romanticism , more profound, more subtle and almost material. because it is story of a special friendship and a remarkable occasion for Judy Dench to create a memorable character with precise delicacy. a film about two worlds clash and about the emotion as subtle link between people. two cultures and a great chance to reflect the other in yourself. not the script, not the landscapes but the impressive acting is the key for the metamorphose of film, step by step, in an experience for viewer. not easy subject, it becomes in this film more than credible but subtle example about measure, sacrifice and the need of the other as shield against yourself. "},{"Title":"Gloria, Gloria!! Long Live Victoria!!","Date":"10 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I once wrote a very amusing poem about Queen Victoria. My mother liked it, anyway. (STOP LAUGHING AT THE BACK)!! Her reign as the longest serving British monarch (for the next few years at least) has always been a source of interest to me, as has the early death of her beloved Prince Albert and the subsequent mourning she went through for years afterwards. I didn't realise though, that a close friend of Albert's called Brown became her closest confidante afterwards and helped restore her confidence enough to return to public life and affection, just when we were sliding into republic territory. You could almost call it a mini romance... except, both parties were far too respectful of each other to go further than the occasional kiss on the hand. Ah, the pangs of unfulfilled passion...The servants disapprove of him, the Queen's children are jealous and the Prime Minister sees him as a chance to increase his poll ratings by influencing the court. But through it all, his defiant Scottish personality sends all schemers and plotters packing, and Victoria's devotion to her new manservant is nothing more than total. Of course, something has to give... but despite things not quite working out, his impact on her life and the British Royal family was indelible, and is now part of history. We know Judi Dench can play this sort of role better than almost anyone alive, but Billy Connolly is a revelation as the unstintingly loyal Brown. Reigning in his natural comedy instincts, he delivers a performance full of determination and heart... It's easy to see why Her Majesty falls for him in such a big way.Perfect as a companion piece to The Young Victoria, they show a figure who is complicated in many ways, but always put her crown and country first. Go watch them both back to back, and then you may be inspired yourself to write an ode to this wonderful lady. Betcha it's nowhere near as good as MY effort though... 7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting drama of an historical controversy","Date":"6 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The middle part of Queen Victoria's reign is one of the most interesting and unusual among monarchs of the modern age. Mrs. Brown (aka, Her Majesty Mrs. Brown) covers that period. The queen and Prince Albert had been happily married for nearly 21 years when he died of suspected typhoid fever. As the movie opens, Victoria has been long in mourning over his death in 1861. Many months pass, and her family, the royal household, and the parliament want her to return to her public duties and get on with life. Finally, Victoria sends for a personal servant whom Albert had highly regarded at their Balmoral Castle in Scotland. For the next 20 years, John Brown takes charge of the queen's life and the royal household. The queen slowly comes to life again. The Prime Minister, Benjamin Disraeli, convinces Brown of the need for the queen to resume a public life for the sake of the kingdom. Brown helps the queen see the need and wisdom of doing so. Brown is much despised among the royal family, household and officials. Yet, he continued to enjoy a unique position and closeness to the queen until his death from pneumonia in1883.Much about the relationship of Queen Victoria and John Brown remains secret or mysterious. It is still controversial among historians today. But, most agree that Brown's role was helpful to the crown and England. Barely half a century later, another unusual royal relationship would rock Russia. The mad monk, Rasputin, wielded uncanny and bizarre influence at times over the Romanovs, Nicholas and Alexandra. Rasputin was killed on Dec. 30, 1916, less than two months before the start of the Bolshevik Revolution. He has been viewed by some historians as having helped bring and end to the Russian monarchy.Judi Dench does justice to the character of Victoria, and Billy Connolly is excellent in the role of John Brown. Other roles are all handled very well by a superb cast. The history of the time comes alive in the scenery and settings for the film. But for some curious aspects of this film, I wouldn't have written these comments since there were already many reviews. The first oddity to me was with the lead actress, Judi Dench. Queen Victoria was a short, stout woman, and rather plain looking. If anything, Dench gives her more character in her face. But, she seems way too old at the start of the film &#x96; when she should be about 42. And then, she doesn't appear to age at all over the next 20 years. She even seems to be a little younger. This was enough of a distraction to me that I couldn't get into the film &#x96; in the time and place, for the maximum enjoyment. Victoria and Albert had nine children. Two died in their 30s and the other seven lived long lives &#x96; to an average of 76. At the start of the film, four of them would be teens and three of them younger. We don't see the two youngest at all &#x96; Beatrice and Leopold, and the others all appear as older children and young adults. Albert (Bertie) who would become King Edward VII, and Princess Alexandra of Denmark were married in 1863, when he was 21. Any of the film details about Brown and Victoria that may be true were probably taken from the Highland Journal, and its sequel, which Queen Victoria wrote and had published. Otherwise, there don't appear to be any other written or historical accounts. I suspect the notion of a diary kept by Brown was fictitious, since it was destroyed according to the movie. How would anyone know about it otherwise? "},{"Title":"British is best","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The worst year of Queen Elisabeth II as head of the state was probably not worse than the attention the British royal court got when Queen Victoria got engaged with her groom John Brown 150 years earlier. Unfortunately, it was a completely different time, a another world, and this relationship almost broke down the British monarchy.This movie is very well played. Judi Dench is magnificent as Queen Victoria, an awesome personality with a heartbreaking soul - and this performance earned her an Oscar nomination. Billy Connolly isn't less impressive; a Scottish groom in kilt, brimming with confidence - a free speaking man. Queen Victoria and him are two totally different people, but they fit together very well. The movie is characterized by great acting all over, as well as a good British sense for bygone times; the delicious nature surroundings and a good eye for details. This made the movie a great experience, but I see something about it that took it down a notch the plot is too quiet in periods, and the script didn't allow room for any reflections. But in any case I did like it. "}{"Title":"Her Majesty, Mrs. Brown","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I don't want to be slanted towards any film labeled awards-crowned, which would be a surefire guarantee that it is better than average, even though it stars one of my all-time favorite actresses Dame Judi Dench and it is one of her premier glare. HMMB is a British period film from John Madden (whose Shakespeare IN LOVE 1998 would upset the Oscar ceremony in 1999 and honor Ms. Dench's a golden naked man for best supporting actress), wrestling with a solemn relationship/friendship between Queen Victoria and her staunch servant John Brown, a royal entanglement which almost hamper the monarchy in UK history.It is perplexing to tell the narrative's dependability because Brown's diary has never been found, thus the film uses a mediocre approach to meticulously organize its contentious subject matter in a tenable and restrained patterns, the interaction between Queen Victoria and Mr. Brown is not as ample as one had anticipated, a bona-fide friendship never really sensed throughout the entire round, also the screen time of Dame Dench is curbed into sundry fragmentary montages, the sparkle of a two-hander abates slowly and the final showdown has been sketched into a intensive but abrupt manifestation. Ms. Dench rocks in her queenly selfhood, an inscrutably stately potency exuding from every scene she is in and Billy Connolly is not shied away from his zany and inflammable character, a tad hard to swallow but at least spiritually admirable. All in all, the film has extracted a disreputable scandal from the British history and transformed it to an over-cautious biography which shows that it is as bland as the director's emblematic signature of his works. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Bit Of Royal Trivia","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The nature of Queen Victoria's relationship with her Scottish servant John Brown certainly isn't of earth-shaking historical significance, however it does make for an interesting enough story, some good speculation (both in their day and in ours) and a reminder that royal scandal didn't begin with the current crop of British royalty.After the death of her beloved husband Prince Albert, Victoria became very attached to Brown, who in turn became very protective of her. Their relationship was for the most part a very informal one (shockingly so to others, to whom deference to royalty - especially from commoners, and servants to boot! - was the natural state of affairs) and the obvious closeness of their relationship led to rumours and innuendo about the possibility of a love affair between the two. The movie takes no side on whether that happened or not (although the very closing scene, in which two of Victoria's most important counsellors are relieved that Brown's diary was found and that no one else had seen it perhaps implies that something had happened) and the reality is that there's no solid historical evidence to suggest that any romance developed between the two. The movie does portray in a very convincing manner the complications of such a friendship the jealousy felt toward Brown by both his fellow servants (to whom he becomes quite haughty at times, rubbing their noses in his special status) and by other members of the royal family, who feared the potential for scandal and also resented the fact that Brown was closer to Victoria in many ways than they were.The movie is a good period piece. The sets and atmosphere seem authentic and there's some great Scottish scenery in the midst of the story. The movie also features great performances from Judi Dench as Victoria and Billy Connolly as Brown. Also not to be overlooked is a fine performance from Antony Sher as Disraeli - the Prime Minister whose own position as head of government is being threatened by the Queen's increasing unpopularity when she secludes herself for years after Albert's death, and who eventually has to seek Brown's help (because Brown seems to be the only one with influence over her) to get Victoria to reclaim her public role as sovereign. The story may be trivial from a historical perspective, but at least it's interesting trivia! "},{"Title":"A beautiful, touching, brilliantly acted film","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I really wanted to see this movie, as I love Judi Dench, and when I saw it was going to show on TV, I knew I had to see it. The result is a very beautiful, touching and brilliantly acted film. Also excellent are the intelligent, sophisticated screenplay and sensitive direction. What made it so beautiful was how it was filmed; beautiful cinematography, scenery, costumes you name it. The music is soothing, pleasant and tender, and the story is somewhat tragic and compelling. And the acting is outstanding, Judi Dench is absolutely mesmerising as Queen Victoria and Billy Connolly was a huge surprise as John Brown, giving a restrained and very moving performance, proving he can do serious roles while being thoroughly decent at comedy as well. Of the supporting performances, I thought the best came from Anthony Sher as Disraeli, and Geoffrey Palmer is also great. Overall, topped with a poignant ending, Mrs Brown is a wonderful film. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Reign of Dame Judi Begins","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Judi Dench plays Queen Victoria a year before winning her Oscar for playing Queen Elizabeth, and Billy Connolly plays the man who helps her recover from the depression she falls into after the death of her husband.This is a tasteful, quiet period piece that has not much to recommend it cinematically but does give one the opportunity to see some terrific performances. American audiences didn't know who Dench was at the time of this film's release, but that was soon to be corrected. Because she lost the Best Actress Academy Award for this role (to Helen Hunt, of all people), she won the very next year for her 30 seconds of screen time in Shakespeare in Love and has been an Oscar regular ever since. She could play a fence post and be nominated now, as long as she did it with a British accent.Grade B "},{"Title":"The true story of the relationship which shocked the nation","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Mrs Brown is directed by John Madden, is written by Jeremy Brock, has music by Stephen Warbeck and stars Judi Dench, Billy Connolly, Geoffrey Palmer and Anthony Sher.Queen Victoria(Judi Dench)is living in seclusion at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight for several years after the death of her beloved husband Prince Albert.It is while she is there that she meets a royal servant John Brown(Billy Connolly)who is put in charge of her horse. Brown is told to await her instructions for if she wishes to ride out any day.Brown is loyal to the royal family but has little patience with Victoria's staff or with her eldest son, Edward Prince Of Wales, who he can see is a spoilt and angry child instead of a mature and dignified Prince.After several outings together the Queen and Brown strike up a close friendship and he tries to draw her out of mourning and come alive again and stop being depressed about Albert.The Queens family, aides and the public find their relationship disturbing and find it hard to accept that a common person could mean so much to the monarch. This true story is a love story that has both pain and joy and some outstanding acting and is filmed in the beautiful locations of the Scottish Highlands. Dench and Connolly are both superb and have a lovely chemistry. Anthony Sher steals all his scenes as the Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli. "},{"Title":"Another Oscar-worthy Queen","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" A successor to The Madness King George, i.e. personal crisis for period monarch, featuring much-loved British actor in principal role. Luckily for Madden et al, Judi Dench, promising international fame with Goldeneye released the previous year, fulfils the expectation heaped upon her in excess. Hers is an exquisite performance, which should be held as the benchmark English monarch alongside or even above Helen Mirren, Cate Blanchett - or even Dench's own Oscar-winning Elizabeth I (Shakespeare in Love, the following year).Billy Connolly proves to be the biggest surprise of the project, a sympathetic but also well-pitched and serious 'Mr' Brown. The rest are a solid, characterful background ensemble, my favourite being Anthony Sher's Disraeli. The film looks wonderful, with a limited but rich palette of colour and some real attention paid to the period detail.Yet Dench is the marvellous epicentre of the piece. It's a good film, no more, made indelible by it's eponymous principal. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good if you like period pieces","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This was a surprisingly good movie. Okay, I turned it on because I saw Gerard Butler in the list of actors for this movie. If he is the ONLY reason you are considering watching this film I would not recommend it for you...he has a minor part, although you do get a good look at his naked rear. Or you might watch it for him if you want to see him in his early years. Anyways, if you, like me, love period pieces then this would be a good movie to watch. I don't mind first gear movies, which this is. It is also witty and a different look into the royals. I can't get enough period pieces. If this is true for you add this to your list. "},{"Title":"A good drama that is worth a look","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Mrs Brown is a movie my mom has almost killed me over, lol, just joking. But she wanted me to find it on DVD, I could never find it, but I did find it at Hollywood Video and just told my mom about it, she freaked out and screamed for me to rent it. So I rented it and put her at peace, lol, but anyways, we watched it together this afternoon and I have to say that I didn't see the dramatic deal with the movie, my mom actually said it didn't seem as good as before either. But I wouldn't deem it as a bad movie at all, it was actually made very well with some fantastic and very distinguished actors of our time.Queen Victoria and Prince Albert's marriage was one of the happiest in royal history, so when Albert passed away, Vicotiria is devastated. The queen is in ultimate mourning and England is not pleased with the way she is handling it. But when a Scottish horse servant, John Brown, comes to help her, they become best friends and eventually lead into something more scandalous leading England her majesty's court to question her abilities as their queen.Mrs Brown is very well made and has a very strong cast that keep the movie together. It's a movie I would recommend if you love time pieces. It didn't thrill me, but the story was very interesting and wonderful in the fact that you got to see the human side of Queen Victoria. That it's possible to question emotions and a sense of duty, something most of us face in a life time.7/10 "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I must admit I watched this movie because I am hot for Gerard Butler. It was disconcerting to hear he and his brother with two different Scottish accents and the fact that the guy playing his brother is old enough to be his father. Anyway, I saw the previews to this movie years ago and wanted to see it and finally rented it. I liked it up to a point and then I felt the movie just sort of petered out. It didn't end it just sort of faded away. Billy Connelly is the real star and it should have been entitled Mr. Queen Victoria because his whole life revolved around her. I didn't think he had a great deal of influence over her, but he did have respect and affection for her and treated her like a real person instead of just royalty. Anyway, it just goes to show if you base a movie on a real life person, the story suffers. I thought Butler was too thin. I like him more filled out. (And didn't get to see him catching hypothermia in detail enough.) "},{"Title":"A fine film that is effortlessly engaging","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" In mourning after the loss of her husband Prince Albert, Queen Victoria calls for his former aide, John Brown to be on hand for her walks and such. On arrival, Brown upsets his colleagues and peers by speaking his mind to her &#150; indeed upsetting her as well. He persists though and eventually she goes on a ride with him. His frankness with her seems to win her over and sees her confide in him, increasing her isolation and his standing within the house. At the same time, the political absence of the Queen is felt within the Commons and pressure starts to build not only on her to return to public duty but also in relation to her unusual relationship with Brown.Nobody should let their lack of knowledge of the characters and the period put them off coming to this fine period drama; I myself knew nothing of them but I do try and spot a quality film when I see one &#150; and so it was here. Based on fact to a degree, this film could just as easily as been made up and still be just as effective as a story and a drama. The strength is in the development of the characters, the relationship between Victoria and Brown and the political pressures that push on them from outside. The film does all these things impressively and in doing so produces an engaging story that is as driven by the political ongoings as it is by the development of the simple friendship at its core. Madden embraces the pace of Brock's writing and avoids sensationalism or overdoing things where subtlety makes things better.The cast are a massive part of the film working though. Dench won an Oscar for this performance (albeit a year late &#150; anyone who thinks she won it for Shakespeare in Love is crazy!) and it was thoroughly deserved. She does the typical Queen Victoria sternness well but she does a much better job of softening her character gradually with good touches here and there. Connelly is just as impressive &#150; personally I've never been that taken with him as a stand-up comedian but here he has a real presence and a real understanding of his character &#150; chasing position, finding friendship and love and everything that that brings. They work together really well and they drive the material forward effortlessly. Support is classy and impressive from people such as Palmer, Sher, Butler and others &#150; there are no weak links in this cast.Overall then this is a fine and engaging film that works on many levels. The material is really well written with characters, relationships and standards well laid out and presented. The cast respond with two tremendous performances from the leads and classy support throughout. An all round classy film that is effortlessly engaging and elegant and well worth its reputation. "}{"Title":"Queen Victoria Would Have Loved It as well.  Bravo","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Cast was perfect. Densch and Connilly earned our love.I am convinced the story was close to the truth and love does not always need sex, to be love.John Brown saved Victoria's life, by breaking through the protocol, and guiding her back to life.We have often seen like situations between a Royal and a common servant, where the common sense wins over divine responsibilities in Royality.Roman Holiday comes to mind. Eliabeth and Essessex is another.Royals are attracted to blue collar life, as Royals are so withdrawn from the freshness of sunlight, stimulation, that their false sense of duty, slowly pulls their vitality right out of their bones.Royals loose contain with the Street and are kept apart from Life's parade.Princess Diana, is a good example, of how a Royal can rebel and go out amongst them, meet people of low birth, AIDS patients, and the children of the poor.Like Mother Theresa one's divinity is actualized, by touching the people of real life.John Brown could have moved more carefully, in breaking social barriers, and survived, perhaps, but to play it safe, would not be true to his characteristics, his nature. Prince Albert adored John Brown for his recklessness, his carefree, masculine freedom to be a MAN against Victorian falsehoods.Like Howard Hughes, the genius, became a hostage and a victim, to his Morman staff. Protecting himself from life, germs, and villains imagined in his own mind, Hughes, is a prisoner of his own design.Mrs. Brown gives up a rare view of Queen Victoria, crippled by her fears of her beloved husband's death. She would have a place setting for Albert, at every meal, got into Spiritualism, trying to talk with Albert without success Queen Victoria sought help and guidance from Christian Science, by contacting Mary Baker Eddy in Boston. The two women became good friends. A little known relationship between two famous women.Mrs. Brown is worth several viewings, as it has many emotional levels that bear fruit. VSS "},{"Title":"Sad, sweet and enjoyable","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Mrs. Brown was supposedly made for television and perhaps only made a cinema release due to the revival in subtle, intelligent films that took place towards the end of the nineties. It's a good thing that it did though because this film deserves a chance to be seen.The film tells the story of the unrefined scots ghillie who befriended (and, some believe, bedded) Queen Victoria, following the death of her husband. Billy Connolly plays ghillie John Brown in a performance that is, like the film, subtle and full of understated emotion. Followers of Connolly's stand up act will be astonished by the depth and range of his acting skills. Judi Dench, as Victoria, is no less impressive.The script is witty and relevant, with some not-too-subtle references to the public invasion of the private lives of celebrities (a hot issue at the time following the death of Princess Diana).Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Understated and a slow-paced","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Good, meticulously crafted, no-compromise drama (more) Although I am a great fan of historical drama, I found this movie to be too slow-paced.  I found myself looking at my watch,  often.  Judi Dench provides her usual solid performance, and I was pleased to see Billy Connolly can do more than broad comedy.  All and all, though, I enjoy Judi Dench and Geoffrey Palmer much more in the TV series As Time Goes By "},{"Title":"Victoria's Secret.","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" There is ample evidence that Prince Albert was anxious to escape from his marriage to Queen Victoria.Divorce would have been out of the question of course so one can well imagine that his early death provoked mixed reactions from senior politicians and Courtiers close to the Throne. Similarly an officially recognised liaison between the widowed queen and a servant was not to be countenanced either.Fortunately the servant too met an early death,an event that was universally recognised in Royal Circles as a stroke of luck. Thus Queen Victoria,Empress of India,Defender of the Faith and ruler of half the world was,in effect,imprisoned by her so- called advisers,and had her life manipulated in order to preserve what they considered to be the best interests of that rather vague concept The Monarchy She was in her forties when she met John Brown.A century and a half later this may be considered to be no age at all,but as a woman of her time,she would have been regarded as quite elderly.She may well have been menopausal. She had virtually withdrawn from public life,she was lonely,depressed and stoically facing a rather bleak future. Into her circle comes a loud opinionated arrogant charismatic groom with little regard for protocol(not ideal qualifications on the face of it). Over time she becomes more and more dependent on him.The Courtiers are unhappy as they watch his power over the Queen increase. In the struggle between the Palace Guard and a servant there is only going to be one winner. Whether the Queen and John Brown ever had what is euphemistically called a relationship is probably only known to Royal Historians.The facts are that rumours regarding their behaviour were circulating widely. Brown's death put a stop to them. It is said that Victoria never really recovered from it. Mrs Brown,apparently a less than respectful nickname bestowed upon Victoria,breaks no new ground.Whilst the Queen and her groom are shown to be what passes for close in Royal terms,there is no hint that they are making the beast with two backs.Mr Billy Connolly - the well -known Professional Scotsman - plays arrogant opinionated loud John Brown as if to the manner born. A lot of good actors are wandering around to not much purpose in the background. Mr Geoffrey Palmer,the eternal optimist in pessimist's clothing,being an honourable exception. Over-praised on its release,Mrs Brown will one day,I'm sure,be recognised as a capable and pleasing enough piece of work featuring two very popular TV performers acting well within their comfort zones. "},{"Title":"it must be weird to be queen","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When Mrs. Brown came out, it seems like Judi Dench wasn't a household name in the United States - although she had appeared in a number of famous movies by then. Ever since the movie came out, she has received five Oscar nominations (one of which was a win). Here she plays Queen Victoria, having a fling with Scotsman John Brown (Billy Connolly). Naturally, this creates some suspicion among the people in her inner circle.One thing that I felt while watching the movie is that it must be weird being in Queen Victoria's place, what with the way that people always have to follow her around everywhere that she goes. But either way, it's an interesting look at a certain part of history.As for the whole thing about Benjamin Disraeli, I actually have a connection there. My 2nd-great grandparents immigrated to Canada when Disraeli convinced Queen Victoria to allow the Jews to immigrate there to escape the pogroms in Eastern Europe. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Brown","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not sure if what happens in this story is true, the longest running queen to date having some kind of close relationship with her servant and best friend, from John Madden (Shakespeare in Love). Queen Victoria (BAFTA, Scotland BAFTA and Golden Globe winning, and Oscar nominated Dame Judi Dench) has recently lost her husband and she is quite quiet about it. She one day meets a new servant to take care of her, e.g. horse riding, clothes, requests. John Brown (BAFTA and Scotland BAFTA nominated Billy Connolly) is the Scottish servant that helps her. But their relationship causes a lot of commotion in the monarchy. Also starring Antony Sher as Benjamin Disraeli, Geoffrey Palmer as Henry Ponsonby, Richard Pasco as Doctor Jenner, David Westhead as Bertie, Prince of Wales, 300's Gerard Butler as Archie Brown, Bridget McConnel as Lady Ely and Sugar Rush's Sara Stewart as Princess Alexandra. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup, it won the BAFTA for Best Costume Design, and it was nominated for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film, Best Film, Best Make Up/Hair, Best Production Design and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Scotland BAFTA for Best Feature Film. Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses, she was also number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"What kind of friendship ?","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This is about friendship, or about master / slave ?I can´t believe that this is a friendship movie, this friends become from nowhere, their friendship is based in a no-dialog relation, they talk to each other two or three times in the movie, so How can They become friends when he is treated as the slave of the Queen ?  Where is the sense of this great Queen ?  She is horrible !The actors and locations are so good !I don´t know if this is a real story.  Is it ? "}]