[{"Title":"You'll love the movie if you are intelligent enough to understand the psychological games","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It isn't too hard to understand why this movie wasn't a great success at the box office. Most people expect to see an average Hollywood version of a cop movie and they will be very disappointed when seeing this one. No, it isn't about the good cop chasing the bad guys, making a beautiful little hole in the forehead of everyone that doesn't obey the law. This movie is much more subtle and probably a lot harder to understand for a lot of people.In fact, the whole movie is created around only three actors. But not just three actors, we are talking about Chris Penn, Tim Roth and Michael Rooker, who all did an excellent job. Trust me, never have I been more fascinated by three men in a darkened room, pushing each other to their mental and physical limits.This is how the story goes A prostitute has been murdered and there is one suspect. He's an extremely intelligent, epileptic alcoholic who is able to deceive everybody, even the polygraph. His investigators try to make him confess the murder by playing little mind games, only to see that he outsmarts them time after time.The dialogs are fascinating, the use of flashbacks very interesting. Add some tense interrogation scenes with a lot of psychological war fare and a huge plot twist at the end of the movie and you know you have something special. I guess those psychological games will not be understood by everybody, but you'll love it if you are intelligent enough to understand them. I know I did and I give this movie an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Dark and suspenseful '90s film noir","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The cast, the camera work, the music and the dialogue all create a dark and surreal tone that's haunting and riveting. Tim Roth, Renee Zellweger and Ellen Burstyn all dominate so completely that you can't look at anyone else when they're onscreen. It's as much an exercise in acting and mood as anything, but the story is fun to follow. I don't think it's supposed to be believable in the literal sense. How can it be when they throw in epilepsy, absinthe, prostitution, family dysfunction, etc. Every character was well-cast (LOVED the psychologist) and the tension and undertones in the actor's interactions with each other make it an impossible-to-forget movie. It's one of the few I own. The scenes with Mook (Burstyn) as well as those with Roth and Zellweger are ingenious. A movie that must be watched closely to understand the ending. "},{"Title":"A movie where the acting comes first.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has first class acting.Tim Rooth delivers a great performance and so does Michael Rooker.The movie is very dark and mysterious.A big part of the movie takes place in a little room,but this just helps make the movie even better.The story is really clever and it reminds me a lot of Usual suspects.This movie uses good camera work and great acting to build the story,and that is they way it should be.Good thriller with lots of suspense. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love a movie that will capture me from the beginning and never let go. This movie was like that for me. This is the movie that made me a fan of TIM ROTH. He is fascinating to watch, and the character he plays is fascinating to watch.The movie goes into the psychology of each of the lead players, and I found myself collecting ever more answers -- with always a few more questions with each answer.It's not one of those kinds of films that tries to make sure you know the answer to anything -- yet lets you see most everything -- and still find yourself wondering. It's got little action, yet is continually stimulating and thought-provoking, interesting and fun to watch.I've seen this movie more than once and it's one of those rare films I know I will enjoy watching again and again -- and I think that every time I watch it I have new answers -- and new questions. Anyone interested in psychology will love this film. The acting are all excellent, the cinematography wonderfully mood-setting, the direction superb. I gave it 10 stars. "},{"Title":"2 cops try to solve a murder by using a polygraph","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An epileptic man takes a lie detector test to prove he had nothing to do with the death of a stripper. During the test, the private lives of the investigators comes to light due to an investigation by the investigated man. This causes the case to take a strange turn. The film flashed back and forth in time showing the cheap tawdry lives of all involved in the bizarre circumstances. Great story and fascinating dialogue kept me on the edge of my seat all the way through. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Lie Detectors Don't Tell the TRUTH!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a very different film with very difficult roles to play and all the actors, Chris Penn, Ellen Burstyn and Renee Zellweger all did a fantastic job in trying to make this film believable. Most of the film deals with flashbacks, lots of sitting down with lie detectors and even the police wind up having to take a test. There are many twists and turns to this story and you really cannot look away too quickly or you will find yourself getting lost and completely mixed up. After viewing this picture, you can see why Lie Detectors are not really used in a COURT OF LAW! The ending of this film will fool you completely! The cops and bad guy in this film all have secrets and some how, it all works out in the END! "},{"Title":"Poor story and average structure take away from the tough acting and tense atmosphere","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A prostitute is brutally murdered and the police's only lead is James Walter Wayland, a drunken epileptic who is heir to a very successful textiles company. With little to go on but his testimony, Detectives Braxton and Kennesaw hook him up to a polygraph and begin to question him further. Wayland's arrogance and contempt for them immediately rubs them up the wrong way and they increasingly suspect that he is not telling them everything. They keep pushing him, aware of his illness, in the hope that he will start to crack. However what they never foresaw was that Wayland would push back, getting information on both the men and turning the tables on them.With a pretty heavy weight cast, I was attracted to this film when it went by the much better name of 'Liar' in the UK without really knowing a great deal about it. The film has an interesting premise and offers a good flashback structure with some tense interrogation scenes but the plot is not strong enough to really deliver this and ends up twisting into some silly places that fail to convince. The development of the story meant we were thrown in at the deep end &#150; not a problem at first, but I never really got a handle on the film until near the end, making sections of it unengaging. The way the plot turns and twists is also a problem, because very little of it actually rings true, with some of it seeming extreme or just plain nonsensical. It is delivered well though, the interview room is used to increase the tension and seems to become steadily darker throughout the film to produce a good mood.This tense mood is helped by a pretty good cast, in particular the lead three who have enough testosterone to start a riot. Roth plays the meatier role from the start and he does have fun even if I didn't think his epileptic thing really worked that well. Penn is OK but doesn't have much to do other than bash heads with his co-stars, but it is Rooker who manages to steal a lot of the film. Starting with the feel of just a tough guy role, Rooker delivers a much more complex person with self-loathing that is convincing (up until the script takes his character away). The three interact well and the tension between them almost covers from the fact that the story isn't actually that good &#150; but their shared scenes at least have a tough energy that makes them watchable. Support from Arquette, Zellweger and Burstyn is fleeting but adds the feeling of depth.Overall this is not that good a film; the story isn't convincing and is full of silly jumps, nor is it structured that well. However these problems are slightly covered by three tough actors in a small dark room, providing a reasonably good sense of tension and urgency. Of course without the story to back them up, the film gradually starts to come apart and delivers a deeply unsatisfying ending, but it just about has enough going for it to make it watchable.  "},{"Title":"Unconventional film, thought provoking, excellent portrayal","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie Deceiver was done in a very creative and unusual style. Unconventional camera angles and editing lent well to the story line's confusion and general uneasiness that the actors themselves were feeling. The film is thought provoking with excellent character portrayals. Tim Roth's performance was exceptionally believable and extremely well done. All in all, a very well thought out production that I thoroughly enjoyed! "},{"Title":"A very dark and ultimately impressive Mystery drama.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be a very impressive and completely underrated crime mystery-drama of '97. Tim Roth is very nicely cast as the seemingly innocent but deeply emmersed rich kid, Ya come looking, ya might not like what ya find!. And from there we are aware of the possibility of a slightly bitter note to end on but not sure how. Chris Penn is also very good in a relative, ordinary, and completely ignorant role, particularly towards his partner. Speaking of whom, Mike Rooker is outstanding, this being his greatest performance since Henry... Good support is supplied by Zellweger and Burstyn and the director certainly knew his screenplay as it is sharper than Rooker's character. Definataly worth a few Golden Globe Awards, namely to Rooker & Roth, if not Oscars. A totally interesting drama emmersed with dark and vile horror. "},{"Title":"badly flawed high baroque murder thriller","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This has hints of Abel Ferrara about it (esp. the welcome appearance of the late and lamented Chris Penn from Ferrara's 'The Funeral.') I've seen this twice now, and am still not quite sure who really murdered Elizabeth. It doesn't really matter, I suppose, but there's a sense here in which style predominates a bit too strongly over substance. Michael Rooker & Tim Roth overact a bit - so the steadying presence of Chris Penn is helpful here. I'd liked to have known more about Roth's upbringing and so forth than we're granted. The scenes of him with his parents & friends are some of the best - all that baloney with lie detectors in dimly lit rooms becomes a bit dreary after a while.Nice to see 1) Michael Parks (one of the nastiest villains in Twin Peaks) - here confirming one's idea that psychiatrists and psychologists are easily more strange and conflicted than their patients, and 2) Mark Damon - most famous in American cinema from Roger Corman's Fall of the House of Usher way back in 1960! Worth an outing if you should ever get bored with the Pittsburgh Penguins, but hardly worth all the effort you need to expend in an attempt to 'work out the story.' (By the way, are all American police really like this?) "}{"Title":"Not one of Tim Roth's best films","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are a lot of twists and turns in this film and the majority of the plot and the characters behaviour are not credible at all. It begins well but suddenly the viewer is catapulted into total confusion. The viewer is not sure whether anything or anyone is real. ..................SPOILER COMING UP................................. Personally I think that Tim Roth's character is bad. He is a rich boy who knows it and doesn't like anyone telling him what to do/think and thinks he is above the law. He uses his money and intelligence to do what he wants and this gets him out of a very bad situation. He is attracted to and thrives on an 'otherness' to his world of responsibility - illegal liqour, vice, drugs, murder. "},{"Title":"That's the point of the game isn't it?","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Deceiver (AKA Liar) is directed and written by Jonas and Josh Pate. It stars Tim Roth, Chris Penn, Michael Rooker, Ellen Burstyn, Renée Zellweger and Rosanna Arquette. Music is by Harry Gregson-Williams and cinematography by Bill Butler.The gruesome murder of a prostitute finds chief suspect James Wayland (Roth) in an interrogation room undergoing a lie detector test. Two detectives, Phillip Braxton (Penn) and Edward Kennesaw (Rooker), are overseeing the test and sure of Wayland's guilt. But they are soon to find that Wayland is no push over and as the mind games start, dark secrets begin to come into play...Without doubt it's an acquired taste, met with indifference upon its release and still causing debates on internet forums, Deceiver is one of those films that infuriates and fascinates in equal measure. As the title of the film suggests, deception and untruths are the order of the day here, not just in the claustrophobic interrogation room, but also in how the brothers Pate toy with us the audience. With its reliance on a non linear structure and convoluted plot, focusing the attention is greatly required, especially since the use of a rug-pull device will either seal or kill the deal. As the walls close in on the interrogation room sequences and the flashbacks and character subplots flit in and out of the tale, the Pate brothers bring striking photography and angles into play. Sometimes it's a POV camera technique that has an edginess that seems to be probing for a crack in the armour of the person it looks at, at other instances it's distorted backdrops that run concurrently with the psychological chaos buzzing around the sweat tinged room. While the dialogue the characters are given crackles with the hard-boiled intensity that graced many a 40s and 50s noir thriller.With a trio of superb lead male performances leading the way and a narrative loaded with duplicity and deviousness, Deceiver is crackerjack neo-noir. It's guilty of excess at times, and it's not hard to understand why some find the trickery too much to bare, but for those who like labyrinthine crime thrillers then this hits the spot. In fact! Repeat viewing is very much recommended. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pretension is not enough","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First of all, this is not really a mystery thriller, it's more of an opportunity for the actors to chew the scenery. The plot makes no sense and the ending even less. It is pretentious in the extreme. Evidently the writers thought they were exploring the depths of the human soul and how people deceive themselves and others. Actually it's a mess. The three main characters, the suspect (Tim Roth) and the two cops are rotten to the core; in fact every character in this movie is rotten except for the prostitute/victim (Zellweger) who's an amiable dunce.A young woman has been murdered. The suspect is hooked to a lie detector and begins a game of psychological cat and mouse, the premise of which is so bogus it's impossible to sustain interest. All three, suspect and two cops, are lying and covering up unsavory parts of their lives. I got the feeling that the script was designed by postmodernists who don't believe there is any reality or any truth. This makes for terrible storytelling because if there's no reality as a reference point, there is absolutely no interest in the outcome. This is Last Year at Marianbad disguised as thriller.The ending doesn't make any sense because we are never told who actually committed the murder. We're given a brief scene, about five seconds, at the very end which suggests that the suspect has in fact faked his death and is revived, but that is too little to be sure of anything. How could that happen? Or was that just another flashback? Since everything seems to take place in an alternate surrealistic universe, where nothing makes sense anyway, then the only thought we are left with is Who cares? "},{"Title":"A bit slow, a bit unrealistic at times...","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tim Roth does quite a good job at playing this epileptic rich man who's interrogated by the police (without any assistance from his lawyer?) even though he can be caught red-handed overacting in places. He's not the only one, though - same can be said about Michael Rooker. As for Chris Penn, he underacts. Almost as if the actors had not known quite what to do with their characters, or had lacked proper guidance from the directors.Some situations are very unrealistic - can't tell you which for fear of spoilers,but no doubt you'll spot them. Unfortunately, these were sufficient (in my case), to impair that suspension of disbelief which is so necessary to the viewer. And if you can't believe the story, you'll notice the film is slow - and repetitive. And oh, so, so predictable...  "},{"Title":"True Deception!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *** Contains spoiler ****Those who don't get this movie, didn't pay attention to the scene where Wayland buys his memory eraser drug.  And who is one of the paramedics at the end?If you like twisted, demented mysteries, you'll enjoy this movie. The film's title is appropriate, and you will be kept guessing and on the edge of your seat (even after the end)!  The acting is terrific -- especially Roth & Rooker.  "},{"Title":"If you're wondering why you'd never heard of this movie....","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ..with celebrities such as Tim Roth, Renee Z, and Chris Penn...I have the answer. This movie was beyond horrible. The blatant anachronisms are never explained, the twist was anything but...and well, shoot (imdb wouldn't allow me to say spell out a different word..even when i tried to use alternative spelling-huh, what a family friendly site!), folks..save your dollar and/or time and don't bother. I'm also adding text here because my initial review was very brief--I attempted to just tell you'll that this movie stinks...but apparently I have to go on. and on. and on. so once again, don't see this movie. it stinks. it stinks.P.S. don't believe reviewers that tell you must be intelligent to get this movie. if you don't get it, it's because the movie failed miserably. period. period. "},{"Title":"Makes no sense....","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Loaded with fine actors, I expected much more from Deceiver than was delivered. The plot is extremely contrived and manipulative. The many flashbacks only add to the confusion. Believability flies out the window and with the ending becomes unbearable and downright ridiculous. I would strongly advise anyone who likes their movie plots to be based on something that is at least possible to avoid Deceiver because you will be very frustrated. Maybe I am just not hip enough to get it, but my suspicion is that many others were totally confused by the story line and especially by the ending. Blurring the line between reality and lies simply does not work because the entire movie made no sense. - MERK "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How can anyone think this is a bad film? Tim Roth is excellent. The cinematography is great. You feel the tension in this movie. I saw this before I got into anything Tarantino, and it has a very Tarantino-esque feel to it. Dark. It draws you in. The story is well developed, and the characters are strong. Not a predictable flick. See it. "},{"Title":"As usual, Roth rocks","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are two reasons to see Deceiver - one is for the great performance from the always-superb Tim Roth, and the second is for the superb performance from the always-great Tim Roth. In all fairness, the two detectives and Renee Zellweger were excellent as well.  The story is convoluted in a way but sometimes that's not really a bad thing, if the convoluted-ness is done in a creative fashion, as it is here.    I have to say that I saw the ending coming about three-fourths of the way through, but it was still very engrossing nonetheless, the kind of film that leaves you nodding with a satisfied smirk on your face at the end because you DID figure it out, and sometimes that's not a bad thing either. "},{"Title":"The first film I've seen in a while that not all people are smart enough to get.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first movie I have seen maybe ever that does not care if every person will understand it. You either have to watch this movie many times or be a very intelligent person to comprehend all the twists. One reviewer here was upset because it was what he called a wannabe Usual Suspects. It is not where the Usual Suspects sought to be so plain that every viewer would have to be able to piece together the ending 30 minutes in advance (the smoking Kaiser Shurze with a gold lighter, for God's sake) Deceiver utilizes something that has been missing from movies since the invention of Hollywood- abstractions. In case it's been a while since anyone has heard of those, they are abstract concepts that are targeted for only a select few people (the most intelligent people). Abstractions have always and still are being used in serious literature; however, I have never known them to be in movies- Hollywood has always dumbed down it's material for the mainstream's enjoyment.The question is, then, are you intelligent? I mean, do you consider yourself to be a smart man? As smart as the next guy? Watch Deceiver, and feel the thrill of knowing you have a superior intelligence at every realization of an abstraction (the feeling that first reviewer I mentioned obviously didn't get).Also, some of the reviewers here seem addled. If you've thought and thought and still know the pieces somehow don't fit, don't fret, all of us have missed one or two puzzles in our day; the very fact that something doesn't sit well with you proves your naturally exceptional level of intuition (hell, my friend didn't get it and he's mensa). Anyways, I know how not knowing the answer can frustrate a person, so if any of you guys that appreciated this movie enough to review it, I'll help you out, and I guarantee you'll be hitting yourself on the forehead.  "}{"Title":"Kept me guessing","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  7 out of 10. A great Rental movie.  This thriller had me guessing all the way up to the end.  I  waffled back and forth from disliking characters to liking them. Roth is again great as a nuerotic over priveleged epeleptic.  He is by no means  a physically imposing man, but in some of the scenes, you get a real sense that  this guy is dangerous.I also like any casting of Penn as the laughable but sincere looser.This movie is one of those rare pick-ups at Blockbuster.....  never commercially  touted, but seeing the actors on the box makes ya pick it up....   You get it home  and wow....  its a great movie. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth Jewel!!","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Somehow this hidden treasure had escaped my radar until now. As usual Tim Roth does not disappoint. The accused characters mentally abused by his disconnected parents, epilepsy and absinthe addicted personality seems custom written for Roth. In truth, few other actors could have pulled that off. There are stories within stories here and the movie holds your attention throughout. A modern day noir with a great surprise ending. Two powerhouse actresses, Patricia Arquette and Renee Zellwegger were under utilized in this film. Chris Penn gives an adequate performance as the junior and somewhat less intelligent assistant detective, but his ignorance is not as great as the audience is made to think. I was a little surprised by the relatively low 6.4 rating. This film deserves much better. Well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Underrated thriller","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a hidden treasure . A clever and dark psychological thriller . It reminds me of a movie that David Fincher (Se7en) would have made if he was in shape . The Liar or The Deceiver as the movie is sometimes known is an intriguing movie that keeps you at the edge of your seat. This is an example of movie in which you can have three people talking in one room and you can't take your eyes off screen.The movie is really dark and full of tension. You can never know what will happens next and what dark secret will be revealed. You must figure out for yourself what is true and what is lie.Tim Ruth is great as the main hero (?) who toys with other people minds. He is really one strange guy. Chris Penn gives a really good support in a rather standard role of not too bright cop. The real star here is Michael Rooker who is AMAZING . His performance deserves an Oscar. You have to see it for yourself. Renee Zellweger and Ellen Burstyn also give quite memorable performances.Good movie . A hidden treasure . I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" CAUTION ****SPOILERS************ STARTS WITH A SPOILER! **The staged death near the end was a bit implausible and Braxton's part was not completely explained. Seems the money he puts in the Lieutenant Kennesaw's drawer is planted to give the Lieutenant grief, but was Braxton in on it? Is the appearance of Kennesaw taking payments or bribes sufficient justice for a murderer? Especially when they had a videotape showing that Kennesaw knew the hooker and was sexually violent with her -- possibly enough to establish a solid case for homicide? So why not just have him arrested and forego the need for Wayland to go underground and lose his inheritance? Like IMDBer Robertllr asked, why was the staged Braxton debt to Mookie integral to the plot? Sure, it was a flexing by Wayland, but unnecessary. And why other than to feed one's own ego was this insidious game even played against the police, especially tormenting Kennesaw? Yes there were lots of implausibilities and possibly unexplained parts of the plots.Elisabeth was adorable and rose above the part and lines, upstaging Rosanna Arquette (Mrs. Kennesaw) who had a similar part but looked terrible in character. Shapely Elisabeth is pretty and portrayed the tenderness in her platonic bond with Wayland nicely.The shrink and Mookie are famous actors and their fairly minor parts were very well-played. Ellen Burstyn as Mookie, with that hair, looked like Cate Blanchett when she played Bob Dylan in I'm Not There.The film showed some anti-law enforcement leanings a guy gets routinely manhandled by two cops in the background yet visible area at the station, just outside the interrogation room. The police in my city are much smarter and better-educated than this. The polygraph team is composed of a security guard that barely finished high school, and a knotted up, jealous, insecure tough, who are openly advertising they have, can and will manipulate the testing to try to convict Wayland, and brag about how poor lie detector results have locked men up for years. The most blatant incredibility is the cops' simplistic read on Wayland's answers OK you have admitted to lies that aren't white lies so you must be a habitual, malicious liar. When he showed them he could trick the lie detector machine by picking a playing card, and causing it to malfunction when he lied and told the truth, they naturally would have suspended the test. And the cops' remarks that you can't outsmart the machine was ludicrous and inconsistent, as polygraph tests are not determinant.I liked everything about else this film. It wasn't as involved as Usual Suspects, and the similarities were few. I disagree with Ebert about this being about cleverness for cleverness' sake, and the plot trumping the actors. But I can't hold a candle to Ebert.Roth received a British Oscar and has been nominated for an Oscar and a Golden Globe. Ebert says the plot upstaged the actors and that this as a film about actors rather than characters. It's interesting that he's the star of TV's Lie to Me, in which he's Dr. Cal Lightman, an Expert in Lies and Liars. I liked the ending. What tipped it to me was the mortician with the shiner, though the overly-long camera shot on the face of the vaguely familiar ambulance-driver only sort of evoked a little suspicion.Got it this as my free Blockbuster oldies flicks. What a treasure! "},{"Title":"A nice dark thriller.","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film has a very simple story, a murder is committed with only one suspect and the police are using a lie detector to try and prove he did it. The film is interesting mainly due to the performance of Roth as the suspect who is determined to prove his innocence, whether true or not, by whatever means necessary.This is a dark and smart film with both Roth and Rooker giving excellent performances. The pace is quick with tense interrogations being broken up by flashbacks and background showing a little of the problems faced by each character.The ending is a little off, it is too convenient and not as good as the rest of the writing. A good if flawed film. "},{"Title":"Pretty heavy","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One thing you'll immediately notice about this crime thriller is its extremely dark look, this movie really makes you appreciate sunlight. All the action happens in this one really unpleasant interrogation room, only some occasional flashbacks make you remember there's a world outside, a world full of pain that is. The claustrophobic atmosphere is the strongest point to this movie, because it makes the psychological insights to our three main characters all the more interesting. Who did it isn't the main issue here, the main issue is how and when the killer will finally be caught. Eventually the eternal darkness gets tiresome, but by then the plot is actually moving someplace so it doesn't really matter. What does matter is the ending though, which I've seen quite a lot of times before, often better written. That is to me the only disappointment to this movie, the predictability of the ending. Other than that it's a nice piece of atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Exquisitely dirty","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An extremely dirty movie. Everything is dirty a horrid crime where the victim is a prostitute and the main suspect is a rich young epileptic with no moral boundaries who drinks drugs down with absinthe. The investigation is led by a gambler and a man haunted by his own dark ghosts, threatening to destroy his marriage. The operator's work is also dirty, the picture is dark, people's faces reveal more and more animalistic features of their owners, turning the all in monsters by the end of the film. The investigation spiraling out of control reveals increasingly dirty details of the case. The end is shocking in it's cruelty. This movie may be crossing a moral verge of our perception of dirt, making us watch it till the end never taking our eyes off the screen. It reaches it's goad - we become engrossed in the dirt, seduced by it's dark appeal. An exquisitely dirty movie. "},{"Title":"Suspense almost to the end","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm giving this film a 6 stars because of the quality of acting and production right up to the last seven or eight minutes. It's a cat-and-mouse game between an elitist suspect and two proletarian cops, and at any given time, who is winning is determined by who can surprise whom with unexpected knowledge of his adversary's private life.As long as that is happening, the film is fine. Suspension of Disbelief was finally broken, close to the end, by one BIG script problem (spoiler coming) The suspect, a caucasian and an American citizen, supposedly dies during a police interrogation. But there's no autopsy. No autopsy? I DON'T THINK SO, GUYS! The dead character and his family may not be on good terms, but I think they would want to know why he died, and they got big bucks to swing it. So it's one of those films that works great right up to-but not including-the end, where it falls apart. "},{"Title":"Interesting Show","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just  saw it tonight on television.  Once again, a show with ROTH and PENNappears a little twisted but good.  The appearance with Michael ROOKER in the cast can always  guarantee some  heavy scenes.  Also, it was a treat seeing a younger Renee ZELLWEEGER in a  limited role.  Of course, all four actors have played in better  movies, but the mix in this show was excellent. "},{"Title":"confusing???","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm always surprised to find out how many people don't understand the movies that I love. I didn't think Deceiver was that hard to understand. (Sorry if I'm bragging. I don't mean to) I was intrigued by some of the plot twists, however.  I loved how the story would take you down a particular path and suddenly climb up a tree, or dive into a hole, or otherwise go in a completely different direction. All of this was a pleasant surprise considering that I had never heard of it before and caught it on TV at 3a.m. (late night/early morning movies usually leave a lot to be desired). I'll admit that the only reason I turned it on was the guide said it starred Tim Roth. I'm a big fan and I find that even if the movie is less then great he still does an amazing job. With Deceiver I got the best of both worlds. Roth gave a terrific performance (as usual) and the movie was awesome. I was on the edge of sleep when I turned this on and I was wide awake in under 5min. I seriously recommend this movie.   "}{"Title":"Great (Angst-y) Psychological Thriller","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I picked up this movie just because it was rent one get one free, but I was immediately impressed by the film.  Even after three viewings, I'm still not exactly sure what was real, and what was not.Tim Roth plays a rich young man, Wayland, who the police have brought in for questioning, in regards to the murder of a prostitute (played by Renee Zellweger).  He is soon hooked up to a lie detector machine, the prop around which the whole movie revolves.  We soon find that Wayland is a pathological liar and an absinthe addict, but he is not the only one with a few secrets.  His very questioners appear to have a few things to hide themselves. Though it's not exactly a Hitchcockian psychological thriller (nor does it pretend to be), this movie is a good way to get on a nice cheap rollercoaster thrillride.  It is a must-see for those who are really interested in scences of angst.  Great job by Tim Roth. "},{"Title":"A tense drama that has an interesting perspective","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  +++++++++++ Contains Spoilers ************** I liked it. The acting was first rate. The script was well written and the cinematography excellent. Tim Roth was (as always) superb. I saw the ending coming when I recognized the ambulance driver and remembered that Roth had purchased mind erasing drug from Mook. In this story the apparent murderer is smarter and richer than the cops who are trying to get him to confess to the murder of a hooker, whose body has been cut in two and stuffed in two suitcases and left in different parts of town.  It goes to prove that he who has the most information wins.All in all worth seeing, maybe even worth seeing twice.  "},{"Title":"I was trapped in this film!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My husband got this movie in a bargain bin for $2.99. Was ready to eject it but got hooked immediately. Barely blinked as we watched it. Totally compelling.Have rarely seen Tim Roth. but Wow!, will watch for his name from now on. He was Absolutely Terrific. He played a suspect with an exceptional IQ so easily & convincingly that it must inherently be one of his qualities. Is he lying? Is he simply uncannily perceptive? Is he playing a role? Is it all a big joke to him?The answers are not thrown at you or simplistic. The script makes you work at them (which I appreciate).As the story continues something sinister but slightly out of reach takes over -- a knowing without knowing, a suspicion, a hint, an underlying gnawing -- is it real? Or something we're reading into it the plot?I bought these characters totally. They were as real as they were mesmerizing.The ending was taut & compelling, as was the whole movie. Who kept this under wraps?It's a real find & if you do find to, grab it up it's well worth it. "},{"Title":"Actor Michael Rooker steals the picture","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Actor Michael Rooker, whom I haven't seen before, gives a nuanced, high energy performance as a cop on the path to self destruction.  He's trying hard but is being cleverly manipulated by his suspect, played by Tim Roth. He's also being betrayed, unknowingly, by his partner, played by Chris Penn, in a solid performance.  Tim Roth is fine in his role as an overly clever enigma, something he seems to specialize in. This picture is thoroughly enjoyable. And, although its a bit overly convoluted it still stands head and shoulders above the usual Hollywood trash.  I'd sure like to see Rooker in a lead role, but I guess its not likely!  One can only hope.   "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was great!It ranks right up there long with The Usual Suspects. This movie made Tim Roth one of my favorite actors.The movie itself is very well written and directed, although i would have liked to get a little better insight into Det. Kennesaw personal life. I saw half of this movie on tv, and thought, that it was good. Then i realized my mom had on video, and i sat down to watch it from the beginning. It was fantastic! Tim Roth should have been nominated for an Oscar for his performance in this dark noir film. Unfortunately, not many people have seen this movie, and it's a shame. Deceiver is really great!4/5 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are looking for a entertaining movie, rent this one.  The plot twists force you to pay attention, but I don't think it is too hard to understand as long as you are fairly intelligent (it is an intelligent film just remember that Wayland does imagine things and at the end, you need to use your imagination yourself.  I love Tim Roth, and as usual, he gives a dynamite performance.  Everyone in this film does a great job, I applaud each of them.  I would recommend this film to anyone who is smarter than Braxton.  I would give it a 9/10.  Very few movies I would say are 10/10. "},{"Title":"Michael Rooker walked away with this movie (in my opinion)","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was definitely a psychological thriller - mind games were bountiful throughout the movie.  I was especially impressed by Michael Rooker's acting in this movie as Kennisaw.  There were times when I thought he was going to have a brain aneurysm because he was so tense.  I also liked the way the camera shots were made (movements, etc.).  But most surprising was the ending!  Nothing was as it seemed.  Braxton (Chris Penn) was equally as surprising.  I must say Rooker has my sympathy. "},{"Title":"Rich Characters, Good Film, thrown by ending","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this a more cerebral movie than most with actual character development sorely lacking in most other flicks. My only complaint was the ending. I don't consider myself dense, but I couldn't quite follow. "},{"Title":"Help with this one, please","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  DON'T READ THIS IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FLICK.  I GIVE AWAY THE STORY.I am usually great with puzzle pictures.  But parts of this one confused me.Now, I realize the whole of the Roth character's act is all an elaborate plot to get the him off the hook and back on the streets. (Implausible as the faked-death ending is, the clues are in plain sight.)But what I don't get is (and this is partly because the dialogue is very nearly inaudible  What has Braxton's bad debt (also faked?)got to do with it? Why is it necessary that he be dragged in?  Is this a sort of back-up maneuver, Plan A, as it were, to bribe them off the case?  And why does Roth give up the game to him?And what about Kennesaw?  Did he really kill her?  I couldn't make out much of that Russian roulette scene.  What is going on?  "},{"Title":"SO YA WANT SOME SERIOUS ACTING!!! (bit of a spoiler)","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just about every one in this film is fantastic, if you want to see what real actors can do with a film that has a small budget and no big bangs to distract you from how poorly written the plot is, this is for you. Now, as for those user comments I read about this movie who don't get the ending.....you didn't pay attentiontsk tsk). Tim Roth is so good that you can actually feel thethe evil coming off of his character...there hasn't been a film thats made me feel this way in a long time. Just don't get up for a drink or anything or you could miss something crucial to the story line...well, at least hit pause if you do! "}{"Title":"Hmmmm...","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made me think. I had trouble understanding it, I caught some of the stuff at the end, but the reason for it eluded me. I liked the style, the acting etc.  especially Tim Roth. Rene Z. was quite good even though her role wasn't huge. The man who played Roswell was VERY good. Maybe I should read the script, maybe THEN I'd get a clearer picture of the reason why. Don't get me wrong, I like movies with ambiguous endings, but this ending seemed more muddled than ambiguous. I suppose the situation depicted in the film wasn't supposed to be clear. I found myself trying to find a reason, or a non-reason for the ending. Still pondering.... "},{"Title":"An intriguing fraud","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This hoax really pulled me in. Even half-way through--when I knew I was being had--I couldn't turn the damned thing off. Bottom line a lot of talented people desperately looking for a way out of this Chinese-puzzle box. "},{"Title":"Rent this movie!!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had no expectations regarding this movie (I'd never heard of it) but was pleasantly surprised.  The movie had me on the edge of my seat throughout, and I found the various plot twists exciting and, for the most part, unpredictable.  Chris Penn and Tim Roth were excellent.Definitely worth renting.  "},{"Title":"It was a free showing - why did i bother","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OK so i am like most people, give me free tickets and i will go and see most things, now that multiplex cinemas are so good (i remember the old flea pit single screen cinemas and i am the healthy side of 40). In England this film was released as Liar, it's a dog. It is a total waste of good celluloid. 4/10 for the photograpy and set only. "},{"Title":"nothing like a twisted mystery","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  tim roth is truly unbelievable in this movie.  he puts in a great performance and the the rest of the cast follows with good acting of their own.  the movie takes you into a dark world where the horribly demented seemed to dwell.  it is a movie that offers lots of varying plots that in one way or another come together to finish the movie off.  very few things flaw this movie.  one of them being that i couldn't read any of the little scripts at the beginning of the movie.  for me, this movie was the most surprising that i have seen in awhile. "},{"Title":"What a movie...","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  LIAR is by far and away the best movie I have seen for a long time. The scripting is taut, superbly plotted and contain some really choice lines; the acting is top notch all round (especially the god-like Tim Roth); the direction is classy without being showy. As previous reviewers have noted, not everyone will get this movie completely, and some may find it too slow-moving in todays  climate of CGI explosions and pistols that never run out of bullets, but if you like your movies to have a brain, something to say, and that say that something in a style that just oozes excellence, LIAR is for you. For those who are still stuck on the ending, email me and I'll do my best to give you my reading. "},{"Title":"Good acting. However the ending made me go Whaaaat?","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great cast. Great actors. Very Interesting story. I wonder what the original script looked like before the cuts. I wonder if the ending made more sense than what was shot. What was the deal with that extra/girl at the end???? I just didn't get it. Still, I would suggest renting it.  "},{"Title":"Labyrinthine plot--no redemption for viewer","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All too many movies these days lead the viewer down a path ofcrazed circumstances and convoluted plotlines only to arrive atthe end with nothing to reward the viewer. Although this movieseems to have potential in the first half of the movie, much ofthe twists and turns and character surprises do not serve really to amount to anything. A fine movie by acting standards, Roth seemsto overact in only scene here and Chris Penn turns in a solidperformance as the heavy cop once again. Perhaps the movie wastoo convoluted to begin with for me to be surprised at anyending. Thumbs up, ma "},{"Title":"Dark Shadows and Gold Light","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Deceiver is a chilling and seductive movie about lie detectors, both mechanical and human.  Tim Roth plays Wayland, a poor little rich boy -- that is, man -- who sponges off his parents and suffers from epilepsy, absinthe addiction and a partiality for hookers with hearts of gold.  When one such hooker (Renee Zellweger) turns up dead, two cops (Michael Rooker and Chris Penn) give him a series of lie detector tests.  Turns out one of the cops might have a motive to kill, too.Most of the film is spent in flashbacks, exploring not only who killed the prostitute but why each suspect might have done it, and the lies they tell to cover their motives.  While the film resorts at times to plot tricks rather than genuine twists, the story maintains its interest by keeping you guessing until its last moments. Roth's character is both sleazy and compelling, his narcissism occasionally softened by  flashes of sensitivity. Zellweger portrays a vulnerable girl who seems to realize she is a lamb among wolves, and is past the point of caring. I recommend Deceiver for its  performances and for its loving and apt use of black shadows and gold light. "},{"Title":"I don't get all of it but I like it","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't say that I understood all of the movie.  The ending threw me for a loop.  The reason that this is an enjoyable and entertaining film to watch is because its an acting movie.  Everything anymore has to rely on action, sex, and profanity to keep the attention of its viewer.  And I don't even mean to say that this is the best movie either.  But it is the first that I have seen in a long time that deals with character building and scene building rather than character killing and scene destroying, if you understand my meaning.  I recommend renting this movie.  It'll definitely keep you guessing and on your toes.  Tim Roth and Chris Penn are always fun to watch in their carefully selected roles.  And Michael Rooker (is that right?) surprisingly turned out a good performance.  My tastes do not usually enjoy his work.  Check it out.  It'll keep you thinking. Ciao. "}{"Title":"Mexican Standoff","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (Major Spoilers) The film Deceiver has to do with a routine interrogation of a murder suspect that goes completely haywire with the person being interrogated turning the tables on his interrogators.As were introduced to the three major players in the film were also given, besides their backgrounds and extent of their education, their IQ scores! By the time the movie is over the persons IQ's more then explains how they grasps the situation, or situations,that they ended up finding themselves in.The heir to the Wayland textile fortune James Walter Wayland, Tim Roth, has been picked up as a prime suspect in the brutal murder of prostitute Elizabeth Loftus, Renee Zellweger. Elizabeth was found dismembered, like the infamous Black Dalia back in the 1940's, with her body sawed in half and in two different locations.The two cops on the case detective Ed Kennesaw,Michael Rooker, and his partner Phil Braxton, Chris Penn,seem to have broken the case with Wayland suddenly changing his testimony, during a lie detector test, and almost-but not quite- admitting his guilt! You at first get the impression that Wayland is truly guilty and is somehow trying to construct an insanity defense for himself. This is all due to Waylands severe infliction of temporal lob epilepsy that causes him to forget what he does after he all of a sudden loses it. Despite Dr. Banyard (Michael Parks), who diagnosed Wayland's illness, warning not to as much as touch Wayland when he goes into an epileptic fit Det. Kennesaw grabs an out of control, while he's being interrogated, Wayland and almost gets killed by him. This has Kennesaw, who had no love for Wayland in the first place, to get really aggressive towards Wayland in trying to pin Elizabeth Loftus's murder on him.As the movie reaches the midway point Wayland's actions become more and more obvious in that he's somehow using both Kennesaw & Braxton most hidden fears and secret lifestyles, that has both men on the very edge, to his own advantage. Braxton a compulsive gambler is in hock to big time bookie The Mook, Ellen Burstyn, for $20,000.00. The Mook, like all bookies, a sore loser is furious that Braxton got a hot tip from horse-racing tote Jebby, Bob Hungerford, in a race where a 50 to 1 shot ended up winning. The mad as hell Mook feels that Braxton somehow stiffed her out the money that he, as far as I can see, won fair and square.Now with his, as well has his families, life on the line Braxton desperately needs the 20 grand to keep The Mook's henchmen from breaking both his arms and legs as well as doing harm to his wife and two young daughters! With no one to go for help but his partner Kennesaw, who can only cough up half of what Braxton owes The Mook, it's turns out that the very rich and manipulating Wayland is Braxton's only hope to settle the score with the Mook. ****MAJOR MAJOR SPOILER**** The stuff that comes out, from Wayland, about Det. Kennesaw is far more shocking in that he in fact was involved with the murdered Elizabeth Loftus, as one of her Johns, on the very evening that she's was murdered! This in fact explains why Kennesaw is so determined to have Wayland indited in Miss. Loftus murder! Or is it!The ending in Decevier will blow you away in that everything that you, as well as Det's Braxton & Kennesaw, thought you knew about the brutal murder of Elizebeth Loftus is in fact turned upside down! And believe it or not that's, which should have been the big surprise in the movie, what turns out to be the films only as well as major flaw! "},{"Title":"another hidden gem","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A very nice obscure film that was definitely a delight to find. Tim Roth plays an excellent role of James Wayland, a very wealthy temporal lobe epileptic who (like Van Gogh) has a taste for Absinthe. Lies and deceit being the main theme as suggested by the title, are apparent with the setting of the movie an interrogation room. Wayland is to be questioned for the murder of a prostitute when his illness becomes apparent. A superb supporting cast delivers believable characters and a well paced plot for this psychological thriller. If you find this gem at a video store, stay away from the Seville DVD release as it is a horrible grainy transfer and you'd be better off with the VHS. I was lucky enough to find a newer special edition in widescreen. recommended to fans of the Absinthe subculture and fan's of sharp swerving plot twists. SHARP CURVES AHEAD. See also From Hell. "},{"Title":"the very complicated plot","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of the very best and very heaviest criminal thrillers I've ever seen. The screenplay is full of twists and turns so even if you watch with much attention you'll have no clue till the end. And in the end the film makes his final turn that amazed me because I've missed some important details - thanks to those who explained it here.Tim Roth is fantastic as James Walter Wayland, it is HIS role with all its contempt, psychotic mind twists and bizarre behaviour. He takes the cops for Untermenschen and, though really being in a very bad and vulnerable position, fools them throughout the movie. The other cast does the job good too.A must-have for every Roth fan and may be interesting to those who dislike Renee Zellweger - she is quite good in The Deceiver. "},{"Title":"A whodunit movie with a twist (or two)","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A whodunit movie with a twist This is mainly an interrogation movie, where Roth, a rich, smart and incredibly manipulative trust-fund baby, is interrogated for the murder of a young woman.He is made to undergo a series of questions and tests but manages to foil his interrogators at every turn. his degrees in psychology makes him a slippery person to question.if you like taut suspense with great acting, go rent Deceiver tonight!! you will not be disappointed.i give it a 9 (and i rarely give out 9s) enjoy "},{"Title":"Interesting Script","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT It was strange when I saw this film, because it played on UPN and then CBS the same day and I actually watched it twice that day. I have to say the acting is really good and the camera work is excellent. The story reveals interesting details all through out the interrogation. Every single character has something to hide and you don't really know what will happen until the end. Even though I'm still confused who is the real killer. Tim Roth shows up in the end and makes it look like hes the killer but it could go both ways I guess. The cop fails the lie detector and destroys the tape.  "},{"Title":"Uneven Character Study","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The acting was very good - I have always liked Chris Penn when he is correctly cast and he was in this case. Tim Roth can usually pull off over-the-top characters pretty well, making them believable to the extent possible. The problem was in this case is that the character as written was pretty unbelievable temporal lobe epilepsy combined with absinthe alcoholism is a pretty difficult combination to pull off, and I think the writing came a bit short in doing so. Still, kudos to all of the actors who put in good performances even if the material let them down. I think what the writer was trying to pull off, something like a Blood Simple (heightened realism & small town characters under extraordinary circumstances), came way short of the mark. But it seems obvious that everyone involved tried to come up with something new and interesting and they should get credit for that.All told, it is worth watching - the supporting characters are worth watching especially Ellen Burnstyn was a hoot as an underworld character, Renée Zellweger did a good call girl, Rosanna Arquette underutilized as a angst driven wife. I gave it a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Absinthe? That stuff is Crr-azy!","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really would subtitle this movie The Reefer Madness of Absinthe. There are blatant lies and propoganda about its use througout the film.  Let's start off with the movie first, however.  Terribly shot, with awful lighting, this falls into that mid-late 90's Usual Suspect/Tarantino wanna-be flick with it's innovative cinematography and cuts (note sarcasm).  The story is ridiculous and unbelievable. Tim Roth plays a spoiled eccentric rich kid who gets involved with a prostitute while jacked up on absinthe. When the prostitute is found dead his phone number is found in her pocket, thus tying him to the murder. He then gets interrogated by two awful cops who subject him to multiple polygraph tests and the plot sorta unravels from there.The un-truths in this movie are all over the place. First of all, absinthe does not make you crazy any more than a bottle of Wild Turkey. Secondly, the story of Van Gogh's absinthe use is partially fabricated.  Third, polygraph tests cannot be used to convict someone for murder. Fourth, absinthe drinkers (as in the artist cited by the doctor in the film) do not typically end up cutting off their skin with a paring knife (unless they're a little psychotic to begin with).The DVD transfer is AWFUL, grainy, and the aspect ratio is obviously wider than 2.351 as seen in the cropped titles at the beginning of the film. If this movie is on some cable channel on a Saturday afternoon and you've nothing else to do, I'd reccomend it on the basis of a curiousity for it's blatant anti-absinthe propoganda. Otherwise, stay  FAR away.  "},{"Title":"Smart thriller","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Deceiver is intriguing and taut.  Tim Roth gives the best performance in this thriller as the prime suspect of a murder.  The cast was fairly good, with the exception of Ms. Arquette.  Although she appears in a few scenes, Renee Zellweger does a superb job as a compassionate prostitute.  The directing is  great, from the Pate brothers(it seems that they have polished their skills after their previous effort, The Grave.)  The flashback sequences were detailed, as was the lighting and the editing. Deceiver is worth looking at. "},{"Title":"Wonderful until the either cryptic or botched ending.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Loved everything about this movie until the last minute.  Felt betrayed by the no-answer ending.  Clearly an elaborate scam took place, but why?  Too bad.    "},{"Title":"Not half as smart as it tries to be.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 102 min.After a reasonable start this movie descends into a muddled bog of unbelief by the end. Chris Penn has to act like a dumbfounded statue; a part he plays rather well; while his fellow cop (Rooker) steals a couple of scenes from the Shining and the Dear Hunter. The ending is not really a big surprise but one has to ask why anyone would bother going to such lengths.A big failing with The Deceiver is not that it is often confused or confusing but that it makes no real effort to make the viewer care.5/10 catch it on TV  "}{"Title":"Don't be deceived in underrated thriller","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Deceiver is another of these must see movies. It's one of my top ten favorites. The movie works partially because of the solid performances from it's leads, Roth, an actor who never disappoints, the best of the three. Very much like that AFI winner, The Interview, Deceiver is much more fun in the way Roth screws with you. He's the prime suspect in the murder of a high class call girl, Elizabeth Loftas (Renee Zewellger) who oozes a lot of damn sexiness, as well being a pitiable character, who you really feel sorry for, not just in her demise. There are moments in the film, and it's mainly towards the end, that you don't believe Roth is actually the killer. In his interview, where he's hounded by two cops, (Michael Rooker and Chris Penn) over a couple of days, Roth is obviously playing his own game, prolonging the interview, failing a polygraph, by faking a cough, whatever. We don't know what trick he has up his sleeve next. One scene, this game, involving cards and lies, one that Roth was obviously spose' to get caught out on, he outsmarts them, by playing funny buggers. I loved it. He's also an epileptic, we discover, this disability working to his advantage. We learn some interesting facts on epilepsy, and it's effects if mixed with this lethal drink, Roth's drunk, where a famous artist is referred as told by Michael Parks, always great, as a psychiatrist. In one violent scene, Roth explodes under pressure and begins throttling Rooker. These two cops have their own demons, Penn a gambler, Rooker, an old acquaintance of the dead hooker. Roth knows all the background of these cops, as we can see how this fits into the story, also as in Roth's plan of deception. Roth has ties with Penn's gambling friends where money can buy information. As Roth tells them I'm filthy rich, loaded. We even have one imaginary scene in a rich dining room with Roth and his parents. They're seated, at one end of this long, table, Roth sitting at other. Obviously from this, we get the gist he's not on social grounds with his parents, or, he's just an isolated child. It's a funny scene due to some of Roth's dialogue, where he gets up, goes to his mother and stabs her, then sits back down and continues buttering his bread, some blood merging with the butter on the knife. Roth makes this movie, enjoyably entertaining, that you wouldn't want another actor to fill this character's shoes. He's so funny in many scenes, being smug and grinning loud. The relationship between Rooker and his wife (Rosanna Arquette) who's just scenery in this movie was just puzzling, like an enigma. Like Roth, Rooker flashes out too, one weird scene in Rooker's kitchen. What the hell what that about. Things become quite heated as the film comes to wraps, with Rooker even being putting on the stand. When Rooker, is questioned as to killing Loftas, he can't answer. This movie never loses it's fire, right, up to the end, and it's killer twist. I never found any bit of the movie boring. It's solid background story is great in one hell of an underrated movie. Ellen Burstyn, as evil auntie Mook, who runs the gambling operation, where Penn's indebted to them, rules. Whatever happened to that really nice mother/actress she played the Exorcist. "},{"Title":"The Usual Suspects for people who don't know any better.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ***SPOILER ALERT***I love Tim Roth, I really do, and he does his best with an unbelievable role. I can see how this is a movie that might look good as a script, but it's convoluted, unlikely and ultimately silly. I saw the fake death ending coming a mile away. Rene Z. tries hard with an underwritten part, and so does Patricia Arquette. The detective whose name I can't remember (the one that's not Chris Penn) is a big sweaty over actor. See it if you're not smart enough to differentiate between a movie being so clever you can't follow it, and so confusing you can't understand it. See it if you like cheesy camera work that makes you seasick. See it if you love to watch Tim Roth work with an unwieldy script. See it if it comes on late at night for free. Otherwise, rent The Usual Suspects. "},{"Title":"Disappointing wannabe 'Usual Suspects' tale","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  LIAR was a major let down. The most disappointing film I have seen for a while considering that I went in to it expecting to be thrilled. The reviews were excellent, the story looked very intriguing and the cast was good. A very stagy 'did he or didn't he' type of story which plods slowly along and leads up to a preposterous twist and very poor ending. To cap that off there isn't one character that you will take a liking too throughout the whole film.  "},{"Title":"Moody mediocre","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mediocre is what a five is. Noirish, certainly. But strains credulity and therefore didn't get me into it. Didn't feel a thing, believe a thing, care a thing. Sure, the idea that a person could be hauled in, and in fact the cop doing the lie detector test could be the killer is in itself plausible, but the way that the two cops played around with this guy and there's not lawyer for him that is too much of a stretch. Good moody cinematography as I said, and some excellent acting by Roth and the actor who played Kennesaw, but the plot is too unbelievable for this to have any meaning. And then at the end, to be alive again, what that would take, and for that matter what it would take for Roth to know everything he does about the cops, that's too much and causes loss of interest. "},{"Title":"The Usual Suspects it ain't.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Deceiver starts out as a riveting thriller, but bogs down somewhere in the middle and leads to increasingly far-fetched and unbelievable revelations.  The mind game is probably my favorite movie genre, but the Pate Brothers need more practice before they can be called virtuoso players. I expected a lot more from this flick.  (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Worst photography I have ever seen!","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has the worst photography I have ever seen in a movie. Every scene is so dark it is impossible to recognize the characters or the settings. Action is tedious and boring... coupled with poor lighting, this might as well have been a book on tape (a bad book on tape).Useless to watch! "},{"Title":"Thought provoking?","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie tried to be good but failed miserably. No drama or tension and I couldn't have cared less for any of the characters. I actually stopped watching it after an hour and a quarter because I couldn't bare it any longer. If you want to see a boring movie watch this. "}]