[{"Title":"Engaging Drama From Pat O'Connor","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  	The lives of two brothers living in a small town in Illinois are profoundly affected by an alleged incident which took place even before one of them was born, in `Inventing the Abbotts,' directed by Pat O'Connor.  The Abbotts are one of the wealthiest, most respected families in Haley, Illinois; Lloyd Abbott (Will Patton) is a successful businessman who, along with his wife, Joan (Barbara Williams), has raised three daughters, the oldest of whom, Alice (Joanna Going), is about to be married, while the youngest, Pamela (Liv Tyler), is about to graduate from high school.  The Holts, on the other hand, are from the other side of the tracks, and Helen Holt (Kathy Baker) has had to raise her boys on her own.  John (Billy Crudup), the oldest, was two-years-old when his father was killed in an accident, while Helen was pregnant with his brother, Doug (Joaquin Phoenix).  There's no mystery about what happened in the accident; the bone of contention concerns what happened afterwards-- at least in the eyes of John, even all these years later as he is about to enter collage.  	John and Doug's father, it seems, had been business partners with Lloyd Abbott, but after his death, a patent that Mr. Holt owned somehow ended up in Lloyd Abbott's name, making him a wealthy man, while the Holt's ended up in their current state of affairs-- not exactly poor, but barely making ends meet.  And since his youth, John has been fixated with the Abbotts, especially their daughters, and one in particular, Eleanor (Jennifer Connelly).  But as with most things involving an obsession, it only put John on a lifelong emotional road to nowhere.	Told from Doug's point of view, the story becomes a lesson in life; when to leave the baggage of things best forgotten behind and move on.  Phoenix gives an affecting performance as Doug, who has an on-again-off-again relationship with Pamela, the one sister who is, `Just there,' as she says (according to her, Alice is the `good' one, Eleanor the `bad').  He captures that sense of being at an age when uncertainty is the only absolute, and you feel his need to search and seek out that toe-hold on life that is often elusive to the young.  There's an understated ring of truth in his portrayal that adds that depth which makes his character credible, and one to whom it is easy to relate.	Crudup delivers, as well, with a performance wound in introspective tension so tightly that there are moments when it seems almost tangible.  He carries a burden-- that from which his obsession was born-- and it shows.  John has so much going for him (the love of his mother and brother; good looks; intelligence), that watching him suffer so emotionally-- even at arm's length-- is sad to see, especially in light of the fact that it is so unnecessary.  Still, some of his actions (especially one late in the film) are intrinsically almost too brutal to forgive; only so much, after all, can be buried amid rationalization.  In the end, you feel for him, but only so far; and then you are compelled to do what he could not-- you move on.	As Pamela, Liv Tyler turns in a reserved performance that captures something of that same sense of confusion reflected in Doug's character.  A bit more grounded, perhaps, but there is still that `searching' going on within her.  Connelly, meanwhile, gets into her role as the'bad' sister with relish, exuding a self-assured sexual tension qualified with just enough restraint to make Eleanor a memorable and effective character.  Going does a nice job, also, though by the nature of her character alone, she is bound to be somewhat overshadowed by Tyler and Connelly.	The supporting cast includes Michael Sutton (Steve), Alessandro Nivola (Peter), Shawn Hatosy (Victor) and Michael Keaton as the narrator.  An engaging and often poignant drama, `Inventing the Abbotts' puts love, loss and confusion (one might say the mainstays of life) into perspective, and illustrates that how we deal with it all is not necessarily a matter of individual choice.  Some, in fact, just may have to invent whatever it is they need to hang onto.  At one point in the film, Doug says of his brother, `If the Abbotts hadn't existed, John would've invented them.'  And maybe that's the way it is; taking life as it comes and dealing with it the best way you know how.  I rate this one 8/10.  	 "},{"Title":"Excellent, real-to-life drama in Smalltown USA","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't know why I didn't see of hear of this film back in 1997, but I don't remember any noise about it at all.  Excellent screen play with fine characterizations by all actors; absorbing story and a true-to-life story that hits home at any time. The era was well represented by costume and settings; one of those good little films that get lost in the shuffle I guess. Bravo to all associated. I'll recommend it! "},{"Title":"one of the most underrated movies I have ever seen.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has not received enough credit. In my estimation, each member of the cast has turned in the best performance of their career. From the relationship between the two lead characters, and with their Mother, and their connection to the Abbotts, this movie tells a moving story with true heartfelt emotion. I cried at many points in the movie. Joaquin and Billy are truly inspiring. Liv Tyler and Jennifer Connolley let us into their world of what life was like in the teenage world of the early 60's. We were transported in time back to that world with all of it social standards and sanctions. Pat O'Connor has outdone himself with this film. "},{"Title":"Sweet little romance","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? I love this movie. And I'm not the type who digs romance movies, because they're usually 1) rubbish, 2) crap and 3) junk. Inventing the Abbotts is none of the above. Maybe it has got something to do with Joaquin Phoenix's presence in the movie; in my humble opinion, he is one tremendous actor and I love him, and I saw this movie because he's in it. Or maybe, just maybe, Inventing the Abbotts is simply a sweet little romantic movie that I enjoyed very much. There is just something about the movie that touches me. I do agree that the best kind of love is the no-matter-what kind, and seeing it displayed so genuinely through Doug (Phoenix) and Pam (Liv Tyler) just did it for me. Not only was Joaquin brilliant as Doug, his character is, let's face it, an all-round good guy someone you'd feel comfortable with, comfortable enough to let him meet the parents. And although there were some scenes where Liv Tyler didn't quite deliver, the chemistry between the two of them is obvious, and it helps to make their romance more possible than it already is.Billy Crudup plays the more interesting Holt brother Jacey, and is thoroughly convincing in his role. Jennifer Connelly is beautiful, and like most of the supporting cast, is solid in her role. Special kudos must go to the actress who played Doug's mom (her name eluded my memory). She handled her role with delicacy and care, and turned what could be a fairly boring character to an interesting one. I love the exploration of family relationships, and I was glad to see a solid relationship between Doug and his mother.All in all, Inventing the Abbotts is a splendid movie that *somehow* teaches you to love no matter what.  "},{"Title":"A well acted drama","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this to be a sweet and emotional film. The direction by O'Connor was swift and engrossing and I liked the way he let you see each character differ when they were around another character. Like the way Joaquin Phoenix's character gets all lustful around Jennifer Connolly, but restrains himself around Liv Tyler.Considering this is the film that brought them together in real life, I'm not surprised that Joaquin and Liv were so tender with one another. Both of them have the acting ability, where you only have to look into their eyes to know what they're feeling or trying to convey. For all the bitterness some characters offered, it was the relationship between Pamela and Doug that captured me.Just a sweet love story, and that can be OK sometimes!  "},{"Title":"guess","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Inventing the Abbotts seems like the sort of movie that they just made for no particular reason. Portraying some relationships in 1957 Illinois, the movie is worth seeing. Maybe not any kind of masterpiece, but interesting. I liked the fake sideburns scene, and the, uh, scene under the table. Joaquin Phoenix was showing the same acting skills that he later brought to Gladiator and Walk the Line, and Liv Tyler, Billy Crudup, and Jennifer Connelly also did quite well.I guess that overall, there's nothing really unique here. There have been many slice-of-life stories. But this one is pretty well done with some good performances. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, great direction","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is notable for the acting performances (especially Joaquin Phoenix in the starring role) obtained by a fine director, Pat O'Connor.  O'Connor may be more comfortable with Irish subject matter but does an excellent job capturing the 50's in middle America.  The story is well-told, and the relationship of the two brothers (Phoenix and Billy Crudup) stands out.  We need more films like this!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful story with strong characters -some spoilers","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the things I love about this film is the subtle humor that Joaquin brings to his character, Doug Holt.  A few examples the fake side-burns, his mother confronting him about smoking, etc.  Joaquin's performance is excellent throughout.  We see his character evolve, with changes that are subtle enough to be believable.  He is quiet and unassuming, and so very different from his brother.  When we finally see him blow his quiet fuse in the end, it almost hurts to watch. I found this film to be funny, dramatic, and above all, so honest.  The performances and the dialogue are not only believable but carry a certain weight that simply wracked my emotions.  It is a beautiful, intimate story, and many scenes are simply unforgettable.  The lines are not false or corny in any way.  And although it uses a few unoriginal plot devices, it gets away with this by acknowledging that they are unoriginal, i.e. the mother's death.   A must-see for fans of drama and romance, who can be patient with plot development as long as the characters are strong.  In the end it is worth it.      "},{"Title":"See this movie!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever watched.  I cry every time I even think about this movie.  Even if you don't really like drama,  this movie is well worth watching.  It will make you rethink everything about yourself and about your life.  See this movie with someone you love, even if at the time you are at odds with one another.  "},{"Title":"A lovely, heartfelt movie that should have received more attention","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a voracious film buff, it always surprises me when a great film is released and totally escapes my notice, sometimes for years! I recently viewed Inventing the Abbotts on a TV pay channel. I was so astounded by the emotional power of the film that I went to my Leonard Maltin guide, curious to see what the reviewer there had to say about it. I was astounded to find that he had pretty much dismissed the whole thing as flaccid and disappointing. I could not help but disagree, most emphatically. Maybe it is all a matter of taste, but I loved the performances by all of the principal players. The cinematography and production design are terrific. I felt that the director had crafted a constantly engrossing, moving film. The script, which Maltin's reviewer called dull, struck me as having a fine ear for strong dialogue, all of which seemed very natural and effective to me. There is so much that is poignant and insightful and deeply touching in this entire piece that I would say that anyone who favors dramas with powerful romantic elements and thoughtful examination of the forces at work in society should make every effort to see this film. I do not know why it did not attract more notice when it first came out. "}{"Title":"Perfect in its simplicity","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is an old favorite of mine. The story takes you back in time, and brilliantly captures the attitudes and prejudices of small town life. Every actor in this film gives such a genuine performance that you can't help being sucked into their world, a world where what is said by the rich can either save or condemn as they see fit. Each location used in the film leaves an imprint on you, from the garage where the brothers always unite over a game of ping-pong to the romance of the abandoned farm where the sparks of love really begin to fly. Inventing the Abbotts is a coming of age story that captures the awkwardness of adolescence without all the cheese that so often pervades the genre. It is a tale of love and lust, rich and poor, pure and simple. "},{"Title":"Simple story well told","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film on a flight to Australia. I'd never heard of it but it would pass some time. In fact, I thoroughly enjoyed it. It has a Forest Gump kind of charm but a lot less humour. It also reminded me of the early soap operas like Peyton Place in the way it portrayed 1950's America. The unfolding of the family story is well spun out so that you only gradually come to appreciate the tensions involved and indeed some of the scenes are only understood after later revelations show up a new significance. The characters were believable and the twist in the tale of the story sufficiently unexpected but predictable in retrospect that you kick yourself for not realising. A family film with little to worry the censor other than some mild fisticuffs and a small amount of what might have been referred to in the film as fooling around. The interplay between the leading roles is exceptional, both between the two brothers and between Liv Tyler and Joaquin Phoenix. "},{"Title":"Good story filled with young star power.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Inventing the Abbotts (1997) is a pretty good story about life and lets a lot of young stars shine.  Liv Tyler, Jennifer Connely, and the found again Joaquin Phoenix (who I haven't seen around since SpaceCamp) do a great job in their tough roles. This movie is not so bad at all, one I give a 7 out of 10. If you're cruisin' the channels, and can't find anything on but this, tune it in.  "},{"Title":"A romance about two brothers and the beautiful Abbott girls.","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alright. I remembered seeing this movie years ago, when it was first released to video, and I liked it. Now, upon re-watching it for the first time since that fateful day ten years ago, I see why. Because I was a pervert. Clearly, I didn't enjoy this movie for its sweet message or its fine actors. Ugh.Let me gripe from the beginning.Alright, so first we're introduced to actors that are far too old to be playing their characters. That's fine, though -- I grew up watching Saved by the Bell -- I can deal with that. Then, as we get to know the characters a little better, we realize that, well, we really haven't gotten to know the characters at all. Other than Doug drawing breasts on a picture in school (that's how we find out that he's a rebel) and Pam saying that each sister is the good, the bad, or the one who gets away with everything, we get nothing. There is literally NO character development. At times, it seems like the director might have tried...then no, by the end, you just find yourself angry because you invested two and a half (or whatever) hours into a movie about people, and you do not care in the slightest about any of the people.But what about their acting you say? Well, that was just as terrible as the trite and obvious dialogue they were forced to spew. It's amazing when you see brilliant actors in earlier roles when they are give almost nothing to work with. Joaquin Phoenix is perhaps the most surprisingly horrid. Liv Tyler is cute -- when isn't she -- but she has nothing to work with, and to be honest, her acting was far from perfected (has it ever been, though?) She plays this innocent rich girl to a tee, but she still doesn't give us much of a reason to like her. And why does she like Phoenix's character Doug? Because of that rebellious drawing? Geesh. Give us some credit here.Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly were good, I can't complain about their acting. But, Jennifer Connelly disappears after the first twenty minutes, in a ridiculous scene, with a ridiculous reason.I could go on for hours. The secret behind the Abbotts and the death of the boys' father is pathetic. The attempt at sympathy for Lloyd Abbott falls flat. Maybe it wasn't intentional. Actually, I hope it wasn't.Inventing the Abbotts keeps the viewer guessing what's going to happen from the get-go. It might be a Romeo and Juliet story, it might be a romantic coming-of-age, as the synopsis suggests. Unfortunately though, it actually turns out to be such thrown-together non-sense that the viewer wishes that their idea had been what happened. Instead, they're left with a characters they don't care about doing things they don't care about, and offended sense of romanticism and a bad taste lingering in their mouths. "},{"Title":"Inventing the Abbotts is a great movie!","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Inventing the Abbotts was one of those late night movies I had the opportunity to catch last night on HBO when I couldn't sleep due to nerve damage in my leg. Excellent cast and storyline. I had never even heard of it. It came out in 1997 and I am/was a movie goer. I don't even remember ever seeing previews on this one. I definitely would like to see it from the beginning; although I don't think I missed too much. Joaquin Phoenix is an excellent actor even when he was nine years younger. The relationship between him and his mother is quite charming, she knows her son well. I thought the entire cast was very good but Joaquin Phoenix really stood out. I came from a small town on the Gulf coast of Florida and this movie was something that I could really relate to as to how people in small towns are no matter where in the USA they are located; just different names and faces. One of the best movies I have seen in a long time. Sure beats the heck out of the bulk of what is out there today, sad to say. "},{"Title":"Affectingly told story, well acted","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pat O'Connor's film, Inventing the Abbotts, from 1997, shows us teen life in the '50s, but not the teen life of Rebel Without a Cause or Blackboard Jungle. Instead, it's the story of a lower middle class family, the Holts, which consists of a single mom (Kathy Baker) and her two sons, Doug (Joaquin Phoenix) and Jacey (Billy Crudup) and the wealthiest family in their Illinois town, the Abbotts, consisting of Lloyd Abbott, his wife, and three beautiful daughters (Jennifer Connolly, Joanna Going, and Liv Tyler). Talk about well-cast; the two brothers could definitely be brothers and the three women could definitely be sisters.The Abbotts are connected to the Holts by an incident that occurred before Doug was born, which was shortly after his father was killed in an accident. Jacey is particularly obsessed with the family, especially Eleanor (Connelly), the bad Abbott daughter. And he really feels that the family owes him something. Doug, meanwhile, has an on and off relationship with Pam (Tyler).The two young men learn about life, loss, and letting go. Joaquin Phoenix is fantastic as the sensitive and romantic Doug; while Jacey provides us with the sex, Doug gives us the romance. Billy Crudup is excellent as his troubled brother, reaching obsessively for what he thinks he has to have. As their mother, Kathy Baker gives a lovely performance, every note right, as she always does.Inventing the Abbotts has a quiet beauty about it, along with the heartache, anger, and raw emotion that the teen years always bring. Highly recommended. Don't look for anything to explode or huge action scenes; you won't find them here. "},{"Title":"The Lies That Fool You","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pat O'Connor's coming of age period piece 'Inventing The Abbotts' tells the story of two brothers and the Abbott family from their point of view (even though Doug does the narrating). Most have described this as a romantic film but I see it more as a human drama about relationships and growing up in the 50s. It also works very well as a character-driven film and there's plenty of symbolism in Ken Hixon's screenplay, giving the film (in combination with the score and beautiful cinematography) a lyrical feel.'Inventing The Abbotts' boasts of a wonderful ensemble. The Abbott sisters are played by beauties Jennifer Connelly, Joanna Going and Liv Tyler while the Holt brothers are played by Billy Crudup and Joaquin Phoenix. Tyler does a decent job while the rest of the actors are excellently cast. Phoenix portrays Doug's recklessness, frivolity and growth with conviction while Crudup demonstrates Jacey's obsession and resentment with élan. Connelly (as the wild and tragic sister), Baker (as the quiet, strong and fragile mother), Patton (the ruthless father) and Going (the doomed sister) are superb.O'Connor has successfully captured the look of the 50s and 60s. The art direction is splendid. There are some beautiful shots of breathtaking landscape.In the end, 'Inventing The Abbotts' is a very human story. It stresses on human flaws, the perception of them and how it can lead to ones destruction and how 'loving no matter what' can help overcome any obstacle. "},{"Title":"Hidden Stiries oflives we miss !","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never had the colse glimpse of such typical of possible American lives until I watched this move. The gravity of emotions in the lives of individuals involved in American suburbs, especially when it comes to personal relationsships and the affect they can have in their lives, is best portrayed in this movie ! The performance of the cast is at its best .. with due credit to the directoral skills in handling the whole story. With this movie, Joanna Going.. Live Tayler.. Jennifer Connelly.. Joaquin Phoenix ... Billy Crudup .. seems to have the best chance of their careers and cocooned out themselves in graduating in their acting talents. "},{"Title":"Beautiful story of young slow-burning love","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joaquin Phoenix and Liv Tyler make such an adorable young couple. They look so in love on screen - it probably helped that they were head over heels in love with each other off screen as well! You can really sense what they feel for each other, conveyed subtly by glances or lingering looks. It's beautiful and fascinating to watch their love for each other unfold and grow as they mature into adulthood. The scenes where they each convey their love for each other without saying it (her by marking 'I love u' on his hand and him writing it on the window at the end of the film) are so romantic and cute. You watch the film and you wish you were there - the setting of 50s Midwest America is gorgeous and it provides an appropriate summer feel to the movie. The older members of the supporting cast also provide good solid performances - particularly Kathy Baker as the Holt boys' mother and Will Patton as the Abbott father. The main reason for watching the film is Joaquin Phoenix. He is gorgeous with those huge hungry green eyes and dark smouldering looks. Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup - could you ask for better looking actors to appear as brothers? And then Jennifer Connelly, Liv Tyler and Joanna Going as sisters? I could watch this film for the eye candy alone. In addition Billy Crudup and Jennifer Conelly have sexual chemistry to die for! It's not difficult to see why with all these good-looking young actors that the film is not a joy to watch! "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned Romance","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Inventing the Abbots is a sweet, old fashioned love story. All the young actors are first rate, especially the always excellent Billy Crudup. Joquin Phoenix also shows great promise (which is further shown in Return to Paradise. A nice sunday afternoon piece "}{"Title":"Tries a little too hard","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had read a comment saying this movie is a good Sunday afternoon movie. Well, I watched it on a Sunday afternoon, and was more than a little disappointed.The story revolves around a young Doug Holt, a kid born on the wrong side of the tracks, and his relationship with his brother Jacey. Now, early on in the movie the narrator (an older Doug) says that if the Abbotts had not existed, Jacey would have had to invent them. Yet, this is never illustrated, only repeated randomly throughout the story, which travels through unprovoked love, anger, and forgiveness.The acting is definitely marvelous, especially considering that the characters are not well developed. People fall in and out of love, pretend they're in love, and cause serious problems because of love. But the audience does not follow in many key situations, I felt betrayed by both the characters and the screenwriters. Why would a character do something no person alive would ever do, nor would any person in his situation? If you're big on movies that revolve around aphorisms, this is the one for you. In retrospect, I shouldn't be so hard on it. Almost every scene with Jennifer Connelly is absolutely hysterical. And for that, I say, Hi Doug. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Connelly... Finally!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because it was in the $1 for two nights section at Family Video and I needed something to do with my time over a holiday weekend.Jennifer Connelly's two Hi Doug scenes were worth more than $1 to me.  Jennifer Connelly has always played an attractive girl, but this time they let her play a sexy girl.  Although she is nearly 30 years old she does a great job.The guy who plays the super stud in this movie has a great future.And of course Liv Tyler was great in the the role that she played.I give Jennifer Connelly a 10, the story an 8,  but the boring narrator brought the movie down to a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes the younger brother has to grow up to be the big brother.","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had seen this movie a few years back but didn't retain much of it, except 'that' scene at about 1744 with Jennifer Connelly. So I just watched it again on Netflix streaming movies. It is an even better movie than I remember it.Set in 1957 in the fictional town of Haley, Illinois, probably a suburb of Chicago, it is almost a 'romeo and juliet' story. Joaquin Phoenix is Doug Holt, the nice kid from the mediocre side of town, being raised by a single mom. He has an older brother, Billy Crudup as Jacey Holt. Jacey always seems angry, and often his anger is directed at the Abbott family. Will Patton is the father, Lloyd Abbott, from the successful side of town. He has three daughters and Jayce seems bent on taking each one of them to bed, which he accomplishes in a round about way.You see, Jacey grew up with several misconceptions about Lloyd Abbott. The first was that he took advantage of their mother and essentially stole a patent for a type of file cabinet, which resulted in his becoming wealthy. But in fact Doug eventually discovers that their dad had traded it away for a used car. The second was that Lloyd Abbott was responsible for their dad's death, when on a bet he drove on a frozen pond, and drowned when the ice broke. But the bet was their dad's idea, not Lloyd's.But all these misconceptions, plus probably others, drove Jacey's reckless behavior. For a while Doug tried to follow in big brother's footsteps until he realized better and became his own man. He always had a thing for the youngest Abbott sister, Liv Tyler as Pam Abbott, but embarrassed after letting Jacey seduce her she left town. Eventually Doug looked her up and, as the voice-over at the end says, a year later they were married and they had two daughters.Kathy Baker was good as the Holt mother, Helen. Jennifer Connelly was good as the middle sister Eleanor Abbott, who was sent off to a boarding school after her affair with Jayce was discovered. "},{"Title":"A Well-scripted, universally relevant story, acted by true thespians.","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film masterfully illustrates how closely intertwined human lives are within and between families in a community. I ended up relating to these mid-20th-century White people from a small Midwestern town much more than I expected. There are some aspects of the human experience that are simply universal.All kinds of love are examined. Don't worry, it's not all romantic...this is a good date movie, but you will also enjoy this on your own.I was initially surprised at the casting choices. I've never seen Connelly play the wild, promiscuous role, or Phoenix act like such a shy, awkward geek. At first, I thought Tyler and Connelly should have switched parts. I thought the same about Phoenix and Billy Crudup. But I guess that's why these actors are so highly regarded; they all played their roles to the hilt, defying anyone who would typecast them. I have singled Connelly out before as a great example of an actress who brings the girlfriend experience to her films. This time, she gave us a glimpse of how that sweet, classy girlfriend can transform into a mind-blowing sex goddess behind closed doors...lucky Paul Bettany.For more reviews and a kick-ass podcast, check out www.livemancave.com "},{"Title":"Getting Up on the Wrong Side of the Tracks","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this classic coming-of-age tale, forbidden love and impossible dreams intertwine when the handsome, working class Holt brothers are drawn to the beautiful and wealthy Abbott sisters. With an all-star cast including Liv Tyler, Joaquin Phoenix, and Billy Crudup, 'Inventing the Abbotts' is, according to the DVD sleeve, a strongly told story of hidden desires and romantic possibilities. Adding Jennifer Connelly and Joanna Going as the other two beautiful Abbott sisters gives you five good-looking performers engaged in various couplings. You will see that their hidden desires are all made fairly obvious. The film begins in 1957 small town Haley, Illinois, and has many obvious - but nice - period trappings. Ms. Connelly has an arousing topless scene.The story stresses the pairing of Mr. Phoenix (as Doug) and Ms. Tyler (as Pam), although Mr. Crudup (as Jacey) manages to steal most of the booty (both the film and the women). The leads suffer from being cast as teenagers. Doing the math (Phoenix is two years younger than high school senior Crudup) helps explain how they act. A fifteen-year-old would paint on artificial sideburns with India Ink while humming Elvis Presley's Heartbreak Hotel. So, Phoenix is made to act unnaturally juvenile. As the most beautifully cast sisters, Ms. Going and Ms. Connelly excel in their smaller roles. You can also enjoy both Crudup's angst-ridden older brother, and secretive mother Kathy Baker (as Helen).****** Inventing the Abbotts (4/4/97) Pat O'Connor ~ Joaquin Phoenix, Billy Crudup, Liv Tyler, Kathy Baker "},{"Title":"Sweet drama that showcases great acting","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, the main reason I saw this movie was because I wanted to see Liv Tyler. To my surprise, here she plays an awkward, gawkish young girl whose appeal is overshadowed by that of her two older sisters. But there is something so engaging and charming about her simplicity, her shyness, and her ability to follow her own path in spite of her family's wealth and social standing.All the cast are terrific, with Kathy Baker, Jennifer Connolly, Liv, and Joaquin Phoenix taking top honors. It is the type of movie that transports you to another time and place, and to another age. You feel what it was like to be 18 in 1957 the class differences, the social constraints related to dating, all the bittersweet ache of young love.At its core, this movie is about the relationship of two brothers. The narration begins with that, and really that is the core that unites all the other subplots. It's a fascinating relationship too, because they are so different yet their paths end up crossing in so many ways. And at the end, it's clear that the viewer is going to be drawn to one (Doug), but yet the other (JC) is not condemned or criticized; you just come to understand that he is driven to do the asinine things he does by powers he cannot seem to tame within himself.I also have to say I was delighted by the fact that the protagonists (Doug and Pam) are modest and moral in their relationship, while the screwed up characters (JC, Eleanor) are promiscuous and amoral. It would have been easy to conform to stereotypes and have Doug and Pam in bed at the earliest opportunity, but the fact that they don't adds tension and drama and ultimately makes for an excellent story. There are a handful of instances of the F-word, and two brief sexual scenes, otherwise this would have been a great movie for younger teens as well.Overall, an excellent movie, badly underrated by IMDb users, and well worth the watching. I gave it 8 stars. "},{"Title":"rather odd movie that starts slow and grows on you as you watch","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERSThis soft spoken, slow moving, almost arty tale of two families, set in the fifties, is an unusual and very engrossing movie. When I saw this, I started off rather impatient for it to speed up and get where it was going at a brisker pace. While the pace never really takes off as much as I would have liked, the story does gain momentum and the characters become more fully realized as you watch. It just takes some time.In terms of my thoughts on this film I will say I didn't love it nor did I dislike it. I was a little let down after as I thought I would have liked a bit more then I did. But it really is the epitome of a movie that grows on you and I will say I was very touched by the end of the film. It's a tough movie to give a rating to because I kind of get the feeling I might like it more if I see it a second time. But I will say what my primary likes and dislikes were.First the dislikes. There was so much that was abstract and so many things that were never explained fully or at all. I had a lot of questions at the end. So did the group of people I saw this with. I wont get into the list of those things as there are a lot and this review would be way to long but suffice to say it was probably more then half a dozen things and these were major plot points. There's a difference between ambiguity and complete vagueness over key plot elements and I felt this movie had more of the latter.Another oddity that I didn't care for was the Strong resemblance between Doug and Jc. Now Crudup and Phoenix do not look much alike in real life but in this movie it seems nearly impossible to tell them apart. Therefore in the beginning when everything was unfolding I could not tell at times which brother was on screen at any given moment. And my friends felt that too. The resemblance between them was to much.Also the narration added to the movie's element of confusion.Key characters didn't get enough screen time. One of my friends had already seen this and shocked me by accidentally revealing in the movie that Jennifer Connoly's character was all but gone after her dad ships her out of town. I had assumed she would be back as a key character. I was very disappointed when this was not the case.Alice gets little to no screen time. Who is she as a person? We are really never told. Pam played by Liv Tyler was supposed to be a sympathetic character but she wound up really annoying me as well as some of my friends. There was so much game playing with her and Joaquin Phoenix the whole movie started to be about them. They sure did have chemistry but that took away from other characters' screen time. And the mother's story was fascinating, she was fascinating and Kathy Baker is my pic for most Oscar caliber performance. We should have seen more of her and her story as well. And there was no confrontation between JC and ....well....anyone. I thought the movie was building toward that but other then the whole Pam drama we really never see much of that on screen. I thought there would be a confrontation between him and the mother. Also I really REALLY wanted a confrontation between the mother and Mr. Abbott as well as someone to tell off Joan, without a doubt one of the most dislike able characters I've seen in awhile. But there isn't anything like that and maybe that's to be expected because the movie is kind of..for lack of a better word..soft spoken.Then there is the predictable element. As soon as Kathy Baker's character had that cough I knew something was gonna happen to her and that scene at the end(writing I love you on the glass) as sweet and poignant as it was, was so sugar sweet and predictable and didn't really go with the movie. And the movie ends kind of abruptly as well.Now for the likes...great acting. In fact the acting was just superb...by everyone. Strong on mood and atmosphere. Good running time(long enough but not to long.) Poignant storyline. Poignant(that word again!), believable characters and a certain bittersweet element that made it very believable as well as tremendous chemistry between Liv and Joaqueen, and in spite of the negatives a really interesting storyline.It is the story that hooks one in and despite all I did not like about it, I still became really engrossed as the movie went on. I think this movie's above average and the cast worked very well together. Everyone was believable in their respective roles. It will never be one of my favorites but it definitely is not your typical movie. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Brotherhood could be a Tough Bond!","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is not that great movie .. I felt it is uneven sometimes. Anyway, I liked this movie because it says brotherhood could be tough bond sometimes.. other times it could be really something great, I believe great times between brothers is the common thing (or at least wish for it).I don't know if most of people who have seen it share me my admiration of how the movie realistically & truthfully shows this great relationship ..Billy Crudup & Joaquin Phoenix were good .. I felt like if they were good friends at least to have such a natural brother-chemistry thing.There were a few good lines here and there .. some moments were touching.Liv Taylor's performance was the best female performance in the movie .. not to forget Kathy Baker's performance which was very good .. Jennifer Connelly, Joanna Going & Barbara Williams weren't bad but they were so good either. "},{"Title":"A fine coming of age movie","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An excellent cast guides this periodic drama of working class brothers of a widowed mother and their relationships with the daughters of a society family in a small Illinois town in 1957. Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup are superb as the brothers while Liv Tyler is excellent as the youngest Abbott daughter.The main theme of the movie seems to be the obsession of older brother Jace (Crudup) for everything the Abbotts have that he feels was denied him after his father's death years earlier. Seems there isn't any Abbott girl Jace won't go after in an effort to show he can rise above his middle class upbringing.Excellent performances are also on display here by Kathy Baker, Will Patton, Joanna Going, and special mention of the future Academy Award winner Jennifer Connelly. Connelly has an incredible allure as the very sexy, very promiscuous, and playful hedonistic middle Abbott daughter, Elinore.A really fine character study, excellent casting, and a movie that moves along at a nice pace. I recommend it and think, after seeing it, you will as well. "},{"Title":"Generic soap-opera,","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Regurgitating the Abbotts may have been a better name for this film, because there is nothing inventive about it. What starts off well, degrades in quality to nothing more than a dull and overlong exercise in the stagy writing style of soap opera. It is a story with nowhere to go, and despite some touching moments, and a delightful young cast, The movie is aggravating. I found myself rolling my eyes at some of the dialogue because it's so corny. The makers of Inventing the Abbotts give their product no room to grow. It's ultimately devoid of direction believability and stability, And we end up spending time with five or six characters who seem like they could amount to so much more than the story makes of them. It is unfair to all the smart people in the audience. If the film won't commit, Why should we. "}{"Title":"8 year olds playing with anatomically correct dolls","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There was a time when films made for women, the so-called Women's picture, were also entertaining and involving for a wider audience to enjoy. Now they are an exclusively female designed, designated, manufactured and sold product. The chick flick of today. There's got to be more than just endless variations on who's going with whom. The same giggly obsession of 8-year-old girls in the schoolyard matching up their schoolmates. It reminds me of an analogy with duplicate bridge where the same characters and elements can be played a different way each time and still lead to an arbitrary predetermined ending. Maybe there's a better analogy.When I was a kid the Saturday matinée had one feature left over from the 30s, which was a slapstick race. (The concept was later taken by Hanna &#150;Barbera and turned into Wacky Racers.) Tickets with numbers were distributed at the box office before the film. Those with the winning number would get a prize. It would be the same race every week except for the tacked on last shot in which the number of that weeks winner would be announced, which, I feel now, probably coincided with the number least in distribution. The girl with the final embrace seems more determined by whom the talents agencies thought was the better bet to become a money-spinning super-star. It was, as they say in the wrestling industry, a worked result.Yeah, it's worse than soap opera if you think about it. It's just whose going with whom to the total exclusion of the outside world. At least soaps have some stupid plots weaving in and out of the who is with whom. Nothing anyone does, thinks or says has anything to do with engaging the big world at large. There is no context beyond the period setting, here 1957. Wonderful shinny collector's cars (too bad they sound wrong. A '57 T-Bird did not growl like a sports car. It was a big fat V-8 hooked up to a spongy automatic transmission.) Men's clothes are wrong, the hair is wrong, the buses are wrong, as is the whole demeanor of small town folks at the time. Guys, even a-holes, didn't say the f words quite so openly but its used here to emphasize the hurt one woman feels.Hugh Heffner was from a small town in Illinois and when he began Playboy he supplied the whole script for teen-age guys to use in order to get laid. It just wasn't a question of natural and irresistible attraction but men had to go through a whole pseudo- intellectual song and dance to get even some stink on their finger. The phrases contemporary mores and mature adults were used a lot. People act and talk like 1997, not 1957. Did I hear one brother call the other dude?As for what passes for conflict the poor, working class boys from the other side of the tracks live as well as M-G-M poverty in the good old days. Actually schoolteachers are considered middle class. They live in a swell house with perfect wood details and well- painted walls. The people who lived on the other side of the tracks were either colored or poor white trash. This concocted conflict has to be folded in to give the bland drama a little bit of spice. Even the environment is flattened out to be uniformly pleasant and unremarkable. Its always-fair weather, none of those sweaty 100-degree summers or winters with snow up to one's nipples. Anyway the retro-design element is shoved out of the way after the first half-hour and the somewhat baffling mating dance takes center stage and the five are whittled down to the inevitable two. And they live happily ever after and had two children, both girls. The End. What was the film about? Harry Cohn used to lay out this kind of plot in the most salacious terms. Yeah, it gets down to that. Permutations and stops and starts between various Holts and Abbotts. Relationships equal couplings equal voyeurism and we're back at cinema's ground zero &#150; watching other people do it. It's just that certain males get off watching porn and certain women get off on relationships.Then there's the music, typical for this type of picture - insipid. Synthetic noodelings on an electric piano for two scenes, deep swelling amorphous strings for transitions and actual movement. There's some not quite correct period music and a tribute to the Elvis hit of the era- Love Me Tender, but this is soon submerged under the overwhelming need of shuffling the brothers and sisters around. Like everything else in the picture &#150; nothing to distract you from the issue always at hand- whose getting with whom.I'm not saying there's not an audience for this. Some of the comments on the IMDb were from people emotionally effected by INVENTING THE ABBOTTS. There was just enough information to engage their imaginations, erotic or otherwise, the hell with the world or 1957 or anything else. I'm sure the manufacturers of this film knew exactly who their audience was and manipulated the film specifically for them. It's just that women's films don't have to be one-dimensional panderings. They can tell their stories against a real world with real people or at least set against a backdrop of some import. It's got to be about something more than just who's going with whom. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was kinda slow-moving, but it had backbone.  It tells a decent story and has Joaquin Phoenix in it, what more could you ask for in this movie? 7.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yum!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Joaquin Phoenix as leading man, Doug Holt, and Liv Tyler as Pam Abbott, the main love interest, was just so delicious to watch. Also appealing was the romance between Jacey (Billy Crudup) and Eleanor (Jennifer Connelly)! I enjoyed this movie a lot! The character development of Doug (Phoenix), Pam (Tyler), Jacey (Crudup), and the mom was excellent. The acting seemed very authentic, also. I especially liked the acting of Joaquin Phoenix. The plot is rather predictable, but sometimes that's just what you want in a movie.  "},{"Title":"Not at all boring or slow","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not find this story boring or slow. For me, it was a great example of the grass is always greener. To the world, the Abbots were the perfect family. The had three beautiful daughters, all the money anyone could ever want. And they're just as screwed up and dysfunctional as the rest of us. "},{"Title":"A great growing up movie","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Joaquin Phoenix and Liv Tyler headline this movie about growing up. Phoenix is the boy from the wrong side of the tracks and Tyler is the rich girl. The two families are entwined by a shared tragedy. At first Phoenix is in lust over one of the older sister's of Tyler's character, played by Jennifer Connelly. Over the course of the movie there are revelations and more personal tragedies and growth of character, and as Tyler and Phoenix come together, pull apart(or are pulled apart, in the case of the father characer played by Will Patton) and finally come together again, as they confront the fact that they not only are meant for each other, but that none of the preceding events should have made them separate in the first place, but that they did serve the purpose of revealing exactly what they two people needed to do in order to reach adulthood.  "},{"Title":"Sometimes Love and forgiveness is the only Cure...","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Inventing the Abbotts is a wonderful movie portraying the lives of two brothers and their obsession with another family.  This film really hits home about the crazy twists of fate that life deals you.  The performances by Joaqun Phoenix is phenomenal and Liv Tyler's performance is equally commendable.  The movie doesn't rely on a music score/soundtrack to imply emotion but the acting performance stands alone on making this a real entertaining movie to watch.  The whole storyline and plot is smoothly told within the movie and all in all is a remarkable movie.  Much praise to the writers/directors/actors!!! "},{"Title":"Slow, not engrossing, but good performances and hidden depth.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot in Abbotts unfolds slowly and, to the film's detriment, is not engrossing. The characters are basically set at the beginning and then simply play a variation on their particular theme throughout the film. Hidden inside the film's meandering structure is a deep and resonating psychological drama about love, loss and the destructiveness of class and society norms that never reaches its potential.Jennifer Connelly's character is the one most involving, but unfortunately her role is limited to somewhere between cameo and supporting. She has become a confident, talented actress who knows how to use her formidable body and angelic beauty. The movie loses momentum when she disappears, primarily because her character is the only one given to revolt. But Joaquin Phoenix and Liv Tyler's attraction is handled well by both actors. Billy Crudup's self-confident swagger conceals his character's brooding anger. Kathy Baker and Will Patton provide strong counterweights at either extreme. At the end all things are revealed - there is no real villain.You may be bored by this film, unless class struggle, destructive romantic liaisons in the 50's, or Jennifer Connelly is your thing. The movie takes too long to get its message across, but it's a good message and at least it has one. "},{"Title":"it was a blast","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i liked this movie a lot.  i mean it had everything. great cast and superb acting,especially from joaquin phoenix.  he did a great job.so i suggest you go see it... you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Dramatic Romance","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Helen Holt (Kathy Baker) is a suffered low middle-class widow, head of the Holt family, living in a small town in Illinois in 1957, with her two very different sons (Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup). Lloyd Abbot (Will Patton) is a wealthy man, head of the Abbott family, with three gorgeous daughters (Jennifer Connelly, Liv Tyler and Joanna Going &#150; can you imagine such beautiful daughters together?). The drama related to the formation of the wealthy of the Abbots through a patent of the Holt father, the rumors of the romance of Helen Holt and Lloyd Abbot in the past and the romance between the two Holt teenagers and the three Abbott daughters against Lloyd Abbott will, all of these ingredients in the plot of 'Inventing the Abbotts' could lead to a Mexican soap opera. However, the direction of Pat O'Coonor, supported by a great cast, presents a beautiful and touching movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Círculo de Paixões (Circle of Passions) "},{"Title":"Inventing a Better Screenplay.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Inventing the Abbotts (1997) Dir Pat O'Connor / Cast Joaquin Phoenix, Liv Tyler, Jennifer Connelly, Joanna Going, Billy Crudup Worthless and pathetic exercise about two boys who attempt to transform three women into their sexual preference. Their father is overprotective and uses threats to keep the boys away. Viewers laughed at a scene where one of the boys caresses a female's breasts. What the laughter was about escapes me. They also laughed at a shameful scene where a father looks on in protest as his daughter is being groped. Predictable developments and misplaced humour by director Pat O'Connor. He previously made Circle of Friends to which I'm surprised if he had any after making this repulsive dread. Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup play the two boys who are all about the hormones and they are a disgrace when it comes down to cheering their behaviour. Joanna Going, Jennifer Connelly and Liv Tyler play the three women who are there to submit to their urges. They are all hot and that is the extent of their roles. All of these performers are above this garbage. Sex is thrown around so freely in this film that it's a wonder that there isn't an orgy thrown in for good measure. The film is a peep show that more or less exists to match every sexual combination possible leaving many to wonder why anyone in their right mind would invent the Abbotts. Score 0 / 10 "}{"Title":"# 58  Another team-up Jen/Watchmen but this one is a success (web)","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With Dr. Manhattan and Jen, we are back to the iconic fifties, in a town between Hill Valley and Derry. The mood of those years is well done between the streets, the fashion, the cars and the houses. When they go to the country, it has the flavor of Smallville. Next, the brothers goes to campus and this is a period of life that i miss. The story is captivating because it's about brotherly relation and that speaks really to me as i have a brother. Maybe the two actors look a bit old for their parts but they have a real chemistry. It's strange to see Jen being the wild one and Tyler, the prude one because we expected the contrary but at the end, they are both excellent in their characters. "},{"Title":"no tension and narration distracts","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1957 Haley, Illinois. Brothers Jacey (Billy Crudup) and Doug Holt (Joaquin Phoenix) live with their mother (Kathy Baker). Lloyd Abbott (Will Patton) is the rich and powerful man around town who is constantly throwing lavish parties. He has 3 daughters. Jacey flirts with middle daughter Eleanor Abbott (Jennifer Connelly). Doug likes the youngest Pamela (Liv Tyler) but also falls for Eleanor. The latest party is to celebrate the announcement of oldest daughter Alice (Joanna Going)'s shotgun wedding. Jacey tells Doug that Lloyd Abbott screwed their family out of money from their father's patent which saved Abbott's company. Lloyd warns the girls against Jacey.First of all, I hate the narration. It adds nothing but annoyance. I hate that Michael Keaton is narrating as an older Joaquin Phoenix. Phoenix could have done it himself. The whole thing frustrates me every time it comes up. As for the actors, some of them don't seem to fit. Billy Crudup is suppose to be a ladies man and that's at the edge of his range. Joaquin Phoenix is suppose to be shy and awkward but he's outgrown that Parenthood character. Generally, I don't like the light breezy tone. The material seems to be build for something darker. The movie just doesn't have any tension. "},{"Title":"The plaintive flock","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When one is nothing, one invents. It fills a void. - Diane Setterfield Pat O'Connor directs Inventing the Abbotts (1997), a film based on a short story by novelist Sue Miller. A fine portrait of 1950s America, its class tensions and assumptions, the film features cute performances by Joaquin Phoenix, Jennifer Connelly and Liv Tyler.At its best, though, Abbotts captures the qualities of good literature. The film may be thin in places, and O'Connor's climax mostly awful, but it nevertheless evokes well the tempo, tenor and wisdom of America's better short-story writers (John Cheever, Raymond Carver etc). At times it even resembles something torn from the pages of Henry James, John Updike or Flannery O'Connor. Co-starring Will Patton.8/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See Larger than Life, Shadow of a Doubt, Pump up the Volume, Everything Must Go and Happiness. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming coming of age, excellent acting - one of my faves!","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This hidden gem is one of the best movies I have ever seen. I am normally an action-adventure, big explosion fan, looking for limited feels in my movies.This is just the opposite. It's a fantastic slice of life picture starring Joaquin Phoenix in a tender, touching and complex role - especially when juxtaposed with his hit of the time as the evil emperor in Gladiator. All of the performances are outstanding, from Liv Tyler as a sweet innocent sister who goes through her own challenges, to Will Paxton as the dominant father who has a soft spot.See the movie. You will thank me. "},{"Title":"Liberal Hollywood Wussy-Man Strikes Again!!","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a moderate-length movie this one seemed really long. The drama is drawn- out, profoundly annoying, and dull, even supposing it's an accurate depiction of the time. While Liv Tyler's character, Pam, is particularly unbearable, Doug is the typical liberal Hollywood wussy-man putz who gets fixated on one girl -- not unlike Forest Gump -- and refuses to move on, perhaps owing to something more interesting than his low self-esteem and total social ineptitude; perhaps because his feelings for Pam remind him of a purer, innocent, idyllic time before everything in life became so complicated; but to me that's a cop-out. That's hardly a real-world love story if you ask me. Obviously Doug's character is such that the possibility of finding another girl out there who would accept him for who he is not even considered. He's not the sharpest tool in the shed. But I have to give Joaquin Phoenix respect for playing the part to a tee. Not even Tom Hanks can play the town idiot as well as Joaquin. That said, the film gets points for good acting from Joaquin Phoenix and for a somewhat realistic plot, even though the Holts and Abbotts simply cannot help running into one another all across the states at colleges, airports, and elsewhere. Go figure these star-crossed lovers simply cannot avoid one another when society forbids their coupling. The bottom line, though, is the film is so unbearable to watch for its love story, which is so sterile and pathetic that I cannot give it more than 5/10. It gets that many points only because even for the lack of realism of certain plot points, I believe it gives an overall realistic depiction of the rigid 1950s yes-man mentality. "},{"Title":"Relationships are the key to enjoying this movie about small town brothers...","Date":"22 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The amazing brotherly resemblance between JOAQUIN PHOENIX and BILLY CRUDUP is a drawback to casual viewers of the film because they look so much alike, especially in the early scenes, that it's easy to lose track of the storyline when you can't tell which brother is on the screen at key moments.KATHY BAKER is the mother raising two sons in a small American town during the 1950s and she gives a genuinely real performance even though her role is underwritten with not enough character exposition to let us know her well enough. But that's not too much of a deficit since the story revolves almost completely around the relationship--the coming of age--of two brothers in conflict with each other over everything, including girls.As the younger, more sensitive and less worldly brother, JOAQUIN PHOENIX is amazingly well cast as he deals with each crisis involving a wealthy family, the Abbots, and their daughters, all of whom are victims of a lie concerning his mother's relationship with Mr. Abbot. BILLY CRUDUP is equally effective as his look alike brother who has his own way of settling scores until he decides he must leave the small town behind and make his own way in the world.The '50s era is well realized, although the coarseness of some of the dialog is not always appropriate for that era when cuss words weren't tossed around as liberally as they are today.Summing up Slowly paced, but holds the interest because of the central relationships and the fact that you care about what happens to these people. "},{"Title":"pretty nice, enjoyable ...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched this was when I rented in from Blockbuster and the really and only reason I watched it was because of Joaquin Pheonix . He plays the good one here, the sweet and adorable one, and it was also interesting to see how the onscreen love scenes with Liv Tyler came off, but obviously it wasn't that extreme or the romance didn't go anywhere between Doug(Joaquin)and Pam(Liv), opposite to what I 'm guessing to their off-screen romance in 97-98. Anyway, one of the most striking characters here is not Liv and I have no idea why she gets to be on the cover of the video but Jennifer (Connelly) has that presence, not just because we do see here more or less naked, but still her acting is obviously superior to any of the other cast members. Well, anyway, Joaquin is the star and Billy (Crudup) is a great supporting star, he seems to be the serious one and I honestly prefer Joaquin whether on his character or just himself. Anyway, it was better when I wathced it the first couple times but you do sorta get tired of it a few months later. Uhm, Oh yeah, Fox Family channel showed it recently, while passing through the channels, and even though they had probably marked rated for kids older than 13 or something I think they had cut off all 'the special Eleanor scenes' honestly without those, ..well, Joaquin makes it up for everything . "},{"Title":"How long did this film ran? Is it still the 21st Century?","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is a throwback to the soap operatic melodramas of the 1950s, and on surface it got that right. The sets, the costume, the hair, the cars, all seems perfect. However the film has absolutely no depth, most of the characters were one dimensional. The only one that seemed to be real was the mother played by Kathy Baker. All the other characters seem to exist only as plot elements.The movie doesn't even seem to know the outside world existed. No music from that era, (How about some Buddy Holly? or even Perry Como?), the only pop culture reference was when Mr. Abbott mentioned Jack Paar. Come on were they too cheap to pay rights to the music? As for the story, well others have described it; two families, one rich, one poor, three sisters, two brothers. One brother wants revenge on the other family by screwing the sisters, the other brother truly loves one of the sisters. The Jacey character should have gotten his butt whup really hard, he deserved it. Mr. Abbott's conversation with Doug should have been longer and it would have carried more weight if somebody more attractive played Mrs. Holt. Don't get me wrong Kathy Baker is a great actress and she gave the best performance in the movie (which really isn't saying much), but what Mr Holt said to Doug would be more understandable if she looked like Kim Basinger.My main problem with the movie is that it is SSSLLLOOOWWWW. A faster pacing certainly is needed by this movie, it just seemed to drag on and on. Some of the conversations were so slow I lost interest in what they were talking about. Likewise with Far from Heaven, a similar paean to the '50s melodrama, the pacing is just too slow. The actual movies were faster paced and were easier to watch.Note to other film makers (I know that there are filmmakers who actually appreciated those 50s Melodramas and would like to make tributes to them.) PLEASE QUICKEN THE PACING. "},{"Title":"Look at 1950's confines","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say but nice about a move that has Live Tyler in it. `Inventing the Abbott's' is a good look back at a 50's family feud where you really cant escape the small town and its mentality you have to make your own world in your head to deal with its confines. I enjoyed Live Tyler's performance as Pamela Abbott.  Tyler gave the perfect nice girl next door.  Jennifer Connelly was perfect as the bad girl sister. Connelly does have that girl next door look but she can also give that I want you performance of a bad girl that Tyler can't. Joaquin Phoenix as Doug Holt was blah.  Phoenix just seems too gay for this role.  I think that they could have found a better actor for it. Billy Crudup plays the role of Jacey Holt perfectly.  He was believable as the jerky older brother that is mad at the world for what he perceives it has done to him so he lashes out at it and screws practically everyone in the process. Kathy Baker as Helen Holt played the perfect 50's mother.  She had the look and gave a realistic performance of a single mother on her own. The other performances weren't bad such as Barbara Williams as Joan Abbott. She did look like the kind of mother that would be on some sort of pill. She was very cold. My favorite line in the film is when Pamela Abbott says But unfortunately life is just not a cafeteria. The movie does drag a bit which is the only major flaw in it.  "},{"Title":"Kind of slow and boring.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't that crazy about this film, it seemed to go nowhere slowly.The sisters looked nothing alike, and of course Jennifer Connely is the pretty one who takes off her clothes. The boys in it were all somehow kind of sleepwalking through it, acting as if they weren't interested in being in the film, which made me interested in doing something else while it was playing. Not a great one.        .. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable, if somewhat forgettable, period romance...","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...that will survive in the collective unconsciousness as a snapshot of four rising young stars Joaquin Phoenix, Liv Tyler, Jennifer Connelly and Billy Crudup, all of whom have continued building solid resumés over the past decade. Along with able support from reliable character actors Kathy Baker, Will Patton, Joanna Goings, and Barbara Williams, the young leads anchor a period piece that often veers dangerously close to soap opera, yet manages to avoid most of the pitfalls of same. Phoenix and Tyler, in particular, delineate a relationship that seems to falter over the years and then blossoms into fruition by film's end, and do it in such a way that seems completely unforced and natural. No doubt their off-screen romance had much to do with that.At any rate, though not as poignant or well-crafted a film as, for instance, Nick Cassavetes' The Notebook, Inventing the Abbotts still manages to pull most of the right strings with its boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl storyline. Phoenix and Tyler have a great chemistry, as many have noted, and deliver the requisite eye-candy along with their co-stars, Connelly and Crudup. Phoenix is the most successful at playing younger than his true age, although that advantage lessens as the movie progresses chronologically. Connelly does a fine job as the sexpot, generously providing the titties and beaver such films so often deliver for the sake of an R rating. Crudup plays the cad with a grudge, redeemed when he finally discovers his initial mistaken assumptions.The tech aspects are all solid, especially the superb production design and art direction. The cinematography is capable, if unextraordinary. Pat O'Connor's direction is also capable, though not as impressive as his preceding project, Circle of Friends. Viewing this film, though, has motivated me to insert Dancing at Lughnasa into my stack of pending DVDs to watch.I'll probably never watch Inventing the Abbotts again, but I have no real regrets having spent several hours doing so once. If nothing else, it's as good a Valentine's Day movie to see as any I can think of. "},{"Title":"Rumors and romance cause tension between two families.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slow but interesting story of two 1950s working class brothers(Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup)who become entangled in the lives of three flirtatious sisters from a wealthy family. Liv Tyler seems to be the film's main attraction. Also in the cast are Kathy Baker, Jennifer Connelly and Will Patton. Coming of age never comes without questionable decisions. "},{"Title":"A familiar story told familiarly","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie's power comes from its actors. Liv Tyler, Billy Crudup, Joaquin Phoenix, Jennifer Connelly, Kathy Baker all give excellent, nuanced performances. All of which, in a way, this movie doesn't deserve. It's a tale we've all heard before in other ways and there was very little new or interesting about the way the story was told.The direction is pedestrian, which is to say it is nothing special and that it could have been a better movie with better direction. As a comparison, watch Some Girls, also with the gorgeous Connelly and featuring three rich sisters, which was directed beautifully.The narrator was just awful and unnecessary. I hate movies that can't take the time to explain pieces of the plot, instead using an insipid narrator to fill in the blanks. The charisma of the cast makes this a very watchable movie, but there should be a mute button that just turns off the narrator. "},{"Title":"the first 20 minutes are great..........","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  due mainly in fact to jennifer connelly's great character. she has the best lines and scenes in the whole movie and her 2 hi, Doug scenes are worth checking it out for those scenes alone.then the filmmakers ship her off to a boarding school and the rest of the movie is about is interesting as watching grass grow. liv tyler is definately a good up and coming actress but she needs to get a role that truly allows her to ACT. the film's best asset is the cinematography and set design. you really feel like you're back in that era. "},{"Title":"Absorbing character studies","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie moves slowly at times but the character development is the prime attraction of this motion picture. Truth or lies. The perception is the determining factor. Then all depends on the spin you have established. When the younger brother admits that the furthest thing from his mind is to be like his older brother, then does the viewer realize that an open mind is the best option. When we prejudge we often make mistakes. This is a fine movie. I recommend it most highly.  "},{"Title":"Ponderous in the extreme and ultimately going nowhere.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Inventing the Abbotts seems to have a glimmer of potential but it does not come anywhere close to realising it. The relationships are never developed or explored and the plot ambles along to a completely unsatisfying finale.  "},{"Title":"No feast for Connelly fans","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a stock right-side/wrong-side of the tracks story, low class boys and high class girls, with one romantic pair-up being simple/innocent/pure of heart/vapid (take your pick the Tyler/Phoenix duo), and all the others (involving Crudup) nasty and profligate. Add one horrible incident and/or misconception in the past which drives the tragic course of one character, blah, blah, blah. Plus a fifties wig that Tyler wears when she gets grown up & goes to school which is absolutely atrocious. The most important thing to know is that Jen Connelly doesn't get much time in this picture, but thankfully it's all at the beginning, so you guys out for an ogle know where to look, because there are a least a few choice frames here. The picture itself? Well, you've probably seen it many times before, whether you know it or not... "},{"Title":"Likeable but frustrating","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are a lot of good things about this film. 1) The pretty young ones all act well. 2)It's well shot, full of lush scenery. 3) The pace swims along gently but doesn't become lethargic. 4) The three sisters are all stunning. 5) It is a very involving film which also is the source of the frustrations. The story just seems too unfair. I won't try and give the story away but I felt really sorry for Joaquin's character and really p***ed off at Liv Tyler's character who keeps toying with his emotions, even unconsciously. His brother isn't much better either. If he did it to me I'd want to kill him. And the predictable happy ending for me is just unsatisfying.Credit where credit's due, the film has provoked a reaction and not a wholly undesirable either. Nevertheless it's left me feeling a little angry and I'm not quite sure why. Maybe bittersweet is the best word to sum it up.Anyway, it's worth watching if it's on TV anytime though I wouldn't recommend paying for a rental.P.S. I'm sure this review must seem very confusing and incoherent. Next time I'll stop to gather my thoughts before I start writing. "},{"Title":"A Coming Of Age Film That Needed Something More.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Inventing the Abbotts must get credit for developing its characters, especially two brothers who seem opposites of one another. It is set in the late 1950s and explores two teenage boys from a working class family trying to make time with the Abbott sisters. The girls father, a wealthy citizen of the town, is against the idea. Fine acting is over shadowed by a painfully slow story in spots. This is not a bad film and, if you don't mind the slow pace, you might enjoy it more than I did.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Looking Cast - Not A Very Good Film","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Certainly you can't complain about the sex appeal of the cast in this movie Joaquin Phoenix - Smouldering and dangerous good looks . One can't help wondering why it took till 2000 with GLADIATOR that he became a well known actor Liv Tyler - I notice she has bags under her eyes but apart from that she's strikingly beautiful . Some people claim she's not much of an actress but I was too overcome by the view to notice Jennifer Connelly - Sexy just doesn't even begin to describe Ms Conelly Joanna Going - So many beautiful actresses so little time to watch movies You hear what I'm saying ? The cast of this movie are so hot the audience might just get incinerated but it's the story that's important to a movie , if the story isn't compelling then a film will fail as entertainment and the problem with INVENTING THE ABBOTS is that that the story is basically two lower class brothers trying to court two middle class sisters who have an authoritarian patriarch as a father in 1950s middle America . Despite some screen burning sex appeal the production values are very similar to a TVM ( Strangely another movie ITV broadcast the same night THE HAUNTED HEART suffered from the same problem ) which makes a slow paced story even less involving , though perhaps this movie was made for a female audience in mind "}{"Title":"It's okay, I guess, but to what end?","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I read the other user reviews, and boy are you people easily pleased. Why make this movie? We have all been there in one way or another. Teenage angst, young adult angst. Ho-hum. No three dimensional characters, no action, almost no plot, and no life going on around the characters on screen. The acting is fine, but they don't really have much to work with. And it is SO SLOW. Good God, Mr. Director, what did you think was so fascinating about this film that you would take so bloody long with every scene and every shot? I don't have a short attention span, but when scenes drag on with 'meaningful pauses' that don't mean anything, then you teach me that I don't have to pay attention since nothing happens. Another 'ice maiden' performance from Jennifer Connelly, a one level performance from Billy Crudup, and Kathy Bates is the most rounded character, and gives the best performance. However, she is a very minor character in the big picture, and only made me aware of how shallow all the other roles were.It looks great, right on period wise, I think. Although the score, while very catchy, seems out of place. I don't remember all that wonderful boogie music at the start of the film as 1957.It's not awful, it's just sort of nothing and a bit of a waste of time. All these actors have done far better work in the last 10 years. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently watched this movie on channel 4 and it was rather amusing. The character of Liv Tyler was pleasing to watch and i enjoyed her innocent and cautious attitude towards the behavior of her sisters for the majority of the movie. However as the ending reached, Liv Tyler's character changed drastically from the person she was in the beginning of the movie and i found it rather disappointing as i felt that she could carry off that role with confidence. Liv Tyler has a look that reflects innocence and because her character did not posses any innocence i realized that her role could not be carried off with any realism, her role may have been more realistic and more delightful for me to watch if more innocence was added and less sex appeal was used. My overall opinion is that this movie is enjoyable to watch as it is made believable with actors such as Joaquin playing very influential roles. "},{"Title":"Not My Cup of Tea, but (Still) Okay.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meet Lloyd and Joan Abbott (Will Patton and Barbara Williams), the wealthiest in the neighborhood.  Then there is the Holt brothers, Doug and Jacey (Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup), whose bank accounts could never match the Abbotts'.  Unfortunately for Lloyd and Joan, Doug and Jacey have set eyes on the Abbott sisters - Alice (Joanna Going),the good sister, Eleanor (Jennifer Connelly), the bad sister, and Pamela (Liv Tyler), the youngest.  While Jacey tries to seduce both Eleanor and Alice, Doug forms a faithful, friendship with little sister, Pamela.  Yet what the Holt brother's do not know is the true reason why Lloyd wants nothing to do with them - and involves their beloved mother (Kathy Baker).First and foremost, this movie takes place in the 1950's and pretty much extends into later years as you watch Alice's almost-perfect marriage fall apart, Jacey's greed for wealth blossom until he soon tries to seduce all three of the Abbott sisters - especially Eleanor, and of course, on the lighter side, watching both Pamela Abbott and Doug Holt's relationship grow more mature.I found Inventing... a bit boring, and it's not a movie I'd be overly excited to watch again, but there are a few good parts that I enjoyed watching.  The 1950's fashions and settings were really interesting to see, and I must admit that Joanna Going and Jennifer Connelly - who sort of look like each other (and could pass for sisters) - have that classic 1950's/1960's look with the full red lips, snow white skin, and dark color hair.  Of course, Jennifer Connelly has also starred in 1930's/40's/50's etc. based films such as The Rocketeer (Jenny Blake), Mulholland Falls (Allison Pond).Oh and one more thing...the Holt's mother's secret with the Abbotts is NOTHING that exciting either.  When you find it out, it's like, God! Isn't that the way it usually is with most movies?! or as I thought, I watched this whole movie and that's what the secret was?!  Geez!But for anyone who likes these simple movies, I recommend it.  Otherwise, it's also a good movie to fall asleep to.  "},{"Title":"Looks great, but the film is flawed","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Includes SPOILERS!This film looks great... Everything from the production design to the cinematography to the actors... everything looks great. The film is also pretty good, but it isn't as interesting as it could be. I mean, who cares about Jacey's pretty ridiculous revenge (if you can even call it a revenge)? And the love story between Doug (Joaquin Phoenix as brilliant as ever) and Pamela (Liv Tyler) isn't very interesting. And the ending was just too simple after all that had happened in the film up until then. If they hadn't decided to go with the expected fairy tale ending the film would have had more impact on me as a viewer. The good things it looks great, Phoenix was great, the two brothers actually look like brothers (Crudup and Phoenix really look alike), and the relationship between Doug and his mom is very sweet and -- for me -- the best thing in the film. I just love it when he convinces his mother to sit down and have a beer with him. Great scene.Overall pretty good film, but it is also seriously flawed. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Wally and the Beav don't live on the same street as these two dysfunctional families.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in the 1950's (or maybe the 1960's; I dunno, it was hard to work up the interest) the film has an oddly contemporary feel, despite the hairdos and clothes that were supposed to remind us we are watching a period piece.Inventing the Abbotts is plodding, dull and repetitious as with malicious determination Jacey Holt works his way through the Abbott sisters, while his sensitive brother Doug pines for Pamela, the youngest Abbott. "},{"Title":"Only worth the first 20 minutes","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This extremely predictable movie isn't really worth sitting all the way through.  The first twenty minutes of the movie are by far the best, with Jeniffer Connelly's character basically carrying it all.  As soon as her character exits the film, however, the interest level completely flops out and this sappy little movie seems to go on for hours... I gave it a 5 overall, though really it would be more accurate to give the Connelly scenes an 8 or 9 and the rest of the movie maybe a 3.     "},{"Title":"Pretty serious movie.  Except it's poorly paced","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers?)I rented this because Jennifer Connelly is in it.  I thought it was okay.  I doubt I'll rent it again because alot of people get hurt emotionally in this movie.  There's a few additives here that make it have a bad aftertaste.  But overall it is okay.My one complaint though.  This movie has no sense of time.  None .  NilI think the movie spanned about 3 years.  But the way the movie was paced, it seemed more like 5-7 at times and just a few months on others.  It was... it created a destraction.  But thats just how I felt about it.6/10Quality 7/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 2/10 "},{"Title":"Decent movie but absurd plot","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting and directing was very good in this movie. Joaquin Phoenix and Billy Crudup were great in the lead. Kathy Baker reminds me of my mother. She played her role perfectly. The sisters were all stunning and effective. What is the deal with Will Patton? Every character he plays is someone who deserves to be punched.The plot seemed too far fetched to be true. Mr. Abbott gets a patent from Mr. Holt in return for a car which Mr. Holt drives over ice on a bet with Abbott and dies. Mr. Abbott then tries to go to bed with Mr. Holt's widow but she refused his advances. Yet jealous Mrs. Abbott spread the false rumor that Mrs. Holt was intimate with her husband.Jacey Holt grows up resenting the Abbotts and he comes to believe the false story that his mother slept with Mr. Abbott. So Jacey gets even by sleeping with all the Abbott girls inlcuding the youngest, Pamela even though he knows younger brother Doug is in love with Pamela.So after some time and the death of his mother younger brother Doug forgives Jacey and Pamela and ends up marrying Pamela.What fun the family get togethers must be. Everyone in the Holt and Abbott families have a connection except Mrs. Abbott. She is unable because she is too old for the Holt boys and their father is dead. "},{"Title":"Mediocre coming of age film","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This takes place in Illinois from 1957 to 1960. It's about two poor brothers--Doug (Joaquin Phoenix) and Jacey (Billy Crudup)--who are infatuated with three rich sisters--Alice (Joanna Going), Eleanor (Jennifer Connrlly) and Pamela (Liv Tyler) Abbott. It follows their relationships over the years.Why this film was made remains a mystery to me. It's very well-done with an attractive cast and beautiful settings--but there's nothing even remotely new here. The conflicts and story lines here have been done countless times before (just here they're updated with minor nudity and some very R rated language). Also, at almost two hours, it's far too long. I was basically pretty bored during the last hour and was just patiently waiting for things to reach their utterly predictable conclusion. Also the acting by Connelly and Crudup was pretty terrible. Connelly just giggles and acts vacant and Crudup seems unwilling to move one muscle in his face. He always has this blank expression on his face no matter what's happening in his scenes. The great acting by the rest of the cast (especially Phoenix and Kathy Baker) and the lush settings make this worth watching at least once. But seriously--you've seen this all before. Narrated by an unbilled Michael Keaton. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"For lovers only","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is for all the lovers in the world. Inventing the Abbotts is a picture perfect movie for Valentine's Day. It's too bad that Joaquin Phoenix and Liv Tyler had split, oh well, this movie will be the they've been together. The Holt brothers(Billy Crudup, and Phoenix) woo the Abbott daughters. All three. The ones of the choosing are Eleanor(Jennifer Connelly) and Pamela(Liv Tyler). The wild one is Eleanor, she's seen with Jacey Holt a lot. And the fun part in the movie is when Doug drops his pencil the library, and Crazy Eleanor spreads her legs open. While Doug gets his pencil, he looks up Eleanor's skirt. Instead of getting mad at him, she puts a note between her legs saying Hi Doug! AND he bumps his head, and the pencil sticks in his chin. OUCH! That would be his first painful act, right? Wrong! In the scene with Doug and Pam, Pam kicks Doug in the groin. WOOH! This should be passed as a blooper. Oh well, maybe next time. When the mother dies, the Abbott patriarch gives sympathy to Doug, however, Doug was the more level-headed one in the Holt family. Jacey was the lost soul. The brothers went to the same college, but Jacey partied too much. The movie was great, it lasted its good 110 minutes. I wished it would be the same for Joaquin and Liv, but that's life! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Could Have Been Better","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first few scenes with Jennifer Connelly were priceless but after she was taken out of the picture the movie became less engrossing to watch.  The best acting to come from Joaquin Phoenix(he is not as obnoxious here as he is in Gladiator).  The character that Will Patton is someone that is extremely despicable because he never once takes responsibility for the many bad things he does to others(he is good at transferring the blame to others in order to make him look helpless).  The story is lame and gut less because it doesn't have the courage to become something different.  Liv Tyler is excellent in the role of Pam Abbott.  Jennifer Connelly should of had more screen time because its her who gives the best performance of the film.  The flirting scene with Joaquin Phoenix and Jennifer Connelly would have be much better if it were genuine, awkward, and full of raw emotions. "},{"Title":"Nothing is happening so fast!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  @#!$%^&!  That's how I felt by the time (Thank God!) this movie was over.  I'll have never have those two hours of my life back. I could've been asleep or poking myself in the eye with a sharp stick, but instead, I watched this.  I'm older and wiser now, and my heart just a little bit colder.Where to begin?  My first complaint about this movie is the presence of Liv Tyler.  I'm not talking about her screen presence; I mean the fact that she was there at all.  Perhaps Jean Stapleton would have been a better choice.  At least she doesn't have that perpetual, vacant where am I? look in her eyes, no matter whether the scene calls for it or not. And as for the plot, about halfway through the movie, I began to root for V.C. Andrews to intervene as a guest writer and add some incest, or for heroin to suddenly sweep through the town, or anything, just so SOMETHING (for the love of God, please!) would happen.  My grandfather tells more interesting and more coherent stories.By the end of the film, I had lost whatever meager amount of interest I once had in the characters and their lives.  My butt hurt, my eyes burned, and my head was buzzing from the snoring going on around me.  I just wanted to go home.  The movie could have stopped dead in the middle of some very tense, staring-laden scene, and I would have rejoiced.  Alas, it did continue to the end, but it wasn't worth the trip.If you have $1.00, two hours, and a little bit of self-respect to waste, go ahead, rent it.  See what I mean.  I hope that whoever invented the Abbotts didn't pay for the patent.   "},{"Title":"INVENTING THE ABBOTTS (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There must be tons of worser things in life than watching Inventing the abbotts and I am sure that in this genre there are worser things made (just be 2 minutes at the videotheque) but all by all a rather boring teenagelovestory that is set in the fifties and where we see the contrast between the rich and the poor...and the poor are penetrating into the rich through sex blah blah blah...can you guess the rest? "}]