[{"Title":"A fascinating study of the nature of life and intelligence","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Don't believe the folks who say this film is about the thin line between genius and madness. That may be part of it, but it's far from what's important here. The real loot here is FC&OOC's exploration of the other, and our attempts to understand, shape and control it. Humans have a fascination with the nature of life and intelligence--whether it comes in the form of wild animals, plants in a garden or robots developing in a lab--and the ways we approach these things reveal as much about subject as object. This film does a beautiful job of highlighting the mystery inherent in living and/or intelligent things, evoking the awe we feel when we regard them, and the questions that arise when we attempt to study, cultivate, contain or tame them. "},{"Title":"Emergent Systems","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  In science, there is a property of any complex system, that more complexity and subtlety will result with each added component.  This, in my opinion, was the subject of Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control. The parallels drawn between AI, societal mammals, commonality of life (the lion tamer) and art (topiary gardener) flesh out a world where the idea of God can well be reduced to a simple inherent property of existence.  Mole rat societies are not so far from human societies; humans are not so different from animals; robots are not so different from animals; and each individual represents a unique degree of specialization that proves important to the greater society it exists in. I found this work elegant, subtle, and even-handed, not to mention completely unique in its structure and faith in the audience to decipher an individual meaning from the context provided.  Each person interviewed is wholly engrossed in their craft, something for which no other human can be substituted, and that exuberance shines in their eyes.  It's a strange ride that inspires wonder in trusting viewers, exactly the way that the experts' wonder has motivated their realization as truly unique humans. "},{"Title":"Morris focuses","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was easily the best film of 1997.Morris has tried it all; one camera documentary, for Gates of Heaven; Rashomon tinged storytelling, with The Thin Blue Line; and now, finally, the beautiful and moving Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control.In the earlier films, the viewer's left with the task of sifting through lots of unedited information to put together his own story from what's been gathered, rather like Ed Wood going through rolls of archival footage to see if there's a movie there.  In this one, Morris had a story to tell, and he goes after it with aplomb and purpose.  His camera angles are ingenious, his use of slow motion masterful, and the story--that the personality traits that lead to success are the same, regardless of the stripe of the pursuit--comes along gently.  Once the connection's been made, he overlaps the voice of one participant over the work of another, and the resonances between all of them become more and more apparent.Watching Morris come along as a filmmaker is a little like watching a favorite cousin come of age.  This movie makes you want to cheer, not only for Morris, but for the cast of misfits he's put on film who've taken their lives and made something of them.  These four men are workers.  They're not managers, not victims of dumb luck.  They're doing these jobs because they love them, and because they love them and work without pause, they've become successful.  They're not geniuses.  Like Morris, they've merely managed to focus.  Morris shows us what a rare thing that is.  Bravo. "},{"Title":"Delightful Surprise.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Encapsulated reviews are misleading. I had several times bypassed Fast, Cheap and Out of Control on IFC for more lively sounding fare on movie channels. When I finally selected it as the least boring of an afternoon's TV movie offerings, I regretted not having picked it sooner and seen it more often.This documentary delighted me! Interviews were enhanced by display of the works of four brilliant practitioners, fanatical about the unusual focus of their work or study. We are introduced to naked mole rats, robots as the next stage in evolution, wild animal training and a visionary handicrafter/topiary designer. Each professional provided unusual insights to their efforts and perhaps to our own natures as human beings.The documentary seemed designed to hold even those with the even shortest of attention spans. Rather than engaging each subject in depth as a single segment, the interviews are presented in approximately one minute scenarios, often with a montage of old film footage relating connections and historical ideas about some of the subject matter. Just as a viewer's mind might start to drift during a segment, it collides with the next subject, often forcing mental connections that may not have come naturally.After watching this one, I felt compelled to find and view the other productions of Errol Morris, and I shall keep an eye out for his future works. I believe that its audience should comprise anyone with a spark of interest in the world around them and the desire to be entertained. Whether you are fond of documentaries or not, I think this one will offer a pleasant and quickly passing ninety minutes.Gene Romero gromero001@aol.com "},{"Title":"A work of genius. No one can sculpt the documentary form as brilliantly as this man","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie is a work of genius. It asks as well of answers to some degree most major questions of life as we know it (and don't know it) all through interviews and visual juxtapositions. The real-life people are astoundingly interesting and passionate and when Errol distorts our minds using subjective imagery such as old 40's films and intercutting between interviews to enhance its meaning, he conjures welcome associations of human nature.  No one can sculpt the documentary form as brilliantly as this man.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating Representation of Contrasting Subjects","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was amazed at how Errol Morris abstractly tied together four people with such contrasting occupations. I was skeptical before seeing the film--after all, how on earth would anyone relate a lion tamer, topiary gardener, mole rat specialist and robot expert--but Morris pulls it off excellently. The ties between certain details of each interview either tie visually or conceptually with one of the other interviewees, and the beauty is in the way the ideas are strung together. The quirky soundtrack is fantastic, giving a twist to circus music that carries the mood of the film, as well as help Morris to make serious comments about life. At any rate, this is a very enjoyable documentary, even to those who strongly dislike documentaries.  "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Hiding within this movie are four fairly interesting mini-documentaries about four men, each with a vision - perhaps even an obsession - about one particular facet of life. The common thread uniting them is that each of the four is fascinated by the ways in which animals, men, plants, and even machines evolve, learn, and grow. A recurring theme is training or control.Unfortunately, these four interesting stories are chopped up and interwoven in ways that often seem arbitrary and pointless. Plus, about 25% of the movie is made up of clips from other, mostly bad, movies... and the soundtrack music is often intrusive and annoying. So I'm mystified why a number of critics thought this was the best documentary of 1997. Maybe there were just a lot of bad documentaries that year! Worth watching if you have nothing else to do, but nowhere near great. "},{"Title":"Subverts ironically.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This makes the third Errol Morris movie I've seen, and I'm increasingly not liking his style. He seems to find very interesting and varied characters, great personalities to create documentaries for, and then with tongue-in-cheek editing make fun of everything they are about. It's never really a direct caricaturation of them and Morris seems most of the time to be saying, But no, no, these people are really fascinating, really!, but there's always these subtle little canted angles and not-so-subtle editing techniques that show that Morris seems to be mocking them behind their back.This movie tracks four people who break the traditional boundaries of organic separation... a man who studies African hairless molerats to find that they are amazingly ant-like, a lion tamer, a man who keeps a garden full of animal-shaped shrubbery, and a robot designer. The general theme of the film seems to revolve around the question of what designates animal, human, and life features? So the title of Fast, Cheap, & Out of Control doesn't really seem to mean anything in terms of the movie... right? Except of course Morris seems just a little disturbed by these individuals' passions (he might call them obsessions) making synthetic designs on life. I share not that fear and honestly don't appreciate some of the connections Morris makes in the film.But I stress his subtlety. With no voice-over narration and leaving the words entirely to the interviewees, it's not as if Morris ever pounds that anxiety onto the spectators' collective head. Instead he mixes circus footage and ant footage together often at times when they're taken out of the context of the circus and the ants, showing a sort of collective absurdity behind what all of these people are talking about. I don't find them absurd, I find them all very neat and interesting individuals.Unless, of course, he didn't intend such juxtapositions, which means he's just a bad craftsman instead of a silent subverter. Considering none of this films I've seen so far have particularly impressed me, I don't really care to find out what he's trying to do.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"My opinion of genius","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It's amazing how one film can warrant such diverse audience opinion about what it all means. That which I took away from this movie is a concept of God's existence that is nothing short of genius. I'm not saying that this is the director's intention...it's only what I took from it.Four Gods absorbed completely and differently in their four worlds1. Artistic God - the gardener - the God who spends his days creating the world for man to live in. This is my world. I don't care how you live in it, but don't mess it up. Because man has freewill, God is uninvolved in man's evolution.2. The Bully God - the lion tamer - the God who rules the world with discipline. This is my world. Do as I say and nobody gets hurt. God won't let man evolve out of fear of losing physical superiority.3. The Control Freak God - the mole rat scientist - the God who controls man's life. This is my world. Live in it, but I will observe, limit, and dictate what you do. God won't let man evolve out of fear of losing mental superiority.4. The Free Thinking God - the robotics engineer - the God who aids and improves man's life with only one commandment/program...respect. This is our world. We share it. Live in it as you please. I am not expecting you to be perfect. All I am asking for is that you treat each other with mutual respect. Together, we evolve into our creation.This is the God which I prefer.  "},{"Title":"Truth stranger than imagination","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I saw this film and loved it, though it was hard to gain the proper sense of perspective, as I know Dave (the lion tamer).  However, it's interesting to note that Errol Morris is not nearly so controlling or manipulative as some viewers seem to think.  He doesn't have to stretch the subject matter to try and make connections... he just lightly played the characters, and they all start to sound the same after a point.  Anecdotal evidence?  The obssessive robot scientist, after the making of the film, apparently decided the end of the world was coming, and holed up in his laboratory building his robot army (this is of course a rumor, from the lion tamer).  In any event, he wouldn't come to any photo shoots after the release, so the other three men posed with a cardboard cutout of him... check the art and you might be able to tell. "}{"Title":"Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control is average","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This was a strange film, one that I'm not sure I completely understood. The editing was a little out of control all on its own. This is a review of four seemingly different careers- An animal trainer for the circus, a topiary gardener, a naked mole rat specialist, and a robot scientist. The film tried to find similarities between these three unique jobs. While this was interesting, informative, and slightly satirical, I did not find this a film that I would race to see again. My lack of total enthusiasm in regards to something like this may be only an individual's preference, so I cannot say I detested this movie, and not to see it. "},{"Title":"Architecture Machine","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" My small survey of documentary types has brought me to this, and what a celebration!This is complex, meaningful cinema that just happens to be a documentary. It is intelligent, complex, deliberate and deeply thought provoking. I think it communicates something that isn't quite right, but the thing is communicated in the most effective way &#x97; by folding the idea being explained into the form of the explanation, the film itself.The core of this is the work of Rodney Brooks. He is a celebrated researcher in robotics and now the founder of the most promising company making these things. He is smart, articulate and the things he makes work as advertised. I've encountered him and his work professionally over the last 30 years. He makes machines that walk, and have some cognitive navigation skills. Walking is hard.While there are many research centers working on robotics, there are only two universities working on the underlying theories. MIT is the least shallow of these. Add in the fact that Brooks has manufactured thousands of graduates in his style of thinking, and you may appreciate why he may be one of the most influential thinkers on the planet.The theory here is that instead of thinking about a single brain, it makes sense to think in terms of a society of collaborating miniminds, agents. As a metaphor, bees, ants, termites are usual. And as usual, the metaphor in most quarters is taken too literally. Brooks does not quite do so, but this is the first compromise made by the filmmaker. Making agents systems that have the behavior you want is impossible without some structure in the society. A promising approach is to go deep and restructure logic. Instead, Brooks structures the agents into subsumptive layers. This mirrors special purpose roles of termites and molerats in colonies.Okay, here is an idea, an interesting one, and one that is already embedded in the general intellectual economy. Around this, Morris builds a film. Nominally, there are four geniuses. One is our robotics theorist. We have an obsessive expert in molerats, so we have our metaphor made whole. We have a lion tamer. Now he fits into the idea architecture by explaining how he repeatedly risks his life to figure out and superficially control inscrutable animals. And finally we have a guy who reverses the metaphor; he takes living things with their natural agent system that wants to behave one way, and he forces it to look like larger living things. The resemblance is superficial and fragile.Two of these form the cinematic spine the circus and the robots. Most of what we see apart from the four individuals themselves is a collage of circus footage and splices from old robot movies. We also have the synthesis of old circus movies with robotic influence.Peppered in are the two other guys and their cinematic expression. With the molerats, we have &#x97; well film of molerats. With the topiarist, we have some artistically photographed scenes of him working in the garden. The score is important in Morris films; here the composer tries to build subsumptive music, taking themes from movies and other recognizable sources, assigning them to types of clips we see, and subsuming them into a klezmer- inspired circus score where we are the audience.This really is a carefully structured piece of cinema, visually conveying ideas much deeper than one normally allows. The problem is that like the four men we are shown, the approach is still discrete, reductionist. It assumes that great sweeps of life can be logical, explained. We go to the circus and topiary garden to see this narrative. An influential professor treats grad students like so many ants, incrementally evolving the system. A fellow explains the colony, as if observations equals insights.So here is the quandary with film and ideas. Film is about showing. The best ideas are about abstracting away distracting (and often false) appearances. A long form narrative film takes you places where you can invent your insights, with some guidance. A documentary feeds insights, but has to stick more with the sight than the in.Still, the structure here and the ambition! It isn't real, but it does not have to be to warm us.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Disjointed and unsatisfying","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Four men are interviewed separately. One man studies hairless mole rats. One man is a topiary gardener. One man is a retired lion tamer. One is a robotics designer. Each has a passion (or an obsession) with their chosen subject but have seemingly little in common. With the collection of their interviews, Errol Morris explores the themes of growth, development and evolution of species.My plot summary suggests that I got what Morris was trying to do but really this is my guess. If that was his intension though then he has fallen short of it because rather than coming together to form a documentary, the film feels like it is all over the place with no real direction or control over the subject matter. Each of the men are reasonably interesting by themselves and the topics are unusual enough to hold the interest. However the way Morris uses them is poor and the film is cluttered with archive movie footage and a terrible musical score. I'm not totally sure how he was trying to get to where he wanted to be, maybe at one point he just decided to revel in the weirdness of his subjects and give up on pulling it all together.The men are mostly interesting even if their subjects aren't particularly. The gardener was probably the only one that I actively found pretty dull, the others had a bit of character and passion that endeared them to me. Maybe if Morris had tried to do more with the men themselves he could have done something interesting, but by going for the bigger theme he loses his way and ultimately his film shows it consistently throughout.Overall then a disappointing film from start to finish. Die-hard fans of Morris might find enough of his style and interest to carry them through but for me I found it to be a real mess of a documentary that doesn't seem to have any design or structure about and left me wondering what I was watching and why I was bothering. "},{"Title":"Had Forgotten That I'd Already Seen It","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" A true test of the impression that a film makes is whether I remember that I've seen it before. I watched Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control on Crackle last night. About half way through the film, I had a moment of deja vu and realized that I had watched this same film many years ago. Clearly, my sub conscience had tried to suppress the memory for some reason.The film is a documentary about four men, a lion tamer, a topiary sculptor, a mole rat biologist, and a robotics engineer. I tried very hard to find the common thread between these various professions. Was it that filmmaker was trying to demonstrate complexity through much simpler systems? Perhaps a look inside the mind of several eccentric geniuses and glimpse at how they arrive at solutions to organic problems? Or, is it just an entertaining look at four unique professions which would have been less intriguing as four short films? The editing style bounces from man to man, from profession to profession, and has many cutaways to segment clips from various B (or maybe D) movies. The key phrase in the film, and in the story telling, is said by the robotics engineer when he describes a proposed exploration system as fast, cheap, and out of control. After thinking about the movie and what message, if any, it was trying to convey, my conclusion is that the film itself it was is fast, cheap, and out of control and that any deeper meaning than that is overexertion on the viewers part in trying to find connections that do not exist. "},{"Title":"Viability into the future","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The four men profiled in this picture - topiary gardener George Mendonca, hairless mole rat enthusiast Ray Mendez, big animal trainer Dave Hoover, and robot scientist Ronald Brooks are all committed to their work. They work diligently, unconcerned with how the rest of the world might view their work. The quality of their work is job one and non-negotiable. Underlying that commitment is a view toward the future and what it might look like. They believe that if their work is well-thought out and well-done that they can shape the future. Conversely, they recognize that if their work isn't well-done or executed that it will be forgotten in due time. Mendonca frets about his sculptures existence after he passes on, Brooks sees a future in which robots will exist on the same plane as humans, and Hoover's work with big animals colors his views about man's supremacy. Mendez has learned the importance of co-operation from hairless rats.All four recognize the tenuousness of life and the importance of always changing. They all see that the unpleasant alternative to evolving is extinction. That is clear from their respect for other forms of consciousness. They are open to other ways of learning and being. The unique social system of hairless mole rats is lauded as a more co-operative way of living. Robots' consciousness also is seen as something which is rapidly developing. The big animals that Hoover trains have their own systems for dealing with their world too. Mendonca's commitment to his job for over 30 years gives him the knowledge that change happens slowly.The subjects' views on different ways of life are really brought to life against the backdrop of a score by Caleb Sampson. His use of a frequently repeating motif score bought to mind Philip Glass and gave the film a melancholy twinge. Also helpful in creating the mood are schlocky films, many science fiction and adventurous which often play while the four subjects tell their stories about what inspires and has guided them.Morris is a filmmaker always worth watching. His choice of music, subject, and how he puts everything together makes him one of the most unique filmmakers working. These portraits of men in somewhat unusual jobs doesn't seem like it would recommend as a guide to the future, but through their dedication and engagement, we can see a viable world. "},{"Title":"Lacking a truly good concept and approach to it.","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The foremost thing that can let a documentary work out as a good and interesting one is its subject. And let me just say, I could barely finish watching this documentary! There were several issues I was having with this documentary. The first is the most obvious one, that this documentary is focusing on four unrelated persons and completely different subjects. You could say that they are all connected through their passion for their work but there are millions of people out there with a passion for something. I mean, what makes these guys so special and worthy of featuring them in a documentary? And that brings me to the other problem of that the documentary just doesn't ever manage to get deep or involving with anything. The way it's set up, is that it just lets its subjects talk about their work but it doesn't tell you anything about the person itself, or what drives and motivates him. You were supposed to take all of this out of the way they were talking about their work I suppose but it just didn't worked out too well for me.It might had worked out for me if the different subjects were being a bit more interesting ones. But one involves a gardener, the other a robotics designer and the other a guy who is fascinated by mole rats. The one interesting subject involves a lion tamer but because every different subjects take up about as much screen time as the other, the documentary just doesn't ever find the time or space to let any of them work out as something good and interesting enough. It was really lacking some depth, which was due to the combination of its concepts and the approach to all of it. It actually became a very repetitive documentary after a while, since nothing in it ever felt as if it was progressing and going anywhere interesting or surprising. The style also became repetitive and predictable after a short while. The style actually seemed to be the foremost thing that was supposed to keep this documentary together and provide it with pace and visual splendor (with the help of acclaimed cinematographer Robert Richardson) as well but it really started to work against the documentary after a while. It actually helped to prevent this documentary from ever becoming a well enough focused one.I'm not exaggerating when I'm saying that, about half way through the documentary, I already got fed up with it and lost all interest. I really had a hard time finish watching it and when it finally did, I was glad it was all over with. It's not like I hated watching it but it just was a documentary I got absolutely nothing out of!5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Slow, Expensive (waste of time) & Ridiculous","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" There are so many problems with this so-called documentary I don't know where to begin.For starters, this is really a fake documentary. There is so much stock footage and scenes from an old film strewn throughout, one wonders if the title Morris came up with for this film actually refers to his OWN film and how he made it. He probably shot this very quickly, very cheaply, and is just plain out of control as this story is a big mess.Most of this film is entirely boring, and most of the anecdotes the 4 subjects relate are boring. This film is also filled with scenes that have nothing to do with the story being told and it shows. How Roger Ebert and some other critics could have listed this in their top 10 the year it came out is shocking.One of the biggest problems, is that none of the 4 people being interviewed are very interesting. In truth, they probably could be, or likely have interesting things that could have been related/shown, but they all come off boring... and this is clearly Morris' fault, not the 4 people's. The lion tamer is the more interesting of the bunch, but he still is pretty boring in Morris' hands. What a shame. What a waste of celluloid. I really expected a better film, because I recall some of the critical claim it had gotten 14 or 15 years ago. But now that I finally saw this on one of the movie channels, those critics must have been on drugs. Actually... that might be the way to view this film... if you're high, you might actually like it since it's all over the place with weird, non-linear footage. And then if you fall asleep, you won't miss anything. "},{"Title":"bizarre","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This was an interesting film,that would attract the attention of all ages for its bizarreness, and its uniqueness. It doesn't have the normal plot of most movies but contains an interesting unexpected list of characters which all pertain different jobs that are often not recognized and are found rare in the world. This movie will attract the interests and will possibly help and open a new range of career opportunities to the world that most have failed to recognize. These jobs not only take patience but passion, and willingness to go outside the box, rather than sit at work in your small cubicle watching the clock tick till you get off. This movie might create a greater desire in you to want to know more about this random jobs, which have now been introduced to you. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" so altogether i found this documentary to be strange and really pointless. i know it got awards and things, but i personally did not enjoy it too much. there was no humor or drama in it to keep you interested, just a bunch of wierdos and their jobs. some of the people in are rather different which isn't a bad thing, it just didn't leave a good impression on me. i was thoroughly bored by this movie, no offense to my creative writing teacher. the circus theme throughout the whole movie was kinda cool but i didn't get it, and robotics and lion taming is definitely not my thing. the green animals thing was neat, i really liked the garden lots of colorful flowers, but how did these four jobs connect? it just didn't make much sense to me why someone would make a movie about that. But if you are into stuff like this you might enjoy it. who am i to stand in your way. I am just forewarning you about possible suffering. "},{"Title":"Regardless of the link between the four people, this is a neat documentary","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This documentary from Errol Morris is about four people and their jobs. They all share some common interest and I think Morris intended this to be mankind's control over nature, though to me the connection was much simpler--all four had neat jobs and all four had an intense passion for what they did. Rarely have I seen people who love their work as much as these four men and because of this I found that there was a very likable sort of nobility about them. Some of the jobs seemed more exciting than others, but all four seemed intensely satisfied with their own particular job. There jobs were lion tamer, robotics professor, naked mole rat curator and master gardener/topiary expert.As for the style of the film, some of the negative criticisms others level against this film I just didn't agree with, though one I certainly did. The connecting archival film clips sometimes worked well and fit what was being said and done, though some just looked cheap and out of place--particularly the movie serial clips. However, despite this possible unfortunate choice, I loved the music, way of interconnecting the stories and overall format.Interesting and well worth a look if you like quirky documentaries. I liked this far more than Morris' first film, GATES OF HEAVEN (which was very stark and aimless compared to this one) and not as amazing as MR. DEATH--one of the best documentaries I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Blogspot Reviews Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control, 1997 A documentary that aims high and doesn't quite make it. It's about four guys that have achieved great things in very unussual fields. The director was trying to make a point about what it takes to be a success. He tried to make the argument that although the mens fields were very different (robot designer, mole rat expert, lion tamer, gardener) they succeeded for the same reason. He did this by first introducing the men, than interviewing them, than having the answers of one play while he showed the other working. It was a pretty well made movie and shot pretty well, but it just didn't quite do it for me. It was a well made movie and I enjoyed it, but I feel that it could have done a lot more.6/10, 23rd best of 1997, 250th of the 90s, 627th overall. "},{"Title":"Errol Morris embraces the MTV generation","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  What was Errol Morris thinking when he made Gates of Heaven, hailed by Roger Ebert as one of the ten best films of all time? He set out to make a documentary about an animal cemetery, and emerged with the greatest example of serendipitous film-making ever shot. Who did he think would want to watch this film? My guess is that he didn't care. Unfortunately, with the present film he cared very, very much. Not so much WHO his audience would be, but THAT he had an audience in the first place. Is this such a bad thing? Doesn't one have to eat? Not Errol Morris. Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control is a slickly packaged documentary about four eccentric men from four diverse walks of life lion taming, robot building, mole rat researching, and topiary gardening. The point of the film is that genius/madness comes in many different flavors, and that these walks of life are really not so diverse after all. Morris heavy-handedly drives this point home by continuously juxtaposing commentary on mole rat behavior over images of a trapeze artist in the circus. Such precious, Reggioesque devices are opprobrium for a director who is at his best when he simply points a camera at the right people at the right time and lets fate spin itself out extemporaneously. Now on to specifics. Besides the disingenuous conceit mentioned above, there are two aspects of the film that soured me (as opposed to left me indifferent) to it 1) Two of the four characters (the mole rat researcher and especially the poseur robot builder) are unbearably annoying, and, more importantly, 2) Caleb Sampson's faux-carnival music bleats incessantly throughout the film, denying the viewer any contemplative breathing space, which would probably have improved the film somewhat (two of the greatest film scores of all time are from The French Connection and Gates of Heaven--and neither of these films has a score).I selfishly hope that Morris will eventually return to his roots spending less time in post-production, making sleek, art-house music videos, and more time on site, conducting irrelevant interviews with old ladies on rickety porches who vent about their ungrateful, no-good sons. "},{"Title":"Not as interesting as Morris Thinks","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Sorry, I just didn't find the subject matter as compelling as the filmmaker did. The robot guy and the mole rat guy were pretty interesting, although Morris didn't really tell us much about them. The other two subjects were a bore. And the supposed connections between them didn't hold up.  "},{"Title":"Disappointment from Morris......","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Somehow the Morris mix just doesn't jell this time.  I'm normally a huge fan of Mr. Morris's films,  especially the truly great Gates of Heaven. But   Fast, Cheap & Out of Control is ironically aptly  titled. Instead of providing some quirky insight  into the human condition, the film only manages  to annoy. And our four subjects? Well, they grate  on the nerves to be honest. It's hard to say what's  missing, maybe a sense of humor, maybe some more  directorial involvement. In any event, I wouldn't  go out of my way to catch this flick. "},{"Title":"The answer to big questions from the odd details of everyday existence","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" As you watch this film, you go through three phases 1) What the heck is this? 2) Fascination 3) Synthesis - What does it all mean? Here's where I came out after a couple days of reflecting on the last question These four guys have jobs that are quirky and about as different from one another as they could be. None the less, each man is fully absorbed in what he does and uses his job, over the course of a life time, as a meditation on two questions; Who am I? and What is the nature of the world? By the end, they all come to consistent conclusions about themselves, and because of the way their dialogue and images are interspersed, they blur and seem to merge into one single person. That one person then is absorbed by the world of their own mutual conception.The film is ambitious in undertaking these big questions and I think ultimately successful. "},{"Title":"Obsession times 4........","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Four obsessed men explaining their individual interests (wild animal trainer, topiary gardener, naked mole rat expert, robot designer) is how I would describe Fast, Cheap & Out of Control. The documentary is somewhat redundant and not entirely successful. It might have benefited from a couple more eccentric characters, or perhaps telling a little about the topiary guy's wife for instance. The circus scenes and old black and white movie that strung the stories together was inadequate for maintaining interest through 82 minutes. The film's central theme seemed to be emphasizing the very thin line that separates madness from genius. These very original characters came across as both fascinating and sad. - MERK "},{"Title":"Fast, Cheap, And out of control","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I found the documentary entitled Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control to be a fairly interesting documentary. The documentary contained four mini documentaries about four interesting men. Each one of these men was extremely involved with his job, showing sheer love and enjoyment for one's job.The sad part, I must say, would have to be the subjects in which these individuals worked/studied. They were interesting for about five minutes, afterwards becoming boring and lasting entirely too long.The video was filmed in a very creative way though. I very much enjoyed the film of one thing with a voice dub over another. It played out excellent and also coincided nicely with the music. "},{"Title":"oddly done documentary on four careers Lion trainer, Honiculturist, Naked Mole Rat Studier, and a robot technician","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" this movie was a little hard for me to get interested in. the way it was filmed, and how the information was presented was very entertaining, but the information itself was rather boring in my opinion. it's not a movie i would rush to the nearest rental store to get by any means. But if i saw it was on TV i might flip to it and watch it for a few minutes, then would become bored and find something a little more entertaining. All in all this is not a movie i would want to watch more than once, which is a major contribution in how i rate movies. if it entertains me enough to watch it more than once, i would give it a semi good or good rating, but if don't enjoy it enough to watch it more than once, it automatically becomes a pass in my book. "},{"Title":"Fast, Cheat, Out of Control","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" How can a creative writing teacher entertain her class of seven students while educating them? Show them Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control is how.I found this movie very entertaining. As a Junior who is about to get out of school for the summer, its hard to keep my attention but I found myself unable to fall asleep during this movie.Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control was quite random and amazing. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It made me laugh and showed me how compassionate people should be about their jobs.Whats the point of going to a dead end boring job you loathe when you could be out there doing what you love and getting paid for it? There is no point.My hope is that when I have a full time job, I love it and look forward to it just as much as these men do with their jobs.I think all you workers should do the same. "},{"Title":"Strange, powerful, touching and deep","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. The movie appears to be simple, just these four men speaking by turns into the camera about their lives and their eccentric work. Each of them is an interesting person, each of them does extraordinary work, but so what? There are lots of interesting people and strange jobs.What makes this film transcendent is the absence of a narrator. There is no voice-over to tell you what to think about these men or their work or why the director thought they belonged together. It's presented more like a set of clues, and the viewer is invited to enter into the puzzle and draw their own sense from it. I found myself musing about what it means to be a man, what it means to be human, what it means to be alive. Whenever I watch the film, which I have done many times, I am moved to tears at the end--and often I can't say precisely why, only that I have been lifted up and changed.The score, by Caleb Sampson, is a miracle of invention and wit. It is a character in the movie almost as much as the four interviewees. While there is no narrator, the score underlines and comments upon the words of the four men. It is one of few soundtracks I have ever purchased to listen to on its own. "}{"Title":"Lesser Morris but still masterful","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Errol Morris is arguably the greatest storyteller alive today. He saved an innocent death-row victims life with the harrowing Thin Blue Line and created a historic document of the lifework of one of the most influential figures of the 20th century Robert S. MacNamara with The Fog of War. His documentary Fast, Cheap & Out of Control dealt with a subject matter I was not so interested in but which I began to have some appreciation for when I finished the film. The entire credit goes to his superb storytelling skills.Fast, Cheap & Out of Control (I still don't get the reason for the title???) tells the story and professional interests of four disparate people, none of them rich, famous or successful in the parlance of today's society. Workers, not Managers, all four have a passion for their chosen calling, are very good at what they do and share a common thread. They are a lion-tamer at a circus; a mole-rat expert; a topiary gardener (did you know it takes 15 years to make a bear!); and a robotics expert. In some way, all four are dealing with and admire the wonder that is the animal world.The subject matter is quite distant from my experience and life and frankly I didn't think there was anything in a mole-rat or the construction of a robot and how it moves that could interest me. But I did find the enthusiasm of the four subjects under study infectious and I remained interested throughout the documentary. "},{"Title":"the stories of four men who, in their own simple paths, head on to the nature of the beast, as it were","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The stories of these four men as the subject(s) of Errol Morris's ultra-quirky and intellectually/purely humanely stimulating documentary Fast Cheap & Out of Control would be sort of too simplistic for one documentary by themselves. Each one has a fascinating profession, with some personalization coming in, naturally, by way of what each profession carries with it lion/other animal tamer in the circus, robot designer, topiary gardener, and mole-rat scientist/specialist. They're dedicated to their profession 100%, and keep getting genuinely surprised by what they discover through trial and error, either through science or in dealing with elements in nature head on, be they a turn of an electrical screw or an extra clip on the hedges. This might be enough for interest as a documentary, switching between perspectives on people in professions that get taken for granted, in some ways, when compared to those of usual-minded business drones and other people who go about more banal affairs in American life.But Morris is too impulsive an editor and archivist to just let the interviewees say everything there is. His style comes in full-tilt by the way he captures these mole-rats, these large robots of the future, and the towering creatures fashioned by large shears ala Edward Scissorhands, in the shooting style- never in one mold but all over the place, experimenting, catching things as they might come by for someone looking around and in-depth at the subjects- as well as in an editing style keeping one ready for what image comes next. Entertainingly, Morris throws in, as part of the animal tamer's stories of daring-do (however 'daring' being around a system that has worked for him all his life to stay alive), and how he was inspired by a movie-star from the golden days of B-movies to push forward in a profession that takes more common sense than dumb guts, we see clips from these old movies, sometimes as if right from the movie theater. Then, as if out of science-fiction, Morris combines the images of the mole-rat with that of the robots, each given direction by their 'supervisors', into a kind of strange miasma that works sublimely.What helps, aside from the typical Philip Glass music, is that Morris understands how these people are connected and how they're unique all the same. They're involved, to differing degrees, the world of animals, in controlling them, fashioning them, and using them as bases of comparison for big leaps into fields ambitious (those robots couldn't do what they do without those ants) and more traditional (the topiary fields are like works of art unto themselves). There's also the subliminal connection of each profession acting as much living as thrill-a-minute idealism. Finding something in the environment or framework of a rat is not much different, at least psychologically, from finding a new way to get a robot to walk around. Yet all the same, all four men have their niche cut out as if there could be nothing else for them in the world. Being content with what you do with your life is one of the essentials human beings strive for, and if nothing else Fast, Cheap and Out of Control is an essential and rare work of weird genius as it makes it exhilarating to see people who, through personal and professional follies, are not disconnected from their lives via work. If anything, they make most of us seem dull and lifeless by comparison. "},{"Title":"Loved everything but the score","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  While watching A Brief History of Time last night I got wondering why Morris can't seem to score his films better.  Brief History has a John Cage score that was surprisingly melodic, but, like Fast, Cheap and Our of Control, the same phrases were pounded at you over and over until you wish he'd left music out of the film.  I missed Gates of Heaven, maybe it's better.But I do love the way Morris picks his subjects, and  particularly the way he edits!  It was great to sit through the first third of Fast, Cheap... thinking, What could possibly connect these four people? and then slowly realizing the very deep connections that existed, ones I never would have thought of on my own.  Beautiful shooting and breathtaking editing!   "},{"Title":"A film by Errol Morris about Errol Morris","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I think I'd actually find a documentary on topiaries, mole rats, lion-taming, and/or robots quite interesting.  Instead, we have a self-indulgent attempt by Morris to inflict some sort of metaphysical narrative on his non-fiction subjects.  This begs the question of why he's bothering to make non-fiction film in the first place if he's going to show so little interest in his subject matter per se.  How the heck does somebody go from the Air Force to taming lions for a living?  In what ways are the societies of mole rats more like ants than borrowing mammals?  Morris doesn't really care, he wants to talk about truth and reality and blah blah blah.  If he'd shut up a second, maybe we'd learn something about his subjects; instead, all I learned is that Morris should try making a fiction film and stop pretending he cares one little bit about anything but developing his own cinematic style.    "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was a little bit disappointing. I'd seen Errol Morris' later film Mr. Death (1999) and  found it fascinating. In this film, though, even though he has four eccentrics to follow  around (a lion-tamer, a topiary gardener, an expert on naked mole rats, and a robotics  scientist), he mostly just conducts talking head interviews, and cuts in shots of the  circus, and of a laughably bad B-movie starring famed lion-tamer Clyde Beatty. I just  didn't find the subjects all that interesting, and Morris never really explores their  motivations or their lives outside of their careers, interesting as those might sound. (7/ 10) "},{"Title":"A masterwork; a thought-provoking meditation on consciousness, relationships and death.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Errol Morris is not a documentarian. Fast, Cheap and Out of Control is not a documentary. It is only superficially about four men and their careers. It is more a meditation on the nature of consciousness, relationships, death and, perhaps most subtly of all, filmmaking.If you are energized by films that explore complex concepts in innovative, entertaining ways while provoking you to think, this film should be on the top of your list. If you are completely left-brained and incapable of exploring the connections between seemingly disparate elements, then do yourself a favor and watch this anyway before you put Step Mom back in your DVD player. It will be good for you even if you don't realize it. "},{"Title":"This is quite possibly the most beautiful film I've ever seen.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Errol Morris' poetic examination of the lives of four men is both reverent and irreverent, hilarious and deeply moving.  I cannot explain how it works or why, but after watching Fast, Cheap and Out of Control I feel as if I've visited a holy place. "},{"Title":"well executed polyphony","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Wow! What an example of well executed polyphony. Like different melodies coming together in innumerable ways, the stories of these four people harmonize and clash, cross and meet and merge and separate again. A friend of mine expressed his admiration in a spontaneous expression of awe How did he know what to shoot and how to shoot it? How could he see, beforehand, which notes from one story would resonate with notes from another, and which images could render those resonances? Did he just shoot the f*** out of it? Basically, I am doubting whether I would ever be able to make a movie that did that, even after seeing this film and knowing it can be done. &#150; Exactly. "},{"Title":"not for all tastes","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I enjoyed this documentary, and while I feel it isn't morris' best work it is nevertheless representative of him with regard to how original and eccentric it is.  As for what the film is about, well, I'd say it's about how there is a relatively unique world inside each human being, and how one person's absolute boredom is another's infinite fascination.  Everyone has a story.The film is not for mainstream audiences, and even fans of the bizarre might be quite bored or wonder what the point was.  I'd recommend the film to those who can appreciate subtlety and a slow pace.  If you want to see explosions...well, you're in the wrong place! "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  4 people who LOVE what they do, and whose work is wonderful to watch. naked mole ratter pricelessly funny, as are the mole rats themselves...jaw droppingly interesting and bizarre.  mammals who live in insect like colonies the film is exquisitely edited and shot aside from highly annoying tilted camera angles in the gardener's case "}{"Title":"Categorize, sterilize.....","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Simply brilliant. A film that presents some extremely interesting characters and their individual (yet strikingly similar) searches for understanding. Understanding. (That great philosophical goal that runs away from us as quick as the constant speed of light.) See it now! "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Documentary is best film of 1997","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  FCOOC is a gorgeously shot and edited movie that will make you *think*. You leave the film with all manner of ideas rattling around in your head, attempting to string them together to make a coherent whole. Morris' film is a miracle of juxtaposition, using that most essential of film techniques, montage, to force connections that would otherwise not exist.The four subjects are each fascinating in their own right, and, for my money, Rodney Brooks, the roboticist from MIT steals the show.It should also be noted that the cinematography is remarkably rich. Documentaries so often skirt by on their real-ness so as to have shoddy camera work--it's, you know, authentic. In contrast to typical documentary cinema Morris has very carefully crafted a visual essay, and uses all the techniques granted a director to make his point most forcefully.  "},{"Title":"a documentary that isn't","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The first thing to note about this title, is that it's so entertaining it doesn't feel like a documentary.Morris very effectively uses a great deal of stock footage (circus footage mainly), to break up the four interviews.  Cheesy though it may be, the footage of Clyde Beatty is amusing and all footage is well placed to illustrate Morris' not-so-underlying themes.Morris unashamedly puts across pre-meditated themes, bending the interviews to his will.  Nonetheless, these ideas are worth consideration, and the interviews don't come across as contrived, just heavily edited (admittedly, some simple questions are left unanswered)... but let's face it, even Reality TV isn't real, right??Well worth the watch. "}]