[{"Title":"My Son the Fanatic deserves applause for it's originality and honesty at portraying south asians in the west","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Son the Fanatic was a surprizing treat. I never heard of it before renting at blockbuster last night. I don't think it ever played in Toronto theatres. Never the less I must applaud at Hanif Kureshi's yet again bold and honest attempt at highlighting a recent phenomenon in the South Asian community the son going holier than thou on the family. This film touched me personally because in my case the opposite happened; my father turned fanatic muslim on me. Hanif Qureshi's My Beautiful Laundrette is one of my favourite films of all time and after Budha of Suburbia I fell in love with this brilliant man and his work. My Son is a lot less shocking but still weaves it's way through the father and son conflict elegantly and I am shocked at how blind the Oscar nominators are when it comes to Om Puri's brilliant acting! This is the first film portraying South Asians where the wife has some personality and actually speaks out so I see her as a mother, a wife and a woman that I know because she exists in my community. She is dull and fat and stuck in her little world within the four walls of her home. I dislike her but I know her. The subtle emotions and body language of this lower middle-class family might not be fully understood by a non-south asian critic and that is why some find it moves slowly sometimes. I could not agree with Earnest Hardy more when he says this film (and others by the writer) endorse a morality of compassion. I think that is the only moral value worth pushing!  "},{"Title":"Multicult gridlock","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Pakistani taxi driver in Britain (Om Puri) is plagued by a bad cosmic joke that seems co-written by Salman Rushdie and Martin Amis his son, rather than becoming an unrecognizable assimilate, turns into a jihad-embracing Muslim fundamentalist. At the same time, the warmth of a white hooker (Rachel Griffiths) beckons, to the chagrin and hissing tongues of his local countrymen.The writer Hanif Kureishi's onetime Benetton smugness has mellowed into ripe colors of rue, mockery and regret as he eases into middle age, and this adaptation of his short story is a lovely, surprisingly beautifully shot, sneakily haunting small movie. The dialogue sometimes has a novelish explicitness, and the performances are variable--Puri sometimes drifts into F. Murray Abraham terrain, but he has an amazing, craggy, pain-absorbent face. But the movie has a real subject the ways in which postmod culture-hybridity isn't always a rainbow-colored day at the beach. And the warmth amid desperation of the central relationship suggests what Neil Jordan's MONA LISA might have been without the smoky-sax romanticism.The sad thing about seeing this movie was that, after Miramax gave the movie one of their unceremonious heave-hos (par for the course for their good movies), the audience, unblanketed by buzz, hype, an aura of hot-ticket, reacted as shruggingly as critics seem to have. Too bad MY SON THE FANATIC evokes the sweet, melancholy fatalism of seventies pictures like THE NICKEL RIDE and STRAIGHT TIME. It has the atmosphere of an overcast crime picture without the crime. And it has at least a handful of real, breathing people in it--as rare an occurrence these days as a flight of the dodo. "},{"Title":"characterizing the movie","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great film, however I must comment that I have found many foreign films listed as comedy or humorous when in fact they are poignant, disturbing and brilliant (thank you netflix and blockbuster). No Man's Land and Happy Times are fantastic movies that are incorrectly labeled as comedy, and My Son the Fanatic is regrettably categorized as comedy as well. The reality of each character's life is vivid and heart breaking. I felt so uncomfortable witnessing Parvez struggle with his peers, the German, his wife and son, and Bettina. Coupled with My Beautiful Laundrette you get a taste of immigrant life in Britain. "},{"Title":"Only Four Years Before It's Time","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In light of 9-11, this movie is even more timely than when it first came out. The clashing of consumerism and religious fanaticism is on all our minds. This movie's even handed approach and willingness to show both sides places the viewer on an swerving ideological journey. And Om Puri and Rachel Griffiths give remarkable performances. A must see. "},{"Title":"For a stunning performance by Puri, a must-see","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a rare treat to see a film character of such complexity. His story, a love story, is as homely and real as a wound.Om Puri's character is not to be forgotten and Griffith gives the searingly intelligent performance I have come to expect of her. Kurtha, as the son, is very poor, his delivery stilted and amateurish, and an outdoorsy scene with the two lovers is cinematographically squandered; otherwise, nothing but raves for this one. Also takes the prize for sexiest and most heartbreaking love scene in movie history. "},{"Title":"The petty humiliations of a working man","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this film is superficially about East Indian immigrants in Yorkshire, its themes are universal. Anyone who is or is related to an immigrant should feel at home here.As far as religion goes, these characters could be Jewish or Christian as easily as Moslem. The mediaevalist/modernist conflict is the same. There's no reason why the audience for this film should be just a parochial one.Om Puri gives a brilliant and nuanced performance as the central character, the resilient Punjabi cab driver. Rachel Griffiths is very fine as always as his kindred spirit, a hooker, although her character here is a little more limited in scope than those she portrayed in Muriel's Wedding and especially Hilary and Jackie. Stellan Skarsgård also steps into a pair of shoes a few sizes smaller than those he has worn in the past.Unheralded though it may have been, this is another thoughtful comedy-drama from Hanif Kureishi, author of My Beautiful Laundrette amongst others.  "},{"Title":"Dark and unconventional comedy","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Son The Fanatic demands repeated viewings for its appreciation.  It is a dark comedy about an affable taxi driver in the throes of an alcoholic depression, and the eventual disintegration of his family unit.It starts off making you think that this is going to be a comedy about a social-ladder-climbing father undermined by his son's discovery and subsequent rapture of Islamic fundamentalism.  When re-viewing the consistency of the tones and hues, it seems that most scenes are being seen through the main character's (Parvez) eyes.  And he turns out to be the most unreliable of narrators -- a literary device difficult to translate into film.  In most of the darker and smoky hues, Parvez seems to be a warm, loving, tolerant, supportive, and protective soul.  In the lighter-toned scenes, we learn that Parvez is actually is clueless to who he is and how he is perceived.  The fact is that he is a pathetic failure as a husband, father, and career man -- a 25-year taxi driver in a poor town in England (Does anyone know what city/town this is supposed to be? It was unclear to me.) where the cab drivers serve as a conduit between prostitutes and their clients.  Throughout the movie, he sinks further into the throes of an alcoholic depression.  He is an affable and engaging drunk, but a drunk nonetheless.  His son's rejection of his depressed and drunken father manifests itself in turning to Islamic Fundamentalism.  His wife tries to awaken him as to what is going on, but to no avail.  Pervez's sodden eyes sees life only in his own terms. Pervez sees the holy man as a fraud, and thus invents a scene in his mind that everyone else denies, played in near-total darkness, where the holy man asks him for immigration help from his (actually non-existent) political connections with the Fingerhuts, who despise him.Someone else correctly pointed out that the son's adulation of Ayatollah Khomeni is inconsistent with the Pakistani fundamentalist sects that populate Karachi.  This is the one well-lit scene where falsehood prevails, but I think that was just a fact-checking error.As he sinks deeper, Pervez conjures up a loving relationship with his favorite whore, the reality of which is depicted in the final scenes as the credits roll.The movie was never really about his son at all.  His life was never really about the love he invested in his family at all.  It is about a disintegration of a once-noble soul due to depression and alcoholism, and how the world looks through his forgiving eyes.This is a fascinating study in duality, but you need to watch it twice to see it that way.  Bravura performances by Puri, the actress who played the wife, and Griffiths as the multi-wigged prostitute are a joy to behold.  There are slow and murky patches, but worth sticking with as a fascinating exploration into the culture clashes and reality blurring characteristic of alcoholic depression -- a disease with an acutely higher incidence in the UK among Asian immigrants.Well worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A kind immigrant taxi driver who is platonic friends with a prostitute and whose son becomes a religious fundamentalist - ingredients combined with Om Puri's acting to make a worthwhile film","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I just saw My Son the Fanatic (I write this as the video rewinds!). I'm quite averse to watching gratuitous violence and listening to obscenities, and I looked askance at the cover jacket of this video at my public library, thinking it may be akin to films like East is East, Sammy and Rosie, and My Beautiful Laundrette. Like those films, this one explores English lower middle class South Asian immigrants, but I found My Son the Fanatic to be much more palatable - and in fact endearing and more interesting - than the others.The story is of Parvez (played by Om Puri), a Pakistani who has immigrated to England 25 or 30 years ago.  He is a taxi driver and is very proud of his son, Farid (Akbar Kurtha), who appears to be in his mid-20s.  The film opens with Parvez, his wife Minoo (Gopi Desai), and Farid all meeting the family of Madelaine (Sarah-Jane Potts), Farid's girlfriend.  Madelaine's father is chief of police, and Parvez is enthusiastic for the marriage presumably because the young couple love each other, but also, it seems, because of the status of the chief inspector.Parvez is a hard-working, kind, and friendly man.  Some of his customers are prostitutes, and he honorably befriends one, Bettina (Rachel Griffiths), maintaining a respectful and supportive platonic relationship.Life is turned upside down when Farid abandons his engagement and school when religious fundamentalism beckons him. This forms the framework for the climax and resolution of the film.Om Puri, consistent with his reputation, puts in an excellent and believable performance of a parent trying to provide a good life for his family and looking to harness qualities from both his traditional and adopted cultures.  Though she seems to be stuck at home, Minoo is more dimensional than other S.Asian mothers are often portrayed to be.  I think more could have been done to have developed the son's character, and Bettina had a radiance, charm, and optimism that made it hard to believe her to be a prostitute.My Son the Fanatic is a film that I enjoyed seeing.  It's neither uplifting nor depressing, but the story is interesting and believable, and Om Puri's credible acting is a delight to see. "},{"Title":"Warm, powerful drama that predicts the London bombings","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Om Puri as the character Parvez, opens this film playing a clumsy, overenthusiastic, embarrassing Pakistani immigrant in England, mangling the language and missing every possible social cue. Oh, no, funny little foreign man. Yuk.But then something wonderful happens. We watch Parvez's life fall apart, and he gradually and inexorably turns into a real person of depth and moral struggle. By the end, he has become a person who will live with you long after the film ends.In order to make a living, Parvez drives a cab at night. He also fixes up randy passengers with local hookers, though he is not motivated enough to sample them himself. He feels dirtied by this way of surviving, but does not become a bad person himself.His son, on the other hand, abandons a lovely English girl to join some local Muslim fundamentalists. They are deliberately not clearly identified with either a Sunni or Shiite affiliation, as that is not the purpose of the story. The group imports a radical mullah from the old country, and as he stays in Parvez's house, the son becomes irretrievably estranged from his father.As the action progresses, the son pursues his concept of holiness and purity, and becomes a bad person. Eventually, Parvez's world collapses completely. As Parvez, Om Puri gives a superb performance.What is remarkable about this film is not only the human story, which is real and absorbing, but also a discussion of second-generation Brits turning their backs on Western secular society and reaffirming a rigid, medieval orthodoxy from a country they may never have seen. Now, this is not a documentary and shouldn't be judged as such. What matters here most is the way humans relate to each other in the context of religious zealotry.The scale of violence in this film is modest, but Google Finsbury Park Mosque raid 2003 and 7 July 2005 London bombings, and you will see the eerie predictive power of art. While watching this film, it's hard to remember that it dates from 1998.This is a worthwhile film in terms of human drama, and a tribute to the power of the artist to see into the future. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Valuable.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie will resonate especially with any first-and-up generation person whose parents emigrated from east to west. The innocence and almost childlike approach taken by Parvez, Om Puri's character, to things light and dark in England reminded me very much of my own experiences in trying to show my parents how things work in America. He has done a beautiful job with this character. All in all a well-written and enlightening movie for anyone who is curious about the complex and often convoluted dynamic between immigrants and their transplanted realities. "}{"Title":"A man's gotta do what a man's gotta do.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Son the Fanatic tells of a humble, hardworking East Indian taxi driver and family man (Puri) in England who finds himself caught between a religious zealot son and a prostitute fare who befriends him (Griffiths) squeezing him into making decisions about duty and happiness. A light hearted dramedy with the usual Brit flick austerity, My Son.... is a warm-hearted film about choices for more mature audiences. (B) "},{"Title":"A must, after July, 7th","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After hearing about the terrible London blasts, which happened just a few days ago, the first thing which came to my mind was this movie. I watched a few years ago and loved it. Doubtless, I don't agree with B24 this is not a comedy at all, and it's nothing to share with East is East. This movie is extremely forward-looking, not only because it &#150; somehow &#150; anticipated the Clash of Civilization, but also because it gives you an extremely good description of all the difficulties that the first generation of Western-born people have to face.The character has to face reality he is sure that he will never be able to be a real British (Western) citizen despite his father's efforts and open-mind, the guy is too young to realize that if you don't accept yourself first, you will hardly find out people ready to welcome you. This is why he finds it more convenient (and much easier) to be surrounded by other Pakistani people. Among all the characters, the portrait of the Imam is very good he is shown as an hypocritical man, always ready to blame the West, but still living in the UK, where he can get anything he wants women, sex, movies&#133; all those same things that &#150; he says &#150; are supposed to represent our flaws. But perhaps these people must forget something despite their words, we're not afraid! "},{"Title":"Not perfect but amusing, serious, interesting, relevant with another great performance from Puri","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Parez's son Farid gets engaged to the daughter of Chief Inspector Fingerhut it is the proudest moment of his life. Outside of this beacon of progress, Parez lives in a darker world as a taxi driver, who's main client is a prostitute called Bettina who services Johns in the back of his cab at times. While he becomes closer in his friendship to Bettina, he also introduces her to a new client (businessman Mr Schitz). His drinking increases and his empty life is exposed when Farid turns his back on his fiancé and his western life to study with a fundamentalist Islamic movement in the town.With a title and a plot that suggested a look into the family dynamics as a Pakistani boy born in the west turns to a more extreme side of his new religion. This aspect is a part of the film and, given recent events it is an interesting aspect but this film is more of a character study of Parvez who finds himself lost in the middle of the two extremes &#150; his son's new religion and the religion of sex and debauchery as revealed to him by Mr Schitz. In the middle of these two lines and increasingly unsure of where he stands, Parez finds himself alone and looking at a life where he sinks ever further into his alcohol-driven depression, with the few moment he finds pleasure all turned into further depression by the views of others. It doesn't all hang together as well as I would have liked but Parez's story is consistently engaging and he as a character is very interesting. The story speaks generally about his struggle with his life rejection by his son, disgust from his peers, a job going nowhere, a life of no pleasure. Parez blinds himself to so much and this is shown from the very first moment of the film where the Fingerhuts register only disapproval at him and his family.The subplots are not just used to contrast with one another; they are also interesting in their own right. Some of it doesn't totally work but it all functions well together with the hub of the film being Parez. If we had not felt for him then all the rest of this film would have come tumbling down but luckily the script writs his drifting personality very well and it is impossible not to sympathies with him even if we have not lived enough to totally empathise. With this script working for the character it also greatly helps that an actor like Puri is there to deliver it. As is so often the case, Puri delivers a great performance and really does the writing justice. He is the core of the film and it is one of his best performances. Unfortunately he is not as well supported, even if everyone is OK. Griffiths was a surprise find but her accent is not as good as her American one in Six Feet Under. Her performance is a bit dry and lacking character, she certainly didn't really convince me that she was a working girl on the cold streets of a northern town. Skarsgard is another strange find and he has little to do &#150; his character is a bit empty because he is given an extreme to portray and that is what he does. Kurtha is OK as he makes his 'extreme' a little more accessible and real. Desai is in the background but she is good in her role. Generally the supporting cast are good and are realistic representatives of the Pakistani community but the film totally belongs to Puri, who is about as good as I've seen him here.Overall this is a good film mainly because Parez holds it all together. He is a well-written character but he is also really well delivered by Puri. With such a good character at the core the rest falls in place despite some weaknesses and the end result is a film that is occasionally amusing but manages to be much better as Parez's story &#150; interesting, engaging and surprisingly moving. It may not be perfect but it is a film that is worth seeing and worth finding.  "},{"Title":"This film has gained significance since September 11","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, has this movie gained significance since September 11. It's about a man whose son, Farid, grows to feel alienated in Northern England. His parents immigrated from Pakistan, but Farid has never been there. As an adult, he rejects his British culture to seek his Pakistani roots that he's never known. The film is about the father, Parvez, as he watches the boy, whom he has adored and doted on, slip into Islamic fundamentalism. At first he thinks his son is on drugs, but then he finds the truth. Which one would be worse? This is a complicated film in that none of the characters are really good people. Parvez is a true gentleman who is completely tolerant of everyone around him, but he is essentially a pimp. He has a good heart, but his lack of morals is partly what pushes Farid toward the Islamic fanatics. Farid, on the other hand, does not have a good heart. He and the rest of his fanatical friends want to impose their rigid moral code on everyone else. When they fail, they resort to violence. Sound familiar? Can you say Taliban? It's this attitude that has spawned the terrorism we live with today.This is a thought-provoking film that sheds some insight into the clash of the Eastern and Western cultures. When you see middle-class kids like Farid, who have been raised entirely in a western culture, turn to fundamentalist Islam, you know we're all in a lot of trouble. "},{"Title":"The Personification of Imagined Cultural Identities In My Son the Fanatic","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Benjamin Barber identifies two conflicting eternities, race and soul, that shape the modern environment. The former connotes the tribal past while the latter implies the cosmopolitan future (Barber 4). This conflict is variably cast as that between cosmopolitanism and patriotism or between universalism and notions of thick republican citizenship. Conflict between citizens' primary allegiances pervades modern society so substantially that it has manifested itself in popular consciousness, often taking the form of print media or film. My son the Fanatic is an attempt to tackle such issues as the tensions between races, classes, and religions in the age of Diaspora and multi-national corporations. Developing relationships between characters that symbolize classes and cultural groups, Udayan Prasad sheds light on the solitude of cosmopolitan citizenry, and the greed it necessitates. By juxtaposing the film with texts from Nussbaum, Appadurai, Mouffe, and Benhabib, we gain a firmer understanding of the discrepancies between the theoretical liberal universal citizen and the ostracization that arises from the reality of a cosmopolitan identity. Prasad's film inserts cosmopolitan ideals into a realistic setting, revealing tensions that the liberal universalist's theoretical cosmopolitan citizen never encounters.  Nussbaum's essay,  Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism, reduces citizenship and allegiance to a set of concentric circles, each representative of shared identities. The outer-most circle represents what all humans share as rational, mutually dependant creatures, while the innermost represents the most exclusive of identities. This stance suggests that from a moral point of view, nationality, race, religion, gender, etc. are arbitrary forms of self-identification and therefore cannot guarantee pursuit of the moral good (Benhabib 711-12).  Universalism argues that because it is based on principles independent of birth, the cosmopolitan's first allegiance is to what is morally good universal values of justice and right (Nussbaum 5). Theoretically, because all people recognize these universal values, basic human rights are guaranteed by all to all. In My Son the Fanatic, Parvez demonstrates his global allegiance through subtle use of dialogue. Several scenes directly uncover Parvez self-identity. One such scene is Parvez's first visit to Bettina's house. Over dinner, Bettina prods Parvez on why he left Islam. Parvez describes his reservations about accepting a philosophy that insisted good people who were not Muslims were destined to go to hell. He explains that in place of the next world, he said hello to.work. By abandoning the cultural Islamic identity, Parvez was able to adopt the philosophy that people should treat each other good. In a much later sequence of the film, this appreciation for universal rights is exemplified by the dinner scene in which Parvez's wife is forced to eat alone. Although in vain, Parvez calls out, Minuu, I won't eat without you! The main character's belief in equality between genders, because it is counter to the imagined cultural norm, draws great attention to the differences between the cosmopolitan and the national. Another example in which Parvez communicates his abandonment of his non-global identity is his date with Bettina at Fizzy's restaurant. Rather than focusing on the cultural i.e. religious nature of his identity, Prasad explores Parvez's relationship with his former nation-state. Explaining why he left his homeland, Parvez answers simply, to feed my family, I saw no further. While he does not reject his nation-state, this response portrays a man who does not worship his country like a god, (Nussbaum 3). This anti-nostalgic view facilitates what can only be considered Parvez's adopted multi-national culture. In order to demonstrate the diverse nature of Parvez's identity (and its distinctions from his abandoned traditional homeland), Prasad incorporates several international cultural interests into the character. Among these interests are sports. Early in the film, when his son is packing up his things, his father grabs him and asks about the squash racquet he purchased. His son, in attempt to become more Pakistani, had sold it. Sports offer hard cultural forms that are more likely to socialize its participants than be changed or re-interpreted. Therefore it is natural that nationalist movements that wish, as Fahid says, to belong to the past, reject those cultural forms in an attempt to purify the imagined identity (Appadurai 90). It is therefore no surprise that the viewer later sees Parvez playing alone with his son's cricket stick, a sign of British/Pakistani integration.Although sports offer an excellent example of Parvez's multi-national adopted cultural forms, the form most frequently utilized by the film is jazz. Beginning with his argument with his son over going out to dinner, Prasad incorporates the music into the scene to widen the schism between the cosmopolitan (Parvez) and patriotism (his son's Islamic fundamentalism). The protagonist's appreciation for the music is even rejected by his wife, who eventually declares that the music is too trumpety. This rejection of otherness by the Islamic fundamentalists draws attention to the growing solitude of Parvez' chosen cultural forms. The director goes to great lengths to show Parvez as a cosmopolitan citizen. Whether one studies the way in which he treats women, his choice of music, or his taste in sports, it is clear that the main character swears a primary allegiance to neither his territorial homeland nor Islam. His lack of national or cultural patriotism is exemplified by his lack of enthusiasm for the past. When asked by Bettina why he hadn't gone back to Pakistan, his response no money, no time, is so emotionless that the viewer has no choice but to conclude that Parvez doesn't care to return. Because of his rejection of national and imagined cultural forms associated with the Pakistani Diaspora, in addition to his acceptance of cultural forms at odds with that Diaspora, we conclude that Prasad has purposefully composed a character who is representative of Nussbaum's ideal world citizen. With this assumption (that Parvez is the symbol of lower class cosmopolitanism) it is possible to explore how Parvez's relationships in the film are metaphorical for the conflicts between the cosmopolitan and global formations.Although cosmopolitan life is an exile from the comfort of local truths, warm feelings of patriotism, and the absorbing drama of pride in oneself and one's own, it presupposes a global identity/brotherhood in which all people are equal. Nussbaum offers Crates and Hypparchia as examples of cosmopolitan citizens in order to suggest that the world citizen is not condemned to a life of complete solitude and rejection (Nussbaum15-17). Yet because her examples of cosmopolitan life consist entirely of world travel, public fornication, and posh dinner parties, it does little to explain how world citizen would fare in contemporary society. Nussbaum assumes that the cosmopolitan can achieve a general level of acceptance by his/her environment. In My Son the Fanatic no such level of general acceptance is present. Although he personally believes in the principles of universal equality and justice, Parvez is constantly reminded throughout the film that non-cosmopolitans find him decidedly foreign (and therefore worthy of a second-class status). At best, he achieves a level of respect equal to his economic or social utility. Two sets of characters/scenes in the film offer insight as to the viability of the cosmopolitan identity. In order to elaborate on the exchange between cosmopolitans and transnational corporations, Prasad establishes Mr. Schitz as a character who, like multi-national corporations, acts with enormous financial clout and motivated entirely by self-interest. Prasad also explores the exchange between the traditional homogeneous nation-state and the cosmopolitan citizen. Prasad only thinly veils the similarities between Schitz and multi-national corporations. Therefore by examining the relationship between Parvez and Mr. Schitz, it is possible to extrapolate the possible interaction between multi-national corporations and cosmopolitans. Two possibilities for the relationship exist. On the one hand, liberal philosophy believes that markets, when left alone, will set socioeconomic norms that will encourage global human rights (Mouffe 123). The opposite argument believes that multi-national corporations rely crucially on the legal, fiscal, environmental, and human organization of the nation-state while operating within and across national structures, exploiting their legitimacy, (Appadurai 168). In order to determine which hypothesis is more likely to be the reality, we look to the film for examples that support either notion of multi-national corporations.  "},{"Title":"Interesting character study, but simplistic views of Islam","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I enjoyed the movie in terms of its acting, direction, and script, I found it incredibly irritating that Islam is presented as an all or nothing faith.  There seems to be no normal Muslim--only the crazed fundamentalist or someone like Parvez, who seems to have completely rejected his religion.  Had there been a few minor characters that could represent the majority of Muslims, I would have been able to enjoy the movie much more without having to feel that the film-makers were simply trying to brainwash the audience into hating all Muslims.  Aside from that, however, there were several very powerful scenes (though I felt the scene at the end at the brothel was a bit overdramatic) and the overall style and execution of the film was very effective. I give it an 8 out of 10, but still believe there was ample room for improvement.  The motives of the son could have been explored more in depth, but mainly, there needed to be a middle ground to represent the majority of the Muslim faith. "},{"Title":"Intriguing examination of universal tensions","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie's ending - suspended between liberation and loneliness - is just about ideal, a perfect summary of tensions that are essentially universal yet also compellingly specific; finding particularly acute expression amid a community of economic deprivation, huge cultural challenges and some inherent racism. When Puri commences a relationship with Griffiths, representing the ultimate transgression across just about every available line, it's hard to resist the father's sense of release even as it strikes you as the latest example in the dismal tradition of filmic whore as symbol of anything-you-like. The counterpoint with the son expertly shows how fluid these familiar cross-cultural and cross-generational structures and struggles actually are and how there's perhaps no way out of an endless cycle of rebellion and adjustment and readjustment. The movie is unexceptional in its technique but apart from some awfully clumsy comedy at the start impresses with its vigor and intellect. "},{"Title":"A Downer","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unremittingly difficult to sit through this one. Whoever finds any comic relief in its minor ironies (Fingerhut, Mr. Shits, etc.) is just not concentrating on the main theme. This is a film about people living out their lives in more or less distinct states of alienation from those around them as well as from their own self-concepts. As with all such stories, there is nothing to laugh about.Be that as it may, the actors and the direction are first-rate. While nothing much happens to develop plot, a great deal comes into view in progressively more intimate sketches that delineate character and advance one's awareness of just how out of synch everyone is. Central to appreciating it all is how easily universal values of love, compassion, integrity, and objectivity come unstuck when someone heeds the call of looking for greener pastures.Specifically, the problem of ambitious people moving out of their native countries to find a better life elsewhere is one that we find in history and literature from the beginning of time. And even more specifically, the clash of one culture or religion with another -- together with elements of racism and competition -- are certainly nothing new to cinematic representations. This is a kind of story with neither end nor beginning, only one bitter scene fading into another.A very dark film indeed. "},{"Title":"The taxi driver","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is a character study of (Parvez) Om Puri an immigrant taxi driver in a Yorkshire Town. Whilst his friends have become wealthy, he is still plying his trade. Like Travis Bickle (Taxi Driver) he seems a little isolated maybe even alienated, whilst dealing with the scummy strata of society. The late night drunks, drug addicts and those violent to prostitutes.He is not outwardly religious, drinks too much and is only source of pride is his son who is engaged to the daughter of a police inspector. The fact that she is white is not an issue for him and he does not notice that her father seems to be far from enthusiastic with this.Parvez in a sense is at home with the host society. You also feel that he has fallen out of lust with his middle aged wife although they have cordial relations.However he notices that his son has changed. Farid has ended his engagement, turning his back on what he views as a decadent society and mixes with a fundamentalist crowd.Its a clash of cultures which is an Everyman tale irregardless of culture of religion. The difference is here, its the older man that wants to integrate whilst the son rejects it.Parvez whilst driving a German businessman around becomes friendly with a prostitute and has relations with her. At the same time his son and his gang wants to drive prostitutes of the streets.At the end his relationship breaks down with his son and his son accuses of the father being a fanatic. His wife also suspects that he is being too friendly with prostitutes. Now he is left isolated.Hanif Kureshi based the story apparently on a family member who became a more devout Muslim. However you always have to take things with a pinch of salt when Kureshi makes such claims. However it does identify with religious fundamentalism in the light of the Rushdie affair from 1988 and the attraction of fundamentalism to the young.This is a thoughtful work from Kureshi who in his younger years was more prone to shock his audience to mask that the writing was not so good. He is helped here by the director doing his best with a low budget but the cast which includes Stellen Skarsgard and Rachel Griffiths are very good. "},{"Title":"Shoddy Art, Repugnant Politics, Brilliant Puri and Griffiths","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My Son the Fanatic, writer Hanif Kureishi and director Udayan Prasad's 1997 film about Farid, an English-born Pakistani boy who becomes a devout Muslim who firebombs a brothel, is a train wreck. Its art is shoddy and its politics are repugnant. But Om Puri as Parvez, the taxi- driver father of the fanatic son, gives a performance that is solid gold. Rachel Griffiths, as a prostitute, is brilliant. Parvez (Om Puri) is a taxi driver in a depressed English mill town. He befriends Bettina (Griffiths) a prostitute. He works for a monstrous German sex tourist named S---t. Parvez's son, Farid, is engaged to the lovely Madeline Fingerhut, daughter of the chief of police. Farid breaks off his engagement and becomes the Muslim fanatic of the title. Parvez tries to stop his son's fanaticism. He also enters into an affair with Bettina, the prostitute, who loves him. My Son the Fanatic struggles to combine several disparate themes and subplots. It is never successful because it never probes deeply enough into any of its material. The film ends ambiguously; the viewer has no idea how any of the story strands will resolve themselves. The two most powerful features of the film, the only real reason to see the film, are Om Puri and Rachel Griffiths. They are very different and they are both powerhouses. Om Puri feels like a beating heart. He is totally believable, irresistibly lovable, and charismatic. Puri had smallpox when he was two and his face is cratered. These scars just make you stare at him all the more.Rachel Griffiths is perfect as Bettina, the stereotypical hooker with a heart of gold. She's smart, and she's in pain. In spite of their age and culture differences, Parvez and Bettina's love is completely believable and poignant. It's clear that Parvez's wife Minoo is not providing him with passion, respect, or either emotional or physical intimacy. She calls him a useless idiot, and at one point it appears she may leave him to go back to Pakistan. While Parvez resists his son's fanaticism, Minoo supports it. You really want to know &#x96; can a man fall in love with a prostitute? Parvez's friend Fizzy reminds him cruelly that Bettina has been penetrated by thousands of men. Could Parvez ever get over that? Could Parvez and Minoo separate in a way that worked for them both and spared them both great pain? Could Bettina settle down with one man? Could the couple survive the disdain of respectable people? Again, the chemistry between Parvez and Bettina is so compelling you really want the film to attempt to answer any of these questions. In fact, it answers none. Sadly, Parvez and Bettina are merely Hanif Kureishi's little wind-up toys. He has zero respect or affection for his own characters. Kureishi created Parvez and Bettina just to make his own, repugnant, political point. They are agitprop. With the exception of Madeline Fingerhut, who is on screen for about 120 seconds, every last Westerner the innocent Muslims encounter is a racist, a prostitute, or a monster. The thrust of My Son the Fanatic is this. Innocent, decent Pakistani Muslims immigrate to England and are confronted by orgies, naked women selling their bodies in the streets, racism, violence, and booze. The film is graphic and disgusting. There are gratuitous scenes of Bettina being used by her johns. The German sex tourist S&#x96; is depicted abusing men and women and hosting orgies. There is no logic in this; this man is shown to be ridiculously wealthy. A sex tourist with that kind of money would not travel to some grim northern English mill town. S&#x96;-, the German sex tourist for whom Parvez works, is named after feces. He is utterly disgusting. There are graphic scenes of his exploitation of Bettina. Later, she is shown with bruises from his beatings. He also beats Parvez. When Parvez goes out, he is cruelly mocked by an English comedian. There is no other English life depicted in My Son the Fanatic. Not a single English person is kind to children or animals. The English are all violent, sexually perverse, racist scum. Farid becomes a fanatic after Madeline's father is rude to him. You are the only pig I've ever wanted to eat, Farid tells his future father-in-law. All this graphic perversion is thrust into the viewer's face to emphasize innocent, decent Muslims are forced by Western ugliness to become terrorists.Okay, let's rejoin planet Earth, shall we? On May 21, 2013, the BBC reported on 54 separate child sex slave rings in England run by Pakistani men. The descriptions of the activities of these gangs are nightmarish. Western Civilization did not corrupt these men; their corruption was already installed. And as for the charge that racism forces otherwise innocent men to become fanatics; please see Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarneav, two beloved, funded, coddled, immigrants who arrived in the US as refugees. The refuge the US gave these men was used by them to murder innocents. The London Times named Hanif Kureishi one of The 50 greatest British writers since 1945. Given the shoddiness of the plotting and characterization of My Son the Fanatic, and its skewed politics, one has to wonder why. "}{"Title":"A Good film!","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This time I am in total agreement with the critic (James Berardinelli).A good film, very realistic, with great ambition and very good acting. Too bad it didn't live up to it's full potential, but it is still well worth the time. Even if it leaves much of what it starts unresolved, it does enough to make the viewer start to think about many things in life and that is the best a movie can hope to do.I have to say I also found the unconventional ending to be excellent, where the father kicks out his son, leaves his wife, and is in a sense, reborn ( he can finally listen to his beloved jazz music in his whole house and sip his whiskey in peace). Parvez says in the final scene to Bettina that he has never felt so destroyed yet also so relieved... It must be true. "},{"Title":"Charming Yet Not Sentimental","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MY SON THE FANATIC examines the varying degrees to which members of a Muslim family view the magnitude of their religion. The twist to this tale is that it is not the parents who proclaim a more traditional approach, but it is their only son who becomes 'Born Again' in Allah. This young college student falls under the influence of a Pakistani religious figure, and begs his parents to sponsor this man and bring him to their English home. Soon, Farid has discarded his English girlfriend who is the daughter of a prominent town official, and adopts a life of prayer and study. Parvez, the boy's father, has lived happily, but not all that successfully, in Britain for over twenty five years by putting in long hours behind the wheel of a cab. He has, if not embraced, but most certainly accepted many of the decadent ways of the west, and in his tiny basement study, he relaxes with American Jazz and nips at a bottle of scotch. He is basically estranged from his wife, and strikes up a friendship with a local prostitute, and helps organize her clients. Soon, he finds himself falling in love with her. The whole dysfunctional social-familial network collapses when the fundamentalist Muslim group, energized by the new leader, tries to rid the town of the 'ladies of the night'. Many parts of this film are moving and affecting, but never sentimental. Both the relationship between the cab driver and the young prostitute, and the strained, yet engaging love that Parvez has for his son, are deeply touching. One of my favorite parts of this film deals with a novel way that the end of the film is structured. Although the movie has ended, and the credits have begun to roll, the action continues and we watch as the forlorn cab driver turns on every light in his empty house, and sips whiskey on the stairway while listening to Jazz. I thought this was an extremely clever way to end the film which created a kind of 'emotional after-image'. "},{"Title":"Taxi Cab Conflictions","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I disagree with the notion that this film tries to do too much, I do agree that this film is a character study, an exceptional one. Om Puri is eminently watchable throughout. The film falsely dresses itself up as a comedy at the outset, then dabbles with an estranged father-son drama, veers toward a topical political fanaticism-cum-fascism treatise, flirts with a romance, all as a way to just keep your eye on that character study.More important than huge issues is the story of one man.So even when I found myself trying to do too much with the film while watching it, aligning the German businessman and Farid's fanatics both bruising to women and both desiring to remake that neighborhood for their own ulterior motives, I kept coming back to Parvez. Both the German and imam want to order Parvez about, but it is his sense of right and wrong, clearly flawed and at times hypocritical, that resonates most with me.The choice of having him be a taxi driver is excellent, someone surrounded by people in his job...but isolated from the at the same time. The character study is augmented not just by Puri's performance, but by having really excellent actors as foils to him. I find myself very curious about Minoo, Fizzy as well as Farid and Sandra of course. Even Stellan Skarsgard's Schitz will his fans I suspect, I was definitely curious about his plans.But I think Hanif Kureish has no plans for a segue, this film is not only about one man, but just this one moment in his life as well.7.5/10 Thurston Hunger "},{"Title":"A Fine Little Film That Is Particularly Important Today!","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MY SON THE FANATIC is a small scale film made in 1998 about the problems of cross culture assimilation between Pakistanis and the British - or rather between Muslim and Christian - that packs a powerful punch in the understanding of current clashes similar to the film's story that are so keenly in focus today. Based on a short story by Hanif Kureishi (who also adapted the story to a screenplay) and directed by the highly respected Udayan Prasad, this film is blessed with a fine cast of actors who make some of the more improbable aspects quite warmly credible.Parvez (the always fine Om Puri) slept through his Muslim education in Pakistan and moved to England with his wife Minoo (Gopi Desai) where he has been a taxi cab driver for 25 years while his co-immigrants such as his best friend Fizzy (Harish Patel) have become rich entrepreneurs. Parvez and Minoo have a young son Farid (Akbar Kurtha) who is a bit unsettled as a Pakistani adjusting to life in capitalistic England and has found a girlfriend Madeline (Sarah-Jane Potts) who happens to be the daughter of the Chief Police Inspector Fingerhut (Geoffrey Bateman). Despite the fact that Parvez and his wife would prefer Farid marry a Pakistani girl they consent to an engagement party, a turning point for the politically tenuous Farid. When Farid observes how the Fingerhut family snubs his Pakistani parents and background he explodes and instead joins a fundamentalist Muslim group, pledging his life to stamping out porn, drugs, evil, etc.Parvez attempts reconciliation with his wildly fanatical son but the only person with whom he can communicate is a hooker named Bettina/Sandra (Rachel Griffiths) who has a heart of gold and is only in the Profession to make enough money to become a teacher. Parvez is a driver for a pimp service and he is assigned to escort a wealthy smarmy German Schitz (Stellan Skarsgård) through a series of encounters, encounters that involve Bettina among others. But along the way Bettina softens to Parvez, listens to his anguish about his son, and eventually becomes Parvez' paramour. When Farid's fundamentalist group is attacking the brothel where Bettina works he discovers his father's situation and is enraged Parvez, Farid and Minoo must come to an understanding - and it is this manner of coping that provides a very touching ending to the film.The story holds its own as a movie, but the underlying content is pungent, intelligent, perceptive, insightful and very cogent. Each member of the cast is excellent but Om Puri proves once again that he can carry a film with a questionable character strongly on his shoulders. Not only is this a fine little comedy drama to watch, it also provides some serious food for thought. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Why can't we get movies like this made in the USA?","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't feel like writing a long review on this one. I just want to say that, while not a great and classic film, this is a very good one that stands on the cusp of greatness. It is beautifully filmed and most importantly to me, it understands its characters and takes the time to explore the main ones in great detail. This a character study at its core, with a subplot about alienism within families and some of the many causes of it which include religion, age, culture, and the loss of intimacy for a spouse. I do not think, as others have said, that this is a movie about Islam or even religion at all. Although the participation (or not) in Islamic fundamentalism was a big issue for the family in the film, these same types of issues have erupted in families of all faiths since the dawn of religion and are in no way related solely to the Muslim faith. Certainly Islam is prominent in the film - but the film is not about the religion per se and does not go far in the direction of commenting on Islam. As a non-Muslim American, I did not get the sense from the movie that it was either promoting or condemning the Muslim faith, and I give great credit to the filmmakers for this. Islam is a hard subject to tackle and be able to get very far into while maintaining a middle ground, but that has been accomplished here and it does a great deal to elevate the film. Had I felt like I was being manipulated to feel one way or another about Islam, I would not have gotten nearly as much from the film as I did. But as it stands, I alternately felt respect for some of the Islamic men and their moral standards and commitment, and revulsion for some of their actions, such as the attack on the women's home (I realize why they did it, but that does not make it right). I felt that the movie gave me a chance to view Islam objectively without the need to question how I already felt; this gave me the ability to see all of the characters in the film as human beings instead of as representations of a religion. I wish that more films would take this tack - so many feel the need to steer the audience towards feeling one way or another about the always-volatile subject of religion.OK that was bit longer than I intended. But what I really wanted to ask was why we can't make quality films like this in the USA? The reason that I pointed out that this was a very good film but not quite a great one was because I wanted to comment on how even a very good film made elsewhere is so much better than any so-called great film made in the USA. Why can't we count on seeing films that explore people, that don't have an agenda, and that are more than opportunities for product placement money and mass marketing of action figures and video games? Well, I do know the answer, at least I think that I do. The almighty dollar. But does Hollywod really think that people in America are so stupid that all they want to see is another movie with Adam Sandler being an untalented hack, or Wesley Snipes as another cop in a movie where everything blows up, or Tommy Lee Jones as some sort of government agent, or Jennifer Aniston being as dull as she is, or Ben Stiller being as dull as he is, or anything with Cameron Diaz or Jennifer Lopez or anybody named Affleck? And I haven't even delved into such atrocities as Rob Schneider or David Spade. Actually my biggest fear is that all of their mega zillion dollar research proves conclusively that Americans really ARE that stupid. Now there's a horror flick for you... "},{"Title":"The short story is just better... but this isn't exactly bad","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We watched this in English class, after having read the short story, written by Hanif Kureishi. Going by how powerful the original text is, this is somewhat unimpressive. I think the real problem is that the short story was so compact, so rich in detail yet so brief, and it was thoroughly well-told. There are always problems when one lengthens a short story, and that fact is very evident here. There just isn't enough good material. There are attempts made at drama that fall flat, often due to the lack of proper build-up to them. Film requires more drama, stronger feelings. Maybe the story just wasn't suited for the medium. The original had the lead character's son filled with hatred, one instilled from an invisible enemy, leading to much frustration in the father. The ending was almost sublime in its pure emotion, the release experienced. Here, this enemy has gotten a face and a body, the hatred in the son isn't as credible(partially due to the son's occasional weakness, which stands in stark contrast to the strength of his convictions, both herein and in the original), and the ending is... just not anywhere near as strong as that of the book(it even messes up the original ending, by including the same scene, deprived of its powerful emotion, near the conclusion of the story here). Characters are added, some for little reason. Breaks of comedic relief are inserted, presumably to ease the heavy message, themes and story of the film. I suppose this could have been a good addition, but it just takes away from the serious nature of it. The plot is good, if some of the new material seems of little interest. The focus has shifted some; the film is entirely about Parvez, and how he relates to those around him. The pacing is decent enough, it doesn't drag too noticeably. The cinematography and editing is fine. It would be difficult to claim that it tries too hard, since it hardly tries at all. In spite of all the negatives, I'm glad to have seen this film, and I wish Kureishi more luck with feature films in the future... and I certainly will keep my eyes open for his other films. He's a quite gifted writer, I think the main problem here was that this story did not fit the medium and length of feature film. I recommend this to any fan of stories that deal with the cultures, in particular conflicts between them. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hate in a northern town","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer Hanif Kureshi has long been interested in the clash between Western decadence and fanatical Islam which, perceptively, he sees as a war that occurs not between civilisations but within individuals or, as in this film based on one of his books, families. In exploring the conflict between a secularised immigrant and his devout son, the film looks in all the right places, and is full of fine little cameo performances; but I didn't find it a wholly satisfactory affair. Om Puri's character (the father) is needed to hold the story together, but the part feels more like just one more cameo, albeit extended it's a nicely drawn portrait of a man, but also a shallow one. Also, the film seems dated by its origins pre-dating 9/11. Kureshi refers back, albeit obliquely, to the Salman Rushie affair that first made political Islam an issue in the U.K.; subsequent terrorist atrocities have made the broad subject of this movie more pertinent, but its details less so. Perhaps the real problem is that we never really get to understand the son, who remains a mystery to us as much as he is to his father an examination of the psychology of fanaticism, or (to cast it in a kinder light) simply that of belief, is strangely absent from the film. "},{"Title":"Only the sinner understands the meaning of love","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. Om Puri is acting as fantastic as we can aspect by now. The story deals with Muslim fanatics, one of them being taxidriver Parvez' (Puri) son. Like Christian fanatics in the US the muslimbrothers in England express the love of their god with violence against nonbelievers such as hookers. But in the end the biggest sinner of all, the one that loves a prostitute and cheats on his wife, is the only person in the movie that seems to understand the meaning of love. The story is also the conflict between an integrated father and a son that answers with religious fanaticism to the western world that still sees black people as outsiders, regardless of how much they and their parents have become decent citizens. It reminded me a lot of East and East, because of Om Puri and the conflict between a father and his children. Only in that movie it was the father who was the fanatic. You can consider that comparison as a compliment.  "},{"Title":"Fine film from talented writer","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hanif Kureshi recently adapted his book 'The Buddah Of Suburbia' for television and it was un-watchable. Not because it was bad but because the action and dialogue was so true to life it was too uncomfortable to keep your eyes on. We are not used to reality on tv. One of the Brit pack of new directors stated that they are the generation that hate Merchant Ivory and Hanif Kureshi but I know which will last, although I can live without Ivory.Kureshi has long been a fierce critic of Islamic Fundamentalism but not being Pakistani myself, I have no idea how accurate his portrayal of immigrant life in this country is but I can tell you that his handling of women is less assured. This mostly fine film ends just when the narrative is getting going, leaving you with a moving sense of pathos about the lead character but that's no criticism. It's better that you are left asking more questions than being hit with an over long film bludgeoning you with too many answers.  "},{"Title":"A very realistic snapshot of a piece of an immigrant's life","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had an upper hand while watching this movie, I understood the background and the environment being shown.  Armed with these pieces of information, My son the fanatic presented to me what it had set out to do.  It becomes tremendously pleasurable if one has an insight into England's ethnic societies and ways of life.  There, upper class still is a lot more serious addition to ones social standing in comparison to the other parts of the world.  Actually, even more than the cast based Hindu culture in India.So, what did it set out to do?  It showed a Pakistani man dedicated to trying to make a good living for himself and his family.  It showed the harsh realities of racism based on color and creed.  It showed how the outside (the home) culture and society can effect inside (the home) culture, both in positive and negative manners.  It showed how within the same society the proper and improper attitudes, displays and manners can sway associations and friendships.If you cannot tell by now, you ought to be able to, that I really enjoyed the movie, specifically the ending.  I rate the movie very highly. "}{"Title":"near perfect father-son drama","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kureshi has a way of exploring relations between father and son without being overly macho.Om Puri is amazing as Parvez, and Farid does a brilliant job as well, allowing Kureshi's characters and the tension between them to become palpable...Gopi Desai's Minoo is an excellent example of a woman trapped in a marriage where her husband no longer wants her. She is bitter, but also very sad, which is pretty much the emotional state of all the characters in the movie, save the hedonist (Schitz).It's a difficult film to sit and watch, as it's dialogue-intensive and, despite the fact that Parvez is a taxi driver, chase and explosion (save one Molotov cocktail) free. Nonetheless, if you want to see some brilliant interplay between two solid male leads, and if you want to see Kureshi delve into men's softer side, this film is a must-see. "},{"Title":"touching drama, but a few holes in the characters","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A touching drama about cross-cultural conflicts in a north England mill city, this story has the interesting twist of the immigrant father from Pakistan embracing the new culture while his English-raised son is jumping headlong back to his Islamic roots.The story concerns Parvaz, a taxidriver for 25 years, his long-suffering and resentful wife, and their son. A parallel plot centers on a German businessman come to town, apparently to have sex with as many prostitutes as he can, having just left his family. The meaning of family life and friendship, the role of parenthood, how cultures mix, and the conflicts of fundamentalist religion and sex are just some of the themes touched on.Parvaz is the fully developed center. The other characters are less so, especially Minoo, Parvaz's wife -- it was completely unclear to me why she was so ready to go along with her son's growing religiosity. The German also was hinted at having more of a story than the sex-obsessed man he turns out to be (watch for the scene early on when he reveals to Parvaz that he's just left his family;Parvaz That's very wrong. German What do you know about it?That certainly hints at something interesting, which is never followed up on).Everything builds to a sudden violent climax, which isn't quite what I expected, but mostly it works. Definitely worth seeing "},{"Title":"Thoroughly engrossing and delightful","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another winner from My Beautiful Launderette team; with a meaningful and totally believable performance by Omi Puri. Makes one want to read the novel by Hanif Kureishi. "},{"Title":"A cauldron of simmering conflicts comes to a boil.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every vector of conflict imaginable -- anglo vs. ethnic; traditionalist vs. assimilative; father vs. son; marital fidelity vs. emotional freedom -- is focused on sweet, clueless Parvez, who falls into a friendship with a lovely, needy hooker and thereby undoes his theretofore tidy immigrant life in a chill, un-jolly, inhospitable England.  "},{"Title":"I was still bored.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, another film from the author of My Beautiful Laundrette and more the disappointing. A lengthy title which is a prelude to the predictability of the plot to the movie, if we can call it that on the merits of the screenplay. Om Puri is wonderful as the taxi driver, embracing the western world with open arms. However, he is let down by a weak performance from Rachel Griffiths as Bettina. She is yet to be seen in anything that would make ones jaw drop in amazement. Swedish actor, Stellan Skargsgard delivers a fine performance as a decadent German and one wishes there was more of him. Similarly, one wishes there was more of the SON and his initiation, also THE INITIATORS( ACOLYTES), into the faith through the course of this wry attempt at satire.Dir. Udayan Prasad, who directed the entertaining Brothers in Trouble, appears to have done his best with the material that he had to work with. Ultimately it is the script that lets the whole film down. Not that it was for the appeal of a wide audience, I'm sure fans of Udayan Prasad and Om puri will be the first in line to see this movie. Sadly, the satire was missed on me. Bad dialogue staled my popcorn. "},{"Title":"It doesn't seriously engage the problem of fundamentalism","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Went to see if My Son the Fanatic offered any insights into the troubled world of intra-ummah conflicts, the strictures that fundamentalists try to impose on ordinary Muslims and the ways we find to cope with them. No such luck.  There was no normal Muslim to be found in this picture. Nobody I could identify with.  The choices are either 1) a drinking, whoring Muslim totally alienated from his faith; or 2) a bitter, violent, foaming-at-the-mouth zealot.  The closest person to a regular everyday Muslim is a minor character, the tired old chap at the mosque who wistfully observes that the youth accuse his kind of being deficient in Islam.  He is on screen for about half a minute.The Islam depicted in this film gave an odd sense of disconnect with the reality that I'm familiar with it came through in patchy, discontinuous, incoherent glimpses.  Maybe Hanif Kureishi's aim was to show how bewildering this phenomenon looks from the outside, from the father's point of view.  It certainly will not give the non-Muslim audience the least idea of what Islam means in the lives of ordinary Muslims.  The maulvi imported from Pakistan is an odd cipher he conveys nothing at all about his beliefs.  Mostly he stays silent, but he's too superficial a character for his silence to even seem enigmatic.  All he does is giggle at a televised cartoon and ask for help with immigration. Maybe Kureishi deliberately meant to show him as totally vacuous; if so, he succeeded at that.  Therefore the son's impassioned conversion comes across as an entirely negative reaction to his circumstances, with little suggestion of any positive beliefs.The most disturbing element in the film, and the one that hit home the hardest, was to show fundamentalist Islam as heavily male and harshly anti-woman.  There was one moment of intense poignancy the lad's mother being banished from the family dining table to eat alone in the kitchen. This scene was in its quiet way the most powerful and eloquent of the whole film.  The other activities of the fundamentalist crew (starting a squabble in the mosque, haranguing hookers on the street) may have seemed annoying but harmless--but when they firebomb and beat up women, they become truly frightening.  Why does fundamentalism always seem to come down to this--violence against women?  The Taliban are a nauseating real-life example.  On the other hand, we need to ask why filmmakers choose to show Islam only in the ugliest way, without any sense of its beauty and love and peace that keep bringing in so many converts. However, there is a counterpoint to this theme shown in the nasty bruises on the hooker, inflicted by the obnoxious German who hired her. Here Kureishi seems to suggest that whether it's Islam or non-Islam, no matter--all systems still come down to violence against women.  Yet he never suggests any positive alternative to all this social nihilism.  A point of inaccuracy the fundamentalists are shown speaking approvingly of Ayatollah Khomeini--however, among the Pakistani fundie groups I have met in real life, like the Tablighites and Maudoodites, all Shi`ites like Khomeini are condemned as anathema.It was impossible to feel any sympathy for either of the two antagonists in this film.  Each one acted like a jerk in his own way.  The son was obviously a jerk for turning so viciously intolerant--but the father, who was supposed to be the sympathetic character, was an even bigger jerk for the way he neglected his family and cared only for himself (and in nearly every scene of the film he's holding a glass of booze).  The main theme of the movie was not even about Islam at all; it's about how men are jerks by nature.  The only character I felt sympathy for was the neglected wife.  Her husband tries to justify his adultery by crying out for tenderness--and yet although his wife shows that she's dying for a little affection, he only responds with cruelty.  True, she gets a bit shrewish herself, complaining about missing out on the fun that the rich guy's wife is having--but is that supposed to be the whole justification for his ill-treatment of her?  In the end, he stubbornly refuses to learn anything at all from his experience; when his friend and his son tell him the plain truth of his behavior, he reacts with sudden rage and beats up his son.  He just holds on to his swing records and his liquor, for whatever comfort that might offer after he's gotten alienated from everyone in his life and left all alone.  This film was a well-directed, wrenching study in how family members hurt one another, but its contribution to Islamic discourse was insignificant--it never came close to engaging the problem of fundamentalism in a serious way, but only exploited it as a vehicle for jerk-itude. "},{"Title":"Tries To Do Too Much","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Comedies featuring Asians in Britain have met with much recent success . BEND IT LIKE BECKHAM was an international hit while EAST IS EAST was a big hit at the British box office . MY SON THE FANATIC came out a couple of years earlier than the aforementioned comedies and fails to hit the funny bone An Asian taxi driver forms a platonic bond with a prostitute while his son becomes more and more of a Muslim fanatic . The problem with this is that the story tries to say too much on the dangers of racism , religious fundamentalism , assimilation and that we all have the same basic needs despite our differences . I also got the impression that the movie didn't want to offend sensibilties too much , but there's a scene featuring a nasty and racist comic which is somewhat sickening . Needless to say the comic is white ( A Bernard Manning clone ? ) and his target is Asian . As has been mentioned MY SON THE FANATIC has taken on special signicance post 9/11 but this makes it an even more uneasy watch I will praise the cast which includes Om Puri as the Asian taxi driver who's son is becoming more and more fanatical and mixing with the wrong crowd . Puri gives a sad and haunting performance . Rachael Griffiths who I'm sure is going to become a big name soon gives a performance as a prostitute while Stellan Skarsgaard proves as always that he's the most convincing actor to have come out Europe for many years .  "}]