[{"Title":"Terrific Action Adventure","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"96 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is a terrific movie, not just as an action movie but as whole. I went to see this film because I thought it looked interesting, my expectations were shattered, this is a well written, well acted, well directed thriller. Anthony Hopkins as always turns in a great performance but the big suprise is Alec Baldwin who did just as well. This film has some of the best dialogue ever written for a movie of this type, and the action scenes are clever and blazingly paced. This is a terrific movie. "},{"Title":"In A Word Intense","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"68 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Boy, here's an intense film, a survival-in-the-wilderness adventure/thriller starring the unlikely duo of Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin. It's not hard to guess who's the villain, in addition to a man-eating bear who stalks the two of them after their plane crashes in the woods of Alaska.The sophistication of Hopkins, playing an extremely smart man, battling the crude Baldwin, who is insanely jealous of Hopkins' possessions, including his gorgeous wife (Elle McPherson), is intriguing to watch. So is the great scenery and best-of-all, a great action story that has you focused intently for the full two hours.A human characteristic so often ignored in films the past half century is put on display here compassionate forgiveness. Seeing forgiveness demonstrated instead of revenge is almost shocking to see. Kudos to the filmmakers, too, for not going overboard on the brutality in this adventure. "},{"Title":"one of the best of 1997","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"65 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is a powerful motion picture that satisfies in every way.  First of all, it delivers as an action/adventure film (which is what it is) by giving the audience some heart stopping sequences, and it never slows down.  The Edge also delivers as a dramatic film, with an ending that is painfully sad, yet satisfying.  This is one fine movie, and the performances by Hopkins (one of my favorite actors today) and Baldwin are superb.  They portray their characters with an honesty, and with a realistic nature that only great actors can accomplish.  As the plot twists and the pace picks up, you start to become so involved that you forget time is passing by. I strongly suggest this one to action lovers and to anyone who enjoys a good story.    "},{"Title":"Are men more than animals?","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"52 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge reminded me of the old Kipling quote, that to be a superior man means to keep your head when everyone around you is loosing theirs!Its is my favorite survival film, & one of the best of Baldwin & Hopkin's careers. In addition to a great cast (check out Michael from LOST!), interesting characters & great action, the film asks many questions of the audience - Why do some succeed where others fail? How do we look at success - when we see it in others, do we feel envy or admiration? I think that the central message of the film is that in order to prevail in any difficult endeavor, people must rise above their lower, animal instincts like fear & selfishness, and embrace higher qualities like self-control, intellect, compassion, & sacrifice. "},{"Title":"Thumbs Up for The Edge","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins is one of my favorite actors, so I had to see this film. Sure enough, I wasn't disappointed. Although the film got mixed reviews (and I could understand why, in a way), I was able to enjoy the experience of watching it. The cinematography was stunning. For that alone I recommend this film. The set-up was good, and the tension between the two main characters kept things lively.Most of all, however, I love this type of story- out in the elements, man vs. nature, survival, etc. I like seeing what happens when people are put in a situation where they discover the value of life. By slaying the bear (symbolic of one's greatest fears in life), the Hopkins character found his true heart. I was moved by the transformation he underwent, and the compassion he showed to those who had it in for him. I identified with this; I hoped that I could be as magnanamous. I also thought about what the bear was in my life, and if I would have the courage to face it and do battle.  "},{"Title":"A Morality Play in an Immoral Age","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A very strong performance by Anthony Hopkins, Bart the Bear, and Alec   Baldwin, in that order, in a film that deals with the important   subjects of virtue, wisdom, and morality. I can understand why some of   the modern audience might find that to be a turn-off.    The sets and locations alone are worth a rental, especially of the DVD,   the haunting Goldsmith score lingers in the memory and enhances the   viewer's pleasure in the film. What a joy it is to see a film that is   tautly and expertly written, that tells the salient details of the plot   but leaves you guessing--through repeated viewings--of the whys, wheres   and whens of the development.    If you favor serious drama--if you relish philosophy--if you don't need   a film spoon fed to you or so puerile that they try to stun you with   explosions--you will enjoy The Edge.    My choice of a collegiate vocabulary in this review is deliberate. "},{"Title":"A  real sharp edge","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A truly superb film. A story of survival. Not of the fittest but of the most dedicated and resourceful. Essentially a two character interplay, Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin are perfectly cast with intense portrayals of their characters. The supporting cast is minimal but makes for a tasty side dish with Harold Perrineau, Elle Macpherson, and veteran actor L.Q. Jones as a venerable weathered sly fox. Written by David Mamet, whose magnificent style is evident throughout, and directed by Lee Tamahori the film delivers a unique array of action, dialogue. and symbolism. Added also is a magnifcent and haunting score by Jerry Goldsmith. Tribute must also be given to Bart the bear, his trainer. and the Animatronic bear which provided some terrific action sequences. A shame this film did not garner any awards. Recommended highly. "},{"Title":"One Word Awesome!!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"55 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best films i have seen it defeantly rates in the top 20 on my list, beautiful scenes, very original idea, great acting, and edge of your seat excitement.  I have seen this film about 5-6 times and i have not got bored of it. anyone who has not seen this must head down and grab this movie!. "},{"Title":"Reasonably good, exciting survival thriller.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is not interesting just because it's a well made survival thriller. The behind the scenes events on the film are pretty interesting too, especially the fact that it was filmed in such difficult conditions that star Hopkins developed life threatening pneumonia midway through the production.The story tells of a shy but intelligent billionaire (Hopkins) who is married to a stunning model (MacPherson). Unbeknown to him, his wife is unhappy in their relationship and has been having her wicked way with a photographer (Baldwin). All three of them, plus a whole lot more, find themselves in the wilds of Alaska for a photograph shoot, but things go horribly wrong when a plane carrying Hopkins and Baldwin crashes in the middle of the wilderness. They must use every bit of practical skill and common sense they possess to survive until they can be found, and to make matters even worse they become the prey of a roaming grizzly bear.Some of the man .vs. bear scenes are the most terrifying scenes of people tackling dangerous animals ever put on film. The increasingly strained relationship between Hopkins and Baldwin, as each reveals more of their secrets to the other, is very well played and creates some genuinely tense moments. The backdrop of Alaskan wilderness is pleasing to the eye throughout the whole film. There's nothing really wrong with The Edge at all it's a well made, interestingly told and often exciting survival thriller. The only drawbacks it has are minor, such as MacPherson's inexpressive performance and a few boring stock characters in the small roles. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Masterpiece","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's exceedingly easy to see how some people might not like this film. The most frequent reason in my opinion is that some just don't 'get it'. While busy focusing on pointing out rather trivial and nit-picky things, they are so far off the central point and weight of what the film is truly offering that the most rewarding aspects are lost on them.Firstly, a very interesting and off center look into survival in the wilderness. Unconventional in the way that any alternate -in what I would consider Hollywood- version of this film would feature mostly everything taking place in that exotic cabin where this menacing digital bear(s) cuts the power and kills people off one by one because they left food out. Instead we are taken deep into the wilderness for real, with no comfort or near-by home base to return to. Decisions made don't feel forced, they feel natural and logical. At no point was I compelled to yell obscenities at the screen protesting character stupidity(leg cut excluded). Much of the Bear chase presented immediate solutions, with no choice to the point where the most illogical choice -to actually make a stand and kill this bear- becomes the ONLY choice, for all other options have expired.Secondly, upon close inspection of the performances, the acting is spot on. I'd call the performances far from wooden! I think they were heart-felt, high-energy, and consistent. Of course, if you aren't paying attention, certainly it would seem as though Alec Baldwin's character, Bob, shifts toward the end as he 'turns' on Anthony Hopkins' character, Charles, with his attempt to kill him. However, it doesn't take much more than an above 8th grade level of comprehension to get that Bob has been cynically plotting to kill Charles far before the film even begins. That scene in the cabin was simply his chance to finally unburden his feelings toward the situation and justify what he was about to do(made final by the For All The Nights discovery). Upon watching the film a second time through, it's evident that Bob was able to suppress the impending deed (which in my opinion was something he thought he HAD to do in the end) for the more imminent task of survival, and even taking those feelings and burying them for the time being.There is also an interesting element of male bonding in the face of adversity-not overcoming the vices and evils that cement Bob to his ultimate deed. Also impressive was the extensive knowledge, yet honest innocence of Charles being something of a recluse from conventional thinking. To the end giving Bob the benefit of the doubt as a man worth preserving; such a sad tale of a very lonely, rich man(never feel sorry for a man that owns a plane); indeed two men who through this experience could have been friends if not for the complexity of their 'other' lives back in civilization. That said, Bob's reasoning was justified to Bob and I could understand his position and motives.Bobs confrontation of Charles in the clearing tells a very deep rooted stereotype he has for the wealthy class, not really getting that Charles was at the very least an exception to that rule if not a shining example of what was the better human being. In any case Bob felt as though he was entitled to Mickey more-so than Charles, even implying that Mickey and he would be together if not for Charles' wealth. This hatred remained too deep to ignore even after their experience.And I'm sorry, but to see that fundamental stand-up and confidence chant (what one man can do another can do) despite lingering fear in Bobs face gets me saying hell yeah each and every time. One of the party having already suffered death and devouring by this behemoth, the fight was believable as rational thought ended up being the key. Horribly outmatched, they owed a lot to courage and luck. In my opinion the film became sobering upon the death of their friend by the bear, and I always breath a sigh of relief watching that bear laying there dead, the two exhausted men leaning against it, out of breath, as we swallow what we just went through.Thus, survival at that point was over and resolved in my opinion. These men could survive in the wilderness having passed what I thought to be an ultimate test. I also believe that, after the bear slaying, more time had elapsed than a lot of reviewers give credit for. The fact that they made clothing, food, and other things out of the bear to me marked the passage of a good deal of time.What I also saw was a very natural and gradual unraveling of their character as the experience wore on them, until the core of things finally prevailed in the end. And it wasn't the deceit or even the cheating. It was in the end about two men, one dying (justly) yet somehow I felt sad to see him go. Because on what turned out to be his death bed, he offered Mickey's innocence in this business of doing Charles in. An act of virtue from a character who had previously only acted in his own interest got to me. Plus Charles' bond to him was enough to put me on his side and root for this attempted murderer to live.In my opinion the depth, scope, and insight into darker aspects of the human condition go largely unnoticed in this film, for people go in expecting bears, Baldwin, and Hollywood and usually only see what they expect to see. No more, no less. I feel that this film was nicely filled out, packed with little things I loved and fundamental things that moved and entertained me. I hate to see relatively high-brow stuff being overlooked and passed off as low-brow, but I suppose The Edge remains a sleeper. "}{"Title":"Hopkins creates a fascinating character","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had low expectations going into this movie, but after about ten minutes I was hooked.  The cinematography is lush, the music is warm and hearty and the script is fresh and furious.  At times, the film is slow, and it is during these moments that you realize the depth and emotion injected into these characters via Mamet's crystal-clear and poignant dialogue.  It touches on primal fears (territory, survival, fear, shame, love and jealousy) and it delivers moral commentary on all of the above.  Did I also mention that this movie is a thriller too?  Hopkins is at his best as the calm and thoughtful Charles Morse, billionaire and bored with his ivory tower lifestyle.  His counterpart, Mr. Baldwin is a slimy and petty fashion photographer, Bob Green.  The interaction between the two shows a middle-ground that is brilliant in contrast.  Hopkins is a father figure to Baldwin's brash young frenzied Bob.  The competition between the two to survive, and ultimately return to civilization (and Charles' wife), sets the stage for a complex and thoughful character drama.  Bart the Bear is a star indeed, and while this movie is marketed for having Jaws with Claws, there is SO much more depth and detail to this movie.  This is easily in my top 10 films of all time.  It connected with me and I hope you enjoy it too.  10 out of 10!Best Line CHARLES I have always wanted to do something that was... that was unequivocal "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"32 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What's so good about this picture? Well, it's actually very well shot and some very nice writing by Mamet.Many people probably haven't even heard of this picture, the title is uninspiring but the film isn't.The direction is superb, the widescreen frame is filled with details and characters use the 2.351 scope very well. The film is shot with the cinema screen in mind, not pan and scan. The photography is beautiful, the landscape comes alive, sometimes it steals the picture away from the characters.The acting is fine, but sometimes a bit more meat was  required in the middle of the picture. I don't think the actors had enough depth, but overall not bad.The picture is about survival and that's all I will say.The final frames are disappointing, should've been handled better.The director did a terrific job capturing the Alaska terrain.As usual, please view this picture in widescreen otherwise people you would have only seen 57% of the picture. There is only one way to enjoy the photography,  and that's in widescreen. "},{"Title":"Jaws with Fur!","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was a revelation!  When it was on general release in the cinema, I gave it a wide berth.  I can't remember why, probably the combination of a weak title, Alec Baldwin in a starring role and a really unimaginative trailer. I've just seen it on a 14-inch TV screen and am so sorry I didn't catch it on the big screen (or even a 26-inch TV!).David Mamet can write but he knows his place! This is an action adventure movie and so Mamet is not trying to make any great philosophical point. He does provide a wide variety of thematic ingredients (man V nature, youth V age, brains V brawn, machismo, infidelity) to ensure that the story line is far more interesting than most of Hollywood's action-movie schlock. And, of course, a furry killing machine that can smell a man from 10 miles and run through the forest at 30 mph!Charles, (Anthony Hopkins' erudite billionaire character) starts out as the vulnerable, isolated character of the film.  He's married to Mickey, his photo-model wife(Elle can act herself!) flirts quite openly with Bob the handsome, younger photographer (Baldwin). Charles seems set up for a fall. In his self-effacing way, he confesses to knowing a lot in theory but not being great at practical application.So when the plane crashes into an icy lake, Charles is the one for whom you most fear but that's when all the surprises start..........The biggest disappointment for me is that a fine actor such as Harold Perrineau finds himself playing a role that is a classical Hollywood cliché, the nice black guy who gets killed.  When are they going to cut this crap out?  Either kill the guy in the crash or give him a character but don't just make him plot fodder.  Seeing Stephen (Perrineau) with the other two on the lake shore, you just knew he would have all the longevity in this film as James Bond's first female conquest.  As David Mamet doesn't share the writing credits with a studio committee or an executive producer, I suppose he has to take responsibility.That said, this is a really gripping film.  Well directed photographed and acted (even by Baldwin!). And the bear!  How long do you have?The shots where you (from Charles point of view) are staring down the roaring bear's throat and can see his uvula through an emerging cloud of steamy breath are just brilliant.  I could almost smell that bear. I believe they made extensive use of prosthetics.  Excellent FX!  "},{"Title":"Mr. Wizard Gets Lost Bears Beware!!","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadI am not a fan of Mamet. I hated House Of Games. His works are always so bizarre and devoid of any scintilla of reality. Now, the characterization of Charles; show of hands, how many people think someone who oversees this many responsibilities has his mind filled with every possible scrap of practical survival trivia? Can we tell Mamet is rich? Could this, perhaps be a little bit autobiographical? Sorry, the film is about Charles. I do not know Mamet's life but I can tell you this, heads of conglomerates do not have any room left in their heads for anything but the limitless worries that go with their responsibilities. Do we think Donald Trump's head is filled with all this extraneous crap utterly alien to his dasein? It gives the film such a sense of unreality about it. Charles seems to be a complete plot contrivance; his head is full of this crap so they can depend upon him. This dependence, given his suspicions about Bob, enunciated before the crash, gives him this other world saintliness. This is why the movie did not do so well; Charles is an utter fantasy character. Rich people do not have their heads filled with Boy Scout manuals, please. Now, they climb and climb off the tremendous energy they obtained from eating that squirrel, no where else do we see them eat. That must have been one chubby little squirrel. They are shown soaking wet in several scenes; the very next scene their clothes are all dried out, try that out in the frozen woods, good luck. The bear begins stalking them, Bob, after being warned by Charles, inexplicably leaves Stephen's bloody rags swinging out in the wind? See what I mean? The writing is odd, couple this with the glorification of the rich by drawing Charles as a set upon martyr who is constantly harassed by those annoying little people. Even after they try to kill him and steal his wife, he still takes Bob almost all the way home. This was after Bob tried to shoot him up at the cabin. Forgive me, I am not a Christian, but are the rich renowned for their saintly altruism? Do many super rich people you know have their heads filled with Boy Scout manuals and their hearts with the Love of Christ? It is so painfully bad. Forgive me, but I can't help but notice that, perhaps, we have a rich person writing with a tad bit of guilt about his wealth? What do you think?The photography is breathtaking and the battle with the bear is fantastic however unlikely. A bear connects like that when he hits Bob and he would shatter every bone in that arm. Even given its lack of verisimilitude it still is worth watching the film for. It is very entertaining, it is only later when you ruminate over the movie, you will realize how phony the character of Charles was. The whole movie is feel sorry for the saintly, oppressed, persecuted, rich person. Sorry, after the crash of 2008, I am fresh out of sympathy for corporate swine. As a movie, if you ignore the eternal Mr. Wizard knows everything crap, you will enjoy it. Every scene is more beautiful than the one before if only the script followed suit. I gave it a 5 for the entertainment and the photography. L.Q. shows why he has always been a great actor. Worth Watching borderline owning. "},{"Title":"Bart steals the show","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is one that I can never stop watching, if it comes on TV or someone rents it. First of all, the scenery is magnificent! The wilds of Alaska are probably one of the last great otherworlds of our planet. And, Anthony Hopkins has always been one of the best looking actors out there, to me. So, now you've got a cool looking guy, playing a brain (yowza!!), a rich one at that, and some beautiful scenery. A flock of wild geese bring down the plane. From that point on, it's non-stop action. ANY time you think that these men might make it out of there, here comes BART to prove otherwise! I love how Bart (the grizzly) is just relentless!! He is determined to eat these fellows, or at least one of them. Go Bart! ( eat the liberal, watch him run ) Ah, it's a great story, and acted very well.I do in all honesty feel sorry, for the grizzly bear. I don't care how much his real life trainers may say he loves them; I just can't see keeping a creature like that as a pet, confined, and domesticated. They are magnificent creatures who should be respected ( aka left alone ). I would feel the same way seeing a human kept, very well, in a Martian zoo. It's just not right.In the end, Charles (Hopkins) walks up to his wife, who he has learned has been seriously unfaithful to him. He lets her know that he knows. But then, when asked by the reporter about the other man (Baldwin), who we as the audience know was trying to kill Charles, Charles states that (Baldwin) saved my life. Okay, what does that mean? does it mean that Baldwin pointed out to Charles what a farce his marriage was, and the truth has set him free? Or that, through his experience with Baldwin, and with Bart, that he now feels complete as a human, knowing that he survived in the deep forest, using only his brains and instinct? If anyone knows the answer, as to how Baldwin saved his life please let me in. thanks!! "},{"Title":"Anthony Hopkins - you're so cool!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Stockholm, Sunday March 10, 2002Tonite the family will sit down in the TV-sofa to see the film for a second time! It's really great entertainment! "},{"Title":"An inspiring revelation","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie has to do with what is invisible to the eye, which is indeed the essential. It is the attitude, the mindset and the inner strength, the one thing that separates a loser from a winner, the dead from the alive, the happy from the desperate, the billionaire from the greedy...the movie is a fantastic picture filled with the power and depth of two movie giants that not only provides on The Edge entertainment, but a life lesson or two as well...You have to look below the surface to understand the life lessons of mental toughness that the movie presents. The shrewed and sharply intelligent Charles, played by the movie colossal Anthony Hopkins, projects confidence and emotion in every image. Phrases like What man can do another can do could be applied to every area of the life and is the secret to a fulfilling life. You can watch for sheer entertainment, or watch to taste the true essence of the movie, either way is a must see. "},{"Title":"Pretty mainstream stuff with unmet intentions of deep psychological conflict","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge (1997)This is a fun wilderness adventure movie with some terrific acting by both Alec Baldwin (as a spoiled bad boy) and Anthony Hopkins (as a very smart millionaire). They battle of wits, and the fighting of the elements, is fodder for screenwriter David Mamet, who has produced more interesting dialog than this, for sure. The third star is the Kodiak bear, who gets a huge credit line at the end, and who unites, at least sometimes, the two men in the cold isolation of Alaska.But let's face it, as much fun as this is, this is thin going. It even looks a bit like a slightly adult version of a Disney adventure film, with people bonding and conflicting as needed. In fact, if you start comparing this movie to others like it (there are a few), you might even consider the television series Lost, which is at least more imaginative and full-blooded in its writing. Or just survival in the mountains you might check out Touching the Void.I just saw the old Spencer Tracy movie Mountain this week, and it is a weird precursor to this one (minus the bear). That is, two people facing the elements have very different ideas of morality and of trust. Like that movie, this newer one doesn't explore the conflict of personae, or ethics, very far, giving only what are the obvious differences. That's not enough for a feature length affair.Which brings us back to Baldwin and Hopkins. They are, actually, enough to hold you in for the duration. You really do hope they survive, and if you wince at some of the dialog and at the appearance of bear traps at all the wrong moments, you can get into the drama of it pretty well. And into the scenery. Amazing stuff. "},{"Title":"Two men try to outthink each other in wilderness and fight killer bear","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Possible spoilers -The best line in this movie was Bob (Baldwin) says to Charles (Hopkins) in referring to the huge bear who is stalking them, What are we going to do, Charles? Charles calmly replies, We're going to kill him.The interplay between the billionaire and the photographer who is playing with his young wife is very interesting. You keep wondering when and if Bob will make a move. The two are trying to find their way out of the wilderness after a plane crash. Hopkins is a rich guy who knows everything and and finally saves the day, even though he was threatened with death. The bear fight was excellent. Bart the bear should have received an award. A high point was at the end when Charles hands Bob's watch to his wife. Watch the movie and you will know why she knew that Charles knew. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Action/adventure is not usually one of my favourite genres. Good-looking male protagonists who are put through the most difficult trials in life with the whole world against them. Along the way equally good-looking females help them to fight 'evil' and they fall in love together. Nah not my cup of tea.The Edge is a different sort of action/adventure. It tells a story of an old intelligent millionaire married to a young model. The millionaire, Anthony Hopkins, gets stranded with a photographer, Alec Baldwin and others after their plane crashes in snow climates. The film shows the nature of human beings that when put to the test in difficult situations the way negative sides to their personalities arise, as we witnessed Baldwin's intense jealousy towards Hopkins. The film outlines the importance of the theory 'survival of the fittest' showing that Hopkins the most intelligent, wise and experienced of them all was the only one that survived the predicament. The implication of the film seems to show that in no matter what period of time we are living in, the noble most respectable people are the most threatening to us human beings. Possibly an analogy to monotheistic prophets?  "}{"Title":"Awesome Movie! one of the best i have seen","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a great movie, the action, the adventure, the scenery, the awesome soundtrack, and 2 great actors.. this is one of my favorite movies.  If you haven't seen it yet your missing on a great flick take a couple of hours sit back and enjoy a great film directed by Lee Tamahori!. "},{"Title":"You will come back for more","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In simple words Awesome. It's like the thriller book that you cannot keep down unless the last page is finished. Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin at their best, Hopkins is has this uncanny calmness about him throughout the movie, it spooks you and apparently spooks Alecs character in the film. The bear is simply awesome, how can they make them act like this, its almost impossible. I have seen this movie about 5-6 times, I still would watch it with the same interest, almost as if the story will take a different turn this time! A classic cult movie, a must watch, I am out of words for this one, definitely in my top 10 list of movies. "},{"Title":"Great Acting By All.","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge is a great film that has a great story, acting, and action. It is easily one of the best survival films that I have ever seen.The film is about billionaire Charles (Anthony Hopkins) who goes on trip to Alaska for a photo shoot with his wife (Elle Mcpherson). After traveling with photographer Bob (Alec Baldwin) to a remote cabin 80 miles North of where they were staying they have their plane crash and are forced to find a way back to where they came from and forced to survive in the wild.The story is great and easy to follow. A great survival story set in the Alaskan Wilderness. The scenery and images in this film as well as the camera work is outstanding.Acting is incredible. Hopkins is outstanding as the lead character Charles. Hopkins shows great range as the older and wise man who is able to adapt all of his knowledge in a survival situation. Also Alec Baldwin is good as well in this film as the sort of not as knowledgeable guy who is waiting to backstab. Elle Mcpherson is great also, maybe more so as something to look at than as an actress, but still.However the best actor in this film is not a human actor in my opinion. Bart the Bear is great in this film as the ravenous bear that is constantly coming after the group lost in the woods. When I first saw this film Bart scared me so much and is truly the most talented animal actor that I have ever seen. May he rest in peace.Action is great in this film. If you like survival type films, then this film is for you.Overall a spectacular film. Perhaps the most under rated film I know of. Highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great!I loved every second of it!This movie is chilling with the performances by Hopkins and Baldwin.The battle scene with the bear is awesome and the ending is good too.I recommend this to anyone who loves action films.(8 out of 10) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable,slightly underrated, dual plot thriller.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was a worthwhile theater visit.It kept me on the edge of my seat very successfully with it's interwoven plots.It's about three friends suddenly stranded in the mountain wilderness after their plane crashes. Soon after that crash,they become the target of a relentless Kodiak bear.While this plot is in the front seat,there is the underlying plot of one friend's suspicion that another might not be a friend at all. The latter plot eventually works it's way to the forefront,with a smooth transition.Good performances by Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin,with a credible supporting cast.Even Elle MacPherson does an adequate job here,considering she is playing a model(not much of a stretch for her).An overall good film worthy of at least one look. "},{"Title":"CONFRONTATION with Nature (Wilderness, Animal and Human)","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Anthony Hopkins stars as Charles in 1997's The Edge, a sad, lifeless billionaire who has accumulated a vast store of mostly useless facts. Because of his great wealth he's unsure if people are honestly interested in him as a friend or just want his money. His much younger, model wife (Elle Macpherson) treats him more as a teddy bear than a romantic lover. He wonders if she's having an affair with her photographer Bob (Alec Baldwin).Charles gets stranded in the Northewest wilderness and is forced to confront three types of nature First, he must contend with wilderness nature itself (the movie was filmed in breath-taking Alberta and British Columbia). Secondly, he comes face to face (literally) with a fierce Kodiak bear. Thirdly, he must confront human nature in the ugly form of arrogance, envy, malice, greed, lust and murder.Unexpectedly, as Charles confronts these three challenges he starts to blossom and fully come ALIVE, perhaps for the first time in decades. His colossal store of mostly worthless knowledge actually becomes useful.There are a couple Yeah, right Hollywood implausibilities -- for instance, the bear shaking the tree as the guys cross the river (an homage to King Kong) -- but, for the most part, the story plays out realistically.The Edge addresses many powerful and worthy themes including Rebirth & renewal, confronting & overcoming incredible challenges, and, perhaps most potent of all, triumphing over evil through goodwill and forgiveness.*** SPOILER ALERT *** Don't read the next paragraph if you haven't seen the movie.Some may scoff at that last one but, after Charles gains the upperhand over Bob at the end, Bob sincerely repents of his wicked deeds before he ultimately dies (the 'wicked deeds' being his intention to kill Charles for his wife & wealth). At the end Charles refuses to say anything bad about Bob, even though he clearly has the right to; all he states is that Bob died saving his life. Why did he say this? Why didn't he lambaste him for being a murderous, greedy, adulterous scumbag? Perhaps not only because Charles accepted his repentance and FORGAVE him, but also because he realized that ALL OF US are screw-ups to some degree. We all have a dark, carnal side to our psyche, Bob simply made the mistake of going over THE EDGE; yet, in the end, he realized this and was truly sorry for it. What an amazing story about the power of repentance and forgiveness! *** END SPOILER *** These descriptions of the film's profundities are feeble at best; there's so much more I'd like to comment on but mere words won't do it justice. Discover for yourself. This is definitely a movie worthy of repeat viewings.BOTTOM LINE If all you want out of The Edge is a great adventurous survival story with spectacular scenery, you'll definitely get it, yet it profoundly (and unexpectedly) offers so much more. I'm a pretty masculine dude but the last time I saw this film I was so strongly affected that I broke down at the end.The next day I saw the Peter Jackson King Kong flick (2005), which is essentially another adventure/survival yarn albeit with a giant gorilla and dinosaurs instead of a bear. Compared to The Edge Jackson's King Kong is a laughable $200 million Road Runner cartoon.The Edge ranks with my all-time favorite films. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"never feel sorry for a man who owns a plane......","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Billionaire Charles Morse accompanies his supermodel wife Mickey to photo shoot at Alaska.The shoot is to be made by fashion photographer Robert Green. To find specific Indian for the shoot, they fly to even more distant location, where their small plane crashes into a lake.To survive in the wood of a man-killing bear they need each other, but the smarter of the men - Charles. is suspicious that Robert is having an affair with his wife......Mamet again has delivered another strong character study, wit some great dialogue, but the setting and the sense of dread throughout steals the thunder from the sharp screenplay. Hopkins plays it down from his usual hamminess, here playing the calm billionaire who is always one step ahead of everyone else, and seems to know everything about anything.Baldwin puts his best performance since Glengarry Gelnross as the manipulative photographer with an ulterior motive. The camera-work and cinematography is so good, you can almost feel the elements along with the actors.And fourteen years on it has aged well, and is still a cracking, although very underrated thriller, that deserves a wider audience. "},{"Title":"The Lesson","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A good number of people criticize THE EDGE for its implausibility when set against actual wilderness survival, and I agree with them on that point. Taken as allegory, however, the film gains validity. Charles Morse, a billionaire with encyclopedic general knowledge, ostensibly has everything, including a beautiful young wife, Mickey, a fashion model, whom he truly loves. Disquiet haunts him, however, because his wealth impoverishes him of trust in others; people only seem to want him for either his money or his woman. Deftly utilizing symbolism, the director, Mamet, sets Charles and his wife's photo entourage in an Alaskan wilderness. Bob Green, a photographer having an affair with Mickey, convinces Charles to accompany him and an assistant on an adventure into the forest for a photograph of an unself-conscious man--the non-narcissistic opposite of Bob himself. Things go awry quickly geese collide in midair with the float plane, and it crashes into a remote lake. The pilot dies, but the others survive. Unfortunately, they are lost with virtually no hope of rescue. A grizzly bear, used as a symbol of man's primal fear, stalks and attacks the threesome, killing one. Charles and Bob Green remain, and Charles goes on to commit the unequivocal act of killing the bear by his own devices, i.e., his wits and a spear, thereby symbolically overcoming his inner demons. He and Bob then journey along a river to a point of departure from the forest. They come upon a cabin and canoe, and their salvation appears imminent. Realizing that Bob no longer needs him for survival purposes, Charles surmises that Bob (whom he learns is his wife's secret lover by virtue of the signed inscription of For All The Nights on Bob's wrist watch) plots to murder Charles in the wilderness and then run off with boodle and booty. Using his wits and knowledge again, however, Charles foils the younger Bob who accidentally inflicts a fatal wound on himself in the murder attempt. Bob dies from loss of blood but not before repenting of his sins--an uplifting scene that shows our desire to seek and our ability to grant forgiveness.A patrolling helicopter rescues Charles, and he arrives back at the Alaskan resort where, in passing, he repeats a theme of the film by asking the innkeeper Why is the rabbit not afraid? To which he receives the reply Because he's smarter than the panther. Charles presents Bob's watch to his waiting wife, thereby communicating his knowledge of her unfaithfulness. The viewer, however, gets the impression that she, too, seeks forgiveness and that he would grant it again. When asked by a reporter how his friends died, he answers cryptically, They died saving my life. THE LESSON would have been a more appropriate title for this very worthwhile film. Don't seek realism here but do seek reality. Allegory often serves that pursuit more aptly. "},{"Title":"Never get sick of it","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The fact that I love Anthony Hopkins just adds to how much I love this movie. His charming persona is perfect for portraying an intelligent, resourceful billionaire. Besides that though, I loved this movie because I can never, no matter how hard I might try, get sick of this movie. The struggle between man and nature is the oldest of all time, and it makes you think. Seriously, it does. What would you do if there was a freakishly clever, man eating bear chasing after you? --Personally, I think I'd lose it, but that's just me-- I also love this movie because it never fails in scaring the bejesus out of me. (Being eaten alive by a bear isn't on my top ten list of ways to die, thank you very much)I remember the first time I saw this movie, and bear with me (... no pun intended...) I wouldn't go outside for a month because the area I live in is full of bears. Fun huh? Overanalysis and serious critiquing aside, (man vs nature/self/man, killing the bear= elimination of fear/restoration of self, etc, etc, etc) this is a good movie I think you should watch. Simply because it's one of those what if it was you? films. The cinematography is great, you really get into it (or at least I did =P) and, minus the blood and such, it's really a beautiful film that also makes you glad you're safe and warm wherever your TV is. (now to get my boyfriend to watch it with me and get scared as well) "},{"Title":"Suspense Explosion!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watching this film,it was a 'fresh' type of film to me.I hadn't seen a film with such roughness and hardship for a long time. Antony Hopkins played well with his character being an intellect,with great knowledge. When you watch the film,you can see the intensity of what the actors had to go through,or at least,that is what it seemed. Overall,I would say this film is a must see,especially with the great cast-Elle Macpherson,Antony Hopkins,Alec Baldwin... "}{"Title":"Perhaps the best movie of 1997","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie back in '97 in the pre-Titanic days.  I loved this movie for its acting and scenery.  In addition, the screenplay by an always-delightful David Mammet was top notch.  I waited forever for it to come out on DVD, and when it finally did, I watched it twice.The acting is best in the word plays between Charles (Hopkins) and Robert (Baldwin).  The rest of the characters are throw aways, but the story is not centered on them.  The other guy with them dies early when he accidentally cuts his leg and is then eaten by the bear.  The bear (Bart the Bear) by the way is great too. The story is the typical survival story, with Mammet's writing talents layered in.  The movie becomes less about the bear that is chasing them, and less about survival, and more about the dark side of human nature and the best side.  This leads to an ending that was unexpectedly powerful for a movie like this.The scenery was also very good, and I recommend anyone seeing the movie just for that.  Also, see it for Hopkins and Baldwin.  See it for the bear.  See it for a movie that will probably be a survival classic.  **** stars (out of *****)  "},{"Title":"Action-filled adventure that has you on the edge of your seat!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is filled with action and suspense with surprising turn after surprising turn as the characters played by Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin try to find their way out of the wilderness following a plane crash.Baldwin and Hopkins both give outstanding performances in this refreshing adventure movie. It was much better than I had expected. It has a unique ending and has your interest all the way through. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller, Great Scenery","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Really enjoyed this movie. It was a very pleasant surprise, as I had heard nothing of it before.  The action is good, the scenery in Alaska is just spectacular and the story has enough twists and turns to keep you wide awake throughout. "},{"Title":"What One Man Can Do, Another Can Do","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is an original movie.  There have been movies with stranded people, fighting for survival and movies with jealous lovers trying to kill the rich spouse, but how often has there been such an adventurous story combining them both?  It seems Hopkins has befriended Bart the Bear with multiple appearances with the new star.  The scenery in Alaska is magnificent.  It's almost as if the viewer is there on the plane.  I wonder if Charles Morse did start a new life. "},{"Title":"Critic Review","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins), a billionaire with photographic memory, and two other men, Robert Bob Green (Alec Baldwin), a photographer, and Stephen (Harold Perrineau), his assistant, arrive in a remote North America, along with Charles's much-younger wife, Mickey (Elle Macpherson), a fashion model. The group is only there for a photo shoot and staying as guests at a lodge, they later are recruited to another area due to a sick model. After their plane crashes, the men attempt to hike to a more likely search area, only to find that a male Kodiak bear is stalking them. They elude it, but later the bear attacks their camp and kills Stephen.The angles of the movie were spectacular; it made you feel like you were out in the woods. Seeing the actors in this environment makes you want to put on a coat to watch the movie. A very strong performance by all the actors in a film that deals with using bare instincts on fighting wild animals, staying alive from the elements, and morality. I can understand why some of the more modern audience might find that to be a turn-off. The sets and locations alone are worth a rental. The photography is beautiful, the landscape comes alive, and sometimes it steals the picture away from the characters.Very strong performances by Anthony Hopkins, Bart the Bear, and Alec Baldwin, Not only were they great but they were troopers with the set. Anthony Hopkins got a severe case of pneumonia while filming out in the cold; I'm a huge fan so his performance was fantastic he can go from a city guy to survival and make it believable. His character was well portrayed and a flawless performance. Alec Baldwin also did a great job in this movie. (And I can't say that I was a big fan of Alec before this movie) I have only seen him in comedy, but I have a better opinion of him now. Elle McPherson has a small role which she played well and portrayed her character very well.A gripping storyline, fantastic scenery and a real sense of drama and survival, it delivers as an action/adventure film by giving some heart stopping sequences, and it never slows down. The Edge also delivers as a dramatic film, with an ending that is painfully sad, yet satisfying. They portray their characters with honesty, and with a realistic nature that only great actors can accomplish. As the plot twists and the pace picks up, you start to become so involved that you forget time is passing by. I strongly suggest this one to action lovers and to anyone who enjoys a good story. "},{"Title":"The nature of man","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I like David Mamet's films, and so I was interested in checking out this movie, written by him. I didn't really know what to expect. It turns out this is just as good as one of Mamet's own.The story works on multiple levels. There's the lost in the wilderness theme, which reminded me of a lighter Deliverance. There's the horror of nature. There is the conflict between rich vs poor. And then there's another layer, that being of testing one's true character in challenging situations.Alec Baldwin does a good job as he can, but Anthony Hopkins is simply awesome here, and I'm not usually a fan of his. His character is very well thought-out, as is Bob. One of the reason this movie works is the ever-present tension between the protagonists.The scenery is beautiful and everything is well-executed here. The dialogue is one of the high points of this movie. It's like a play, in the wilderness - but surprisingly realistic at the same time.Worth watching.7/10 "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining action/adventure/drama.","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A bookish billionaire (Oscar-WinnerAnthony Hopkins), a self-satisfied fashion photographer (Alec Baldwin) and his assistant (Harold Perrnieau) find themselves stranded in the freezing Alaskan Wilderness, after they survived the plane crash. Not only they discover they greatest danger of nature but finding themselves stalked by a Kodiak killer bear (Bart the Bear). They will do anything to fight for survival and find themselves back to civilization.Directed by Lee Tamahori (Die Another Day, Once Were Warriors, xXxState of the Nation) made an extremely entertaining action adventure with fine characterization by Hopkins and Baldwin. This film wasn't quite successful at the box office, probably due of marketing or a bad release date.DVD has an sharp non-anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD only extras are the original theatrical trailer and cast & crew information. This excellent drama does play better on Video (although it is best seen in Widescreen). Almost ten years... after it's release, The Edge becomes an contemporary classic. Written by David Mamet (Edmond, Glengarry Glen Ross, The Untouchables). Panavision. (**** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Great Wilderness Survival Movie","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This a great wilderness survival movie. For those that didn't like it, they probably have never watched a minute of the discovery channel. So take a rating of a 6.5 with a grain of salt. For its category, I give it a 9/10. For people that love urban life, I give it a 3/10. There are few movies as awesome as this one. There is also the added dynamic between a billionaire and an average man corrupted by his greed. A quest for knowledge is portrayed by the billionaire protagonist as we see a clash of cultures between the 1950's business man in his old age and the younger rough on the edges man. No, I'm not talking about the lame I'm trying to be cool young character, I'm talking about relatively realistic portrayal of the clash between a deliberately minded, withdrawn old man and a rash youthful character that speaks before thinking.My favorite line from this movie How do you make fire from ice? "},{"Title":"..predcitable, but great...","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What a treat to see an action-movie without a lot of gunshots and/or explosions !, but one with some intelligent portrayals of the human psyche. Lee Tamahori's directing and David Mamet's script surely added-up to a tense tale. I thought it was a much more recent movie, but it certainly doesn't matter every role was complete.The moral or the film is, stay out of the wilderness if you have any doubts about the people in the party. Steve (Harold Perrineau) lets us know why Charles (Anthony Hopkins) is down in the dumps he's dying, it is apparent his gorgeous wife is having an affair with the fashion-photographer (Alec Baldwin), his life has been uneventful except for his great wealth and he's at this point in his life without an idea how to make it bearable. We are given no inkling why he lets himself be talked into a flight into the wilderness to find an unknown Indian (the great Tootoosis from Legends of the Fall; he should have had some dialog). The movie really begins with the unexpected (but totally believable) crash of the plane.......and Charles' rescue of a much younger, stronger man. We then discover the relevance of the knife given to him as a birthday-present by his wife - it's importance is shown throughout the movie, as is calm control is more important than brawn.Whether it's a Kodiak or grissly bear, they're not friendly and Bart gave us a wonderful performance. You go to the wilderness, I'll watch it on the DVD. The build-up for the plot is brief, but the action never stops once it beings.....and we are taught, if we didn't already know, that human reaction is seldom what we expect. Charles learns his compassion is genuine, matched against the slimy Bob. Too bad Steve is devoured by the bear, but his demise is essential to the further development of Hopkins' and Baldwin's characters.Although there are several situations in this movie which give you pause, who cares? The story, in such a crystalline and unspoiled wilderness (Canada, not Alaska), sparkles even in its dark elements. Close attention clearly shows that danger can point the way to a new life, and give us the fortitude to live it.Hopkins' final line, they died saving my life, is touching and revealing.Hopkins and Baldwin are excellent in their roles. The music is great. The cinematography is flawless. The colorful pan-and-scan suited me perfectly - I wanted to watch the actors; the beauty of the scenery was apparent in every frame. This movie will be one of my favorites for a very long time - congratulations to all who brought it to the screen. "},{"Title":"Superb!!! 10 out of 10 !","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK..so I am not a big fan of survival in the wilderness movies but I watched this one because of Anthony Hopkins ( who just happens to be one of my favorites).I must say it was superb from start to finish!!I found myself very immersed in the entire film.Let me say a few words about the actors....Anthony did a great job in this film. His character was well portrayed and a flawless performance. .Alec Baldwin also did a great job in this movie. (And I can't say that I was a big fan of Alec before this movie) but I have a better opinion of him now. Our own Aussie girl Elle McPherson has a small role which she played well and portrayed her character very well.Gripping storyline, fantastic scenery and a real sense of drama made this one of the best movies I have seen in a long while. It is a must see movie for anyone, even if you think you are not into survival movies, it will not disappoint you, definitely don't miss it. 10 out of 10!!! "}{"Title":"great game","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It is a great game between a man who is responsible and lives in the present and react on intuition. And a man who is a victim and lives in the past(and future, and react of fear. I like the acting of Anthonie Hopkins.The pictures looks very realistic and the fight with the bear was for me very impressive. The camera work was beautiful.It is a very interesting movie if you can see the different of victim and responsible, and the different of the results. Maybe it is not the upper intention of this movie. but i have learned a lot of these both points of view. It is again a move with Antony Hopkins of very good quality and much more than the upper view of looking "},{"Title":"Mamet does it again!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  David Mamet at his best!  This is definately the best, most suspenseful wilderness movie I've ever seen!The plot circles around three men - billionaire Charles (Anthony Hopkins), photographer Robert (Alec Baldwin) and Stephen (Harold Perrineau Jr.) - who find themselves lost in the wilderness after a plane they were flying hits a flock of birds and nose dives into the lake.  From there on it's supremely entertaining to watch how the three men react, totally believabely, to the situation that they're in.  And as they trek through the wilderness, many questions are posed,  like why they keep running into the same, fierce bear, and, most of all, if Robert was ever actually planning to kill Charles for his wife (Elle Macpherson) and money.SPOILERSAlso, I'd just like to point out that Harold Perrineau's death scene, in which he is malled by the bear, is one of the best creature death scenes I've ever seen.  Alec Baldwin is sinister as Robert, and Anthony Hopkins is deep and lovable as Charles.That said, I have only one problem with this movie the climax.  In the climax Robert tries to kill Charles, but falls into a bear trap instead. From that point on the movie gets a little slower and more boring, because Charles saves Robert, they take a canoe to some other place, and then a helicopter appears and saves Charles, but not Robert, because he died right when the chopper showed up.  Sort of overdone I guess.Still a great movie though!  Overall I give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge boasts Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin at their best. You would think that alone would be more than enough to carry a movie, but this film also has breathtaking Alaskan scenery, eye catching cinematography, a top notch score by Goldsmith, and a fantastic script by David Mamet. And then there's the terrifying Bart the Bear, and Elle Macpherson's beauty is a nice bonus. Harold Perrineau, Jr. also deserves a mention for another good supporting role.  The Edge is a very involving movie that has great dialogue in between great action sequences. So why didn't it make any money? I would say the title hurts. Its an above average movie with an average title. It sounds like another generic action movie. The film was shot under the title Bookworm, which is good in an offbeat way, but doesn't exactly promise an adventure. My suggestions? Nature's Course or Survival are both catchier and more memorable than The Edge. As far as the film itself goes, its very memorable. "},{"Title":"Fascinating.....Amazing","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see 'The Edge' in September of 1997 just because it looked fairly interesting.  I left that theatre in awe of one of the best action/adventure movies I've ever seen.Cinematography, dialogue, characterization, tension, a bear, Mamet, and setting all give this movie 5 stars.I've only clenched my seat for a few movies, seeing that bear made me hold on for dear life.  "},{"Title":"A Character with Virtue","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  To describe this film as Jaws with claws is missing something.  While the story does center on whether or not the characters will survive being hunted by a bear, there is much more going on in the story that makes it for an enjoyable view.  Few films these days give us characters with virtue.  This film does, in the character portrayed by Anthony Hopkins.  I would hold his character up against most characters seen in films as a respectable and virtuous man.  See the film for him alone, and see if you agree. "},{"Title":"Impressed with the character Hopkins plays!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The landscape, character depictions, and intense excitement make this film one of my favorites, if not the favorite! The resourceful Hopkins plays an amazing crowd into the zone of The Edge when he defeats his fears and thoroughly impresses all those who aspire to be revered and respected. "},{"Title":"Great suspense","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie. Charles (played by Anthony Hopkins) is a brilliant man with tons of theory but little practical experience. He is convinced that Bob, a photographer (played by Alec Baldwin) has got it for his gorgeous model wife, Mickey (who better than Elle MacPherson?). Well, the tension developing over the wife's affection is put on hold temporarily as the plane the two are flying in over the Alaska wilderness crashes. The two must work together to survive a man-eating grizzly which is hunting them first, then they can resolve their personal issues. "},{"Title":"Clear, cold perceptions about human motives, and dramatic language adequate to the occasion of jealous natures, makes Mamet's compass a relief to get a glimpse of.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  These comments may not be appropriate except considered AFTER a viewing of the film.Why is the rabbit not afraid . . .?. . . because he is smarter than the panther.How did his partners die, Morse was asked, and he answered (after the longest painful reflection) that they died trying to save me. Perhaps he said they died saving me, I don't remember exactly, but it is the pivotal intelligence, the moment upon which the whole story turns, for with the chillest irony, it is true They saved him; through them he was saved-and so, we may speak praise for the writer, or the storyteller here, David Mamet.At the opening scene (or an early one, in act two we may call it), in their constellation as three men now explicitly confronting the larger (not particularly human) nature, Morse reflects of men lost in the wilderness, some lore that they die of shame, not of some other, and more likely, extreme or duress. Bob dies, after all is said-and is done, of shame. Morse has tried, ironically?, to save him.We have the voracity of that actual creature of the wilderness (the brown bear, the Kodiak, not the savage unconscious's man-hunting bear, this time) on the scent of human blood to contend with, and this hunger decreases the number of our party of three. So there remain Bob and Morse; and Bob is driven-is it by Nature? or . . . is it merely in nature, surrounded . ..-for, as the bear does, he too has the scent of man. In the early set-up scene of the film,- Who was wearing the bear suit at the horrific anniversary party for Morse? The lodge-owner has early remarked, of the Kodiak, that once it has killed a man it will continue to do so through its life.Particularly, Bob has the scent of Morse, who at the beginning of their trek of discovery, brusquely confronted Bob with the facts,asking him, -close together in the back seat in the small cabin of the amphibian excursion plane, moments before a thick migration of ducks foul the single engine (blood, feathers, shards of windshield now flying) and they all fall back to the earth, and the icy stream down there,So how are you planning to kill me, Bob?One may find affirming and compassionate value in this story which Mamet has deftly let to escape, has thrust out into the open air, and with a pulsing energy, as improbably as a wild bird might be freed-to fly and rise away, after a long affliction by humans. It is neither probable that the wild bird should be freed nor, after affliction, that it should survive. But there is still a direction, and this nature Mamet in some part knows, and presents us, in a reminding sort of way, as if offering a compass. "},{"Title":"clear, cold perceptions about human motives, and dramatic language adequate to the occasion of jealous natures, makes Mamet's compass a relief to get a glimpse of.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why is the rabbit not afraid . . .? . . . because he is smarter than the panther.We may speak praise for the writer, or the storyteller here, David Mamet.At the opening scene (or an early one, in act two we may call it), in their constellation as three men now explicitly confronting the larger (not human particularly) nature, Morse reflects of men lost in the wilderness, some lore that they die of shame, not some other, and more likely, duress.We have the voracity of that actual creature of the wilderness (the brown bear, the Kodiak, not the savage unconscious's man-hunting bear, this time) on the scent of human blood to contend with, and this hunger decreases the number of our party of three. So there remain Bob and Morse; and Bob is driven--is it by Nature? or . . . is it merely in nature, surrounded . ..--for, as the bear does, he too has the scent of man.One may find affirming and compassionate value in this story Mamet has deftly let to escape, has thrust out into the open air, and with a pulsing energy, as improbably as a wild bird might be freed--to fly and rise away, after a long affliction by humans. It is neither probable that the wild bird should be freed, nor after affliction, that it should survive. But there is still a direction, and this nature Mamet knows, and presents us, in a reminding sort of way, as if offering a compass.. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Da Bomb","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I first thought that The Edge was going to be another stupid adventure movie, one that was not too believeable or had some outrageous stunts that typical guys just could have never pulled off. But this movie is actually pretty good, and I would recommend it to practically anyone. Even if you're not the usual adventure fan (aka Indiana Jones) you will still love this movie. Sir Anthony Hopkins does an excellent job and Alec Baldwin is good as the young, jealous know-it-all. Although there are some particularly disturbing scenes with a ton of blood and gore, this is still one of the best movies there is, so go and see The Edge! "}{"Title":"Oustanding Entertainment","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watch a movie to be entertained, to learn, to enjoy, etc. I'm not a movie critic and I would not like to have dinner with many that I've heard or read... including many on this site who use $100 words and spend too much time wishing they had a life.In my humble opinion, Baldwin and Hopkins provided some of the best acting moments I've seen in their careers. Their reactions, their execution of the dialog, their movements and actions... it was very convincing. The tears and spitting and panic from Baldwin; the intensity from Hopkins. Having been in difficult situations in the wild, including being lost and injured, I can say that they captured the fear, confusion, frustration, doubt and futility very, very well. My wife and I have watched the movie many times. She rarely watches movies more than once, but this is one that really grabs her. When the movie was released, or just before, I saw part of a special on the making of the movie with interviews by the actors. Does anyone know where I can find that special? "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" My favorite line, of all my favorites, is when Alec's character hassle's Anthony's about his army of accountants, secretaries and lawyers. He tell's Morse that if a bear reared up, that he'd sick his lawyers on the bear, to which Morse replies Oh, I'd never do THAT to an animal! Classic! Aside from this, dealing with greed, fear, lust, and power, Baldwin and Hopkins pull off a great story with a great ending. So many of today's films try to entertain without any deep meaning to convey. The Edge deals with the above and so many other human emotions and drives, so well! Finally the notion of quiet determined patience shines through, as Hopkins tries to help the other survive the ordeal by reminding them that they will get through if they just remain calm and work together. "},{"Title":"The Edge--superb and untouched in yet a decade","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge--my favorite of all times!! I have watched it numerous times and still find it breathtaking and intriguing every time. No better character sketches exist in filmdom anywhere. Anthony Hopkins is the bomb of all actors and no one exemplifies a charismatic, good-looking bad guy better than Alec Baldwin. The scenery and the musical score is second to none and I congratulate the writer, director and cast for giving us such a delicacy of a movie and being overlooked by everyone because of the release of Titanic at the same time. The climactic ending when Sir Anthony utters the words, He died trying to save my life, his blue eyes, and the final stirring notes would move all but the stoniest of hearts. "},{"Title":"Great movie to own","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love the music throughout the movie--makes the experience feel very dreamlike. French horn players would appreciate the genius compositions. The scenery is breathtaking. I loved the way the plane flew between all of the snow-covered mountains. I thought all of the characters were fantastic! I don't think Baldwin and Hopkins will ever be able to top this performance. I even enjoyed Elle McPherson's character--a billionaire would have a bride like her! The plot was the most gripping plot I've witnessed to date. I found myself looking around for the grizzly during the movie. All the little nuance's in the beginning were expounded upon during the course of the adventure. Don't try to talk during the show since every word is used to instill the complex conclusion. ... I'm addicted! "},{"Title":"Living on the edge","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" First of all I should tell you all that THE EDGE is not for every movie goer. It is about living on the edge, it is about survival, it is about hope moreover it is about knowing your strengths and having an positive attitude. This one goes as one of the best adventure thriller films of all time. Lee Tamahori has done tremendous job to come up with this experience. Apart from awesome performances from lead characters couple of things stand out, the cinematography and music. The Alaskan snow covered mountains are breathtaking. Also the majestic music blends effectively with the movie. Anthony Hopkins gives knock out performance as an elderly billionaire. His constant thoughts, presence of mind and stares are brilliant. It suited his personality completely. Alec Baldwin is effective. Conspiracy part is also beautifully done. But we take it out, The Edge would be a pure adventure about survival in scarcity, never losing hope and keep trying. Why do people die in the woods? They die of shame.Bravo. "},{"Title":"David Mamet, who knew?","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't say this is one of the writer David Mamet's best written works (in truth I didn't know he wrote it until looking it up here), and it doesn't make director Lee Tamahori a really top-notch studio filmmaker. That being said, when it was shown on television the other day I couldn't turn away from the TV. It is, without a doubt, just an entertaining survival story with a few really good actors in the midst of the wilderness. On top of this there is also the factor of the bear in the film, played by the late Bart the bear (of The Bear and the Great Outdoors, oddly enough to be referring to an animal as if he were a real acting talent), who is if nothing else a terrifying amalgam of the dangers of the wild. It's almost not that important to know much about the background about the characters, but Mamet even gives a little bit of edge, no pun intended, with the animosity of Baldwin at Hopkins. It's with this unnerving background that Mamet does his best to portray this struggle for survival. It's not quite the territory that suits him in some ways- the dialog, if compared to some of his other words, is lackluster to me- despite him doing his best to make it original. And what else could be asked for than to keep your eyes tuned to the screen, which is the wisdom in casting Hopkins as the rich old white guy who knows-most-if-not-all and Baldwin as the contemptitive and scared s***less other guy (and lest not forget Harold Perrenieu in a good supporting role). To put it another way, if you like movies dealing with man against nature, this is one not to miss. However if you're just a general fan of the actors or just getting into Mamet it's not a high priority. It's at the core a sturdy enough picture, and it also provides some keen Bart the bear stunts. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"they who won't fight, won't survive","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I always thought Anthony was the perfect guy to play a son of a gun, but after seeing this movie I realise he can do much more then that! the man he is playing (Charles) is a wonderful guy and I really have no idea why his wife is cheating on him. Alec Baldwin always was the good guy in my eyes but I really hated him in this movie! I really love this film! and in a way I think everybody will find something in this movie that will touch him/her.the end is very strong in my eyes, when he gives Roberts (Alec) watch to his wife I really cried! haha it was very simple but I think it was one of the most great parts of the movie.and when he answers the questions of those reporters.... it made me realise why he helped Robert even when Robert tried to kill him, he helped.this is my number one movie, it really is.if you didn't see it yet, rush to the video store and rent it!!!xxxx cinderella  "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies ever made. The best character was Stephen, who was eaten by the bear when the three of them were lost in Alaska. Stephen was cool because he died a cool way. The story is quite tangling and involves the battle of men to survive. It's a great movie no matter what. I recommend it to all people who love action, adventure, and drama. "},{"Title":"Superb Direction, Script and Acting!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film , and I mean truly one of the great films - it should be on  AFI's Top 100 films list.  It's that good.   David Mamet crafted a witty andsuspenseful script, it was masterfully directed, and the acting is off thecharts.  Hopkins can always be counted on for a memorable performance,but the big surprise hear is Alec Baldwin.  This should have been anOscar-winning performance - certainly his best ever.  There is one scene inparticular in which his character nearly gives into despair, and the emotionhe brought to that performance grabs you and ropes you into the world ofhis character.  Powerful, heart-stopping performance - bravo Alec!   Whilesupermodels are notoriously bad actresses, Elle MacPherson did a nice job(playing a supermodel, so admittedly not much of a stretch) in this one. She's understated and believable as the billionaire's trophy wife.   This one  will keep you on the edge of your seat.  Do yourself and favor and see ittonight. "},{"Title":"Hopkins-Baldwin duel amidst splendid scenery","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  And they came out about evens. Helped along by Harold Perrineau in the first half of the film. Suspenseful throughout, this is a good character study in which Hopkins as usual is excellent, and Alec Baldwin is in the best rôle I have seen him in. Fabulous scenery, supposedly in Alaska but I have some doubts. Anybody know for sure? I do not like them putting at the end of films `Filmed on Location' why can't they tell us exactly where that location is? It's very good for the local tourist industry!The second viewing of this film recently did not bore me one little bit, as the two main characters play their parts with great conviction, helped along by Mamet's dialogues which at times sounded more like a playwrite than a cinematographic script. The other great actor is Bart. Sorry to see that he has since died, poor fellow, but at least he can be held up as one of the best animal actors of all time. And he is not even credited in IMDb!Mercifully, Elle MacPherson only had a very small part to play, so she does not spoil anything. Cannot for the life of me understand why some film-makers are so bent on putting top models in their films, when, obviously, most of these unarguably beautiful women are limited to posing in front of cameras suitably dressed (or not) in sexy attire and smiling alluringly. The IMDb voting average of 6.8 is just about right. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great movie, kept me on the edge of my seat when I wasn't standing in front of the television with hands clenched in suspense. Superior performance by one of the best actors ever. Spellbinding, could not leave the room in fear of missing something. Best movie I have seen since The Game. "},{"Title":"Underrated?","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I read someone said this was underrated, personally I was quite surprised to see this has got a 6.5 out of 10. The goofs list could have been so much longer. The movie is about some city people who's in the wild, and clearly, the director has never been out of the city either.I especially like how, when Hopkins come running to see Baldwin, he just happens to have a fire with like 10 fiercely burning logs, which they hurl into a perfect circle, in the snow, were all the logs continue to burn as a nice flame, equal to all the others, while the one in the middle remains the same.Also, I think it's funny how Baldwin got waterproof matches at a bar, matches that didn't suffer from a crash in the lake.And when they walk in a circle, after a couple of days, they actually stumble upon their old fire place. That's a perfect circle too! OK, so the last is not a good, as such, more a sign of a completely stupid screen play.This also goes for the poor story telling, where Hopkins just happens to see the blood-tainted piece of cloth in the tree just exactly as the bear attacks.Generally, this is a movie I could have liked, it has good actors, and I could enjoy a good lost-in-the-wild movie, but this just sucks. "},{"Title":"Great film with a lot to learn from.","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Came across this on Netflix having never heard of it, but this film really deserves a look. There's a lot of philosophy and thought given to the dialogue. You can tell the writers are digging deep and borrowing from the greats. Even if you have heard the life quotes before, there is something very refreshing in hearing them in place in a story. Anthony Hopkins character is unfortunately far too good to be true, but the final scene with Baldwin has had me thinking about forgiveness a lot. Very much a male self help film, and that's no bad thing. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated movies made","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie in 97 when it first came out.I had barely heard of Baldwin,Hopkins or Perrineau.It turned out to be one of those movies I sat on the edge of my seat and was stunned by the ending.I sat there,mouth agape.I found I had a deep respect for all three actors.This movie,in every discernible way,is a masterpiece.The cinematography is breathtaking.The musical score is one of the most beautiful themes I have ever heard.The plot is smooth and the acting superb.I had heard of Baldwin but had not thought he was a great actor until seeing The Edge.Hopkins has made some great movies but this one..well it my personal favorite.The subtleties are numerous,the suspense captivating and the message is profound.The bear is without a doubt frightening and primal.This movie evoked emotions in me that were also primal.And the ending? It is the best ending to any movie I have ever seen.Perhaps you might have to appreciate the complexities of human nature as well as the action sequences in The Edge to get the most out of the viewing experience.It truly is the best of both worlds. "},{"Title":"Man vs Man vs Wild","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is both a psychological thriller and an authentic, wilderness survival movie. It pits man against the magnificent but harsh Alaskan wilderness, and, at the same time, it also pits man against man in a powerful, primitive struggle over a beautiful woman..a very beautiful woman--Elle Macpherson. Alex Baldwim is excellent as the confident, aggressive, young usurper, always looking for ways to bring down his competition, and Anthony Hopkins is exceptional as the wealthy, intelligent, aristocratic gentleman husband who gracefully endures his attacks while gradually realizing the painful truth. The thing i liked the most about this film is that they both have to depend on each other for survival in the Alaskan wild, while simultaneously dealing with their powerful emotions about each other and the relationship situation. The combination makes this film affect the sensibilities like no other i have seen. Well worth watching. The review alongside the movie poster did not begin to cover this film as it deserves to be. "},{"Title":"Should Have Won Best Picture","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the motion picture that should have nabbed the best picture award of 1997...far from it for me to say it just stands out amounst so many others but the stunning performances from both Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin...and for me Alec Baldwins performance in this movie is just remarkable,to this day I still find it hard to believe that Alec was overlooked at the Oscars. Of course let us not forget the performance by the amazing Bart The Bear,recently after learning that he had passed away some years ago I watched a documentary about him and his owners/trainers said that when the camera's rolled it was almost as if Bart knew he was on camera and in The Edge you can certainly tell..he gives in my opinion some of the most god-damn scary looks given by a Kodiak Bear you'll ever see on the big screen..watching the final showdown between bear and man its enough to give you goose bumps..Bart is right there with the actors,swinging his oh so massive claws inches away from both Hopkins and Baldwin and giving the performance I think all who knew him and his work will remember him for..again its a shame there isn't an Oscar for best animal performer. A brilliant movie from start to finish,,not so much a movie but an experience "},{"Title":"The Jaws of the wilderness","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Jaws of the wilderness. If Jaws made you never want to go swimming again, this film will make you never want to go into the wilderness again. After their plane crashes in Alaska, three characters, played by Anthony Hopkins, Alec Baldwin and Harold Perrineau, are at the mercy of a relentless bloodthirsty bear in what feels like the middle of nowhere. What makes the monster in this film better than the one in Jaws though is that it's real; no mechanical creature needed here. (The movie A L I E N is incredibly realistic and believable; imagine how much more so with a real Alien?) There was one moment in the movie where after the plane crashes and Anthony Hopkins' character retrieves a bag of supplies from the plane under the lake before swimming up to the surface, I wondered why he didn't also grab the gun which was visible to us next to it, or at least go back and get it or ask someone else to... perhaps nobody knew it was there or could see it in the murky water and it was just shown for our benefit to make us wish they had found it (which of course would have made the film less exciting). Incredible cinematography, screenplay, direction, music (when the bear appears you'll recognize that Jerry Goldsmith uses some similar music to that which he uses in Star Trek Nemesis) and acting (including by Bart the Bear) make this a fantastic piece of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Man vs. Nature, Man vs. Man, Man vs. Self.","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember taking a friend to see this at the cinema and having no idea about the story or anything. He hated it (I should add that, on another occasion, he took me to see 'Stealing Beauty'??? Hardly a guys flick!)and I was blown away. I remember being terrified during the second Bear attack; the one at night when Steve is killed. Absolutely horrific. I'd forgotten about this film till just recently when a colleague at work brought it up and we both agreed it was fantastic. So... I rented it just this week and have watched it a couple of times now. There's no doubt about it - a truly fantastic film. You have everything here - a great cast, a WONDERFUL score, beautiful locations and cinematography, an excellent script, and a genius two act plot. If I could fault anything, it would be that the Hopkins character is almost too pious and measured. But then I just think of his wife's line at the beginning Did I ever tell you that you're an angel? Everything but the wings! and it somehow all makes sense. Baldwin proves himself to be an excellent actor with a great range. He can be funny, infuriatingly arrogant, ignorant, scared, scary. You have to give him due credit. Hopkins is dignified, wise, selfless, a quiet leader. His character here says so much with so little at times. Being a New Zealander,I feel I should add that this film is almost a forgotten feat of N.Z cinema. In the store I went to, it wasn't even in the N.Z film section, it was in the 'Adventure' section. I guess, what with all the hooplah surrounding L.O.T.R and directors like Jane Campion et.al, Lee Tamahori has been somewhat forgotten for this - a timeless classic and a textbook example of a 'ripping yarn' as my ol' Dad used to say.What are we going to do, Charles? "},{"Title":"This is an incredible movie","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe some guy brainlessly said it sucked!  This was an exceptional movie, but unfortunately I have been unable to find it on DVD. The play between Hopkins and Baldwin is very intelligent, and keeps you guessing until the end, and just when you think you know the score, you don't.  Then it ends, rather surprisingly.  It brought me to tears.  A really great action movie about betrayal and friendship, and starting over again. "},{"Title":"Typical Sir Anthony Hopkins","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Please ignore the ingrate who frowned upon this film.  Typical Sir Anthony Hopkins' style, this is a thrilling film of jealousy and survival. "}{"Title":"Awesome performance and setting","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the best action movies I've seen in quite a while.  Bringing Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin together (from 2 distinct acting genres) was superb.  Plus the ability to take the viewer to an unknown environment and make it believable was fantastic.  A+ "},{"Title":"One problem...","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First off, I would like to ask why did they even cast Mr. Perrineau's character as a black man? It would have worked just as well with another ethnicity. It's so mind-numbingly stereotypical that the black man (the only one in the movie!), dies first. I mean come on man, cripes!Desipte this, The Edge is still one of the better movies of 1997. Anthony Hopkins is(as always) simply superb, as is Baldwin. The script is excellent and the cinematography is breathtaking in many scenes. But it's the major themes of this movie that make it great. The classic man vs. nature theme, reminiscent of the great American naturalist stories of Jack London, is extremely well done(the treatment of the bear is a little too extreme at times though). The movie ends with a statement worthy of the London tradition and the closing sequnce is one of the best in any recent movie. (9/10). "},{"Title":"Better and better . . .","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie quite a few times now.  I think the actual figure is around 4 or 5.  And the more I see it, the more facinated I become with the technique and subtlety of Anthony Hopkins.  Hopkins alone is reason enough to watch this film, then add the intensity of Alec Baldwin, and you have yourself a winner.  "},{"Title":"Excellent dialogue, spectacular scenery","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is a thriller and one is constantly being awestruck by beautiful mountain scenery. It is as if you are there with the crew at the time of shooting. There are more twists and turns in the plot than can be imagined. Anthony Hopkins is as usual superb. And Alec Baldwin is so convincing in his role as a photographer on a shoot with a gorgeous model married to a billionaire. I see no downside to this movie and I recommend it most highly. I thoroughly enjoyed Elle McPherson, one of the super models and a promising actress. As the wife of the older billionaire Hopkins, jealousy certainly is to be expected.  "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing!","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I believe the Edge is a very underrated film. It has beautiful cinematography, captivating landscapes and a storyline worthy of the scenery. Anthony Hopkins of course delivers a wonderful performance, but then again when doesn't? Most surprisingly Alec Baldwin's acting is nothing less than brilliant in this film. Even Anthony Hopkins is quoted after filming that Alec Baldwin was the only actor that ever surprised him. The duo's performance, which basically carries the bulk of the film, demonstrates superb acting on both of their parts and I was deeply touched by the end of the film. The Edge is shown a lot on TV so I managed to see bits and pieces of it over time. However I finally rented it and then purchased it a while back. I enjoyed every minute of this movie because it blends action, adventure in drama (and some comic relief) so nicely into one short film Add it to your collection! "},{"Title":"Just a damn good solid adventure story.","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film has it all. Great acting, stunning scenery, intrigue, tension, adventure, the odd twist, great action sequences, as well as beauty, and a beast! But above all, it is really just a great story. A good yarn, as my grandfather used to say. And you can't ask for more from a movie than that.Anthony Hopkins is the paranoid rich guy with the beautiful young model wife (Elle MacPherson). Alec Baldwin is the laconic photographer who accompanies them to Alaska as part of a group doing a photo-shoot. Hopkins and Baldwin get lost in the wilderness with their friend (Harold Perrineau). The three soon become two (I won't spoil it by saying how) and the rest of the movie is about their battle to survive against all odds - and each other! I love The Edge. Hopkins in particular turns in one of his great under-stated performances, and the film as a whole is as good a character study as you will find in modern Hollywood.But as I say above, its best recommendation is that it is just a damn good story. A rollicking adventure that keeps you glued to the screen and really has you pinned to your seat at times. It won't win any awards for originality or artistry, but it doesn't make those kind of claims. It's just everything that the movies should be a great film to just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"The bear outshines all","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't think much of this movie as a whole. I was always waiting for something to happen. But the bear scenes, brilliantly played by Bart the bear, lift the movie to soaring heights - he should have received a special Oscar for achievement in acting for this film. I full-heartedly agree that Lee Tamahori achieved his goal of getting the scariest bear attack ever caught on film. I hope everyone is aware that real bears don't act like this (Kodiak bears are in fact known for much more tolerance towards human presence than grizzlies), but the bear is nonetheless so real in its pursuit of Charles and co that it sends shivers down my spine whenever I think of it.I was really sorry when the bear was killed. I wondered about that; I was always kind of on his side. Guess that's because I like bears, and also because I found the bear to add the only real level of life to this otherwise tame movie. If you want to be chilled out of your socks, or just want to see the finest bear acting ever caught on film, this film definitely has my recommendations. Just don't expect too much else. "},{"Title":"exciting and fascinating","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a strange way with me. It's a thriller and character study melded into one cohesive element. First off,I believe that the leads have to bring something to the table. Quite honestly,Baldwyn would probably have killed Hopkins soon as they got in the jungle. The film wants to put both in a precarious situation to where both have to rely on each other..because I believe anyone would put future plans on hold if being hunted by a man eating bear. The bear,however,is somewhat of a subplot. You see I believe this is a film about trust and secrets. Is Baldwyn trustworth or for that matter..is MacPherson,Hopkin's wife trustworthy. I think this is a film about survival,but more importantly about two men who somehow bond through this survival. This was totally the center of the film I believe. The bear was almost mythical,it was so smart and huge. But for some peculiar reason..it just works to me. I believe this bear has the ability to do the things it does..maybe the creators deserve credit for this. Hopkins and Baldwyn work magic together. Baldwyn comes off likable,yet deep inside you have the feeling he has ulterior motives. He has plans,but has to put them on hold and in doing this comes to the painful fact that he likes Hopkins. Hopkins' character is one of those types that has become a wealthy man for not trusting anyone. Put in the position is under,Hopkins must find faith in Baldwyn and in turn a kinsmanship is created. That is what I really like about this film. It's not just about a bear hunting two men. It's about a growing friendship between two men who would unlikely ever talk to each other if the circumstances were different. That bear,though,is a freak of nature and really provides good tense scenes. ****/***** "},{"Title":"The master at work","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is an engrossing motion picture starring the master himself,Sir Anthony Hopkins and co-starring Alec Baldwin, who does some nice work here. Action is intense int his story about a billionaire,Hopkins, who decides to go on a modeling trip with his wife played by real model, Elle Machpherson and her fashion photographer-lover Baldwin.......unbeknownest to Hopkins.  They go to a remote location in snow-filled Canada and stay at a cabin.  Hopkins and Baldwin go out and crash a plane in the wilderness that starts a long adventurous trek back to the cabin complete with a mankiller bear tracking them to their death. Great action sequences and bravura acting keeps you on the edge of your seat.  One of Hopkin's best performances. "},{"Title":"We're Gonna Kill Him","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought this would really be a lousy movie when I saw the trailer.  Then I saw it on cable and whoa, what a ride.  I thought David Mamet was washed up as a screenwriter and Alec Baldwin as an actor but this film put those fears to rest.  A simple story about three men lost in the woods and being chased by a man eating bear.  Doesn't sound like much of a plot but it works.  The director and composer of the movie's score get major kudos as well. "}{"Title":"empty, but nicely polished","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although starting well with a stellar cast and very decent script, the end result is quite empty. Not to say that this film is boring and the beautiful scenery is a compensation too. But both Hopkins and Baldwin have almost nothing to dig their teeth into. It's well directed by Lee Tamahori, although he should have gone for a more intense character study. The two stars are very watchable but don't expect anything too challenging. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  Anthony Hopkins, Alec Baldwin and Harold Perrineau did an excellent job.  I was thoroughly impressed.  I loved the interaction between the characters and most of all, I loved Bart The Bear.  Bart was spectacular, he did an excellent job.  Bart doesn't get the credit he deserves.  The film was an excellent What if...  All around great movie, a must see. "},{"Title":"So Many People Missed the Point","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I suspect that to understand how The Edge has any meaning outside of the fact that its an adventure story that takes place when three people end up stranded in the woods, one must be familiar with screenwriter David Mamet's earlier work. David Mamet has written some brilliant screenplays; Glengarry Glen Ross, Hoffa, The Spanish Prisoner, and he co-wrote the script for Wag the Dog. At first The Edge seems out of place among his work, but there are still blatant similarities between this film and Mamet's other films. Mamet enjoys playing around with the cliches of any genre. For instance after the three men, one of whom is black are stranded in the vast bush and mountainess terrain, its not difficult to guess that the black man is going to be the first killed. This is a stereotype that so many movies play into nowadays, not even realizing it. Good screenwriters realize these cliches and create subtle humor around them. There is much humor in The Edge even though the situation the men are placed in is by no means funny. In a scene between Charles (Anthony Hopkins) and Bob (Alec Baldwin), they are discussing how to 'lure' or bait the bear so that they have the possibility of killing it. Bob does a funny accent when he says the word 'lure'. It catches the audience off guard in the face of the tragedy that is really occurring. There are other moments like this as well. This is very typical of David Mamet.There is also a sense of irony in the film in that the two men seem to be stalking each other, but they are simultaneously being stalked by a man eating Kodiak bear. The men, despite their obvious differences are forced into a situation where they must depend upon and trust each other for their survival. They need each other for survival, but by the end of the film, we know that survival to each man is a different thing. Bob needs Charles's intelligence to get them physically out their dangerous situation, but Charles needs Bob for survival in totally different terms. Charles need for Bob to survive is metaphorical. Charles needs to feel like a 'whole' man. All of Charles's experience and knowledge is from books that he constantly reads, but he wants to be able to do something bigger and better than that. Attempting to save Bob's life will do that for him.In the end there is not a big show down, as many film goers may expect (no shoot outs, or verbal confrontations); I won't ruin it, but the ending is much more subtle than that, again very characteristic of David Mamet. To Mamet, there can be as much power and emotion felt in the simple exchange of a watch, as any kind of a verbal outburst or violent confrontation that has become so much a part of film today.*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Wow! I liked this movie a lot!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow! Those scenes with the bear were amazing! I really liked this movie, especially the ending. I can see why Charles was a billionaire--he saw everything as a challenge and never gave up. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Edge-Of-Your-Seat Adventure.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     I had seen this movie a long time ago, and I remembered about it, and this movie was really great. The movie had a lot of action/adventure sequences, and the acting was great, including the brilliant Anthony Hopkins. He is one of the best actors I have seen. Alec Baldwin was also great in his part. The Edge is a sure-fire thriller/adventure. I give it a 10 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"A Thinking Person's Action Movie","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is an example of what can happen when filmmakers respect the essential intelligence of their audience, even when making a film whose putative genre is not exactly known for highly intellectual entries.  The film tells the story of three people who are lost in the Canadian Rockies when their plane crashes.  From this pedestrian-sounding premise comes a movie that is really about the relationship that develops between two very different men a brilliant, intellectual billionaire, played with characteristic genius by Anthony Hopkins, and a fashion photographer, played by Alec Baldwin.  As the movie progresses, the superficial friendliness that they showed each other in civilization is destroyed and replaced by something much more complex and interesting.  The dialogue, written by dialogue god David Mamet, is clever, rhythmic, and thought -provoking.  The visceral aspects are also wonderful, with the unbelievably beautiful Canadian wilderness in the background and a rather high-tension action/adventure plot in the foreground.  Overall, this is a tense, clever, and wildly entertaining film.Overall Rating  9 (out of 10), or 4 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Despite more than its fair share of cliches, and a pretty awful performance from Elle Macpherson, The Edge wins on points thanks to a tight script from David Mamet, two classy central performances, and some wonderfully effective direction from Lee Tamahori. For the most part the film is undeniably gripping, with sustained tension and excitement throughout, the atmosphere only really failing with an unnecessary and trite plot twist in the final reel. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A boring title for an intelligent and exciting movie.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If this movie had been given a better title,  Lost in the Woods or Survivors & Killers, it would have garnered the respect it deserves.Fine performances by the entire cast, an incredibly terrifying bear attack sequence and the complex interpersonal relationship between the billionaire (Hopkins) and the man (Baldwin)who covets his wife make this a memorable movie all around. By the way, the book that taught the billionaire how to survive in the wilderness Lost in the Woods by D.Croyle appears to be an invention.   "},{"Title":"Another Wilderness Adventure Film","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A generally bland wilderness survival movie, The Edge gets off to a slow start with a setup that's too long and characters that are not especially interesting, despite that they are conveniently photogenic. Anthony Hopkins plays Charles Morse, a bookish billionaire. Charles is unexpectedly low-key and unassertive for a tycoon. Alec Baldwin plays Bob Green, a hip fashion photographer whose presence is a little too handy to the plot. Other characters are hardly more than stick figures, whose names are necessary in the dialogue but whose physical presence is unnecessary.Once the survival section of the plot begins, the rest of the film is fairly predictable. There's lots of walking in the woods, figuring out how to stay alive, evading wildlife, looking for food, and talking. The script is disappointingly heavy on dialogue. Too bad. It detracts from the wilderness experience. There are several near death events, and some uneasy tension between Charles and Bob.For the life of me, I can't figure out what point this film is trying to make. Maybe it's a subtle spoof of wilderness adventure films. If so, the writer and director seem to be teasing the audience. And that's never a good sign. Convenient plot coincidences are just too obvious and too numerous to take the story seriously.The background music is loud and intrusive, given the wilderness setting. But the scenery is beautiful. I believe the setting is meant to be Alaska. The aerial shots provide some great perspective, with that little plane flying amid those towering mountains.I can think of any number of more riveting outdoor adventure films. Yet, The Edge is not too bad. The script is a letdown, with uninteresting characters, a banal plot, and too much dialogue. But the spectacular scenery makes the film almost, but not quite, worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Good adventure survival movie","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I don't think I ever saw a bad movie with Anthony Hopkins. And if I did I honestly can't remember, and it would for sure not be for Anthony Hopkins' acting because he's just an excellent actor. In The Edge he plays a rich man stranded in the Alaskian wilderness with two lesser smart men (played by Alec Baldwin and Harold Perrineau) and they all try to survive while they search to be rescued. The cold, the lack of food, a bear (played by Bart (that's his name apparently)) are the main difficulties for them to survive. The story is entertaining to follow, with breath taking photography. Just for the nature shots alone it's already worth a watch. Add on that the excellent cast and the good story and you have a good adventure movie. "}{"Title":"A resourceful billionaire, a rugged wilderness vacation","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Anthony Hopkins, a man with Bloomberg like wealth and without a Trump like personality his wife supermodel Elle MacPherson, her photographer Alec Baldwin and Baldwin's assistant Harold Perrineau are off on a rugged wilderness vacation in Alaska where they will stay at L.Q. Jones's hunting lodge. During the course of things the men go down in a plane crash in the wilderness.For a man who you would think would be money and investment focused, Hopkins has stored up an incredible amount of trivial knowledge. Some of it turns out to be quite useful for his and Baldwin's survival. But there's a lot unspoken that eventually comes out as they try to walk out of the Alaskan forest.Most of The Edge is centered around Hopkins and Baldwin and the spectacular landscape photographed in various Canadian locations. The two are quite an acting duel, a lot like Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine in Sleuth only not quite so civilized. The Edge is quite the film for conservationists and nature lovers. The various Canadian National Parks is quite a tribute to that country's commitment to the environment. The scenery competes heavily with the human players and a ferocious Kodiak bear who plays a big part in the plot. "},{"Title":"Edge of Your Seat.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge (1997) Dir Lee Tamahori / Cast Anthony Hopkins, Alec Baldwin, Elle MacPherson, L.Q. Jones, Harold Perrineau Exhilarating thriller about the extremes the mind may be driven too if pushed to the limits of sanity. Wealthy Anthony Hopkins joins associates in the snowy mountains. Alec Baldwin plays a photographer who subjects Hopkins wife before they search down a native. After the plane crashes they are hunted by a bear. Directed by Lee Tamahori who previously made Once Were Warriors and Mulholland Falls. He successfully brings out suspense based upon nature. Hopkins plays off intelligence with grace and is able to provide simple solutions to major problems. Baldwin is the opposite and totally relies on others. The real villain of the film is the bear, which is massive and results in a couple of truly terrifying scenes, one of which will resolve the plot problem. The film does have its problems and they are mainly stirred from the misuse of supporting roles. Elle MacPherson as Hopkins's wife is seen as this captivating beauty but the role is a prop not a personality. L.Q. Jones plays a cameraman but ultimately he is is basically there to become fast food for bear. This is a well made film fill of great scenery and an antagonist nightmare of nature. Otherwise the film is about survival in both the physical and mental state. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Very under-rated and terrific movie","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge is one of those movies where if you ask someone if they have seen it, they probably have not. That is one reason it is my favorite movie. I like to call it a rare movie that showcases a fantastic cast who all have good chemistry throughout, and tell a good story - all this without being overly known.The story isn't an Oscar winning one, but what is refreshing about this particular story compared to others is that it can be related to real life experience. They are in a real wilderness, facing a real bear, not a CGI monster looking to destroy everything in it's path. The story also allows for strong character development throughout, as Charles puts his theoretical knowledge into more practical use. With Bob is a tad different as we slowly see his evil ways as the story progresses, but ultimately leaves being somewhat of a resurrected 'good guy' after his plans to kill Charles backfire. Stephen just seems to be the likable character with a few funny jokes to keep himself in the loop of the movie, but was always ultimately going to die in the movie. It also truly shows the motif of the panther and the rabbit shown in the movie. We are to believe that the symbolism refers to the bear and the three men, but it is more deeply referring to Charles and Bob. We see this in the end where Bob is ready to carry out his plans and end Charles, however Charles in the face of death comfortably smokes his invisible pipe and turns the tables on Bob. A forgiving man he is as he spares Bob's life and helps him in the end. A sad ending where it seems that just when all was forgiven, Bob decides there is no more left for him in the world and dies. Overall the story is great and I find it to be very original and not mainstream. Everything ties together well from the beginning to the middle to the conclusion.One of the things that make this movie so under-rated is the acting, namely from Hopkins and Baldwin who give a performance that continue to compliment each others characters. The acting portrays everything a good movie should; happiness, sadness, deceit, betrayal, triumph, forgiveness, and motivation. I'm gonna kill the bear! That scene alone summarises just how great the acting was from Hopkins and Baldwin throughout the film. Charles is knowledgeable, mentally strong and for the most part soft spoken and reassuring - Hopkins portrays his character to perfection. Bob is arrogant, cocky and conniving, but in the end remorseful and is displayed excellently but Baldwin from beginning to end. Overall a great acting performance that I believe should have been award winning.The movie as a whole works tremendously well with good chemistry between the characters and fantastic directing and cinematography. For what seems to be a lower budget film, it is definitely up there with the best action/thriller movies past and present. "},{"Title":"compelling duo","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Billionaire Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins) joins his model wife Mickey (Elle Macpherson) on a photo shoot with brash photographer Bob Green (Alec Baldwin) and his assistant Stephen (Harold Perrineau). Charles is a brilliant man with vast reserves of knowledge. Robert Green has the idea to go further into the wilderness. He convinces Charles to join him and Stephen. Bird strikes bring their plane down. Charles is able to save Stephen from the plane. The three men are forced to find their way to safety while being pursued by a bear.I like that both men have their own flaws. At first, Charles looks like the smart one being maligned. However he shows that he can be wrong. I certainly like the two great actors together. I would probably leave the bear kill closer to the end. It's the most exciting point of the movie and needs to be the climax. The rest of it needs to be more compressed. The movie should end soon after Bob falls into the trap. "},{"Title":"Great story of survival","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched this many times; it is one of Hollywood's rare collections from the good choice selection.Anthony's role of a billionaire was very well played; his will to survive and go back to his wealthy lifestyle gave him all the power to do what it takes to get out of that God forsaken forest and back to his beloved... or so it seemed.The survival techniques which Charles read on the book were superb.. one can learn a lot of things about surviving in a forest!I must say this is Baldwin's only movie that he did OK in, with comparison to the other Hollywood crap he acted in. Overall, this movie shows us that no matter who we are or what we achieved throughout our lifetime... when we are stuck in a large forest with no help available for hundreds (or thousands) of miles.. we are all one and the same. "},{"Title":"Totally lost in the wilderness","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sometimes one wonders if movies are mad only because some producer is able to gather the cash to make it and just have this big dream of casting actors like Anthony Hopkins to some story in an unusual environment for this actor. The Edge is this kind of film, where a mediocre screenplay doesn't get any better at all despite putting Hopkins in the leading role, on the contrary. In this a very predictable story where all the miserable tricks are use to make it mostly embarrassing to watch. The bottom was hit when the only rainy sequence so obviously was shot in a studio with lightning flashes from a bunch of 5000 watts spotlights were supposed to do the trick, that the only thing missing were the really artificial sound effects going along. It is so typical B-movie and shows very much what little know how there was in the crew about weather in Alaska. About the cast - I wonder if Mr. Hopkins didn't wonder why and how the caster Donna Isaacson, together with the producer and director somehow couldn't find anyone better than Alec Baldwin to test his actor's skills against. If I were an actor of his caliber, I surely wood. Baldwin is totally lost in the wilderness, but seen from an artistic angle. Every single of my credits go to Hopkins for trying, L.Q. Jones for making the start a bit thrilling, Harold Pirreneau simply for being the black guy dying early in the story, and above everyone else, best actor Bart the Bear. Worth mentioning is also the late Gordon Tootoosis, who doesn't say anything, but still makes the movie better. Yes. it's a digression, but why wasn't Tootoosis casted for the role as Geronimo, in stead of Wes Studi? The rest of the movie is stuffed with logical errors, unlikely events and bad points. On top of that the music seems like something stolen from a test score to another Indiana Jones film, but found too bombastic even for that. All in all, if this was meant to be realistic, dramatic and exciting, the one's behind the screenplay, together with the producer and director would have been much better off making a documentary about themselves really being lost in the wilderness. It could have been exciting. "},{"Title":"Never feel sorry for a man that owns a plane","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty good movie. I hadn't seen it in a few years but had always remembered it and wasn't disappointed in my re-watch. It's a fast paced thriller about a multi billionaire (Anthony Hopkins) who joins his much younger model wife on a remote shoot in Alaska. During a scouting trip, along with photographer (Alec Baldwin) and the doomed black guy (poor Harold Perrineau) their plane crashes, leaving them stranded in the wilderness.Armed only with a pocket knife, and Charles' vast array of useless knowledge the trio attempt to make it back to civilization. This ends up being way more than a survival movie though as Hopkins struggles with his own insecurities, and the possibility of his wife's infidelity with the cocky and jealous photographer. Oh and did I mention the bear, yeah there's a huge grizzly bear stalking them and (Bart the bear) is awesome.Alec Baldwin really impressed me in this, he was just excellent, a complete ass, showing such range throughout and Hopkins gets super annoying with his constant knowledge and spouting off of factoids, but these are not faults of the movie, the characters are just really well done. Great ending here too. 11/27/14 "},{"Title":"Harrowing Survival Tale","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Anthony Hopkins plays billionaire Charles Morse, a bookish man who is married to a much younger woman(played by Elle McPherson) who is coveted by her photographer(Alec Baldwin) The two men, as well as an assistant(played by Harold Perrineau) are flown into a remote location in the Alaskan wilderness, when they are struck by a flock of birds, causing them to crash in the lake, killing the pilot, and placing the three survivors in a life and death struggle with not only the harsh elements, but a huge Kodiak bear that smells blood...Harrowing adventure drama from writer David Mamet is well directed by Lee Tamahori and acted by the leads, especially Anthony Hopkins, whose transformation from bookish introvert to determined survivalist is believable(they're not mutually exclusive anyway!) Relationship among the men is a bit muddled, especially after the climax, but solid thriller is also compelling and frightening.Not a film for people with a fear of bears... "},{"Title":"The Edge","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins) is a wealthy man (with his own plane) who decides to join his supermodel wife, Mickey (Elle Macpherson) and her photographic crew to a lodging in the snowy wilderness (of the breathtaking British Columbia mountains and surrounding areas). Charles, Mickey's photographer, Bob (Alec Baldwin), and Bob's assistant, Stephen (Harold Perrineau) go on (what was perceived to be) a small plane ride to a local native's cabin to see if he can transport some film for them but he's on a hunt for bear. Once in the air, birds fly into the plane's propeller, causing them to crash. The pilot killed, the remaining three have to hike it to a closer location of their cabin, but doing so won't be easy thanks to a maneating bear looking to feed its hunger for human flesh. A miscalculation involving moving south (Charles uses a paper clip and leaf on water to determine the direction of South following the wind, but a magnetic interference stirs them in a complete circle back to their starting point!), a deep cut on the leg while sharpening a spear (Stephen's slip costs him big-time), a bloody rag left on a tree branch (summoning the hungry bear), a nasty attack that shortens the numbers (Stephen never had a prayer), and surviving the elements with little supplies to speak of (matches and the clothes on them; the flares will be needed for later, but they are soon used, too) provide much high drama in this exciting survivalist adventure. Not only the bear's toying with them provides suspense, but the idea that Baldwin might be banging Charles' wife and potentially planning to kill him for both the missus and money also remains a point of emphasis throughout. Hopkins never fails to convince as this very intelligent know-it-all with almost all the answers when pressures and obstacles present themselves. Charles is always turned to by Stephen and Bob when a new problem rears its ugly head. But that damned bear (Bart the Bear is recognized as a star as the credits closed&#x85;and should) just won't go away. Alec Baldwin has that knack for portraying likable assholes, and his Bob is no different here. He sometimes uses his sense of humor to blatantly knock Charles, but his respect for the man never wavers. Stephen's attack is brutal, and the bear's attempts towards Charles and Bob commands serious tension. The location of the film provides much atmosphere because of how detrimental it can be for the duo attempting to survive (the bear and the wilderness/peaks both offer their own challenges). Hopkins' subtly expressive face (particularly the mind's trying to solve problems like when Alec suffers a tough leg injury falling into a dead fall meant for bears, or his makeshift compass idea; later, that panic that soon fades to disappointment regarding Baldwin's condition is a masterclass of acting) speaks a great deal and it's his responsibility to communicate the situation his character faces. Baldwin needs us to like him so we are unsure of his intent towards Hopkins' life; the ending gives us a tragedy that seems regrettable because it didn't need to end that way. The simple use of a watch (and engravings on it) along with a list with specific handwriting are tools that reinforce the revelation regarding whether or not Charles was right or not regarding Bob and Mickey. "},{"Title":"Awesomely intense thriller","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" To start with this movie deserves a better rating than 6.7! This movie is well directed, very well acted and almost everything seems so real and convincing. Anthony is one of the greatest living actors without doubt but Alec's performance too is probably one of his best. I feel somehow the audience has ignored this masterpiece. Even Wikipedia doesn't have much info on it other than the overly long plot summary.The series of events and twists towards the end were remarkable. In our real world its very difficult to stay so calm and serene (in hopeless situations) like Anthony's character in this movie. There is a lot to learn from his character.Overall a powerful, real and intense movie which had us on the edge of our seats. Highly recommended since it has action, drama, emotions and thrills "}{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie showing the quality of a man","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although this was not quite 'at the edge of your seat' type movie (sorry no pun intended), it nevertheless is a good movie.The story I found to be more deeper than what many people would actually sum up as a movie. Here you find a man who is not only fabulously wealthy but he comes through with the scruples of a principled man, something we don't often relate to in the real world.The movie tries to portray a man who despite his enormous wealth shows his true nature as the film unfolds, and towards the end demonstrates that money alone does not make up a man.I really like the last part which drives home this point where he makes a most profound statement to the news crew awaiting him. This shows the enormous courage, resilience, empathy of a man that most other men could not come near to. "},{"Title":"worthy adventure","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge lived up to my expectations, overall a very action packed adventure. Anthony Hopkins plays an intelligent billionaire who goes with his model wife played by real model Elle Macpherson to Alaska for a photo shoot. Alec Baldwin a photographer he and Hopkins fly to find a friend when the plane crashes in the middle of the wild, the adventure begins as they fight to survive against a mean grizzly, no food, and the harsh elements. Hopkins and Baldwin are excellent in this action thriller not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Moving.A moving story of friendship, enmity, and futility. Both actors have performed admirably.Describe it as Real. So real. "},{"Title":"I fell over The Edge laughing!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Very clever.  This is the first time I've seen a send-up on a survival movie, and it was a hoot! Wooden-Face Hopkins was great. I liked his little habit of lifting his head and dreamily looking to some far horizon, sniffing the air, he reminded me of my Spaniel. The scenery was superb. Elle The body, but not the brain was perfectly cast. Alex was almost too good, nearly taking us away from the awareness that this was all a send-up. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"A great adventure story about cheating on your husband and a really huge bear.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ANTHONY HOPKINS does a fantastic job, Playing a billionare who's married to Elle McPhearson. But when his plane goes down when searching for an indian for some reason he has to prove himself in the wilderness. That Baldwin guy also does a pretty good job. He plays the photographer of ANTHONY HOPKINS wife.Elle Mcphearson is damn fine, and this movie tought me that when you have money you can have anything you want even Elle Mcphearson.This movie also has a giant bear its cool. "},{"Title":"Good title!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Living life on the EDGE sometimes helps us discover our true natures. Our hidden strengths and weaknesses.  Our courage, our cowardice.  Excellent story.  Excellent script. Excellent timing and delivery by Anthony Hopkins as a man who, through an experience of trying to stay alive, becomes alive, in a way he has never known before.  Much of his book knowledge is set free to become experiential, practical knowledge, and he is enriched beyond measure.  He is forever changed.  He likes what he finds in himself, and we do too!   "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A very watchable film with all the conflicts man vs. nature, man vs. man, man vs. himself. You won't have to look for the symbolism and irony - you're nearly beaten over the head with it. Despite that, a top-notch cast, great scenery and an angry bear keep the movie enjoyable. "},{"Title":"tense,edge of seat drama","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well worth seeing, surprisingly good, even allowing for Baldwin's annoying persona and role. Hopkins cardboard cut-out of a man  expands with experience ,leaving you relieved and a bit exhausted after a great movie.  "},{"Title":"The bear is smarter than two of the men","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a fairly good action film with some excellent sequences in which a bear stalks and attacks 3 stranded men in the Alaskan wilds. I kept wondering How did they get that shot? There are some amazingly good effects. I did wonder whether or not the roar of a bear is like the sounds we were given here. It sounded a little much to me.The bear and Anthony Hopkins are the main stars of the show, and Alec Baldwin does a creditable job with a character that is written to be weak and not very smart.The adventure element is concocted. One can raise many questions about the sequence of events too. Making a big circle in the way they did was very implausible, since they scaled a mountain. In addition, this film follows the usual Hollywood rule that held in the old days and still holds, which is basically to kill off the black man. There must be dozens of similar adventure and war movies that follow this rule.In this case, the black man is an utter weak wimp who does nothing but complain. He is also very stupid. What a horribly written part! Baldwin's character is not far behind. Hopkins' character is at least sensible enough to have some idea of what to do in the wild, even if he ignores the fact that the sun rises in the east, but then it does get cloudy sometimes.With such weak characters, I kept thinking back to earlier adventure movies such as Five Came Back. Were men so wimpy in those old movies? Or is this yet another manifestation of the juvenile characters that seem more frequently to people today's movies? The script telegraphs the key plot points a little too well in the opening sequence. The music at times is too syrupy and grand when more danger and challenge should be in the air.The character arc of Hopkins is only subtly hinted at, because we don't know much about him at the start. I like his line at the end about all of us face serious challenges but we don't know when or what form they are going to take. But I dislike his final line shortly thereafter that the other men died saving his life. Why should he lie? He has confronted himself and nature in his essence. He has even realized that he has little to go back to. He has seen truths, but then he lies. The two men died because they made grievous mistakes in their choices. At best they died bravely or like men. He might have said They died like men.The strong point of the movie is not its philosophy. It's the conflict between men and a bear. The conflict between Baldwin and Hopkins over his wealth and his wife didn't really ring true as it was written, although Baldwin did, as I said, quite a good job with the part.Let me elaborate a bit on the above. First, too much is given away at the outset. Low-flying birds can bring down an airplane, and this happens subsequently. There is a bear trap, and, sure enough, it plays a part. Bears become man-killers, we are told, and sure enough, act 2 involves just such a critter. Hopkins is given a watch and a knife and, sure enough, they are important later. It's all too pat.It was evident far before Hopkins said that he would kill the bear that this would have to be done. The line went through my head before he spoke it. Meanwhile the Baldwin character was whining worse than the black man had done earlier, and that guy was so inept that he stabbed himself in the leg -- a deep gash mind you -- while trying to sharpen a piece of wood into a spear. Very smart going, mate. Well, this is really Mamet's fault. He could not write a plausible screenplay with the wilderness elements?? He had to concoct this?Now, was Hopkins so dense that he could not pick up, well before this cozy little trip, that his right hand man was deeply hostile toward him? And that he was going with his wife? This is a man who sees all and remembers all. He's a billionaire. He must have an organization that he created. His wife and Baldwin are far from discreet, but Hopkins is that blind? It's all done by writer Mamet so superficially and so lazily. When Baldwin gets around to trying to kill Hopkins, Hopkins does nothing to stop him from loading the rifle. Why? Meanwhile, Baldwin insists they go outside. Why? And once outside, he hesitates and then backs himself up. Why? He is incredibly weak, so weak that I wonder what Hopkins ever saw in him to have him around, and what his wife saw in him. And having saved the life of Hopkins earlier, you would think that maybe his psychology would change. He might even expect rewards, but no, his bitterness actually increases. Why?Mamet lost it in this one as compared with some of his earlier work. We are dealing here with noir-type betrayals, and they are not easy to handle. In films like Too Late for Tears, Out of the Past, Ace in the Hole, and many others, it takes careful development of the characterizations to sell them, i.e., make them believable. Mamet has not done this in The Edge. He has not used the interactions generated by the action scenes to do it either -- the direction of the movie didn't bring it out. So that this aspect of the movie, which is a major part of it, is a failure. The viewer is left grasping for understanding and meaning, rather than feeling these people are real and the events real and the meaning central to human experience. "},{"Title":"Great Jungle Adventure !","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Anthony Hopkins as billionaire Charles Morse has outperformed the wily role of Alec Balwin as Robert Green. Hopkins dialog delivery is far better and his portrayal of a cool and calm Morse who is fatally stranded in a death defying jungle with his naive and immature team mates is by far commendable.Tamahori has excellently directed the final fight scene with the freak man eating bear which was well dealt with the audacious sagacity of Charles Morse. The brave, kind and selfless Morse tried his best to safely rescue Robert Green but he failed to deliver because of the negative and selfish intent of his colleague who was all out to take his wife and billions from his magnanimous friend. Hopkins at his best and the jungle at its cruelest.Moral  Goodness Rewarded & Bravery Awarded. "}{"Title":"Best, really!","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best ever and most overlooked movie that has everything - including a strong message. It's all about the controversy and clash of the characters. Very few people realize that, and how realistic is this pattern in real life! The Millionaire Mr. Morse is smartest and you can actually sympathize with him completely. Other characters are miserable, greedy, cheating people which are mostly filling this earth in real life too. The nature is fantastic and make you wish go and live there.I will never forget some lessons on survival I learned during this movie. Specially on how how to start a fire by using ice. Clever. On the end, I am very sorry to learn that the survival book that Mr. Morse was reading is just a fiction, it does not exist in real life.  "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller about a self-sufficient hero.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great and heroic movie.   How should a man deal with a seemingly impossible crisis?The hero of this movie shows the way.   He uses his wit and intelligence to save  himself when caught in a no-win situation. The acting is superior and the plot is intriguing. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes to be inspired by man acting at his highest potential.  This is my favorite  movie by Anthony Hopkins. "},{"Title":"it restores one's faith in the goodness of humanity","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful movie because it restores one's faith in the goodness of humanity. Anthony Hopkins gives an exceptional performance as he usually does in portraying a character who is humble, courageous, resourceful and forgiving in spite of his wife being adulterous. The events which the two main characters, Hopkins and Baldwin, are subjected to in the wilderness are so well put together that the audience is ensured of being both shocked and enthralled at the same time. If you really do not believe in the goodness of people then this movie will restore your faith in humanity. It is one of Hollywood's finest moments. The last scene between El Mcpherson and Anthony Hopkins is a classic moment. Watch it and be inspired. "},{"Title":"just plain, damn good","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Edge is not great masterwork, yet it is very enjoyable, very well made, and most of all damn scary.By hiring a good script writer, good cinematographer like Don McAlpine, and jerry goldsmith for the Score, along with a reliable director in tune with the script - you're gonna come up trumps with material like the Edge.However, with a good behind the camera team, you need a decent cast, and with Tony hopkins and Baldwin #1 (alec) it rounded the pic off with solid performances all round. Dont look too hard for an original or clever piece of art. this is just really good fun, enjoyable cinema, and quality filmmaking. i really enjoyed this film, and kudos must go to bart the bear. R.I.P, Bart.8/10 "},{"Title":"Hopkins and scenery are great, script leaves something to be desired.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, anything with Anthony Hopkins is worth watching. He turns in a very good performance here, bringing a somewhat taciturn character to life on the screen. Compliments to the photography, although how can you miss, filming in the Canadian Rockies? Direction also good. Hopkins plays billionaire Charles Morse flying into Alaska with his model trophy wife, Mickey, for a fashion shoot with Alec Baldwin playing the photographer, Bob Green. After a plane crash, Charles and Bob have to find their way out. Charles suspects Bob and his wife are up to something, and it occurs to him that if he doesn't survive, and Bob does, he will likely go to Mickey, who will be a very wealthy widow. There are some exciting scenes of their adventures, including being stalked by a huge bear. It becomes a sort of (as a local reviewer put it) Outward Bound in the Jack London Campground of Sam Peckinpah National Park, however, and becomes rather predictable. There comes an interesting contrast of character between Charles and Bob. This film has a lot going for it, but somehow, the totality is less than the sum of its parts. Definitely worth sitting through on cable.  "},{"Title":"The story of man, a bear, a woman and a bunch of animals","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Two very good performances - Anthony Hopkins and the Kodiak Bear.  A trite plot setting by David Mamet - although the action sequences are well done. The rest of the characters are cartoonish.  Baldwin's character is eager, shallow, dumb, at times intriguing - but, just not interesting.  The scenery is great. Ellen MacPherson is the trophy wife in a setting that is all trophies.  Is it worth seeing?  Not for the story.  But, yes, it is worth seeing.  It is not boring. Anthony Hopkins' now usual great performance stands out.  And, hey, there are some happenings that are fairly memorable. And not just the lesson in how to make a compass.  Recommended with reservations.    "},{"Title":"Excellent survival story","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I very much enjoyed this film, and was on the edge of my seat throughout much of it. The views of Alaska are breathtaking. Hopkins plays his part perfectly. However, I can see that only certain types of people would enjoy this film. People who enjoy survival/adventure/thriller type stuff.But what really impressed me about this movie was how they survived. Hopkins character knowing many survival tactics(in theory only) gave this movie a spark that really touched me. I have read a fair number of survival books, and Hopkins character knew that those who are ignorant, full of panic, and in self-pity often die, while those that can face the situation head on and think clearly often pull through. "},{"Title":"Imperfect but compelling","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins plays a billionaire who spends his birthday in the wilderness (presumably the Alaskan) when his plane crashes during a related excursion. Soon a struggle for survival, he and his wife's mutual best friend (Alec Baldwin) are faced with living in dangerous conditions as well as a man-eating bear which soon sniffs them out and stalks them. Typically this is Call of the Wild with a Saturday Morning Adventure setting (hidden secrets, betrayals, etc.) But Hopkin's profound performance (and character) makes the movie worthy of a single good watch. "},{"Title":"Swansea pensioner defies the laws of nature","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Rich man turns the tables on his love rival. And it's in the wilderness. With a bear.The bear is brilliant, Oscar worthy. Everything else is daft.The main character is a billionaire, apparently, but his outstanding feature is a universal theoretical knowledge of camp larnin'. So the first things he doesn't do after a near drowning in cold Alaskan water is gather tinder, dry his clothes, and look for food.This screenplay is badly undercooked, with the insult of a black guy who's just there to be eaten. And the utter Jaws-style violence of a bear attack is turned into cartoon - watch Grizzly Man to see how deadly these animals are.There are some great themes in this story, but the result is just juvenile.ps. What is Hopkins doing to Baldwin in the cover art? "},{"Title":"Men Lost...Find Their Way","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Kept alive by some witty Mamet-Speak and a stunning backdrop of sharp, beautiful Wilderness Cinematography along with believable Leads, this is quite an enjoyable lost in the wilderness Movie within a Modern mode of Class Warfare and Marital Infidelity.It is not an easy mix at times and as our duo duel with barbs, insights, and storytelling things can seem at odds with each other. Its like poker game or barroom banter set in the great outdoors. The ever encroachment of the Kodiak Bear could be read as a metaphor for the impending destruction of each Man's Id. Or maybe its just a way to add some lively Action to the Playwright's pontifications of Money, Lawyers, and Love.It is a quirky Film and the talent involved should be credited because they give this well worn Genre a new angle. In the end it is somewhat satisfying and there is enough here to keep both Audiences interested. Those with the flannel shirts and those with the stuffy shirts. "}{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Strong acting from Anthony Hopkins saved this film. The supporting character acting was immature and poor by comparison.Hopkins delivered all the best lines with captivating presence as always.The story is inspiring. An exploration of the best and the worst of human characteristics portrayed by two men stranded in the wilderness. One a survivor the other a coward. Baldwin is the coward, jealous, greedy, deceitful and shamed. Whereas Hopkins' character demonstrates all the best characteristics for survival courage, perseverance, motivation, tenacity, resourcefulness, optimism, generosity, forgiveness and dignity.The story line is quite good but could have been better developed. The supporting character acting could have been more credible. The characters are pretty superficial, except of course Hopkins' who is portrayed at the start of the film as a bookish, repressed, rich eccentric who goes on to reveal himself as a man of great character in adversity.Overall I would say that it was worth seeing just to watch Hopkins' mesmerising performance. "},{"Title":"Somewhat inconsistent, but overall, a decent wilderness survival film","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This survival thriller was released many years before I ever knew about it. I was eleven years old when it was released, and since it's an R-rated movie, I was too young to see it at the time. The first time I saw The Edge was around the beginning of 2006. I had rented the movie without ever hearing anything about it before finding it at the video store, but was not disappointed when I watched it. Even though there was a lot I couldn't remember from my first viewing, and I never thought of the film as perfect, I do remember that it certainly didn't bore me. It's been nearly four years since then, and I recently decided to rent it again. This time, I don't think I was quite as impressed as I was before, but it was once again a thrilling experience.Charles Morse is a billionaire who goes to Alaska with his significantly younger wife, a model named Mickey, for her photo shoot there. The photo shoot is to be done by photographer Robert Green, a younger man, and it seems to Charles that this photographer is coming on to Mickey. Robert decides that a Native American man is needed for the shoot, and Charles joins him, along with Robert's friend, Stephen, on a small plane to meet one who lives nearby. During the flight, the plane flies into a flock of geese and crashes into a lake! The pilot has not survived, but the three passengers escape from the damaged plane and make it to shore. They are now stranded in the wilderness, and Charles muse use his knowledge and intellect to help him and the others survive and find a way to get back to civilization. Charles is still suspicious of Robert trying to take his wife, and a bear seems to be stocking the stranded men through the woods! Obviously, neither of these problems will make the adventure any easier! When I watched this survival drama for the second time, I quickly noticed some flaws. The romance in the early part of the film is rather weak, and the part where they scare Charles with a fake bear to begin his surprise birthday party is perhaps a little too silly. I might have found that the film really improved after the crash the first time, but not the second time. There are other problems, such as too much talking (including shouting) at times. However, The Edge also has its redeeming qualities. There's lots of excitement here, and the most exciting part MIGHT be the chase during an attempt to kill the bear, but there are other parts that at least come close to that! There's also a lot of great scenery, and some moments in the story that are very moving. Anthony Hopkins (Charles) and Alec Baldwin (Robert) are the two stars. Hopkins is great, playing a very confident, intellectual character. Baldwin, well, I've never been a big fan of his on screen presence for some reason, but he sometimes does a decent job here when his character gets intense. An example of this would be Robert's breakdown in the field after an airplane flies by without noticing the two.This is a movie about a struggle for survival in the wilderness, and there are lots of other movies like that, but this one is still reasonably entertaining. It's not the most popular film in this category, but there are definitely weaker ones, such as Far from Home The Adventures of Yellow Dog. (Of course, that one's more for kids.) The Edge is no classic, but it is pretty good. I should warn you that there are some fairly gory scenes, which is obviously one of the reasons for the movie's R rating, though they definitely could have made these scenes more extreme and graphic than they did, so I can't really say they overdid the violence. If a dark adventure thriller like this is what you are looking for, and you can take some gore and strong language, watching The Edge might not be the most memorable experience of your life, but it could be worth it. "},{"Title":"has some harrowing moments","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" for the most part,this is a very good movie.there are many harrowing scenes and there is a fair amount of suspense.it does start off slow though,and there are some pockets of slowness.the biggest draw for this movie though,is the beautiful scenery,most notably the mountains and the lakes.The acting is of course good from both Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin.some of the dialogue scenes with the two of them are pretty good,as well.Elle MacPherson has basically a cameo.overall,i'd say this movie is worthwhile,especially if you're a fan of beautiful scenery,or if you just want to get your blood pumping.for me,The Edge is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting no one remembers the great movie on which it was based (lifted)","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed The Edge quite a bit. But I'm surprised no one has mentioned that the film is VERY similar to an ABC movie of the week starring Arthur Hill called Ordeal. I loved Ordeal when I saw it as a kid (survival stories are always fascinating) and immediately thought of it when watching The Edge. Did Mr. Mamet ever give credit to the 70s film as the basis for his own? I wonder. However I suppose it shouldn't subtract from The Edge being a nice, smart adventure film on its own. In Ordeal Arthur Hill plays a wealthy man who is dropped into the desert by his scheming wife and her lover. Through his wits and sure grit, Hill remains alive on survival skills, while developing a love for the wilderness. The finale sees him turning his back on his wealthy and returning to his new-found love - the desert - after being rescued. Certainly a similar storyline, I'd day. "},{"Title":"In Loving Memory of Bart the Bear","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This summer, to the sadness of many, Bart the Bear left us after suffering a massive brain tumor. Although he was somewhat typecast in the role of the Bear, he brought poise and dignity, bearing the limitations of the role. I'm sure I'm not the only one who shed a secret tear when the Bear met his untimely end. Bart was 22 years old and starred in over 20 movies. His talents will surely be missed. Goodbye, Bart. May you be enshrined forever as one of the genuine greats of ursine thespians. "},{"Title":"Hopkins as Sisyphus?","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film the first time I saw it and purchased it solely for the Hopkins character. The more I watch it, the poorer The Edge seems overall, and the more impressed I am with Mr. Hopkin's character and his performance.I do have to agree about the Lit. 101 symbolism. It struck me that Mamet probably saw the Indian paddle or some similar trinket and based the entire screenplay on the idea this gave him. I suppose that's OK, if rather conventional.The film was shot about an hour away from where I lived at the time, so I'm biased in that regard. But it is an incredibly beautiful area in Alberta.Though I hate it when people say this, I do like the Hopkin's character because I can identify with him in some ways. His ability to maintain his humanity throughout all of his trials, natural and relational, is inspiring, and in my view, well worth taking the time to watch. His performance carries this otherwise ho-hum movie.   "},{"Title":"Good if overwrought film","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  One of the common, and justifiable, complaints about action films is the dialogue, which is usually awful.  In this thinking man's action film, the dialogue, as well as the story, is written by David Mamet, and you can't get much better than that.  Still, there's a scene where Alec Baldwin's character says to Anthony Hopkins when he gives one of his speeches on survival that they should conserve their breath, and I found myself wishing Mamet had followed his advice.  There's too much talking for this type of film, and some of the symbolism seems out of Lit 101, like the Indian symbols at the beginning.Nevertheless, this is a good film.  Mamet, as usual, does write good dialogue, and in Baldwin and Hopkins, he's got two actors who can deliver it well.  Director Tamahori is also able to create tension quite well, between the two of them, and between the two of them vs. the bear.  It's also nice to see the one who thinks, as opposed to the one who just acts by instinct, is the one who succeeds. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, well written, directed and acted","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As to be expected from David Mamet this film takes the action/adventure genre to a new more subtextual and multi-layered level.  The viewer finds him/herself empathizing with all the characters throughout the film whether they are being challenged by nature, their inner-selves or the conflicting desires of other characters in the film. Beautiful setting.  Lee Tamahori and the Animal Effects people are to be complimented.  I'm not generally an Alec Baldwin fan either...but he did okay. P.S.--Elle looks good but thank goodness she didn't have too many lines. "},{"Title":"Typically good movie...","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a typically good film. Very good acting by Hopkins, and Baldwin does a real nice job, too. I was surprised by the very good bear vs. man - effects, they looked real!! Since they don't make a lot of good movies in this genre nowadays, I would really recommend it. "},{"Title":"The Characters Never Elicit Our Sympathy.","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Outdoors enthusiasts will find something to relish in the Anthony Hopkins & Alec Baldwin adventure The Edge, a grim but familiar alfresco saga of survival that boasts elements of both Deliverance and Jurassic Park. Despite the considerable talents involved, an uneven screenplay and unsympathetic characters unravel Mulholland Falls director Lee Tamahori's weather-beaten yarn of betrayal and jealousy. Only die-hard Hopkins fans may rate this soggy opus worth watching, while seasoned cinema-goers who know anything about critter movies will smirk every time that Bart the Bear chases our protagonists through the sticks.The stodgy David (The Untouchables) Mamet screenplay whistles up the perennial theme of man versus the wilderness. Fashion photographer Bob Green (Alec Baldwin of Miami Blues), his model (Elle Macpherson of Batman & Robin), and her bookworm tycoon of a husband Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins of Instinct) fly deep in the remote Canadian Rockies for a photo session. No sooner has the plane landed and the characters been deposited at a quaint lodge perched on a looking glass lake than you feel the story knuckle up with tension. Something isn't right between husband and wife. Moreover, the cuckolded hubby shudders at the thought that his wife's photographer may be clicking with her in other ways that have little to do with setting an F-stop.When a model cannot report for his shoot, Green searches for a native as a replacement. He finds a picture that lodge keeper Styles (L.Q. Jones of The Wild Bunch) has shot of an Indian who hunts bears. Green resolves to track the man down and use him as a substitute. Bob invites Charles to fly with them out to where the Indian lives. During the trip, Charles casually asks Bob, How are you planning to kill me? Bob chuckles with incredulity at Charles' paranoia. Later, a flight of birds collide with their plane. Spiraling out of control, the plane crashes into a lake and sinks.The pilot dies, but Bob, Charles, and photo assistant Steven (Harold Perrineau of King of New York) escape from the sunken aircraft. Lost in the desolate mountains where no phones, roads, or Triple-A motor club help is easily obtained, our heroes rely on their scanty knowledge with successful results to real-life situations. Charles is the kind of guy who has more book sense that world sense. Initially, he uses a paper clip and a leaf spinning in a water drenched tree stump to guide them south. But his first efforts fail and he resorts to the nighttime stars to keep them from tramping in a circle. Credit the filmmakers with handily isolating our heroes and not cutting them much slack. Although they dramatically set up their story well enough, a good set-up doesn't always guarantee an adequate payoff.The best part of The Edge occurs after the crash when these fish out of water arouse the appetite of a carnivorous Kodiak. Out of the woods bounds Bart, a 1,400 pound bear, whose performance can accurately described as grizzly. This huge bear menaces our threesome for the second-third of the action. The scenes featuring Bart as he scrambles after and then stalks our heroes into the night with bloodthirsty results spark a reasonable aura of terror. New Zealand film director Lee Tamahori beefs up the anxiety by photographing his actors in the same shots with the bear. The use of a telephoto lens enables Tamahori to make the bear, actually romping much farther behind Hopkins or Baldwin than it seems, appear as if the beast were nipping at their heels.Unfortunately, if you know anything about trained movie animals, a subversive thought may undercut those pictorially realistic escapades. Every time that big bad Bart bares his fangs, rears up on his hindquarters, or drools over his next victim, you cannot help but think that off-camera stand his trainer frantically waving a Dolly Madison bear claw at him. Other than the harassed Hopkins, Bart is the sharpest thing in The Edge. Bart's performance is captured in riveting close-ups that sensationalizes his critter villainy. Speaking of animals portrayals, you can see the toll that animal rights activists have taken on movies like The Edge. In one scene, our starving heroes trap an unsuspecting squirrel in a home-made cage of twigs, but you never see them dine on the defenseless arboreal rodent. Somehow, the sight of two big, famished guys munching down on a scrawny squirrel doesn't evoke the epic struggle of man against Nature. Of course, only the naïve don't realize that most of the time, the real animals are replaced in close-ups with puppets or convincing facsimiles.Once Bart has been slain, Mamet's script settles down to more serious but less exciting business. Charles' suspicions that Bob and his wife have been shacking up are confirmed. This is one of the major flaws of Mamet's lackluster script. Charles' wife gave him an inscribed watch for his birthday. When he searches the watch case, Charles discovers the warranty along with the incriminating receipt. The receipt contains not only the cost of the watch that his wife gave Bob! How stupid can you be? Sometimes, these Hollywood movies make their revelations a tad too convenient. This doesn't say much for the mentality of Charles' dimwitted spouse. By this time, our heroes have found an abandoned hunting lodge, and Bob has appropriated a rifle. Charles realizes with some regret that he was right all along as Bob orders him to turn around so he can more easily shoot him in the back.Ultimately, it makes you wonder what audiences did Hollywood aim The Edge at, because the film is so spartan and dreary. Despite some moments of genuine suspense, this existential character study flounders about, unsure whether it wants to qualify as a juvenile action opus or a heavy-handed morality parable. "}{"Title":"Good Performances Marred by an Unbelievable Plot","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While the story is interesting, the acting good, the presentation strains credulity. Does anybody know how cold it is in Alaska, even in the summer, at night? What is the water temperature of the average lake in Alaska? After their plane crashes into a lake, they swim ashore with little clothing and no signs of hypothermia? How did they dry their clothes? They huddle in the pouring rain under a few twigs and afterward, how did they dry their clothes? After the pouring rain, how did they find dry wood to make a fire? Throughout the film, they hike endlessly without hats or gloves. No wonder that Hopkins caught pneumonia on this location. Finally, how likely is it to find a rifle and ammunition in pristine condition in an abandoned shack? Interesting fantasy survival adventure for the gullible. "},{"Title":"Location","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For those who have doubts as to where the movie was filmed in Alaska, you are right! The movie was filmed in the province of Quebec, Canada.The north part of the province offer similarities with Alaska and was a lot less expensive than going to Alaska. Good movie that keeps you on the edge.I really did not matter if Elle MacPherson was mostly absent as I am not quite a fan of her but more of a fan of Alec Baldwin and Sir Anthony Hopkins.The scenery was fantastic!And the mind games as well!! "},{"Title":"Clichéd but gripping","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a watchable adventure movie, but it is too predictable and repetitive to fulfil its potential in terms of the script, casting and location. At first sight, the action-based plot and wilderness setting seem unlikely contexts for writer, David Mamet, who is more usually associated with urban character-driven dramas; but he does his best to turn the movie into a psychological battle of wills between billionaire Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins) and fashion photographer Robert Green (Alec Baldwin), as they both struggle for survival against the elements and a killer bear.For me, the film doesn't entirely succeed due to an unusual element - as an actor, Hopkins is over-qualified for his role. The plot requires us to believe that initially Morse is weak and soft, and that he has to dig deep into his mental and physical resources to keep going; whereas Green is presented as tough, practical and of course younger. But from his first appearance and words Hopkins invests Morse with an inner strength and charisma, which outweigh the superficial physical attractiveness and vigour of Baldwin's Green. Morse should be the under-dog who comes out on top; but in reality he's never anything else but top-dog.But even if the duel between Morse and Green is less credible than it should be, their mutual fight with the elements and the bear - an excellent portrayal by Bart (recently passed over) - against the magnificent backdrop of the Canadian Rockies makes for gripping viewing. Disappointingly, however, the movie perpetuates several clichés, the worst being the inevitable relatively early death of the black survivor of the plane crash (Harold Perrineau). (Another, is getting lost and walking in a perfect circle, so the characters find themselves back at their own dead campfire.) "},{"Title":"Man vs. Man vs. Nature","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In The Edge, we get to experience the age old story of man pitted against each other in a fight  for survival.  Add in the fact that they also have to contend with a man eating bear and you have  yourself a tense film.  Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin get stranded in the Alaskan wilderness  and must rely on Hopkins' intelligence to stay alive and outwit the killer bear that is stalking  them.  The cinematography in The Edge is outstanding, and Jerry Goldsmith's score is great.   Watch this in the widescreen format and you'll see mountains come alive as never before.   "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie that I have ever seen!  It had a lot of action in it like the scene when they were going to try and kill the bear.  Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin are at their best in this movie!  There are a lot of good lines in the Edge but the one that I like the most is when they are yelling at each other saying I am going to kill the bear!  I think every one should see this movie and if you like it I think that you should also see a movie called The Ghost In The Darkness.  That is a good film too but in that movie it is a lion that is killing people and not a bear. "},{"Title":"I just don't get it...","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After reading most of the comments on this movie I'm left absolutely baffled. Did we actually watch the same movie? Hopkins just doesn't cut it as the clever rich guy and Alec Baldwin is just his plain old wooden self. The movie makes absolutely no sense whatsover 1) How did three men survive a plain crash without a scratch? OK, I know they crashed into water, but no injuries whatsover? I don't think so. 2) Why did Stephen almost cut of his leg when he was using a pocket knife to make a spear? 3) How did they manage to make bearskin jackets without needles and thread and without even drying the skin? 4) How did they skin the bear? 5) Why would anyone leave a rifle (with bullets!) in a deserted cabin? I can go on and on... This is simply a bad movie that makes no sense at all. There are quite a few good movies about man vs nature, but this isn't one of them. "},{"Title":"Great location shots - you can smell that bear breath.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Charles as the shy retiring billionaire who doesn't like to talk about money is a somewhat unlikely character, Bob the street wise glamour photographer is much more credible.The location shooting is very good and no disrespect to the other fine performances but the bear deserves an oscar. "},{"Title":"Good, Bad and Ugly","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here's what happens when you mix real talent with pretenders. Mamet is one of the smartest writers we have. Here, he writes around a genre, twisting it beyond parody to a potentially intriguing battle of wits shined through the disturbing mediocrity of life. That mediocrity is represented here by the predictability of the genre and all the standards associated with it. In a good director's hand, it would shine.That this director doesn't get it isn't the biggest sin in the world. This is pretty sophisticated stuff after all. But it is once again a sign that Anthony Hopkins is completely lost in the world of ideas about film. Utterly baffled, he plays this as straight as rain.At one time, his timing, his cadence, his reading of lines was inspired. Possibly Elephant Man was his high point in film. But after this, and the similarly confusing Titus, he has become a joke.Watch him closely here. He takes the marvelous dialog, and when he is finished, he really is no better than anyone else in this film. He, Elle, Baldwin and the bear, all at the same level. I wish the lover had been played by Johnny Depp. I wish the billionaire had died. Don't you? "},{"Title":"More of a Comedy Than A Drama...","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I first saw the TV version of this film while at a family gathering about a couple of years ago. To cut to the chase, this film had my entire family (myself included) laughing hysterically throughout its entire running time due to its cheesy and unrealistic story plot. There are so many areas of this film that are so unrealistic that it leaves you wondering how the writers of the script even got away with turning in such mediocre work. Yes, I'm talking about a bear so vicious that it rips through large, old, and sturdy trees like an army tank, Charles' knife that never loses its sharp edge despite how many times he has used it throughout the film, the ability to start quick fires during a snowstorm, and the ease of lighting said fire with watch lenses. Oh, and why did the Director and/or writers feel that it was necessary for everyone in the film to say Charles' name over 80 times? Is this man of high honor or something without us, the audience, knowing? In any case, if you're looking for a good laugh with a totally unrealistic story plot, then go for this film. You will be laughing for hours! "},{"Title":"Protracted story, dumb characters... missed opportunity","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to love that movie about men trapped in the wilderness. But it came nowhere to being a fine adventure thriller. The locations and the bear are superb though and they deserve most of the credit. Anthony Hopkins does a marvellous job of fleshing up a mostly remote character that would look very bright if he was a 12 year old.Whoever said David Mamet was a great writer? I don't know about his plays but all his movies pompously resort to heavy plot devices that some people confuse with impressive convolutions. The Edge is dumb from the start lame exposition + every single character thick as a phone book (or shallow as rotary dial hole).The survival adventure is a joke, something a 10-year old (this time) could write and so you would be lenient about the naive survivalist didactics. Guys have no clue how to light a fire at first, then it is OK. They are starving for most of the trek but hardly look exhausted. And the inter-personal subplot is so ridiculously put together in the middle of nowhere you keep hoping they will not dare to follow through with it.Very much disappointing... but that's the risk with most movies that went under the radar immediately after release. "}{"Title":"Flat and Contrived","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A rich man and a fashion photographer fight for survival in the jungles after a plane crash. The story is implausible and the situations are contrived, but the biggest deficiency is the under-developed characters. Hopkins plays what looks like the most miserable billionaire in the world, a lonely and insecure fellow who thinks everybody is out to get his money. In the wilds, he turns out to be a super boy scout, but the character is so aloof that it's hard to feel anything for him. Baldwin is supposed to be larger-than-life, as evidenced by his hearty laughs in response to lame jokes, but his character is also flat. "},{"Title":"Decent Wilderness Adventure With A Moral Dilemma Thrown In At The End","Date":"15 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In many ways this is a pretty typical wilderness adventure, but the twist in it is that it faces one of the characters with a serious moral and ethical dilemma in the end which provides the last twenty minutes or so (which could have been quite anti-climactic) with something to hold the viewer with, although in some ways it also weakened the movie somewhat, and I suppose the last twenty minutes or so could have been avoided entirely, with the ultimate rescue coming just that much earlier.This movie features a pretty decent performance from Anthony Hopkins as billionaire Charles Morse, who finds himself stranded in the Alaskan wilderness after the small plane he's travelling in crashes. Together with Bob (Alec Baldwin) and Stephen (Harold Perrineau) he has to find a way to survive the harsh environment and find his way out, while all the while all three of them are being stalked by a huge man-eating bear. Baldwin was a bit of a strange choice for this role. Bob was supposed to be a fashion photographer and I have trouble picturing Baldwin in that kind of role. Baldwin also usually plays strong, in control, leader types, but here he's clearly (both as an actor and a character) playing second fiddle to Hopkins' Morse. He pulled this untypical (for him) part off pretty well, but I still had trouble in my mind making him fit the part. The scenes in which the three (or two, after Stephen is killed by the beast) are doing battle with the bear are pretty good and exciting. The rest is pretty standard for this kind of movie. The biggest weakness of the movie is that - to me at least - Morse was too much of a good guy, and those last twenty minutes or so that I referred to took that aspect of his character and blew it way out of proportion, giving an air of unreality to what was happening. The moral dilemma that was introduced at the end didn't have to be introduced, and I felt it detracted from the movie rather than adding to it. In the end I thought this went out with a whimper rather than a bang, but overall it's pretty good. "},{"Title":"a good survival picture, but at the same time, a missed opportunity","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For three-quarters of it's running time, Lee Tamahori's The Edge, well-written by David Mamet, proves itself as a fast-moving, riveting thrill ride of a survival picture before it makes a detrimental mistake of placing its climax before a rather boring resolution for a human story that was rather uninteresting to begin with and which almost&#x97;but not quite&#x97;costs the film the energy built up by its previous ninety minutes. If I was to describe the running time of The Edge, it would be like a marathon race. It started out good&#x97;not great&#x97;moving at a nice, steady pace to build up anticipation for what followed. In the middle, it was moving along fantastic. It looked like a real winner. But then, in the final lap, it stumbled and injures itself very badly and just barely manages to pull itself across the finish line with a passable record, but a real shame when compared to how well it was doing before.The Edge stars Anthony Hopkins as a wealthy entrepreneur spending his vacation time in Alaska with his surprisingly young wife (Elle Macpherson) and the photographer (Alec Baldwin) whose constantly eyeing her. When Hopkins and Baldwin and another man (Harold Perrineau) wind up being stranded in the wilderness following a plane crash, they find themselves in the path of a ferocious man-killing Kodiak bear, which relentlessly pursues and stalks them until the men have to make a stand&#x85;or die at the jaws of the creature.Now this was a terrific premise. Three men alone, unarmed in the cold Alaskan wilderness being hunted by nature's consummate killing machine. It's the plot for a great, fast-moving thriller. And for most of its running time, The Edge is exactly that. Hopkins is very good in the film; Alec Baldwin is even better as the photographer who doubts every moment that they'll live to be rescued. David Mamet's witty script makes these two rivals likable and we follow along with them as they dodge the bear's attacks and work out schemes using their human intelligence to escape (and later fight) the beast, salvage food and water, and find their way home. That was what I really liked. How The Edge showed me a survival picture where the protagonists had to use their intelligence to make it out alive as opposed to relying on luck and circumstances as many other films of this category do. What's more, the bear in the film is an absolutely competent and even frightening villain. Jerry Goldsmith provides a very powerful low-based musical motif for the bear that works in the same field as the shark's theme in Jaws (1975). I loved and enjoyed every moment of Hopkins, Baldwin, and Perrineau and the bear and I wish there had been more of them, for after the climax, The Edge really begins to suffer.The Edge, while competently playing as a thriller, also tries to be a powerful human drama story and here it fails. After the climax three-quarters of the way in, it resolves to focus solely on this drama story that was not very interesting to begin with&#x97;but was a suitable setup&#x97;and as a result, the last half-hour is, for me anyways, dreadfully boring. Where as Cast Away (2000) did this with flying colors, The Edge bogs down. It doesn't just lose some energy. It loses all of it! And the day that somebody explains to me how the last line of the movie makes any sense, I will be astounded.So in the end, The Edge is a recommendable survival picture, but at the same time, it's a missed opportunity. I really wish that it had focused solely upon these men, the wilderness, and the bear and strayed away from the rather boring drama story that was meant to and should have stayed beneath the surface and then, it would have been a full great movie as opposed to just three-quarters of one. "},{"Title":"Bearly acceptable action thriller","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is an intelligent, though hardly enthralling, action picture. Anthony Hopkins is a little bland as the billionaire who knows everything. Alec Baldwin is a little more distinctive, though he looks flabby and out of shape. David Mamet is famous for his dialogue, but it's not particularly noteworthy here, though the script is filled with clever flourishes.  "},{"Title":"Anthony Hopkins is Always Worth a Watch","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I always enjoy Hopkins. He plays such varied characters, is thoughtful, and thought provoking. But I had my doubts about The Edge. There it sat in the Action section of my local video shop looking like a film that had never received a theatrical release. (Did it?) But with a $0.99 rental price how could I lose?When it started and I saw David Mamet's name I was incredulous. Mamet? Outdoors? Well, my faith in Hopkins paid off. It was exciting and the interplay between Hopkins and Baldwin worked well. The photography is lush and Bart the Bear has a cute lower lip and a fierce looking mouth. Somehow the end was not entirely satisfying. But I've already been able to recommend it to a friend who's an Alaska panorama junkie (even though this is really Canada.) Very watchable. "},{"Title":"FINALLY!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally a movie with a bear in it! Not just any bear, but Bart the Bear, probably the most well known actor bear in the business. Kudos to this movie.The movie was OK at best..Overall vote, a 5. Parts with the bear, a 9.I thought Mamet could write!?!?!!? "},{"Title":"The Hungry Bear Just Wanted a Snack","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, I felt sorry for the bear anytime anything bad happened to it, or it got poked with a stick and hurt. Yes, I know I sound like a moron. He was so cute, though. I know if I were ever confronted with a real bear when I was not at the zoo or Northwest Trek I would either soil myself, run like hell, or pass out, but I rented this movie to see the bear. Seriously, I thought I would be rooting for the bear the whole movie, but I did start to really feel sorry for the characters (though it was funny when they were trying to climb along that log and the bear thoughtfully decided to start jumping up and down on it trying to make them fall off) because the script and director did such a good job of making them likeable. Well, Alec Baldwin played a jerk, but I felt so sorry for Anthony Hopkins' character who was trying to hold it together, and I REALLY felt sorry for the poor injured man who got cornered by the bear and shook around by it like he was a beanie baby being shook around by a hyperactive child. Yikes! Better than I thought it would be though, and I thought it would be predictable but it wasn't. Might want to steer clear of it if you're already scared of bears in the first place, though. "},{"Title":"Bart = The Best","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I just love the bear in the movie, Bart, he is excellent. Otherwise the movie is also very good. It is a little bit slow in the beginning but then it grips you.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but not memorable","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was fairly entertaining. Hopkins does a rather good job and Baldwin isn't bad, but this is still a very simple story and eminently forgettable. One lesson to be learned, always be careful with your receipts! "},{"Title":"Well written, fine acting, ropey plot","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A lot of strong elements contribute to lost-in-the-wilderness thriller 'The Edge' director Lee Tamahori (of 'Once Were Warriors' fame); writer David Mamet; actor Anthony Hopkins; and the gorgeous Rocky Mountain landscape. And some bits of the film come together well, notably the interplay between Hopkins paranoid, billionaire autodidact and Alec Balwdwin's annoying, bitter fashion designer. But it's a pity that the survivalist details are so shaky characters huddle together in the cold without sheltering behind a nearby rock, they choose to overnight at altitude, and they endlessly fall in freezing rivers, but they stay strangely immune from hypothermia, helped no-doubt by just six matches last seem to last forever. What really takes the biscuit, however, is when they make bearskin coats from freshly killed animal (doesn't that take both skill, and seasoning?). It's also the sort of film where the general direction of the narrative is never really in question. Hopkins' classy turn ensures it's watchable throughout, but this fictional story has nothing over the drama of the real life epic, 'Touching the Void'. "}{"Title":"Frustrating","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A billionaire, Anthony Hopkins, and a fashion photographer, Alec Baldwin, find themselves stranded and lost in the Alaskan wilderness after a private plane crash.  Their struggle for survival is complicated by the fact that Hopkins believes Baldwin is having an affair with his younger wife, Elle MacPherson, and that the two of them plan to murder him for his money.  The Edge is a very frustrating film.  The second act, when Hopkins and Baldwin battle a man-eating bear, is absolutely riveting.  Too bad the film makers felt the need to tart up the story with the trite, hackneyed and totally unnecessary adultery and possible murder plot.  The interplay between these two totally different characters and their battle against the elements was more than enough to propel this story.  Well worth a viewing, but don't expect to be fully satisfied despite the excellent performances by Hopkins, Baldwin and Bart the Bear.   "},{"Title":"Just shameful...","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I normally don't write reviews, but I had to sign up for IMDb in order to share my views on just how terrible this movie was. Let me just begin by saying I could not finish it, as it was causing me emotional distress and embarrassment for otherwise decent actors. I got an hour through it, which was a feat of shear discipline in itself.How are you going to go south in terrain like that and end up back where you came from without noticing it?! You would have to be a serious dullard. Why would you have to travel by night in order to go in the direction the stars tell you is south? Look at the stars, get your bearing, when it gets light, start walking in that direction, using the numerous landmarks in that terrain to keep you on course til the next night. Not to mention the fact that when you are that far north it is blatantly obvious which direction is which based on the position of the sun, you don't need the stars or a compass...The acting and script made me cringe repeatedly. You know when you see someone do something really dumb and you feel embarrassed for them? That's how I felt through that whole hour... It's like they used footage from rehearsals and didn't bother to do a take or two before cutting it into the film. Whoever directed/edited this... thing... needs to be working night shift at quick mart selling alcohol to people who just got done seeing this movie and need to get so drunk they don't remember it the next day. I mean, dear god, have they no shame? How can you watch the final cut and say to yourself this is ready for the screen.? And how the hell are you going to wound yourself so badly through your pants with a little knife while sharpening a stick? "},{"Title":"a warning to the next guy, don't even try to watch!","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The whole movie is plain ridiculous. Mostly because Americans have no idea what smart means. I mean come on, trying to look smart with 12 yo knowledge?Had the young guy been the main character, it could be a romance movie. You can't do that with a rich old fart. It will never be a fatal lover.It can't pass as a drama either. There can't be much drama in guarding a fortune from people as greedy as the owner.Having this movie I skipped all negative reviews from the start, in hope they are wrong. Turns out they had a solid reason. As shown before, this is some adventure movie, with ordinary Hollywood seasoning. Such kind of movies should be made by people who love nature. The people behind this movie were both stupid and arrogant. This is what all this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Weird movie, Anthony Hopkins plays an analogy representing the wealthy 1% of society","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I read where Hopkins caught life-threatening pneumonia while filming this in Canada and in reality, THAT's what will kill you out in the wilderness -- running around in just a tweed jacket in the remote Canadian wilderness without even an axe and a few books of matches. Alas, back to Hollywood 'reality'. I'm pretty sure if a bear was chasing you across a log that was straddling a stream, it would not grab one end of it and start trying to shake you off it a-la a Bugs Bunny cartoon. I'm reviewing this as I watch it and I see the bear is back again, this time to kill the black man. So this 'bear' is going to be a recurring character in the film, a stalking bear that's decided to go after two city slickers. Boy, they sure crashed that plane in a bad spot! What are the odds? Anyhow, now Baldwin and Hopkins just caught a little chubby grey squirrel, the same kind you see in the burbs. I wonder if the film crew had to bring it with them or they just grabbed him off the sidewalk and gave him a few peanuts for the shot. Oh oh, now Hopkins was just trying to do a little fishing and guess what 800 pound buddy just snuck up on him through all that brush without making even a single sound? Yep, Mr. Bear! RUN Mr. HOPKINS, RUN!! Fast forward -- they just managed to kill the bear and it's a good thing 'cause as soon as they stripped the fur off it and somehow made a couple of nice fur coats for themselves, the weather went from 'tweed jacket' weather to snow-covered sub-zero fur-coat weather within about 1 day! ... How'd THAT happen? Winter sure must come fast in the Canadian far north. LOL!Now they just reached a hunting cabin where there's some smokes, booze and a gun so Baldwin can finally get drunk, take Hopkins outside and threaten to kill him with the gun only to step backwards into a big deep pit with sharpened sticks in the bottom! OH NO! VERY bad luck AGAIN!! These two sure have a thing about good and bad timing! So Hopkins has saved Baldwin now and even though Baldwin tried to kill him, he's going to forgive him and bring him back to civilization via canoe, but that's the 'character' of the 1%, even if you try and kill them and fail, they'll turn around and save your life because deep down, they're such GOOD PEOPLE! LOL! But maybe it's more like without the 99% endlessly consuming, the 1% can't profit and thrive.Well a helicopter just showed up and Hopkins waved it down but unfortunately, just as it was landing, Baldwin died. Yep, there's that bad timing thing again. He managed to hang on all those days in the woods but the very MINUTE that help shows up, he simply ups and dies.Oh, and on the final quote from Hopkins as he arrives back to civilization. Hopkins Why is the rabbit unafraid? Styles 'Cause he's smarter than the panther. Translation Why is the 1% unafraid?Cause they're smarter than the 99% "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Edge When stranded in the woods, it's a good idea to throw used tampons into the shrubs to keep bears off your trail.Unfortunately, the marooned men in this thriller are fresh out of soiled feminine napkins.When Charles (Anthony Hopkins) crash lands in the wilderness along side Bob (Alec Baldwin), a man he suspects is having an affair with his wife (Elle MacPherson) and plotting his murder, he must resist the urge to beat him to the punch, because there are more pressing matters.Dwarfing the awkward company and harsh surroundings is a ravenous bear that's trailing them.Putting aside their personal matters, Charles and Bob combine their abilities to combat the Kodiak.Written by David Mamet, The Edge is a taunt tale of male bonding amongst bear attacks. The acting is proficient and the dialogue acute.However, aren't grizzlies more apt to attack burly men in tattered clothes? (Yellow Light) vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Clearly Mamet was never a Boy Scout","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Pretty hard to take this film seriously, much of the time at least.The basic structure of the film is fine, and Hopkins and Baldwin both deliver fine performances. But the survival-related antics these men pull are straight out of a comic book, I think. (Trapping a chipmunk in a cage fashioned out of twigs??? Hilarious!!!) Although Bart the Bear also deserves his top billing, just about every scene he's in is utterly ludicrous. I guess that's not Bart's fault. Maybe his manager should've held out for a better script though.Watch it for the scenery, the machinations of the human characters and the dialog (at both of which Mamet excels), and for Hopkins' acting. And don't take any of the bear- or survival-related stuff seriously. This is not a movie to call to memory when you find yourself lost in the woods.... "},{"Title":"Survival-in-the-wild picture is a big lie","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The biggest picture of all time, Jaws, was largely responsible for the ensuing massacre of the world's sharks, ninety per cent of which are reported to have been eradicated, doing inestimable damage to the world's oceanic life. The Edge is in the same league, pretending to make a film about nature while producing a grotesque travesty that could well influence attitudes enough to produce approval of the massacre of large bears. Putting aside the movie's plot, which involves the testing of the billionaire hero's character, the villain role, the great white shark part, is played by a very large feral bear. Just as the shark in Jaws was a ludicrous travesty of reality, so is the bear in The Edge. He;s a man-eater, he's been stalking us all the way! shouts the genius billionaire, spouting pure delusion. Bears are not predators, they have no ability to stalk anyone. They have poor eyesight and blunder through the forest, treading on brittle sticks and brushing noisily against undergrowth. The mere tinkling of a bell is enough to attract their attention and send them shambling off in another direction, which is why prudent walkers wear bells. Trouble is, David Mamet, the big genius movie guy, needed something really bad to menace his hero, and a man-eater that stalks humans was the answer. This has far less validity than a steaming pile of fresh bear excrement. But the great man's need has been fulfilled, the world of bears cannot fight back, and a big injection of stupid prejudice against bears has been released into circulation to play again and again on late-night television when viewers' mental defences are down. I live in a part of the world where grizzly bears are constantly under threat from morons with guns, and this kind of movie gives those fools the stamp of approval and is really pernicious. Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Only in Alaska.","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Survival stories seem fairly common, but good performances keep The Edge afloat. Stranded in the Alaskan wilderness after a plane crash, Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins) and Robert Green (Alec Baldwin) have to rely on each other for survival, especially when they come across a hungry ursine (Bart the Bear).I will admit that there's nothing particularly special about this movie - the plot is pretty routine - but it does give one a feeling of having to fend for oneself. It's likely to either make you want to go to Alaska, or fear it.And you'd better learn to respect bears now... "},{"Title":"A decent enough film, though not as good as it could have been","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Anthony Hopkins is a good actor; scratch that, he's a great actor. He's pulled off some truly stellar performances during his long career. Unfortunately, a great actor does not equal a great film; any actor, regardless of his talent, can choose some bad parts, and some bad movies. Hopkins is one of those actors. He's chosen some very bad parts, and this is, to some degree, one of them. The film starts out somewhat good, presenting an interesting drama and some fairly interesting characters. About 30 minutes into it, it turns into a survival film, which is quite good, and it seems intent on showing us a true, realistic story of surviving in nature, in an area that is far away from civilization. However, it soon turns into a man versus nature type film, by having the characters fight a bear, rather than try to survive. Not long after, it tries to go back to being about survival, but this time it tries to integrate cheap thrills in the form of abrupt character changes, that take place for no apparent reason. Finally, it ends, in the exact way you had predicted it would end from the very moment you saw the cover and was informed that it was a Hollywood production about survival. The plot is pretty good, but had it stayed on track, it would have been much better. It also has a bad pace, I was quite bored for far too much of the movie, considering that it's just less than 2 hours long. The acting is great, both of the leads are great. Their characters are just far too uninteresting and almost cliche-like for us to care when they're in danger. Also, far too much of the film is too Hollywood-like. Namely the scenes with the bear; they're well-done, certainly, the bear training was excellent and the filming of said sequences was good too; but it just felt too lame and linear the way it seemed to be constantly chasing them. The dialog was fairly good, but way too cliched. It's also far too predictable; I doubt that anyone was surprised or shocked by the ending. It was all the way through entirely obvious who would and who wouldn't make it out alive. All in all, a decent enough film, but should have been better. I recommend it to fans of Hopkins, Baldwin and the survival movie genre. Just don't expect too much. 7/10 "},{"Title":"watchable but its reach exceeds its grasp","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Charles Morse (Hopkins) is a wealthy and intelligent magazine publisher with a much younger, supermodel wife; Bob Green (Baldwin) is a rival fashion photographer who carries a torch for her despite the fact that she's already taken. While vacationing in Alaska, a plane crash leaves Charles and Bob stranded in the wilderness and, despite their differences and the dramatic circumstances, they band together to survive. With a ferocious, man-eating Kodiak bear doggedly pursuing them every step of the way, their newfound harmony is quickly put to the test. Scenery is good, the actors work well together, and benefit from some exciting action scenes here and there, but the material isn't compelling enough to be the in-depth character study of two strong-willed men pushed to their very limits that it tries so hard to be. Watchable, but not particularly memorable, with a co-starring bear that steals the show from his human counterparts. **½ "}{"Title":"Only a few live bear sequences make this film worth seeing","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    The Edge has a good lead in Anthony Hopkins, but Alec Baldwin, once again, makes this film come across bleak. The bear sequences, though stupid (a sixty-something year old Hopkins out running a Kodiak) prove to be interesting, because they used a real Kodiak bear, and no cheap special effects.    Perhaps that is the only thing that makes The Edge worth watching. A dumb plot and boring characters does not help the viewing process, however. Too bad, because it had an okay premise. 1.5/4 stars-John  "},{"Title":"An oddly detatched film","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although I can see why people like this film, I never really felt like I could relate to it, it wasn't engaging enough. Hopkin's performance was not his best, he was too deadpan, and the way he questioned everything everyone said really annoyed me after a while. The scenery was great, but I never felt the film really captured the relationship between man and nature in the way films like 'The Thin Red Line' and 'The Night of the Hunter' did.As for the bear, I never really could find it that scary thanks to, er, stuff like Winnie the Pooh. I felt like I'd seen the film thousands of times before in films like 'The River Wild', 'Deliverance' and 'Deadly Pursuit'. At least it was entertaining. "},{"Title":"The name Charles","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Does anyone know how many times the name Charles is spoken by Bob throughout the duration of the flick???...dead serious,,,I;m curiousDoes anyone know how many times the name Charles is spoken by Bob throughout the duration of the flick???...dead serious,,,I;m curiousDoes anyone know how many times the name Charles is spoken by Bob throughout the duration of the flick???...dead serious,,,I;m curiousDoes anyone know how many times the name Charles is spoken by Bob throughout the duration of the flick???...dead serious,,,I;m curiousDoes anyone know how many times the name Charles is spoken by Bob throughout the duration of the flick???...dead serious,,,I;m curious "},{"Title":"Male Bonding Rituals","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Briefly put -- an off-course float plane flies through the wilderness, lots of tall trees draped in gloomy mist, over placid lakes, over grassy flats on which the hand of man has never set foot, weaving between gray mountains with snowy veins. The airplane crashes into one of the lakes, killing the pilot. The other three men -- a well-read businessman (Hopkins), the young man who intends to kill him and steal his wife and money (Baldwin), and a black guy with Rastafarian dreadlocks (Perrineau) who provides a bit of comic relief until, in a savage scene, he's eaten alive by a monstrous grizzly. Hopkins and Baldwin trek their way out of the woods and are finally rescued by a helicopter, but not before Baldwin gives up the ghost from an accidental wound.It really didn't start off too promisingly. This territory has been staked out by Jack London. I expected Hopkins and Baldwin to become vicious enemies. (Maybe Baldwin would straighten out at the end, or maybe he's d kill Hopkins before somehow being snuffed himself.) But the writers set themselves a more difficult task than simply putting together another action movie like Hidden, in which simple-minded characters are driven by simple-minded motives.Baldwin turns out not to be a frothing murderous psychopath. And Hopkins turns out not to be a hard-hearted pragmatist. Instead, Hopkins develops from an ordinary corporate pirate into an intelligent and, most important, generous and compassionate man who comes to like Baldwin even after he knows Baldwin wants to kill him.Baldwin may or may not have changed from a would-be murderer into Hopkins' friend -- the movie isn't clear on the point. But he's likable anyway. He becomes very human. He suffers without over dramatizing his suffering. I can't say I feel exactly one hundred percent, Charles, he tells Hopkins as he's bleeding to death.Nobody would expect a survival-in-the-woods movie from a writer like David Mamet, any more than we'd expect one from Neil Simon or Tennessee Williams. (What could they do, insult the bear to death?) But here it is. And the script is kind of witty too, allowing for a few touches of humor between the characters. I think I'll make three examples explicit because if you're not expecting them you might miss them.Hopkins and Baldwin are having their first argument about Hopkins' wife. Perrineau catches up to them, winded, and asks, Who's this we're talking about? Baldwin We're talking about Fanny Farmer here -- the mother of level measurement. I don't care what anyone says. That's a clever line. In another scene Baldwin is sitting at the side of a lake after a narrow escape from a man-eating bear. Hopkins strolls up to him. Baldwin Well, I guess this is a little different for you. Hopkins Oh? Baldwin Well, I mean it's a lot different than snorting coke off some girl's hipbone. (Long pause) Hopkins In what way? Baldwin cracks up but Hopkins plays it perfectly straight.Later, after the two men have killed the bear and eaten part of him (it doesn't seem to bother them that the bear has eaten Perrineau, so in a sense they --- well, never mind), Hopkins muses, I've always wanted to do something that was -- unequivocal. Baldwin I'd say this qualifies. If old Smokey there had popped up a year ago you'd have been calling your lawyer. Hopkins No -- I'd never do that to an animal.I had a little problem with the plot. I don't see why Elle MacPherson couldn't have been along on the trip, survived the crash, and had her clothes torn from her bit by bit in the course of the movie. Maybe she could have ripped off a strip of her hampering outer garments to provide a tourniquet for someone. Well, nothing's perfect.While we're mentioning imperfections, this movie follows the convention that once a minor character is killed nobody grieves for him. The pilot dies and he's not even mentioned as the survivors struggle out of the lake. The poor black guy gets torn apart and we never hear his name again. And no movie about people lost in a wilderness seems able to avoid the cliché of the search-and-rescue plane that just barely misses them, even as they jump and yell and wave their arms in a frenzy.I also don't know they had such trouble finding which direction was south. In the Boy Scouts I learned that moss always grows on the north side of tree trunks. Moreover, at those high latitudes, the sun at its zenith is south. When it rises, it comes up in the southeast. When it sets, it goes down in the southwest. And at night, naturally, you can use Polaris, the north star, which you can find not only by using Cassiopeia but the much more prominent big dipper. What's all this nonsense about a magnetized needle and a metal belt buckle? They got the wooden spears right, though. In most cultures the points are hardened over a fire.I kind of enjoyed it, despite the absence of MacPherson. I once knew an anthropologist who was employed by the government to parachute into an uninhabited area with nothing but a knife and canteen and see if he could get out alive. (Whatever they were paying him, it wasn't enough.) What we see Hopkins and Baldwin doing here has become an outdoor sport in gentler climates, called orienteering I think. "},{"Title":"The only really great thing about this movie is the bear","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" They considered calling this film The Bear Roared (see trivia). That may sound like a stupid title, but it would have summed this movie up quite nicely. The bear was about the only exciting thing in The Edge.I really don't get why some people loved this movie. It was alright. Anthony Hopkins performed well in it. But Alec Baldwin? Well, he gives a slightly higher than mediocre performance (which for him isn't so unusual). It was hard to like either character, however. Baldwin's character (Bob) is a jerk, and Hopkin's character (Charlie) is a know it all, billionaire, anti-semite (unless Bob is lying when he says that Charlie hates jews). Nevertheless, the chase/mauling scenes with the kodiak bear are really exciting. It's just too bad it couldn't have killed all 3 protagonists.2 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Nothing too special","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have wanted to see this film, because I like Hopkins and Baldwin, but the movie wasnt all that exciting, it had some great moments(especially the bear scenes), but after that the only thing to keep things going was the arguing about Hopkins' wife(Elle MacPhereson)being too good for Hopkins, and this escalates to a feud between the two men, and thats when things fall apart.  Its a watchable adventure but nothing more.  **1/2 out of ****, or 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Step Away.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A book worm billionaire (Anthony Hopkins), a photographer (Alec Baldwin) and his assistant (Harold Perrineau, Jr.) are involved with a terrifying plane crash and must survive on their own in this could-have-been film that bores more than it intrigues. There is friction though between Hopkins and Baldwin as Hopkins' model wife (Elle Macpherson) is having an affair with the famed photographer. Hopkins knows this, but he knows he must put all problems aside if the three are to survive. The film is part Survivor, but plays like a two-man show ala Sleuth too much to be a success. Baldwin just cannot match Hopkins' brilliance and Hopkins sometimes struggles with a screenplay that roams all over the map. Just a ho-hum film that will not entertain most movie-goers. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Try not to get eaten by the bear.","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It seems now that Anthony Hopkins ' parts are written specially for him,no matter who will be his partners who serve as foils to him.A far cry from his Ivory and Demme roles.Here his character who's a bit of a bear-so to speak- is able to give a first-class survival course to his bubble head fellows .The expression supporting actor takes on a meaning it rarely has here. The story is very trite with the obligatory love triangle (even if one of the sides is absent for most of the movie),and the old-who-knows-better-than-the-rookies trick.Scenes with blood galore.The best is the splendid landscape.We can do without the people.The helicopter trick has been used so many times it does not generate suspense anymore. "},{"Title":"a not very exciting thriller","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A wealthy man and his photographer are stranded in the wilderness. Before becoming lost, the two men were at odds over the rich man's wife. In fact, the photographer was planning to eliminate his rival; something the other man sensed all along. Their antagonisms came to a head at a lonely outpost where they finally settled the matter. But first they had to survive the elements and a man eating bear. I felt the action was a little to pat and contrived; they never seemed to get overly cold or hungry, but the scenes with the bear attacks were gripping. An ok film, but not one I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While the main titles were running, I expected a real good movie Anthony Hopkins in the lead, Donald McAlpine on camera, and, most promising, David Mamet wrote the script.But from the first scene, at the airport, the situation between Hopkins, McPherson and Baldwin was obvious. Having seen the trailer, I knew the two men would soon find themselves alone in the wild woods facing a hungry bear.When they did, after 30 minutes or so, I waited for those Mametian twists and turns. But they never came. Hopkins found evidence for adultery, but it was soon clear that the Hopkins character was too good to kill Baldwin, while the Baldwin character was too weak to kill Hopkins. So the whole film, including the ending, was predictable.As it moves along, the only things that keep you interested are Hopkins' fine acting, McAlpine's terrific camera work (you'd better get the widescreen version!) and some of the intelligent dialogue.The rest is boring, as is the film as a whole. "}{"Title":"Could have been good, but isn't","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Great camera, great scenery, the bear-hunt is great et c.... but an awful script full of ridiculous dialogues and platitudes destroys the movie. The phrases Hopkins and Baldwin have to break in are terrible. As frustrating as the dialogues are the actions. Hopkins builds vast traps, hotel-like tree houses and tans bear-coats within hours just with his li'l knife...the survival-trip drifts into complete self-parody. don't watch this one if you like movies with a man<->nature theme. if you expect a thriller, you will be even more disappointed. the plot is predictable and the characters are as based on platitudes as the dialogues. it's bad and boring. "},{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As far as I can see this should have gone straight to video. The plot is contrived, the characters are not even as well selected for mutual antagonism as the cast of Big Brother (not Orwell, pap TV!), and you never like any of them enough to even want to follow it through to the end.We have water, snow, mountains, bears. And wow, three guys survive a plane crash in an icy lake that no-one could actually swim in for more than two minutes with dying of hypothermia!Great wallpaper if you like Deliverance without the mountain men raping anyone. Wait, I am but half way through! Maybe they turn up as well! "},{"Title":"Somewhat witty & drags on","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie seemed to me that it was a sleeper during the long wooded scenes. Anthony Hopkins crafts natural survival tools & uses wit to stay alive in the wilderness. Hopkins plays the optimistic one. Alec Baldwin plays an okay role of smart remarks & has some pessimism. If you watch the movie you'll know what I'm talking about. Mainly this comes down to desperation to be rescued from the woods with no help from civilization in site. Note You'll realize the animosity Baldwin has towards Hopkins during the movie. I won't make this a full spoiler for you if you plan on watching this film. "},{"Title":"What was the bear's problem?","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I mean seriously, I don't know wiether I liked this movie or not. I guess it was alright. There was nothing wrong with the acting. Nothing wrong with the effects. I'm not sure, I think it was just a weak plot that got me bored. It's your typical survival movie. SPOILER ALERT4 men go out into the woods and crash their plane. 1 dies automatically. 3 are left to figure out how to get out. 1 is a millionaire book worm, 1 is a selfish photographer who claims to be a friend, and his assistent. The assistent gets eaten by a man-stalking bear. 2 of them are left. And of course the friend betrays the millionaire.You get the idea.5/10 "},{"Title":"What an adventure!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was less than impressed with this movie. This was not what I had expected from Anthony Hopkins. Alex Baldwin in a nutshell though. Pathetic acting and just not convincing as the photographer who is said to have an affair with Charles Morse (played by Hopkins) 30-year younger wife.It takes some time for the real story to begin and when it does it is believable but you will always be let down by Baldwin's poor acting an Hopkins' sort of plain expectedly old mans manner. I can't go into details of course of what happens, but if you like an adventure with good shots of nature then why not see it. If you are interested in good acting, a great story and movie-making see 'Deliverance' (with Jon Voight and Burt Reynolds), which is just _at least_ ten times better! "},{"Title":"the edge, a disappointment","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  in my opinion, characters were too underdeveloped for me to feel what was going on.  with hopkins, you don't get the overwhelming feeling of remorse for charles morse because you don't find out until the very end that he doesn't have that many real friends.  the characterization of his wife changes at the end, but even then, you still don't know what kind of a woman she is.  poor decision to try to marble in so many details as the story goes along.  in my opinion, it leaves the actors looking like stock characters and it frustrates the plot to the point that you wonder if they're making this up as they go along. "},{"Title":"The Edge of What? Mediocrity?","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The premise 3 men survive a plane crash and then must survive the wilderness. One wants to kill another on top of that. Who will survive and what will be left of them? This movie has two great stars (Anthony Hopkins and Alec Baldwin) in some of their more forgettable performances. Baldwin was really average and his role could have been played by anyone. Hopkins was good, but I think the role was too undemanding to call in such a great actor. Harold Perrineu (the whiny Michael from ABC's Lost) shows up for a while, and we get some fight scenes with Bart the Bear (The Great Outdoors).The only thing that's really cool about this film is watching two men trying to survive and using very creative means to do so. Beyond that, the plot isn't very strong (it's not really clear to me why the one man wants to kill the other). And for some reason I was getting visions of Cliffhanger, which is one of my least favorite films and that soured the mood. The bear scenes? Awful, truly awful. As soon as a chase begins, the scenery becomes so fake I have no sympathy for the actors.The most visually inspiring scene? The plane crash -- extended and much more graphic than many other films, and I was shocked how well this was pulled off.Elle MacPherson was unnecessary. Not only is she made out to be more attractive in this film than she really is, I didn't even recognize her as Elle, so her star power was lost on me. Was this the biggest model they could find in 1997? The film was interesting but ultimately disposable. I probably won't remember what I watched a month from now, and if I did I would have no desire to see it a second time. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been a Decent Made-For-TV movie","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" For all the talent in 'The Edge' (Anthony Hopkins, Alec Baldwin) I have to say I was more then a little bit disappointed with it. It's not really a bad film, it just never resembles anything remotely original. Anthony Hopkins is good as always playing a powerful yet kind millionaire stranded in the woods with his wife's photographer played by Alec Baldwin (who I felt really phoned in his performance). The two go on a helicopter ride to find a man out in the middle of the woods (in the middle of winter, no less) and their helicopter crashes and the pilot and co-pilot die on impact leaving Hopkins and Baldwin stranded god-knows-where in the middle of snowy woods. Also stranded with them is Baldwin's assistant played nicely by the funny Harold Perrineau. The three have to fight to stay alive while they look for a way out. There's some action, but not much. The film usually relies on the powerful emotional drama that because of the poor writing is few and far between. 'The Edge' makes for a so-so way to kill two hours. In my opinion, it should have been a made-for-TV movie. The caliber of this film really wastes the talent of the two lead actors. Film Grade C "},{"Title":"The bear steals the show","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A promising concept, but in actuality this movie falls apart after the bear makes his exit.  The bear was the most compelling thing in this mess.  I prefer to believe that David Mamet did not write this tripe.  Not THAT David Mamet.  No, it must be some other David Mamet.  Please? "},{"Title":"Total rubbish - do not bother watching","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is total rubbish.  It looked good on the video box cover (looked like there might be good shots of Alaska wilderness and a good plot).  But the film is rubbish.Idiotic modelling theme put in with Alec Baldwin (who is usually an excellent actor, like in Nuremberg, etc.) playing a photographer.  He swears a lot (which is not necessary in this film).  Plus, there's some token black man who joins Baldwin and Hopkins on their flight over to see some old bloke in a log cabin - yet there is absolutely no motivation or explanation for why he joins them! (he just turns up in the plane, presumably as the essential token black character).I gave up after 55 minutes - it was the same old cliche, with a big brown bear chasing them while they constructed a makeshift bridge over a deep gorge.  Has that been done before, or what?  The bear conveniently just roars everytime the moronic director needs to inject some form of suspense into the plot, without ever getting any closer to them.The film is complete rubbish, don't bother renting it. "}{"Title":"IT SUCKED","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"8 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The brother always dies. The bear would have killed the dumb city folk easily.  The ending sucked.   "}]