[{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just caught this movie on Encore.  I'd never had much interest in seeing it based on the negative comments that have been made about it.  It was much better than I (and a lot of other people) gave it credit for being.  I came to the IMDB site because the credits went by too fast and I wanted to check some of the actors.  I was surprised to find that so many people really disliked this film.  First of all, I'd like to point out that the original show was fantasy.  C'mon--does anyone really think that the series represented what it was like in the South Pacific during the Second World War?  It also doesn't give you much of a starting point except the characters and their interactions.  With apologies to Tim Conway, Joe Flynn, et. al., the original series had only one star--Ernest Borgnine.  It was called McHale's Navy for a reason.  So it's fitting that Tom Arnold should be the focus of the movie.  I think they did keep to the spirit of the original series and, where these comments started, the movie was just as much a fantasy as the series was.  In terms of the plot, it too kept with the spirit of the original series.  For those of you looking for plot depth or profound characters missed the point of both the series and the movie. It was supposed to be entertainment, escapism, with a mild segue into reality.  If you want something profound, watch Schindler's List or something by Kurasawa, or anything Shakespeare by Brannagh.  But don't ask me to eat the same thing for dinner each night--I'll get tired of it and I'll yearn for cotton candy.  Movies of this type are called guilty pleasures.  They're supposed to be fun.  Having said that, one man's fun is another man's Bergman.  This movie isn't going to be everyone's cup of tea but it isn't a bad movie.  Just take it for what it is--a little bit of fun, a little bit of fantasy. "},{"Title":"A Dissenting Voice (possible spoilers)","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Yup... I guess I WAS right. I MUST be the only person in this entire country who absolutely enjoyed this film. Yes, it wasn't as good as the original TV show, but name one remake that HAS been?..... Anyone?..... I didn't think so.However, if you compare this movie to an episode of the show, you'll see that the formula was fairly well preserved. McHale seemed very in character to me, as did Binghampton. And I have a little theory that says that if an actor/actress from the original show agrees to have a role in the remake, then they have approved of it.So, I'm not about to argue with Mr. Borgnine, although I have no reason to anyway. I thought Dean Stockwell as Capt. Binghampton was absolutely hilarious, and I think he did an imitation of his voice very well. This movie made me a fan of David Alan Grier--he was brilliant in this movie.Yes, the movie was cheesy, corny, and whatever synonyms you can think of. But it was funny and every time I want a good laugh, this is the first movie I pop into the VCR. "},{"Title":"stop over analyzing","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The acting isn't the best and the story line is pretty stupid but it's a fun movie. Don't over analyze it because it's supposed to be a funny and retarded movie. Why else would Tom Arnold be in it? lol If you are a serious or uptight person who only appreciates high budget awarded winning films than don't bother watching it. On the other hand, if you are like me and enjoy watching all types of movies from low budget yet entertaining disasters to box office hits than you would probably enjoy this movie.I love Tim Curry as Vladikov. He is a great actor and always does extremely funny roles.I love this movie.It was extremely cheesy but it is so entertaining. When ever I want a good laugh this is one of the films I watch. "},{"Title":"Underrated comedy gold","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OK for starters, this movie deserves far better than the 3.8 it currently holds, hence my 8/10. In truth, this film is a great piece of entertainment, and I can think of few films that are as mindless as they are funny. This is not meant to be Oscar material, but succeeds in entertaining from beginning to end. Bruce Campbell of course makes this worth seeing by himself, but the rest of the cast hold their own. Tom Arnold usually is seen as a bad indicator of quality, but his cheesy dialog has its moments. Rent it, buy it, just watch it, and judge for yourself. It will not be a waste of time. "},{"Title":"A movie well worth watching","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I know most people hate McHale's navy, but I really don't care. I thought it was pretty funny. Tim Curry was really good as the villain, Vladikov (the #2 best terrorist in the world). Bruce Campbell is pretty good. David Allen Grier was, as usual, great as Ens. Charles T. Parker.I'd never seen the original series, but I'm glad that they had Ernest Borgnine, the original McHale, as Cobra.And, last, but DEFFINITELY not least, Tom Arnold. I used to watch Roseanne, and always liked his obnoxious humor. It's even better in McHale's Navy. He's got some unique style, that guy.Well, I've chatted long enough.PS. Tim Curry and Tom Arnold had both been in an episode of Roseanne. "},{"Title":"Pants with a capital P.","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I watched this on a commercial station and between each advert break they flashed up the title card as 'McHale's War' instead of McHale's Navy, and that seemed to sum up the complete lack of interest this film generates in almost everybody. The TV station couldn't even get the title right. This is a bad film &#150; a comedy that is consistently and forcefully unfunny. I didn't laugh once throughout the entire hellish running time, and only managed the barest ghost of a smile on a couple of occasions. Let's face it &#150; any film in which Tom Arnold is the star is in trouble from the off. For all I know he may well be a wonderful person but he isn't a star and he isn't a comedian. The only time he's funny is during the 'action' sequences and when he tries to act serious his nostrils flare a little and his eyes widen a touch and that's it &#150; it's a kind of one-size-fits-all expression for every emotion he is called upon to express. He's supposed to be one of those charismatic types in this film, the type of guy everyone warms to the moment he opens his mouth. That's right &#150; Tom Arnold. Did some casting executive read this part and really think to himself 'why, that's a part just tailor-made for that Tom Arnold chap? Hmmm. Dean Stockwell is also in this, he's quite a good actor but he's awful here &#150; in fact he hasn't been much good in anything since Married to the Mob. Tim Curry is just a cartoon character in a flesh suit these days and sleepwalks through his role. The running joke about his being the second greatest terrorist in the world is done to death in the first twenty minutes of the film and then thankfully forgotten. Only the ever-solid Bill Campbell is worth a look, but his part is woefully small. The TV show was around before my time, so I've no point of reference with regard to how accurately this film captures the atmosphere of the show, but somehow I can't believe it was as lame as this. If it was the film would never have been greenlighted.Do yourself a favour and do what everyone involved in this mess should have done give it a wide, wide berth. "},{"Title":"Torpedo'd quickly and sank","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It was hard to tell if they were trying to be so bad that it was funny or if it was just that bad. The movie suffers from continuity issues to incorrect uniforms and not being funny. Special effects were low budget. They did not try to disguise that models were being blown up or that sets did not make sense.The cast has several familiar faces but the acting was below standard. The characters were too cartoonish and over exaggerated. Some plot mechanics are stretched too thin to be believable. It is OK to be unreal in fiction, but the audience needs to believe the story. That aspect was not accomplished.Not the worst movie but it is a bad one. It has very little to do with the namesake 1960's TV show. "},{"Title":"Navy's Shame.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" McHale's Navy (1997) Dir Bryan Spier / Cast Tom Arnold, Dean Stockwell, Debra Messing, Tim Curry, Ernest Borgnine Pathetic hunk of trash where everyone acts like a bunch of morons, and since this is McHale's Navy we are suppose to look forward to these idiots saving the day. Tom Arnold plays McHale who is popular amongst his troops because he provides them with ice cream, nudie calendars, etc. Everything is a joke until Dean Stockwell and Debra Messing arrive to whip them into shape. Tim Curry plays the second most dangerous terrorist in the world who wishes to take over the island. Perhaps too many villains are aiming for world domination so he settles for this tiny island because he sucks. He is constantly rolling his eyes but then again, after appearing in a film this bad it is understandable. The characters exist to be idiots and succeed with flying colours. While Stockwell is lecturing the troops he catches one pea brain eating ice cream, which is stupid since there is no reason for him to be eating it at this time. Dreadful writing and directing by Bryan Spier with horrible acting by Arnold in a role every bit as stupid as his Carpool role. Stockwell, Messing, Ernest Borgnine, and unfortunately Tim Curry also blemish their careers with this trash. It is shameless to witness a cast of this caliber drown in this garbage. It is a mindless bag of garbage that is never funny. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Light hearted comedy, made for silly giggles, a mood lifter","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Quinton McHale (Tom Arnold) is in the Navy on a lush Caribbean island, lucky duck. Surrounding him are his men, including Ensign Parker (David Alan Grier) and a host of others (one is French Stewart). Not really having a lot to do, McHale runs a side business in pin-up calendars while the swabs under him bunk in hammocks outside, instead of the stuffy barracks. Alas, the Navy gets wind of this and sends a new, no-nonsense but weird Captain, Cap Binghamton (Dean Stockwell) and his true believer Lieutenant Carpenter (Debra Messing), to clean up the ship. This upsets all, naturally. Meanwhile, a German spy (Tim Curry) is set to capture the same island for the Commie Homeland. The Captain is blind to this coming takeover, so its up to McHale and company to thwart these doings. Our Mac also gets help from a secret Navy General (Ernest Borgnine). Whoa, and perhaps Carpenter is falling for McHale and about to switch sides! What will be the finale? This light-hearted, fun film will be a silly mood lifter for those who view it. What could really be better than that in this world? The cast is terrific, with Stockwell very comedic and Arnold, Stewart, Messing, Grier, and all of the others backing him up nicely. How great to see Borgnine, too, as he was the original McHale as we all know. The scenery of the islands is wonderful, like paradise on earth, while the script and direction are up to snuff, , albeit not likely to win awards. Join this Navy, do, and you will be a contented soul. "},{"Title":"Depth charge.....","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Naval commander McHale has left the service and set-up trade on a Caribbean island, which supplies his former mates at a military base nearby with all their needs.The base is now commanded by Capt. Binghampton and island governor has a deal with a terrorist to use the island as base. McHale gets back into his crew when his arch-enemy Major Vladikov sets up an operation to destroy the island.....1997 was a random year for comedy, you had watchable guff like Rocketman and Most Wanted, but then you had awful, brain dead movies like Gone Fishin', and this film.I don't think that it matters that I have never seen the series, but I get the jist. I'm guessing it was a lot like St. Bilko, but set at sea. Arnold is an okay screen presence, and is a wonderful supporting character, as seen in True Lies, and even Exit Wounds.But the man cannot carry a movie, and Carpool and this prove it, and no matter how many zany supporting characters there are, it doesn't help him.The story is awful, Messing looks desperate, and Curry hams it up almost illegally.There's a big explosion at the end and Dean Stockwell looks bored.Like I was after this dirge. "}{"Title":"Silly and predictable, but I don't think it is as bad as it is made out to be","Date":"9 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Is it as good as the original series? No it isn't. Is it is the worst film ever? No, there are much worse- Disaster Movie, Home Alone 4, The Garbage Pail Kids Movie, SuperbabiesBaby Geniuses 2 and TitanicThe Animated Movie are all much worse than this. Is it a bad film? I personally don't think so.Yes the plot is predictable and falls into stupidity one too many times. Yes there are some hits and misses in the jokes and script, I actually found a lot of it funny but some of them(ie. Vladikov's 2nd best terrorist in the world boast) got old quite fast. And yes French Stewart is given very little to do.Despite this, I found myself enjoying it. I don't know why, I just did. The film looks nice enough, some of the scenery is colourful and the photography is decent enough. I liked the soundtrack too, especially Working on My Tan which was a nice addition. While corny, the script did get some laughs from me, and Bruce Campbell while underused is fun to watch. The direction is okay, the film moves quickly and is fairly short while nicely rounded off. The cast are fine on the whole. Ernest Borgnine is a joy as always as is Dean Stockwell whose comic talent here almost equals his TV counterpart Joe Flynn, as is Tim Curry(anybody who knows me knows I am a fan of Tim's), and Tom Arnold and Debra Messing are appealing too.Overall, hardly something to rave about but I personally don't think it deserves the panning it gets. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Cuba The Land of Oppression. And Opportunity.","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Quint McHale (Tom Arnold) has made a fine life of smuggling contraband through the United States Navy in San Moreno. But his old nemesis, Major Vladikov, has set up base on a nearby island and is looking to become the world's best terrorist.While this movie is quite stupid, it's also really fun and I did find some parts amusing. It's a clean sort of fun, which you don't see much of any more, and I appreciated that. Strictly PG. And I enjoyed watching men follow Tom Arnold around (which, according to Bruce Campbell, is mostly all him and French Stewart were directed to do -- and if you watch for this, you'll see it right away).We also have Dean Stockwell, Debra Messing (before she was big), Tim Curry and Ernest Borgnine (the original McHale from the TV series). I am suspicious that whoever wrote this also wrote the Maverick movie, because there are some eerie similarities (some of which I can't get into without spoiling it). I don't know if that's a good thing or a very bad thing.I should also note this movie felt, to me, degrading to women. On one hand they're congratulating Penelope Carpenter (Messing) on her accomplishments as a woman, but then the next moment they are treating her different than everyone else. She is seen as supportive and inferior, and really her only purpose in the plot is to be a romantic interest for McHale -- the ultimate in secondary characters. Normally this wouldn't bother me, but they made it so obvious.All in all, I really did enjoy this movie. Why it received such a poor response from viewers, I don't know. The cast is eclectic and fun, the jokes silly but endearing. And as long as you like Tom Arnold (I don't mind him) you should be able to enjoy this film. Everyone seems to confuse it with Down Periscope, which is too bad -- this is a good one in its own right. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says.  That's funny!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is by far one of my favorite military parodies ever, and i loved both hot shots movies.  first, let me say that with possibly one exception (scary movie 2)  Tim Curry can do no wrong, and he delivered his lines with sterling precision in this movie, pulling off the insane soviet terrorist perfectly.  Also, the mere presence of Bruce cambell in anything ressurects this movie from any slightly bad features it may have.  well played out, and expertly performed, even by tom arnold.  a must see for when you need a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Another TV show that was made into a movie that sucked!!avoid this movie!!OK for families if it's your kind of family film!!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is based on the TV show by the same name . It has bad acting , bad plot , basically the whole movie needs some major help !!It was one of my least favorite movies on the big screen!!Overall, it is OK for families because it's rated PG!!If you like Tom Arnold a lot , you might like this move!!Otherwise this movie just plain sucked!!!Even the Brady Bunch movies were better than this stuff!!!Watch only if you are a fan of the TV show or of the movies main stars!!! "},{"Title":"The hardest working black-marketeer in history","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Making a movie remake of a great TV series is a highly risky endeavor. Unless the movie remake is absolutely fantastic, critics will rip the movie to shreds and so will a good number of viewers! Initially, I was annoyed by some of the character choices, feeling that the addition of a female for Lt.Carpentrer and a black for Ens. Parker was an act of putting too high a priority on political correctness, over entertainment.But the two, given the chance, proved that their roles were perfectly suited and they portrayed their characters brilliantly. David Alan Grier is a comic genius who had me in stitches! Dean Stockwell portrayed Capt. Binghampton with the same comic brilliance as the Late Great Joe Flynn. Tim Curry's Maj.Vladikov really gets on one's nerves with his constant complaining of being only the second biggest terrorist in the world and it is easy to despise him. But then again, Maj. Vladikov just happens to be the bad guy! So we're supposed to despise him.To really get the most out of this movie, one must forget the original series which took place during World War Two and simply focus on the this movie, which takes place in the present.The movie is funny. It has a action scenes and some edge-of-your-seat action. And if the movie was anywhere as bad as some critics made it out to be, would Ernest Borgnine, the original McHale had allowed himself to be involved with this film? I think not! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bad - good The guy with the gun is in it","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just watch this movie cos Bruce Campbell stars in. But this movie is boring. The Funny scenes are boring too. Even Bruce or The Horse Face Tim Curry cant save this movie. But not the worst movie I ever seen. But Really BAD. "},{"Title":"Unnecessary Remake Is Incredibly DULL","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Another rehash of vintage American television. (Some of it aged like fine Baron Philippe de Rothschild wine; however, most have turned to vinegar.) The humor, has become overtly anachronistic.    This time around, MCHALE'S NAVY is in a late 1990's setting, with Tom Arnold at the helm. (He also co-produced). My first question was, why make the remake? The original series was amusing, but really not a landmark series. (I've seen a reel of out takes from the old series, which were hysterically funny, but in no way, shape or form would've made it on the air).The only possible answer I could come up with, was trying to cash in on baby boomer sentiments. Well, it would seem the boomers are not quite THAT sentimental. In a nutshell, this overlong, boring and painfully unfunny movie, was a waste of time for everyone on both sides of the screen. Tom Arnold has some genuine ability, and he was quite good in TRUE LIES. Why he has chosen some really, I mean excruciatingly bad, movie roles is beyond the scope of human imagination. MCHALE'S NAVY should be avoided at all costs.     "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This attempt to recreate the magic of the early 1960's series succeeded only in making me wax nostalgic for the series.  They made two theatrical movies of the series in the mid-60's; they were both poor; this is abominable.  On paper, Tom Arnold as McHale and Dean Stockwell as Binghamton sounded like it should have had some possibilities.  Arnold, at least, has the right attitude, but Stockwell, doing his worst Dan Hedaya imitation, is atrocious. The rest of the acting is equally out of synch, but not nearly as bad as the dialogue.  Do not waste your time on this adolescent trash. "},{"Title":"If Hollywood writers go on a strike, how would we know the difference?","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The original series starred Ernest Borgnine fresh off his film career which included an Academy Award winning performance as MARTY.  The real stars of the show were Tim Conway and Joe Flynn, two comics with perfect timing.  The rest of the crew was basically just wall paper (wall paper does have it's place, Gavin MacLeod made a career out of playing wall paper in this program, THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW, and THE LOVE BOAT).  The humor of the show required that Conway or Flynn or both be on screen to get a laugh.  Like many TV shows of the time, two theatrical features were made (in color) and the second only with Conway and Flynn.  A remake of the whole thing flops mainly because of the lack of comic timing (a mix of slapstick and vaudeville) that Conway and Flynn brought to the original.  About the same time as this remake Steve Martin and Dan Ackroyd attempted to remake another service related TV comedy SGT. BILKO.  Martin and Ackroyd have timing and still flopped with the genre.  So maybe the two shows could only be made at the time they were made with the people who made them.  That makes them really special and why Nick at Nite and TV Land will have little competition from new Hollywood.  Note  If you have any original ideas move to Hollywood, apparently there are no writers in Hollywood with original ideas.  They can use you. "},{"Title":"A Painful Memory","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I had warned my then-boyfriend that McHale's Navy was going to be an awful film.  There were many signs.  One was that it was based on a TV show nobody my age (20) really ever watched, not even as syndicated reruns.  Another was the cast, which lit up plenty of warning lights  Tom Arnold as the lead? Tim Curry as the villain?  French Stewart as the funny guy?  Ack!  But we went anyway.I remember that, even though it was a rather short film, I was very bored. I don't even recall any salient plot details apart from vaguely clever and falsely emotional bit about helping out some troubled islanders from the wicked schemes of Tim Curry.  I also remember cracking up laughing when Curry's character grabbed a child character, snarling Come here, boy! because somebody behind me said Peter Pan the Pirates, referring to the cartoon where Curry did voice acting as Captain Hook.  It did seem like Curry was putting on his generic bad guy with bad foreign accent performance.  And the less said about Tom Arnold, the better.Now, whenever I talk to my ex, he'll sometimes joke, You know, you were SO RIGHT about the McHale's Navy movie.  You told me it was going to suck, but I refused to listen. "}{"Title":"Was considering, until I saw the casting","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I am a fan of McHale's Navy, and since i enjoy watching the original series, I thought I'd see the movie, until I saw the cast. Tom Arnold as McHale, wow that started to kill my interest, then I saw Tim Curry, that killed it even more. David Allen Grier, who I like don't get me wrong, but as Ensign Parker, who is white, that kills the originality of the film because in order for it to be McHale's Navy, everyone who takes the role has to fit the part from the original series, so that means race, and gender, etc. Then a female as Captain Binghampton's aid, who is supposed to be a male, named Elroy Carpenter. French Stewart as Happy, and Happy is fat and bald, and I don't think French is, there isn't Fuji, there isn't Tinker, so they should have made a different name for the film because this isn't what the title says it is; it's not McHale's Navy, its someone else's Navy. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, somehow","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" From the moment I realized who the lead of this was, I knew I was doomed. I suffered the torment of this purely to be able to warn others. To confirm all your fears. Yes; this is utterly terrible. You can find ones flicks more insulting to your intelligence, but that does not excuse this. It is instantly and consistently irritating, it is obnoxious, and it is completely useless, except maybe as an instrument of torture. Not unlike Arnold himself. If you can't figure out how this will end about five minutes into it, you haven't watched enough movies... or I've seen far too many, I'm not certain which. This is just intolerable and unfunny throughout. From the commander who is always yapping like a chihuahua to the over the top jokes and gags with zero comedic value. At least the cartoon sound effects(!) are only heard a couple of times. Why would you cast French Stewart and give him nothing to do? Same goes for Campbell, the coolest thing about this(I would have thought he was a sure recipe for success no matter how poor the script, however, when he has nothing to work with... I mean, read the Trivia. He does get an awesome moment or two, thank god. Borgnine's too talented for this crap. Curry is a little enjoyable, and I can imagine he got a kick out of this. The music tends to be awful, and what little of it isn't are excellent Blues tunes that it should be against the law to use in a film so bad. At least the director has done better since this. I recommend this solely to those who refuse to believe that it is as worthless as it is. 1/10 "},{"Title":"close to awful","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" i had high hopes for this movie before watching it.but,maybe i shouldn't have.after all,it does star Tom Arnold.some of the films he is in are OK,especially where he is not the main character.but this one,not so much.it's billed as a comedy,but that entails laughter.it's based on the 1962 series of the same name,supposedly.if that's case,the makers of the TV show should sue the makers and actors involved in this movie for defamation.i like Debra Messing,but she picked the wrong movie to be a part of.Tim Curry also stars,playing a variation of every bad guy he has ever played.the plot is silly,to be kind.the back cover promises madcap adventure and and zaniness.maybe it's a typo.it's no wonder this movie tanked at the box office.for me,McHale's Navy is a 3/10 "},{"Title":"In the Navy!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What a load of crap!  This movie was sad on to many levels to list, and I actually have a friend who bought the damn thing! I give him crap everytime I see him, don't worry.  Tom Arnold works in supporting comedy roles (True Lies) but as the star, he is woefully lacking.  Just Terrible. "},{"Title":"Sinks farther than HELL!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  S P O I L E R S  A H E A DSeeing Tom Arnold's name on a movie is a sign that it is going to suck. (Except for True Lies, which I haven't seen yet. Yes I know that doesn't make sense.) Anyway, this is by far his worst film to date. The cast is great, yet TOM ARNOLD IS IN IT! This is the first film I have hated that had DAVID ALAN GRIER, FRENCH STEWART, and TIM CURRY IN IT! The plot? Quinton McHale (Tom Arnold) retires from the Navy only to come out of retirement to stop a terrorist (Tim Curry) who wants to blow up an island. They have to go to the island and do stuff that would destroy the terrorist. Too bad they couldn't destroy Tom. Like all Movies based on TV shows, a person from the original must make a cameo. Here is Ernest Borgnine as the original McHale. The script sounds like five year olds wrote it. Especially, the monkey scene. In short....It sucks. If you must see a movie with Tom Arnold, I recommend....uh,...You'll have to get back with me on that one. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of all time","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is easily the worst movie I have ever seen. Thank god I didn't pay full price for this clunker.The acting is terrible. The story is horrendous. Apparently this is a remake of the original. I hate to imagine what the original is like if the remake is this bad... "},{"Title":"BAD ACTING BAD EVERY THING","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that when you see you think to yourself hay I could have done better than this dog droppings.  If they had given me the same money, actors and a guy that could write down and flesh out my ideas this would have had to be a better movie, it would be impossible for it to be worse. "},{"Title":"HATE IT, HATE IT, HATE IT, HATE,HATE,HATE IT!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Did I happen to mention that I hate this pile of cinematic crap? Any resemblance between this and the classic tv series is a real shame. Dean Stockwell, usually a fine actor, probably destroyed his career with his portrayal of Captain Binghimton-Joe Flynn has to be spinning in his grave! And of course, Tom Arnold as McHale, need I say more?No redeeming qualities whatsoever. Maybe even worse than LEONARD, PART 6.Rating -0 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Comedy IS Hard","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's true....Comedy IS hard.  And nothing is more painful than watching a group of actors attempt to do sight gags and wisecracks, without ever succeeding.  And all the actors seem to be out-of-step with each other....none of them are in the same movie, really.  And none of them should have made this one. "},{"Title":"Crrrap","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  that's what this is. it's simply horrible from the plot to the acting (i blame the casting) passing through what is just the first thing any comedy should focus in the jokes. i didn't laugh at all not even with french stewart who i prefer to see at third rock from the sun. if you like military comedies go see down periscope or sergeant bilko or better hot shots 1 & 2 this one just isn't worth even watching at cable like i did "}{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the worst movie I have ever seen.  We got free passes to see a Sneak Preview and it is 90 minutes of my life that I want back, thank you very much.  And I am not a movie snob, I like movies that could be considered bad by others, but this didn't even come close to being funny and who casts Tom Arnold to be in anything?  really!! "},{"Title":"Amazing how bad this movie is.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  God! This was bad! It is absoloutley how bad this movie was. Studios threw out $42 million on this, where they out of thier skull? My god.. Avoid this mess at all costs. Please. You will be a smarter person if you avoid. This movie was aired on Comedy Central. I had no intent of actually paying to rent this trash. Buzz Fiethans IV didn't even shoot the movie well. Bryan Spycer's direction is completely listless. "},{"Title":"Bad but expendable","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is just a remake. This is just some entertaining time. Some good actors, maybe not well use. But a nice production with high values, mixing two genres not so smart. Nice fires and chases sequences. Boring from time to time. But not that bad. Sunday afternoon, too bored...maybe if you can´t find anything else. "},{"Title":"Shiver me timbers! This wreck belongs under the poop deck","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I wonder if the players in this film hated having to go through the motions of imitating comedy. I think they were probably embarrassed because they couldn't find something better to lend their talents to. The jokes and gags in this thing were older than dirt and dumber than a gourd. The writer of this bilge should be drawn and quartered or at least banned from ever sitting in front of a word processor again. Could it be that this dud made money for the producers? "},{"Title":"Tim Curry ! Need I Say More","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When I saw that Tim Curry appeared in the credits I knew that this was going to be crap . I'm sorry if I'm upsetting both of Mr Curry's fans by saying this but I'm afraid his talents begin and end with pantomimes . He usually drags a film down when he's asked to play a villain , but to be charitable I do confess that TC isn't only the bad thing about McHALE'S NAVY - Everything is bad There's nothing worse than listening to people who think that they're clever or funny , except maybe watching a movie that thinks it's clever or funny . Admittedly I doubt anyone who produced it thought they were making THE USUAL SUSPECTS but what made them think this was going to raise a laugh or make money at the box office . There's a scene where a couple of good guys talking to a prisoner in a cell , guess what happens ? There's a scene with a guy in a diving suit that is expanded with too much air pressure and there's a guy standing behind him with a lit cigar , guess what happens ? There's a scene with navy SEALS and you know how special use cameo on their faces ? Well here they've painted their faces as tigers and Groucho Marx in a scene so unfunny I thought it'd been written by Karl Marx . Obviously this is the kind of movie that got made because somebody had friends in high places . Hopefully this movie lost a lot of people a lot of money "},{"Title":"One Of the Worst!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"   McHale's Navy is a mix between a Tom Arnold movie...a Tom Arnold movie...a Tom Arnold movie, and...hey! Is Tom Arnold in this movie?! Yes, he is. Tom Arnold is McHale. Forget the plot. We've already got a reason that this movie's going to be stinky! Rob Schneider and David Alan Grier try to help with their superior comic talent, but to no avail.G'bye, McHale! Glad to see you burn at the box office!1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen a turkey float","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You have if you wasted a couple of hours of your life in this moronic jibberish , with a cast that makes you say oh dear and the comic talents of Mr Arnold (less said about this galoot the better) you have a pretty good idea of whats on the cards. Its just the most moronic pile of poo that I have seen in a very long time. It made me feel dirty, sink this turkey , if you do buy a copy do the world a favor and burn it, at least there would be one less copy of this left on our planet "},{"Title":"It sucked, it sucks, it'll suck...","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  How could they remake one of the worst movies of the history. It's bad, completely, absolutely, incontestably bad. I saw it at a friend's house and after 30 minutes we were asking ourselves why nobody laughed yet. This movie is full of stupid unfunny jokes, the actors are bad and their ham acting doesn't make anyone laugh. If I had directed this movie, my name wouldn't be in the credits anymore and I would have hid it in my closet.  "}]