[{"Title":"Wake up Hollywood, it's time Jaime Pressly was discovered!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There may be more beautiful actresses out there, and there are certainly more talented ones, but few can match Jaime Pressly for sheer sex appeal! From the moment she turns up -- the camera panning up her legs in the first of a series of trashy, figure hugging outfits -- you're hooked on everything this avenging blonde bombshell does!  (If another actress has ever looked hotter in a clingy white t-shirt with no bra, I must have missed it!)  How come the pouting, plastic, silicone enhanced Denise Richards lands big movies like WILD THINGS and James Bond, while Jaime, who can play scheming bitches better, and has a sexual presence that burns up the screen (and a killer bod that's 100% natural!) is still stuck in StV flicks, or crap like NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE??  If Jaime had been set loose in WILD THINGS or CRUEL INTENTIONS she'd have been a superstar overnight!As she goes about wrecking havoc and revenge on the family who wronged her, highlights here include Jaime's topless swim/backstroke (in glorious slo-mo); handcuffing a drunk chick to her bed post (don't ask!); pouring champaign down her front to get a guys full attention (it works); dressing in dominatrix outfits; and effortlessly seducing a handsome rich kid, who she knows hasn't been getting any from his frigid fiancee (Hmmm, I see we have a little unfinished business, she announces, before sticking her hand down his pants and purring, Stock market's up.........and I see you're a major stock holder.)  Pressly's breathy delivery when in seduction mode, and ultra-blunt abrasiveness the rest of the time is amusingly effective, hitting just the right note.  There is barely a moment here when she doesn't totally command the screen.  Please someone (Paul Verhoeven, John McNaughton) give this babe some quality trash that people will actually see! It's a crime to see her wasting away in vehicles for the likes of Steven Seagal and Jerry friggin' Springer! "},{"Title":"A feel good movie, know what I mean Vern?","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this isn't high art, great writing, or anything else that you would expect from a movie. But nobody ever said it was supposed to be that. If you are looking for fine film or Oscar caliber performance look elsewhere. If your looking for one freakin erotic movie, sit down, your ship has come in. Jaime Pressly is ridiculously goddess-like hot and meant for worship in this standard erotic thriller. This is supposed to be a feel good movie, it gets it's job done and how!!!!!!!!!! I give it an 8 out of 10 based on the fact that it serves it's purpose and does what it's supposed to do. Winning Oscars ain't it. But neither are movies like Death Race 2000 or Enter The Dragon but they still rule!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Beautifull surroundings makes this film a blast","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jaime Pressly a beautful talented actress portrays an awful character for the first time, she plays it good, but i rather her as the good girl.Decent sex scenes, Beautiful surroundings and young talented actors is the ingredients this film needed to survive, the plot stunk and so did the ending. So in closing the only thing stopping this film from a total flop was Jaime Pressly. "},{"Title":"Jamie Pressly's amazing butt keeps this movie from being complete garbage.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The third film in the series of awful Poison Ivy films doesn't add anything new to the established formula.  Sexy girl who does bad things moves in with straight-laced family and quickly starts turning things upside down and sleeping with every male in the cast. Everything about this movie is awful......well, make that almost everything.The film is a showcase for the awesome physical assets of then new-comer Jamie Marie Pressly.  Out of the three movies she is easily my favorite. Awesome eyes, perky breasts, sumptuous lips, long lean legs and one of the best butts to ever grace an actress is what she brings to this movie. She can't act, but who cares. As long as she's naked it doesn't matter.A terrible movie that is only worth watching for Ms. Pressly's nude scenes.Rating the movie 2  Jamie Pressley 9.5      "},{"Title":"your name doesn't have to be Earl to see Jaime topless","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well I watched and reviewed the first two films in this series, so I figured what the hell, I'll just finish the trilogy up. Jaime Pressly stars as Violent, a teenage vixen who feeling betrayed that her mother (who was also this family's maid) was fired for having an affair with the father , a decade or so later decides to move in with the family who 'wronged' her mom and proceeds to use her best asset, her body, to get revenge. Is this film good in a conventional sense? Nope. Artistically? Haha not at all. In fact the only true reason to see this is Jaime Pressley herself, who ups the T7A quotient exponentially.Eye Candy Athena Massey gets topless once; Jaime Pressly shows hers multiple times and her ass once.My Grade C Where i saw it Thriller Max "},{"Title":"You f*cked me, and now you are throwing me out.","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow! Violet's mom (Athena Massey) and the pool boy don't waste any time in getting down to business, and we aren't 10 minutes into the movie when a grown up Violet (Jaime Pressly) is showing us everything she has in the bathtub. This is a good start.Soon she is servicing Joy's (Megan Edwards) fiancée Michael (Greg Vaughan), and getting daddy (Michael Des Barres) all excited swimming topless.It is so fun to see what Violet's devious mind will come up with next.I enjoyed seeing Susan Tyrrell (Buddy Boy) again.This is definitely Jaime Pressly's most skintastic performance and one you will never see again now that she has hit the big time. "},{"Title":"This movie puts the first two to shame! HARDCORE BABY!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This installment of Poison Ivy is far more seductive and sexual hardcore than the one with Drew Barrymore. Violet(Jaime Pressly) is the sister of Ivy. Like who needs the diary of Ivy, this hottie is one fast learner. Her body is absolutely smoking! SHE GOT IT ALL! Swimming in the nude, seducing everyone she encounters. Most of all Violet is a heavy sex goddess while Ivy is nothing more than a nymph. Joy Greer(Megan Edwards) lost her mom and the return of Violet would make her happy again. So why isn't everyone happy? Because the maid has high suspicions about Violet's motives. And was she right. Too bad it cost her life. Michael(Greg Vaughn) Joy's fiancé has his instincts as well as the maid, though it's a shame that Violet gave him that lethal overdose. Joy was a fighter at the end, and she really vindicates herself from Violet lethal games. Just like tennis, she scores, only her game was much better if she wasn't so preoccupied by problems. This movie showed a lot more skin than usual, and the plot gets thicker and thicker by the minute. A bigger keeper than the first, and it could pass as porn. If only if Joy could keep her emotions in check, everyone would live. And should have been wary of Violet in the first place of her return. RATING 4 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"Easily the best of the three so far but what happened to Ivan?","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy The New Seduction is set in Los Angeles & starts as a powerful banker named named Ivan Greer (Michael Des Barres) arrives home at his palatial mansion, looking for his wife Catherine (Marete Van Kamp) he finds his young & beautiful housekeeper Rebecca (Athena Massey) having passionate sex with the pool guy. Having an affair with Rebecca himself Ivan is not pleased to find out that she is the local bike & every bloke in the neighbourhood has had a ride, Catherine finds out about the affair & throws Rebecca & her young daughters Violet & Ivy out. Jump forward eleven years & Catherine is dead, Ivan is a single man living with his daughter Joy (Megan Edwards) when a grown up Violet (Jaime Pressly) comes calling looking for her childhood best friend Joy. Admitting she has nowhere else to go Violet is invited to stay at the Greer residence by Joy who is happy to see her again after over a decade but Violet has sinister motives for her sudden reappearance & has revenge on her mind...Directed by Kurt Voss this is the third entry in the Poison Ivy series of films that began with the dull & uneventful erotic thriller Poison Ivy (1992) where a young Drew Barrymore played the manipulative Ivy who is implied to be the sister of Violet although never really mentioned in any significant sense, that was followed by the truly terrible Poison Ivy II (1996) which was more of a moralistic bore than a steamy thriller with the central female character portrayed more as the victim than the evil aggressor & then we come to this, Poison Ivy The New Seduction which the makers didn't even bother to number & is in fact easily the best of the series to this point by far. Having recently watched the first two I am surprised at how closely this follows the original Poison Ivy plot with some vampish young woman preying upon a rich family, manipulating the weak daughter & seducing the rich father while playing on the death of the mother right down to sleeping in her bed & wearing her clothes. In fact this could be mistaken for a remake rather than sequel that rectifies many of the negatives from the original Poison Ivy like giving it's female villain a motive, like giving the script a little bit of humour & pace, like giving Violet some deliciously deviant, sexy & downright evil sequences unlike the tepid & bland original. From some amusing moments like Violet convincing Joy's best friend they just all had a threesome together which makes her run a mile to Joy walking in on her father Ivan & Violet in the middle of a bondage session with her father handcuffed to the bed & Violet dressed in a hot leather dominatrix outfit. There's some pace about this one as the script keeps moving, the character's are decent with Violet in particular much more of a presence than Ivy was in the original. On the negative side the rushed beginning feels like an afterthought, it's hard to believe that Joy would invite Violet to stay in her house & just suddenly pick up being best friends after eleven years & it's never really made clear why Violet wants to ruin Joy's life so much despite her main gripe being with her father Ivan who she has revenge on anyway although it's not entirely clear what happens to him as he is merely seen sat in a car supposedly having been suffocated by exhaust fumes which is hard to believe & never confirmed one way or the other.Quite well filmed the one aspect of Poison Ivy The new Seduction that stands out as another huge improvement over the original Poison Ivy is the casting of the lovely Jaime Pressly, man she is really sexy & just plain hot looking in this as opposed to Drew Barrymore who didn't fit the part of manipulative teen temptress that well at all. Her Jaime Pressly radiates sexiness, whatever she wears in any scene she is hot, from the leather dominatrix outfit she wears to the elegant red evening dress to her tight jeans & t-shirt girl next door look whatever she's in Pressly looks fantastic & is gorgeous. An added bonus is that there's lots more nudity than the previous two entries, again Pressly is just hot whether she's wearing something or not, her body is just great & is a real asset to the film as she has several nude scenes to show it off. I wouldn't say Poison Ivy The New Seduction or Jaime Pressly are particularly erotic in a sensual way but they are hot in a sexy slutty top shelf magazine sort of way that is great to look at & admire if you know what I mean.Although the acting is alright it's the super sexy & hot Jaime Pressly who steals every scene she's in, sh seems to be having great fun playing the lying manipulative best friend home wrecker out for revenge & Pressly just look plain gorgeous in every scene she's in. Acting pro Susan Tyrrell has a small role role as a suspicious housekeeper & has some amusing moments facing off with Pressly as they trade insults & derogatory looks.Poison Ivy The New Seduction is a massive improvement on the previous two forgettable & bland entries even if it follows the original in plot quite closely, it adds a little motivation & a dark humorous edge as well as the lovely Jaime Pressly who is super hot as Violet. I am not sure there are many more floral female names like Ivy, Lily & Violet with the next & so far final entry Poison Ivy The Secret Society (2008) using the name Daisy, are there anymore? "},{"Title":"Jaime Pressly seduces everyone","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*The most important thing to know about Poison Ivy The New Seduction is that Jaime Pressly does get naked. I bought the unrated version of this movie with that hope in mind. My prayers were answered.Jaime Pressly is a nuclear sex bomb. That voice. That body. That face. Seeing her leap out of a pool naked in slow motion... Sorry, my mind wandered. I'm back now. Suffice to say, she is raging hot in this movie. No man could resist her nakedness. I can't say I blame them.So Jaime moves into her friend's house and wants to take over. Seduction, nakedness, sex and scheming go on. Jaime won't rest until she gets her way and moves in permanently. It was an OK sex thriller. If you like Jaime Pressly, you should definitely check it out. One last thing, I also want to praise her friend Joy, (Megan Edwards). The good girls don't get enough attention. She was hot in her own spunky, straight A student kind of way.  "},{"Title":"Sexy entertainment. Jaime worths the watch. Believe me.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thank you Cinemax for airing these kind of movies at midnight. Poison Ivy 3 is a steamy sequel that no one can dislike. It offers you the best about the B-movie industry great sex scenes, an easy plot that many people would like to experience, and the best of all, beautiful (I mean, BEAUTIFUL!) women.The plot is similar to Friend of the Family II and The Hand That Rocks the Craddle. This time the sexy nanny is the hot Jaime Pressly. The innocent victim is the also hot Megan Edwards.I always try to be objective in my movie reviews but this time I can't. This movie shouldn't be commented for it's plot, score, direction, etc. No. This movie is all about Jaime. People can't ignore the fact that she has a DELICIOUS body to die for. I can't even describe how hot she is. Her face is very sexy but menacing at the same time (which helps a lot for her character). Her performance is great mainly because male viewers fantasize about her. Her sex scenes are great! Could've used more explicitly (even the uncut version) but still deliver.Also, Megan Edwards is extremely sexy! Her beautiful and innocent face makes her more desirable because she has a spectacular hot body. Those legs, those eyes, that hips. MMMMH. I loved every scene where she walked in her mansion wearing that sexy mini skirt. Thank you Megan!What else can I say?! Poison Ivy 3 is entertaining and steamy. One of those movies that you can't say that you love because it wouldn't be moral correctly. I don't care. I love the movie for it's hot women and sex scenes. Deserves a watch. "}{"Title":"Not high art but fine as a guilty pleasure","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Is any of the Poison Ivy movies ever going to be viewed as great achievements in motion picture history, not likely. But if you want to see a bunch of steamy scenes with the hot seductress Jaime Pressly who's using all of her conniving powers to get retribution then that's what you'll get. When you get to see Jaime Pressly nude on multiple occasions then it's definitely accomplishing what the movie set out to do.Honestly I think that Jaime is way hotter then Drew Barrymore and Alyssa Milano who were the two previous stars in this franchise. While the others may have been bigger names at the time of the making of their movies they don't hold a candle in their roles to Jaime. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" surprisingly,very surprisingly,i didn't mind this movie at all.it was certainly head and shoulders above number two,and quite a bit better than the first one.this one had a somewhat developed storyline,with pretty decent acting.the villainous is stronger and much more developed in this one.she is certainly more sinister,if that's the right word.but i also noticed some humour in this one,which the first two didn't have,in my recollection.there is of course,no lack of nudity in this one,but i think it served a bit more of a purpose.it still at times seemed like a soft core porn flick,but at least it had other dimensions to it.and as an added bonus,(especially if you're a guy)it had Jamie Pressly in a prominent role.anyway,for an entertaining 90 minutes,i think you could do a lot worse than the third installment in the Poison Ivy series.my vote for Poison IvyThe New Seduction7/10 "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was good. Jaime Pressly did a great job in this movie. Their was a lot of nudity and it had a good plot, but I did not like the setting or place. It was kinda boring and some of the cast was bland and their could've been a better cast, but all in all it was quite good and I gave this movie a 6 out of 10 because of the setting I didn't like and the cast. The nudity was good, but just a little to much was shown of Jaime Pressly! "},{"Title":"Yes!","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  God awful movie?  You think?  No, Godzilla was a god awful movie because it TRIED to be good.Poison Ivy 3 was not trying to be good in the sense of acting, or a plot, or anything other than what it should be.  A vehicle for Jaime Pressly's backside, frontside, and side-side.Wonderful.  I love it.  There should be a Poison Ivy 3 channel that shows it all the time, over and over and over again.Look, if you're disappointed in this movie, fine.  You were watching it for all the wrong reasons.PLEASE let there be a Poison Ivy 4 for the simple fact that I can't wait to see who they would pick to star in it.  Hmm.. .now, who's up and coming, is very attractive, but has zero acting talent?  (NO OFFENSE MISS BARRYMORE, you DO have talent and you were the first poison ivy!)Well, this formula of good looks, up and coming and no talent points only one direction.  Jennifer Love Hewitt.  Aaaaaaand, ACTION!If anyone's interested, let me know and I'll write the script.. should take about a day.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"Better than Part 2 - a reasonably skinful softcore feature.","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1985, Rebecca, a maid working at the Greer mansion as well as living there with her two young daughters, Ivy & Violet, is caught by Ivan Greer having sex with the pool cleaner. But Ivan's wife mistakes this for an affair between Ivan & Rebecca. The maid & her daughters are soon evicted from the mansion. A decade later, Violet returns to the Greer home, where the Greer's now adult daughter Joy is living with her widowed father & a surly housemaid. At first, the Greers welcome Violet to stay with them, but Violet is just like her late sister Ivy &#x96; a stone cold seductress who works as a dominatrix in her spare time & who wants revenge against the Greers for her mother & sister. Using her expert manipulation skills, Violet seduces both Ivan & Joy's fiancée Michael.The original Poison Ivy was a lightweight softcore thriller that found a massive cult audience on video & late-night cable television, successful enough to kick start the softcore erotic thriller trend of the 1990s. Which is somewhat surprising for this reviewer since the film was nothing more than bubblegum erotica that made a fair amount of pretence to be more than a slim tale of a young woman seducing her way & ultimately destroying the rich family she initially befriends. It was not a bad film but not particularly good either. While it may not have been anything special (passable at best), it did spawn three sequels.Poison Ivy The New Seduction is the second of these three sequels. The first sequel was nothing to do with the story of the original, instead being a flimsy piece of drama, this one manages to tie in the story of the original with a new story for this entry (although I found it somewhat dubious that the name of Drew Barrymore's character here named Ivy as she was in the original, were it not for the fact that the name was given by her friend), having a similar plot with a young woman tearing apart a rich family mainly by seducing the father & killing anyone who interferes with her plan.The big difference between the original & the sequels is that the basic setup of the first film was never going to open the doors for the sequels to exist. But Karen Kelly writes a story that is more of a remake of the original, only with the one thing that the original Poison Ivy lacked for its seductress &#x96; motivation. In the original, Drew Barrymore's character had no reason to do what she did. Here, the reason is given, with Ivy & Violet's mother expelled from their mansion for a misunderstanding (& an uncontrollable sex drive, something the daughters inherited). The film also has a higher bodycount & Jaime Pressly's character of Violet is a much more hardened soul than her sister, easily donning dominatrix garb & even boasting to one victim that one of her clients includes a judge. This film's story is considerably better handled & more hardcore than the original, although it still pales in comparison to the flood of erotic thrillers that came out during the decade.Which brings us to the $32,000 question &#x96; how's the skin? Well, Jaime Pressly has ample moments to show off her breasts & butt but the actual love scenes are glossed over & hardly seen. The only exception is the first one between Athena Massey & the pool cleaner. While not a remarkable film in any aspect & definitely going to be seen as a classic, Poison Ivy The New Seduction is an interesting film that has enough T&A to satisfy those who like this sort of film genre. "},{"Title":"Beautiful women, but lacks the haunting style and quality of the original","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Released to video in 1997, Poison Ivy The New Seduction is another Lethal Lolita flick after the success of the original 1992 film and 1993's The Crush (I never saw the 1996 sequel with Alyssa Milano). These types of movies always involve a blossoming young woman who seduces an older man and takes control in one way or another. Lethal Lolitas exist in real life, of course -- young vixens who use their beauty to cause havoc, ruin lives and take control. Trash exploitation or not, it's good fodder for a movie, particularly if it's done stylishly or effectively, like Poison Ivy and The Crush. Of course, such stories are always overdone in movies, but that's the nature of the beast.This second sequel seriously ups the ante with the nudity (explicit T&A yet no frontal nudity), but simply lacks the artistic melancholy and style of the original, not to mention the budget. It's a pedestrian retread that tries to make up for it with overt nudity, but fails. While seriously inferior it's still somewhat worthwhile if you like these kinds of flicks; everyone else should flee since the story & characters are bland and dull. The filmmakers strive to reach the haunting aesthetic of the original but the budget cripples their efforts. Be that as it may, Jaime Pressly was 19 during filming (the same approximate age as the girl she plays) and looks superb, although her facial features never did anything for me. Other highlights in the female department are curvy Athena Massey (the brunette maid in the opening) and Shanna Moakler. Michael Des Barres and Greg Vaughan play the older and younger males enticed by Ivy respectively.The film runs 93 minutes and was shot in outer Los Angeles.GRADE C (4.5/10) "},{"Title":"Two thumbs, way up my ass","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This wonderful, satisfying film stars Jaime Pressly's nipples in dual lead roles. It is shot on location on one acre on some one's crappy Bronson Canyon ranch style property and features a a musical score composed on a used Yamaha kx88. Jaime Pressly wonderfully channels a southern belle who bangs her way through everyone in the nabe, including some old dude who looks like the dad on 70s show and some d*ckhead Chippendales stripper who has the presence of a can of Starkist. The script was clearly written in a coke fueled frenzy on a tight deadline and has some memorable lines like fish and houseguests both start to stink after 3 days which would be clever if they weren't doctored from better, already clichéd, lines. But Mz Pressly's twins are truly remarkable and she deserves a commendation for all of her fantastic non verbal reaction shots (What? or Hate you!) and encyclopedia wry grins. Two thumbs, all the way up to the prostate. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Original, Masterpiece! Move over Casablanca!","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Needless to say this movie is a masterpiece! Some of the best writing, cinematography and directing I've ever seen. It is unbelievable that Jamie Pressly didn't get nominated for best actress for her amazing performance.... I'm totally blowing smoke up your butt, but holy crap Jamie Pressly is so f__kin hot in this movie! Is there any other reason someone would watch this movie? Like seriously! There are people who actually had expectations other then seeing Jamie Pressly's epic-ally perfect naked body?...what the hell is wrong with you? You obviously had the other Poison Ivy movies to reference...did you think they were going to now all of a sudden pull a good Poison Ivy Sequel out of their arse? The only thing disappointing about this movie is that it wasn't made 5-10+ years sooner pre-internet during my teen years (assuming we had a DeLorean to take Pressly back in time). This movie would have been worn out during all of the Jamie Pressly scenes and this tape would have been issued to all guys reaching puberty. I guess it had a few good years running before the internet started to cum on strong! Even though beautiful women are a dime a dozen on the internet these days this movie is surprisingly still relevant. "},{"Title":"Jamie Pressly nude!","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fans of My Name is Earl looking for early erotica featuring beautiful Jamie Pressly, this is your buried treasure. Jamie plays a cynical young woman who invades an upscale home on false pretences and proceeds to debauch everybody in it, for reasons that remain obscure until near the end. It's trashy junk, of course, but great looking trashy junk which even shows occasionally cleverness in how New Ivy manipulates the squares. Moreover, the movie creates a few fairly clever visual motifs, with a lot of voyeuristic peeking around corners and from shadows, especially at the Ivy character, who is only too aware that she is being watched. Jaime is fun in the Ivy role and looks fab and nothing is to be taken too seriously here. There are no deeper truths being exposed here, just Jamie. Nothing is exactly PLAYED for camp, but the movie's makers had to be aware that that was a potential direction things might take, because it entertains mostly in that fashion. Keep expectations low, and you probably won't hate it. "},{"Title":"The most interesting movie ever!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I don't think this movie is worst, but it isn't really good. I think the only reason to see or buy this movie is Jaime Pressly. Jaime plays a wonderful role as an frustrated girl who everybody didn't understand. The effects is, she turns into a psycho and kills the family from the lover of her mom. The camera is also one of the best (just look the positions in the pool house scene), and this is one of the films which has no goofs. "}{"Title":"Doesn't exactly define subtlety","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you think Poison Ivy The New Seduction is amusing in it's original form, watch it edited for network television.The movie was so intriguing; it left me with many questions about life. Such as Why is soft core porn even adapted for this market? Why do networks buy it? Would it be possible to write a spoiler for this film? Can anyone not tell in the first 15 minutes what's going to happen?And what is with Joy's voice-over when Violet gives Michael (the boyfriend) his coat? There are no other voice-overs in the movie, and it doesn't even sound like her voice. It's as if, while editing, the creators worried that we might not understand Violet was successfully manipulating Joy, so added the voice-over at the last minute to simplify the already trite and shallow scene that way, any slime mold that happened to be watching the movie would understand what was going on in that particular 30 seconds. However, the rest of the movie was left in a form only comprehensible by higher life forms, such as insects.  "},{"Title":"Hahahaha","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The comments page for Poison Ivy The New Headache should be sent to the humour section of some site. You guys are so funny!! Ok, now to serious business, that is, reviewing the film-hahahahahaha, oops, sorry, couldn't control it.*I don't know what SPOILERS are, I checked in a dictionary and there is no word such as that. Maybe IMDB are using their own dictionary. Anyway, You better be careful. As I don't know what spoilers are, I may have included some*Why do people have such a lot of time on their hands? And even if they have, why do they make movies like Poison Ivy, not once, but thrice. Was this movie so much of a success? I hope not. I only watched the first two movies because of Drew Barrymore and Alyssa Milano. And like those movies, this movie does not know what it wants to be. It has a very confused script but also has beautiful girls ) Actually, the girls are the only reason I watched this film. And for the first time ever, I fell asleep during a movie. They have chosen very beautiful girls(as always) but I don't find Jaime Pressly very pretty. I kind of like the other ones, I don't know their names cause they are completely unheard of. But I would like to hear about them.Anyway, the movie is pretty much the same as the previous ones, the evil girl keeps killing people and smiling and looking seductively evil. Dead people are found in cars, closets and falling from buildings. Wow! I thought the part 2 was a little unlike the first and the third parts.If you turn off the volume and watch the film, I guarantee you will enjoy it. Beautiful girls everywhere!!! Its kind of fun too, if you watch it without the volume. But only do so if you have lots of time on your hands, have lost your job, are waiting for your flight, or basically are bored out of your mind and decide to have a little competition with the movie to see whether you were more bored earlier or after watching the film.I hope they make a Poison Ivy 4 cause it will be fun to see who will be the actress in that. best of luck to the director!!LOL-gfaaaa hahaha haha hahaha  "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so it's not the most cinematically perfect film ever made but I think people can lose the point of watching movies these days. I like thought-provoking, or striking films as much as the next guy but there are some times you just want entertainment and the Poison Ivy films do that. I liked the first, didn't really go for the second but am happy with The New Seduction. Jaime Pressly looks fabulous and the plot is a bit contrived but heck, there have been a lot of far more stupid ideas that have cost ten times as much and featured A-list stars. It's good, honest, down to earth entertainment, but probably not a good date movie. You'll learn to love it.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Incredible. One has to see this to believe it. It's amazing a thing of such low quality has made it past the editing room. What's even more incredible is the presence of a major star and sex goddess of nowadays, Jamie Pressly (Jack & Jill et al.) The redeeming factor it was her first flick ever. Fortunately someone saw in her the potential this film does no justice to. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the god-awfulest movies that i have ever seen. This film was sexually frustrated, and had only decent sex scenes that kept me interested. I was almost embarrassed to be caught watching this soft porn flick and was frustrated throughout the film. The acting was incredibly lousy and the ending sucked even more. Though, that one guy...what was his name? Mike....looked damn good and even the girls were very pretty, but come on...It was terrible "},{"Title":"fans of skin flicks may like it. others should avoid it at all costs.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  some friends of mine got the bright(!) idea the other night to rent all of the unrated versions of the Poison Ivy movie series and watch them all in a row.all i can say is that if would of been fitting if my head exploded like the scene from Scanners after subjecting myself to these horrible movies.the reason why people rent the first one is to see Drew Barrymore act like a complete slut. the second one has gained popularity only because Alyssa Milano gets butt naked in it.well, the third film stars an unknown actress, Jamie Presley (great body, okay face), and even with abundant nudity and explicit sex scenes, there isn't one point in watching this pathetic mess.i would guess the R-rated version probably cuts out all the sex so if you for some unknown reason decide to rent this, make sure you get the unrated version.rating2 (barely avoids a 1 just because of ms. Presley's super fine butt) "},{"Title":"May I have some Champagne?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Drew Barrymore had a nipple peak which was slightly more than the facile Alyssa Milano had. This is the only Poison with bite. Jaime Pressly shows off every inch of her flawless body and, or so I am told, other things happen. She swims naked as the creepy Michael Des Barres watches, she fools another girl into thinking that they had sex, and she pours a bottle of Champagne onto to her breasts. The story, as I am told, is remarkably similar to the original and the actors are so in title only, but Jaime Pressly pours a bottle of Champagne onto her breasts. Did I already type that? There is also a scene where she is in full bondage gear. Yeah! "},{"Title":"Marylin for the 00's ?","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I know, the road to stardom is littered with the corpses of unfulfilled potential, but I am going to go with this one.  Jaime Pressley has what it takes to make it really big--we're talking superstar.  She's got that exotic face, killer body, and can act, but not so well that it will get in the way of her sexuality.Her performance here shows that we have a seductress with a capital S.I really hope she gets her really, really big break.  If not, she already has this film as a legacy. "},{"Title":"No Freaking Sense!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *Few Spoilers Ahead,But dosent matter anyway cause this is a bad flick.you wont regret hearing some spoliers*Ok This movie is more confusing than Vanilla Sky.It Makes no sense.FIRST OF ALL Violet (pressly) Is supposed to be Ivy (barrymores) sister.OK NEWS FLASH! Ivy wasnt even the characters real name in the first one!It was a name Sara Gilberts Character had made up. What are the changing up the orignal story line? Either that or  the filmakers obviously didnt see the the first two.And Also Ivy said in the first one my mom was a coke addict who died in her 40's,OH so a rich familys gonna let the little poor kid with a drug addict mom and her sister play with their kid?? YEAH SUREEE.Not only that,But,they stole the ending from the first one.But they made it into something INCREDIBLY STUPID!.The acting was HORRIBLE.The best one out of them all is the first one.This movie is like a bad Hand that rocks the cradle 2 But unfourtantly a Poison Ivy 3.Rent or buy the first Poison Ivy.I think that was the best one.The only reason why id like to see a Poison Ivy 4,is because Im wondering what actress they will pick.Maybe Ill make cheap new one,lol,who knows,it be fun!But let me tell you,dont bother seeing this movie.Sure its a thrill for the guys,But for the chicks (me) ITs a big disapointment.And I am freaking confused,Its confusing about this whole im a psycho thing because im talking to a doll and manipulating people.Its like she has 2 personalities,First shes shy quiet,Then shes bitchy,shy and quiet,bitchy.WTF???? I dont know.Justs dont waste your time on this one its horribley bad. "},{"Title":"Worst Actress Award","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the world's worst movie yet.  And the leading lady, if you want to call her that, is boring, boring, boring.  With no voice does she really think she's sexy with that whispering? Jamie Pressly gets my thumbs down for all time.  Much has been said about her body, but that's not enough to carry a film.  And where is everybody else in this picture?  Out to lunch?  That they can't see through her bad acting? I  got terribly frustrated watching this movie and kept leaving and coming back to it.  If only to see her get it in the end in more ways than one.  The victims are out of nowhere.  The daughter who has no backbone and is easily swayed by our vixen she doesn't seem to be on this planet, her boyfriend that just keeps coming back for more punishment and he gets it, the father who has no strength at all in keeping away from her  and who cares? and the poor housekeeper who can't seem to see the obvious coming.  All seem to be in another world while this empty headed girl goes around doing her evil.  AND NO ONE CAN SEE IT COMING.  Please.  Give me a break.  This is the frustration of this horrible movie.  A no talented actress, with so so looks goes around without effort killing and seducing and no one is the wiser. Please, no more of Pressly and no more flicks like this.  The final scene with the daughter walking around like a zombie has got to be a second for bad acting.  Why is everybody walking in slow motion?  It takes this actress 10 minutes to walk across the room.  She can't even replace a fuse through her masacara streaked face.  She is weird.  Whacko! I wanted to laugh at these performances, but then, except for the terrible Pressly, I guess this is how they were directed.  Too bad!  What a waste of money and time.  Sorry I give this horrendous movie a minus 10! "}{"Title":"Jamie Pressly makes the movie!!!","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think Poison Ivy 3 was an incredible movie.  The plot showed very well how someone can get jealous of a person and family.  Jamie Pressly my favorite actress, who I think is stunning, portrayed that character very well in this movie.  Her beauty and great acting really added to the movie.  I think it is the best movie of the series and of its kind. "},{"Title":"Jaime Pressly is soooooo hot in this.....A-.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so they made a third one.  I liked this one much better than the other two.  Jaime Pressly plays the younger sister of Ivy (whom the first flick is about).  She's also a call girl and quite the manipulator.  She moves in with one of her sister's friends, steals her boyfriend, kills him, and makes it look like someone else did it.  Not bad.  (Is it just me, or does Jaime Pressly look a LOT like Traci Lords?)  Watch this flick real soon, today would be a good day.  Except for a few scratch-your-head things that happen during the movie, it's quite good....I give it an A-. "},{"Title":"Hahaha","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok...the origional sucked, the sequal sucked (except for Alyssa Milano) and now why did they make a third one????? Why did they even make a second one??? The storylines are not that good. This movie was boring, i almost fell asleep. The acting really sucked bad i mean nobody could act in it. The only good parts were the sex scenes. If they make a Poison Ivy 4 i will go insane!! Oh yeah and the title Poison Ivy refers to the charactor Ivy, not LILY or VIOLET! "},{"Title":"Jaime Pressly Heaven sent.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you were to ask me who are my current favorites when it comes to women, I'd say Tina Barrett, Kira Reed, Catherine Bach (in her prime) and Shannon Whirry, but the one I'd love to meet first would be Jaime Pressly (or Tina Barrett). Pressly, a former Playboy Playmate, is the sexiest woman around, but sadly, her movie roles since this one have been for the likes of Jerry Springer's Ringmaster, Tomcats, and Teen Movie, movies that I wouldn't even go see for free because they're awful. I usually wait until they're on video as part of 2 for 1s.Like these movies, Pressly first staring role is also in a BAD film. A sequel to the Poison Ivy movies, Pressly plays the sister of Drew Available Barrymore who's come to wreak havoc on the family who ruined her life. Much like others in this genre, she seduces family members and a woman's fiancé to ruin the family.From Pressly's first scene, where she gets out of the car and the camera pans her from her well-developed legs to her face, to the end, she dominates the film. She plays pure evil to the hilt, yet you cheer for her. If she wasn't in the film, this would be the worst film in history. Everyone else delivers a performance so bad that you're praying for Violet to ruin this family's structure fast. Susan Tyrell, who plays a meddling Euro maid who you'll really hate, and Athena Massey who plays a whiny, wimpy, spoiled rich girl, are the lowlights here. The film is slow, the dialogue is weak, and the direction is plodding. However, if this movie is on T.V., at least take a short look at it, because whether she's clothed or nude, there are very few, if any women in show business who are as much as a SEXBOMB as Jaime Pressly. O.K. Tina Barrett, too LOL. "},{"Title":"Jaime Pressly looks amazing. Too bad the movie stinks.","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's another in the line of cheap, tawdry, lousy Poison Ivy movies. For a while it seems this one might rise somewhat above the rather awful first two movies in the series. It's not good by any means but it's not completely hideous. But then it really crumbles in the end. The last thirty minutes of the movie are excruciatingly bad with absurd plot twists, terrible acting and stupid characters doing incredibly stupid things. In the end this movie which had the promise of being at least passable ends up being just about as bad as its predecessors.The movie makes a tenuous connection to the first Poison Ivy film, setting up the main character here, Violet, as being the sister of the first film's Ivy. And then it proceeds to pretty much do that first film all over again. Same setup, same story. A family invites a trashy young girl they barely know into their home, said girl uses sex to destroy that family. One difference between the two films is that in the original Drew Barrymore kept her clothes on. Here Jaime Pressly is on full naked display throughout. This is definitely not a bad thing. To say Pressly looks stunning does not even begin to do her justice. Absolutely amazing. Unfortunately it takes more than a hot naked girl to make a good movie. The story has enough erotic entanglements to hold your interest to a point. Yes, the dialogue throughout is pretty terrible. Kudos to Pressly for managing to keep a straight face while talking about the ups in the stock market. Hint she's not really talking about the stock market. But for as bad as the dialogue is and as bad as some of the performances from the supporting cast are Pressly manages to hold the movie together and hold your interest. She makes Violet into a compelling character and whenever the movie starts to drag she takes her clothes off again which is nice. But Pressly can't salvage the ending and it is that ludicrously bad ending which sinks the movie. A movie maybe worth seeing once to see Pressly in all her naked glory. Maybe you'll get lucky and the power will go out and you won't be able to see the last thirty minutes. "},{"Title":"Another step in movie devolution","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so back in the early 90s, Drew Barrymore was in an erotic thriller called Poison Ivy. She, and some nameless body double for the nude scenes, played a troubled young woman who deviously inserts herself into a family and wrecks havoc in their lives. A few years later they did Poison Ivy II, which is one of those Fraudulent Sequels where an original script is altered just enough to be barely connected to the first film. Poison Ivy II starred Alyssa Milano and, I believe, no body double for the nude scenes. Just a year after that they came out with Poison Ivy The New Seduction, which is one of those Fraudulent Sequels where they simply remake the first film and slap different names on all the characters. This one starred Jaime Pressly as the sister of Barrymore's character and she also deviously inserts herself into a family and wrecks havoc in their lives. Not only did Pressly have no body double for the nude scenes but her nubile form is the best thing this flick has going for it. So, this franchise went from movie child star to TV child star to young actress nobody had ever heard of, a great example of Hollywood devolution.Let's be clear about something. By the time they got down to this movie, no one had any illusions about what they were making except, perhaps, the young Miss Pressly. This is a trashy melodrama without even a spark of true creativity or dramatic ambition. Having said that...it's not terrible. Yes, a couple of Benedictine monks who've taken vows of silence could have written snappier dialog. Yes, none of the characters have any existence beyond what the plot requires, with one actually existing only as a disembodied voice on the phone. Yes, it's directed with all the flair of an episode of Matt Houston. And yes, it has an ending that basically screams We've run out of money! What's the cheapest possible way we can kill of the villain?For all that, the young Miss Pressley looks damn good without any clothes on and even shows the makings of a fine actress, though one that still needed further training. When the story call on her to act crazy, Pressley clearly had no idea what she was doing. There's also enough activity going on to keep the film from grinding to a halt and it only minimally insults the viewer's intelligence. Michael Des Barres gives the yeoman's performance you'd expect and Megan Edwards is awfully appealing, though even more awfully is never nude.As crap movies go, Poison Ivy The New Seduction isn't that bad. I wouldn't suggest anyone spend money to rent it but if you can find it playing unedited on TV, there are worse ways to waste 95 minutes. "},{"Title":"What did you expect ?","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jamie Pressly is the reason to see Poison Ivy the New Seduction, and not for her acting as a revenge seeking vixen either. Easily manipulating those around her to her advantage seems to come quite naturally. Soon everyone's life is coming unraveled, either through seduction or murder. This makes hating Jamie very easy indeed, and at that the movie succeeds quite well. Pressly also has numerous nude scenes, which obviously isn't a bad thing. Of course the plot is contrived, unrealistic, and unbelievable, but who cares? Jamie Pressly's over the top acting is totally acceptable, and is somewhat similar to her bitchy performance in Poor White Trash. - MERK "},{"Title":"stupid movie, stupid story, stupid acting","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Believe me, I'm not a Jamie Pressly fan and this movie convinces me she's just a stripper in a B movie, although I agree with another critic that it's a Z movie. What a waste. Script was soooo dumb, I almost threw up. Direction was terrible. Casting even worse. Megan Edwards, not very bright, doesn't know what's going on around her and spends the last 20 minutes of the movie walking around in slow motion. Maybe that's where her head was most of the time. I burst out laughing when she suddenly turns the car around after getting away from our villain, and heads back. Smart. No calling police, nothing but walking around in a dark house, that's right lights went out and phone didn't work. Surprise, surprise. It was the slow motion that got me. She moved like in a trance with no expression on her face. Please Kurt Voss, director, teach her how to act. Then there's the father, played on one level by Michael Des Burres, who also succumbs to the tramp even though he didn't want to. Please, she's not that attractive. Overly made up, with too much lip gloss, and obvious acting, I felt she was the worst in the picture and believe me the others were bad.Anyway the father ends up in a garage with the car running while our little girl, Megan, is wandering around the house looking for everybody. You never know if she ever got to her father. In the end she just leaves the house. Another stupid move on the writer's part, Karen Kelly. There's Greg Vaughan as the boy friend who isn't too swift. Sort of just let's himself be done in. The only redeemable character is the housekeeper, played by Susan Tyrell. At least she had doubts about our little Jamie. Unfortunately she wasn't smart enough to know better.This is among the worse films ever. And I've seen a lot of bad films. How do they get produced? At least the first POISON IVY had the presence of Drew Barrymore and Sara Gilbert in the roles. Don't waste your time or money on this. "},{"Title":"Should've been the sequel, not Lily.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Better than the second one, not quite as good as the original. Although, it WAS a valiant effort.Even though this was Jaime Pressly's fourth movie in 1997, it was her first in a lead role, thus she earned an introduction in this film.This one tried to utilize two aspects of the first two movies drama / suspense from the first, and nudity / sex scenes from the second. Surprisingly, they managed to pull it off. However, this was more of a soft-core porn movie than a suspense / drama / thriller...every time they shot a sex scene, crappy music started playing at twice the volume of the rest of the movie. Not exactly an enjoyable experience.Additionally, this one actually tries to tie itself into the original...several scenes are linked to the original Ivy. Nice touch, in my opinion. This would have made a much better follow-up to the original than Lily did.And if you fantasize about Jaime Pressly, you'll like this one, despite her mediocre acting ability...she's nude quite often, and wears several different dominatrix outfits. "},{"Title":"Soft Core Schlock","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why oh why did our late movie channel decide to show this piece of trash after the closing ceremonies in Torino? This is soft core schlock - with all the attributes associated with this type of trash. It's simply an excuse for husky Pressly to show off her nipples and moan a lot on screen - roughly the entire gamut of her acting chops.If that isn't bad enough, count on a soundtrack meant to function as a kind of virtual lobotomy - you know, the typical sleaze movie muzak. As if 'who cares' - because nothing counts but the amount of skin and 'supposedly' sexy scenes.The screenplay and the acting through and through will drive you up the wall too. Is Pressly sexy to look at? Maybe - if Sylvester Stallone biceps on a girl curl your toes and if really dumb dialog like Sly's trademarked for is what you regard as 'Shakespeare'. 'Stupid' isn't strong enough a word for this turkey.Which just about proves the old theory - namely that anyone who goes to Playboy Mansion West does so as a last resort. There are those who are truly elegant and beautiful - they go to Eileen Ford; there are those who have real talent - they go to Actors Studio and then to Broadway and Hollywood; and then there are those who are neither of the above, and they go to Hef.Staring at a stilleben of a raw steak is more stimulating in all possible ways - and will leave you feeling better afterwards to boot. "}{"Title":"Why was this movie even made?!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     Good God, this movie was pointless, more so than most soft porn flicks.  The whole Poison Ivy series is ridiculous and just like this installment, as I said, pointless.  I have no idea why when they go to make a soft porn with a slut like Pressly in it, they even bother with a storyline.  The only reason people are going to watch this horrible mess is to see Pressly's breasts and every other part of her she decides to show.  This girl has no talent and her voice is a mix between a man's voice and kermit the frog, annoying to the point that I personally want to punch her in the head till she sleeps for a few years, than maybe we won't have to see her in anymore movies, shows, etc.  Whoever wrote this movie was clearly high at the time, and he, like Jaime clearly has nowhere to go but down in the business.  Well...if you want to waste your time watching Pressly take off her clothes, which is the only thing she is good for, maybe you'll like this movie, but personally I would rather watch paint dry. "}]