[{"Title":"Relatively Unknown Gem","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Incognito is one of those gems that you have to dig deep to discover. A relatively unknown movie, I bumped onto it as it was shown on the TV I started viewing it hoping it to be at least watchable, and I was pleasantly surprised to realize that in fact it was really good.The story is about a highly talented arts forger (Patrick), who agrees to paint a fake Rembrandt picture for $500,000. However, things get complicated when a girl he sleeps with (Jacob) happens to be one of the experts to judge its authenticity, and she gives the painting thumbs down. As if this were not enough, his employers change their tune with him, and this is when everything turns rather sour...Jason Patrick is really good in his role; so good in fact, that I re-aligned my overall rating for him completely after this movie (it wasn't that high before that, as you can imagine). Irene Jacob is also good as his girlfriend, while Rod Steiger plays a small role but still manages to remind us of his grand standing. The film is well-directed, with the pace running smoothly; neither unnecessarily fast, nor boringly slow. All in all, a surprisingly good film 8/10. "},{"Title":"My all times favorite","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie more times than any other. There is something unusual about this movie you like it but can not really figure out what exactly makes you feel that way. There is suspense and drama here. The direction is good and so is the part played by the actors. The story grips you almost from the beginning until the last scene. The movie lets you roam around the inner circles of art and forgery. Probably all this adds up to make it a movie that one enjoys watching, any time, all the time. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A bit of a pleasant surprise (considering its lack of theatrical release in the NY area), Incognito is a fairly involving drama/thriller involving a disturbed artist who's gotten so entangled in the underworld of art forgery he's never formed an identity of his own...he does a great Rembrandt, but Irene Jacob spots it as a fake, which both infuriates and attracts him...a murder occurs and the pursuit is on, with him trying to clear his name and trying to become a real artist...Patric is a little too brooding and pouty, making him hard to like for much of the film (C. Sheen or J. Depp could make him a much more sympathetic bad boy), but beautiful location work (widescreen, too -- I saw the laserdisc -- on video it's probably a mess) and the lovely & talented Ms. Jacob make it a surprisingly unique experience...check it out. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Yes, the production values of INCOGNITO (especially the gauzy photography) smack of B Level production, this film shines for a few reasons, most notably the peek into the world of Art, Art History and Art Forgery. Anyone who considers themselves curious about both Rembrandt, his place in the art world, and the art world's place in history will enjoy this movie. This movie's depiction of the steps in the creation of a counterfeit masterpiece are possibly the best half-hour of film I've ever seen. The performances are excellent, and it deserved better than Direct to Video. Especially good are the performances of Rod Steiger, Jason Patric and Irene Jacob. "},{"Title":"Better than most of the junk out there","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was VERY pleasantly surprised by this one.  Its dialogue on the true meaning of great art is truly interesting, even if simplistic (but not relative to most films out there).I thought Patric was pretty good,  but it's the script itself that does most of the work.The scenery and imagery is also fantastic.  "},{"Title":"It's Different, But Like The Fake Painting You Know It Could Be Better","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Although sometimes way too slow-moving and not as involving as it should have been, this film was almost a keeper in my collection.The story was different, and I liked it, about an artist producing a fake Rembrandt. Jason Patric, an interesting and underrated actor, played the role on the con 'artist,' so to speak. Appealing-looking Irene Jacob, played the female lead. She was likable, unlike Patric's character.There are some interesting moments in this film, particularly for those who love art. There also are a few nice shots of Jacob that should please most male viewers. Overall, nothing that super but decent and worth a rental. It's different, I'll say that.....but don't expect a lot. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this piece on Czech TV. Although it was somewhat spoiled by translation, it caught my attention from the beginning till the finale. The cooperation of editing and screenplay is very good, it made me feel like watching some James Bond movies ... except this one was based on art, of course. I also loved the pace of this pleasantly surprising film, it flew with no significant faults. There are many films on TV in our country and majority of them are pure crap. Especially when you see them on midnight hour. This one was really pleasant and I am glad I spent my time with it.7/10 Really watchable ! "},{"Title":"incredibly frustrating movie","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie made me very frustrated. It is a well acted movie, especially by Irene Jacob, but even Jason Patric does a an OK job. The villain is quite general but well conceived.The biggest problem is the script, which is very intelligent. So why is this a problem? Because no matter how intelligent it is, it still has huge holes. For example, in the beginning Harry (Jason Patric) is seen running from the police on TV. Was there a cameraman present? And why is the TV black-and-white? Then after him and Marieke know each better (if you get my drift), she says that she has to leave in a hurry, yet she is not hurrying. Also, why does Alastair (Thomas Lockyer) kill his Korean partner? Wasn't it enough to accuse Harry of theft? Finally I saved the worst for last They (Harry and Marieke) are in a London suburbs and Harry uses the phone. Then Marieke who believed herself kidnapped locks Harry in the telephone booth. She locks him from the outside!!!!What is the logic in that? I can understand the lock to be on the inside (Harry's side) but on the outside?!Yet if you'd like to see a well structured, yet flawed thriller, see Incognito. It has a boring beginning, an exciting middle and an utterly unsatisfying ending.5/10  "},{"Title":"Very Clever, Very Entertaining","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" You are roped into this movie within the first few minutes. It is very clever, entertaining, historical and informative. The acting is superb. I've watched this movie four times so far and would watch it again tonight to share it with someone special. My wife never watches a movie more than once but has viewed this one three times. Her comment was that there is something about this movie that makes you want to see it again.They should have eliminated the scene with the telephone booth because the lock on the outside of the booth made no sense at all. I don't know what they were thinking. But if you can overlook this one flaw you are in for a real treat. Ignore the few pans above and trust the people that gave it good reviews. My recommendation is that you buy the movie instead of renting it because you will want to watch it again and again. By the way, this is the first movie I have ever been tempted to submit a review for. "},{"Title":"Upscale Brit Crime Thriller","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's not as bad as I'd expected. It's one of those British crime dramas in which people walk around in Saville Row suits, visit Paris and Spain at will, and drive Jaguars -- and the plot centers around a fake Rembrandt painted by Jason Patric, who is double crossed by a couple of co-conspirators and aided by art expert Irene Jacob.The sociologist Dean Maccannel, in his book The Tourist A New Theory of the Leisure Class, has a delightful anecdote about a group of young American tourists in the Louvre or the Prado or someplace, noticing that a number of paintings were designated as having been executed by P. ignotus, Latin for painter unknown. The kids loved P. Ignotus's work, rushing from hanging to hanging, exclaiming, Oh, here's another one by Ignotus! This has nothing to do with the movie unless I want to squeeze it in by saying that I was reminded of Maccannel's story by an argument the fakers are having near the beginning of the film. The production of this fake has taken a long time and Patric has not signed it as Rembrandt van Rijn. The others (who are supposed to be art experts) want him to sign it so they can be sure they'll palm it off as the real thing. But Patric knows (as they should) that not every artist signs every one of his works, Rembrandt included. Without the signature it is less likely to be obviously faked. (I think Michelangelo signed only one of his works, La Pieta, although flamboyantly.) It's kind of interesting to watch Patric fake the painting. Looks convincing enough to me, and I once won a prize for window painting in the 8th grade. The rest of the movie -- with the thieves and murderers in pursuit of Patric and Jacobs -- is kind of routine, with one or two scenes very redolent of Hitchcock. But there's nothing spectacularly WRONG with it. It simply doesn't seem too original and hasn't much in the way of sparkle.Except for Irene Jacob, the art expert who falls for Jason Patric for reasons that escape me because he looks quite ordinary. SHE doesn't though. I think it was Anthony Burgess who remarked of a chapter in James Joyce's Ulysses that it may be gibberish but it's English gibberish. Something like that could be said of Jacob's face. She has even features but they are distinctly French even features. She has deep unripe-olive eyes, is not glamorized in any way, but is nevertheless striking, like the girl in a senior high school class that was only available to the captain of the football team. She has a slender modelesque figure with matching breasts. Badham, the director, is tasteful enough to have her disrobe on camera.The film ends in a trial which is pretty tense and enjoyable, although not in the slightest believable. On trial for murder, Patric has a chance to prove his innocence by reproducing the faked Rembrandt in court, which he can do in a jiffy. One afternoon, in fact. He is well on his way to succeeding, to the dismay of the prosecution and the satisfaction of his counsel, when he stops, throws his palette down, and refuses to go on because Only Rembrandt can paint Rembrandt. Faking someone else's painting hasn't bothered him a whit before and, man, does this epiphany come at the wrong time.No matter. It's kind of enjoyable. Worth watching if it comes up but not worth working for. "}{"Title":"pretty cool, pretty good","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, not technically sound all the way through, but for 2am on HBO, this is quite a good little movie.  Patric seems a little lost, and the whole thing with his father isn't done very well, but Jacob is always nice to watch, and there were enough interesting parts and nice shots, to keep one's attention. In any event, watching those paintings was pretty cool.  Pretty good. All in all, a rather pleasant movie. "},{"Title":"This is the absolute best movie EVER made","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I only say that because it's true. I have seen literally thousands of movies, this is the best one i have ever seen. i recommend this to anyone who asks me what my favorite movie is, and they all come back and ask me where they can buy it. this movie takes drama, thrills, and even art to a completely new level. i cannot believe this movie hasn't won the most awards in the history of film. I am serious, if you haven't seen this movie, go get it immediately. this movie is the absolute winner of every category in my book. i remember seeing this for the first time when it was on HBO in 1999. I must have watched it 20 times that week. i went and bought the VHS tape and when the DVD came out i had it immediately. this movie is amazing. "},{"Title":"Acceptable Art Forgery thriller Starring Jason Patric","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Harry Donovan is an art forger who paints fake Rembrandt picture for $500,000. The girl he meets & gets into bed with in Paris, Marieke turns out to be an arts expert. Harry's clients are using to check the counterfeit picture he painted. I knew this was going going to be a class A film but it does give a good the peek into the world of Art, Art History & Art Forgery. Anyone who considers themselves curious about Rembr&t, his place in the art world, & the art world's place in history will enjoy this movie. There are some interesting moments in this film, particularly for those who love art. The movie is actually much more complicated that the short summary I have provided. Jordan Katz's screenplay is full of authoritative, fascinating facts about how art is variously made, copied, authenticated & exposed as fake. 'Incognito' could serve as a handy tool for teaching courses in the detection of art forgery. Directed by John Badham, a Hollywood hack with a decent commercial track record (Saturday Night Fever, Short Circuit, War Games, Stakeout) Jason Patrick is really good in his role Patric is believable in his role as a suffering artist & skillfully shifts from unlikable to sympathetic. ; Irene Jacob is also good as his girlfriend (she is known for her films with Krzysztof Kieslowski) Rod Steiger plays a small role but still has the staying power of the great actor we know. The romance with Jacobs, who plays, Marieke van den Broeck, reminds us of a 39 Steps Hitchcock kind of way. The European locales (Dutch, Spanish,Parisian) are very much like paintings & the director & cinematographer did a good job here. Too bad the DVD transfer was so poor. The film is well-directed. I found the DVD transfer poor & grainy etc. I guess in 1997 transfers were not as good as now. The movie looked pretty poor on my big screen HDTV. I think this film had limited release fared poorly & was sent right to DVD. Really I don't know why as it really a pretty acceptable thriller. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You don't like people, says Marieke to Harry Donovan, challenging him to name one counter-example.  It is no surprise; Harry is not very likable himself.  The angry-but-brilliant artist is a cliché, but Jason Patric makes it work.  His character finds some sort of healing in his rendering his father into a fake Rembrandt he makes in the movie, at the same time melding his relationship to his father into his own psyche.  I would like to have seen more art and art commentary in this movie, but you can learn a lot from it. "},{"Title":"first half solid","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In London, Harry Donovan (Jason Patric) is arrested for the murder of a Rembrandt owner. The movie flashes back four months earlier. Harry is an art forger in NYC struggling to get his own work noticed. He's approached by three mystery men to paint a Rembrandt for $500k. He goes to Amsterdam to study Rembrandt and decides to fake a lost picture. In Paris, he gets romantic with Marieke van den Broeck (Irène Jacob) who claims to be a student. She unwittingly helps him. However it turns out that she is the pre-eminent Rembrandt expert and she is the only one who won't authenticate his picture.The movie is solid for the first half. Then the movie suggests that Harry killed the Japanese guy. It makes it impossible to root for Harry. The movie should show the bad guy killing the Japanese dude after Harry leaves right at that point. It's not a worthy mystery to keep if it takes away the rooting interest. Also the court case and everything afterward is too rushed. There is no case against the villain other than the testimony of his co-conspirator. The defense seems to hinge on proving the picture as a fake but that proves nothing about the murder. That would change his motivation but the murder still stands. Once the courtroom scene starts, the movie stops making sense. "},{"Title":"Jason Patric and Irene Jacob handcuffed and on the run","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Incognito (1997) is a throwback to 60s-style romantic thrillers with a Hitchcock gloss. John Badham keeps it moving and interesting. Jason Patric and Irene Jacob generate some sparks in roles that remind one of Cary Grant and Eva Marie Saint or even Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll. We have the pair of them on the run from police, who are taking their cues from lying art fraudsters. And we even have the two being handcuffed together like Donat and Carroll. It's not quite up to Cary and Audrey Hepburn in Charade (1963) but it's good enough to entertain if only through the novelty of its art angles.Taught by his father, Rod Steiger, to be an artist, Patric has failed to be himself in his work. Instead, he fabricates art works and sells them into a ready market. It's fraud through middlemen. He's commissioned by a group led by Thomas Lockyer to paint a Rembrandt, which gets us into a very nicely executed sequence that shows him doing this. Before that, in his preparations, he has run across Irene Jacob and they've slept together - just once. Patric has a falling out with the Lockyer group and goes on the run, corralling the reluctant Jacob who thinks he's a murderer.It's a nicely-turned story, not departing very far from familiar plot lines and characterizations, done in an older vein, but reasonable fun. The widescreen print is excellent and some viewers will appreciate the subtitles to compensate for whispered lines and other audio infidelities. "},{"Title":"a film for everyone","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" a film about art. and its roots as way to survive. a film about Rembrandt in a special style. and a love story. short - a clever film with elements of art history, thriller, crumbs of Hitchcock and full of beautiful images. not sophisticated but far to be disappointed. not special but far of waste of time.a perfect target for entertainment and, in same time, a lesson about beauty in not ordinary mode. adventures, secrets, various battles , good actors and flavor of correct work. its public - many slices of interest. because action near love, art near chase, conspiracies near industry of fake masterpieces, delicate homage to Rembrand near need to survive and, a beautiful couple are ingredients for everyone. "},{"Title":"Fails to Deliver","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie has art forgery, romance and evasion from the law. It is the type of movie that I should like, but after a promising start, it fails to deliver very well on any of the themes.The forgery aspect is handled fairly well, although the writers seem not to have heard of diffraction spectroscopy or any of the other post-xray methods in use which would probably have detected the forgery without difficulty. This is the sort of oversight one could forgive if the other story elements were handled better. As Cecil B. DeMille once observed when a plot hole was pointed out to him, nobody will notice if you keep the movie going, because you can't see the teeth on a buzzsaw. That is only true, however, when the saw is turned on and the teeth are in motion.In this film, the romance never feels right, and only serves to slow down the action. And when the buzzsaw is stopped, you can see the teeth.Similarly, the evasion segments amount to little more than darting out of windows and ducking into alleyways. Never very credible, it finally leads to a courtroom sequence which is pure rubbish, and a fairytale conclusion which would have embarrassed Walt Disney.I wanted to like this movie, and I tried to like it. Unfortunately, it failed to help me. "},{"Title":"THE WORLD OF ART AND LARCENY...I liked it...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was too far away from the remote control late one night and ended up watching the beginning of a cheap looking HBO movie.  In the first 5 minutes there was a nude girl.  Shortly after, a topless girl dressing.  Thank goodness it turned into an interesting movie, the rest of the film was spent clothed.Looking at the other comments, I'm disappointed that more didn't realize that the art was the show.  That, and the question of what is and what isn't art.  If it can fool the experts without technical testing, is it any less real or valued???  There is more cynicism in the art world than there is in politics.  I loved the museums and the Cathedral Notre Dame back-drop to many scenes.  I enjoyed these scenes more than I did the chase and courtroom scenes.  There must have been enough edits on the cutting room floor to make a mini-series to get this to movie length.  Several plot lines could have been followed further.I found it entertaining and interesting.  It made me sad about the things and places I might never see in person.  The acting is adequate.  The story is adequate.  The 'phonetic' reading of lines was lost on me.  The other comment that mentioned that reminded me of an early Catherine Deneuve film where she had to do the script in english phonetically.  IT DIDN'T BOTHER ME A BIT..... "},{"Title":"not deep, but interesting","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is slightly better than a good TV movie.  The grand art forgery swindle game is interesting, but Jason Patrick is rather irritating with his big mouth and surly attitude toward everyone, sort of like the tempermental artist, and it gets a bit tiresome.  The plot has a few good twists, and if you're not expecting the world it's an Ok flick.   >  "}{"Title":"Two Thumbs & Eight Fingers","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has a great story line and acting. Often a movie's twists and turns seem forced this movie is quite believable. The use of the wonderful locations of London, Amsterdam, and Paris was a nice touch. Several lines really moved me e.g., to paraphrase, Your forgeries are your safe place. Being yourself would be a risk. "},{"Title":"Quite surprising","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a typical B-thriller that airs on a Friday night. Because of that, my expectations for the movie weren't exactly huge. But I really felt enjoyed when watching this, it was in fact quite exciting. The story about a an art forger who fakes a Rembrandt picture is a quite good one, and was a relieving difference from most other B-thrillers. Although I doubt that the way he fakes the painting is possible in real life, it was very well made for this film. Remember, it's only a movie. The acting is mediocre. Not good, but not bad either. That doesn't matter much here, because it's the story that makes this a pretty good movie. The film takes place in Europe, something I liked for a change. "},{"Title":"How good the movie can be???","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Incognito is the best movie ever!!!only 4 movies are almost that good,after dark,my sweet,sliver,bridget jones`s diary and road trip...so this movie was just amazing!!!how somebody can do and act something like that?i think Jason Patric was WONDERFUL!!!!!and when that art what Harry Donovan had made of Rembrandtblind man went to the museum...oh my god!! it was just lovely and the best end ever!!!!D "},{"Title":"Very conventional, but surprisingly enjoyable to watch.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Incognito is conventional in almost every sense of the word.  I was watching it and could almost tell how the scene would turn out before it was over.  The acting is stiff, with some good parts and some bad ones.  The bickering between the two leads got old fast.  But somehow this movie held my attention and turned out to have some very interesting ideas behind it.  I think the way it portrayed art in such a cynical light was excellent.  After all, if you can paint a perfect portrait of the Mona Lisa, why is yours worth nothing while the original is priceless.  The theory of the name being more important than the art really makes you think.  All and all, the movie is a good time waster on HBO, I enjoyed it more that I thought I would probably watch it again if it ever comes back on. "},{"Title":"Entertaining when it stuck to the world of art forgery","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was entertaining and fast-moving when it dealt with the world of art forgery. The scenes depicting how a brilliant forger (Jason Patric) created a lost Rembrandt were amazing -- I loved how he bought black-market 160-year-old lead white paint so its radioactive half-life would be down to zero. When the movie strays into romance and other areas, it wasn't as deft. Rod Steiger was completely wasted as Patric's ailing father, a minor character who doesn't even rate an on-camera scene in the second half of the film. In some ways this was for the best -- you could put a neon sign around his neck that read I'm really really sick and keeping it a secret! and be more subtle than Steiger's performance. The most real thing about this film was forgery, oddly enough, and it was Incognito's saving grace. "},{"Title":"Seen it twice. Enjoyed it twice.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An English language foreign intrigue film, Incognito sticks Jason Patric in the spotlight as a forger of classical paintings with an attitude who is consigned to paint a Rembrandt while having to juggle pigments and palettes, father/son issues, a lovely art expert (Jacob), a bunch of art dealer/fences, a murder, and eventually a court of law. Though Patric's limited acting ability is evident throughout, there is sufficient material in this film to make it interesting if not engrossing. You'll get to see how a forgery might be done, some good European shooting locations, and Jacob topless while the film examines issues with some depth such as why a forger can't make a legit buck when he paints better than the old master he's forging, etc. Probably a more worthy film than its obvious absence of accolades would suggest, Incognito should prove and enjoyable watch for fans of the players and anyone with an interest in classical painting. (B) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Worthy","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I was surprised, this film ain't that bad. I wasn't expecting much but by the end, I quite enjoyed it.Badham's direction is fair, he didn't always make good use of the frame and show off the European cities. The acting isn't bad, quite good actually. Jason Patric produces a worthy performance here. The female lead is pretty good, the French certainly produce some terrific actresses.The plot does feature a few problems, but still, a lot of it ain't bad. The screenplay required some more thought to cover up some of the problems. The film wasn't always running at a consistent pace and a few scenes were rushed. The villains were fine but needed more development.Worth watching on a Friday evening.  "},{"Title":"Sad, sad, sad","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" What can I add to those little reviews I read? My rating speaks for itself; I'll just say it's been a couple of (more likely half-a-dozen)years since i saw it; and let me tell you I had to find it here, using the search engine... having been reminded of it by yet another oldie i watched on TV the other day. You get it? I couldn't even remember its title, but i vividly remembered - longed for - both leads' acting; the fairy-tale like plot. To me (and I'm glad to a handful of other viewers)this film is something else, really. Pity those directors, those same creators haven't come up with more of the same. ...Well, it's pretty logical, given its dainty ephemeral character...PS. I have yet to obtain the actual DVD ) "},{"Title":"How does an artist get out of a frame?","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Incognito was an excellent movie, a slightly offbeat thriller that keeps you guessing till the very end.An artist who specializes in forgeries is approached with an offer he can't resist -- paint a 'lost' Old Master.  He does it brilliantly; so well, in fact, that when the men who hired him decide to double-cross him, no one will believe that it *isn't* the genuine article.  Framed for murder as well as grand larceny, he finds himself on the run. Talented *and* smart!The artist is played by the sexy Jason Patric.  I enjoyed watching him create the forged painting, through the creative process and selection of supplies to the careful methodology. Facinating! "},{"Title":"THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE BEAUTIFUL","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tragically uneven, INCOGNITO features beautiful European scenery..and an engaging look into the world of fine art.As a suspense thriller, it offers as many twists and turns as the viewer can handle, but repeatedly slows and stumbles through underdeveloped sub-plots, and shallow performances by the main characters. Patric is wonderful as the angry young forger, but fails miserably in any instance where he is to convey sensitivity or romance. Irene Jacob is a wonderful actress, as witnessed in the two Kieslowski movies, but can't deliver the vague Prof. Marieke van den Broeck . As for the storyline featuring Rod Steiger, and his relationship with his son (Patric), it starts slow, before totally petering out all together.Interesting and beautiful as a travelogue, it's worth the rent if you stick with it to the end.  "}{"Title":"Where´s Badhams magic?","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Director John Badham used to be original in his works. His movies usually have good plots (Nick of time for example).Incognito is not bad, but it´s so...normal. Patric does what he can and Jacob is good. Steiger is good, but what does his role fit in?It´s not the worst movie ever, but it's not good, it´s somewhere else.Grade ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Intriguing glimpses of the art world make this a not bad time-waster","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What makes this film interesting are some fascinating looks at the art world. The detailed reconstruction of an art forgery. The superbly photographed English coutryside and the beautiful Irene Jacob (doing what she has to do in an undemanding role).Jason Patric is miscast as the art forger and there is some hammy overacting by Thomas Lockyer as the arch villain. The plot degenerates into a pseudo Hitchcockian chase and all ends in a trial scene with a rather contrived plot twist.All in all the film does try to be different and has a pleasant look about it. "},{"Title":"It could have been better","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film could have captured some charm from its locations (London, Amsterdam, Paris). However there is a lack of thriller atmosphere through it all. It works against any possible involvement with the audience. At its end, a simple feeling of void remains. Irène Jacob does not fit in at all. She deserves nothing less than Kielowsky who is one-off director in our present days. Jason Patric is nothing but a devilishly handsome guy. Acting? The direction did not allow them to.  "},{"Title":"Total nonsense.......","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Art forgery cloned into a James Bond movie, with an utterly bad script. Coincidences abound, and everything seems totally contrived, like they started out with the ridiculous court scene, and then tried to make everything fit leading up to it. To think that a judge and jury would sit spellbound for hours on end watching Jason Patric paint a masterpiece in an afternoon is beyond ridiculous. And speaking of Jason Patric, his character is so unlikable that the only one to sympathize with is the long suffering audience. Rod Steiger is totally wasted, and so was my hour and forty eight minutes, watching this total nonsense. - Merk "},{"Title":"An unforgivable, incomprehensible waste of Ms. Jacob's talents.","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Worse than the typical afternoon dramas shown on America's Lifetime Network, this makes one suspect Irene Jacob is nothing without Kieslowski.  How did the winner of the Cannes prize for 'Veronique' get anywhere near this pathetic script?  Both Emmanuelle Beart and Jacob should stick with French scripts that draw upon their prodigious acting talent, rather than exploit them as female 'scenery.'  English is not the medium for Irene to accomplish this, as all her ability apparently is funneled into pronouncing the words correctly.  Unforgivable. "}]