[{"Title":"Memory is a selection of images, some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is director Kasi Lemmons' first film and she has entered the world of cinema with a very bold start. Eve's Bayou is a very passionate story about life and love with a family surrounded by dark secrets. Lemmons' has boldly introduced us to a world in which magic is obvious and characters are deeply developed. There isn't one actor in this film that you do not fully appreciate. Everyone in this film gives everything that they have to help create this hidden masterpiece. Roger Ebert named this film the best of 1997, and I agree whole-heartedly. What makes this film different from other films of this nature is that Lemmons keeps us grounded. We are constantly reminded of where we are and whom we are dealing with. There is not some outside element trying to sneak in and disrupt the peace; it is a completely internal movie that allows us to devote ourselves to this desperate family. She controls Jackson with the greatest of ease, and gives us one of the most powerful child performances ever. If I had the chance to give the Oscar to Jurnee Smollett for her role of Eve in this film, I would have gladly handed it to her. Her performance commanded the film. She was the strongest and most beautifully developed character in this film. Smollett was outstanding. I have never been so impressed with a child actor as I was with her in this film. Her eyes gave us all the drama that we needed. I never thought that I would witness acting in its purest form come from a child. For anything, this film is worth seeing just for the performance of Smollett. She literally steals the scenes from everyone, even Mr. Jackson.I mentioned earlier that I loved the fact that this film kept us grounded by continually showing us scenes from the bayou. It kept our minds focused on where we were and the environment that surrounded these troubled people. Amazingly, Lemmons has transformed this setting into more than just a place, she has given it life. Not only through our characters, but it also is the center of most of the magic that occurs. It is a very symbolic reference. A bayou is a creek or a secondary waterway that is a passageway to another larger body of water. In this film, Eve represents the bayou as she travels to her family, the larger body of water. Also, whenever Mozelle calls upon the 'spirits' her first sight is of the bayou. Lemmons may be saying that the bayou is more than just water, it is the center of everyone's universe in this town. Perhaps it has more meanings, but I really felt that Lemmons was using the bayou as more than just a place setting, it spoke to me more about the characters.Finally, I would like to add that coupled with the amazing acting, Lemmons gives some of the most memorable direction behind the camera. The scenes when Mozelle speaks about how she lost her second husband (the one that loved her the most) because her lover wanted her to himself was riveting. Told through the mirror, this was one of the most interesting ways to tell a flashback. Instead of using the classic 'black and white' or faded lines trick, Lemmons actually brought the scene to us. We witness it firsthand and this allows us to be impacted deeper. I felt the connection, and it worked. Overall, this was a gem. I wasn't expecting to see such a caliber of acting and direction as I did in this film. The cinematography was outstanding. Lemmons has an eye and a passion for this film, and it is apparent with every scene that she captures. The Batiste family engulfs all of your emotion. Lemmons takes innocent children and captures you within their world, giving you only brief moments to breathe. She shows us the power behind Jackson's voice and the ability he has to expand his career. This was a surprise for me, but a well enjoyed surprise. I suggest you check this film out when time permits. It is a rare find that you will probably see in the bargain bin at any local store. Pick it up and enjoy it. I do not think you will be disappointed.Grade **** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Witchcraft and the modern Southern girl","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A bayou is the Southern U S term for an ox-bow lake, a stretch of stagnant water left behind by a river running through level countryside after it has made a short cut through one of its banks. The characters in this film have been left behind by history in the Bayou country of Louisiana. They are nice, middle-class creole folk going nowhere. Louis Baptiste (Samuel L Jackson) is the local doctor living in a fine frame house with his fragile ex-beauty queen wife and three children including the film's narrator, 10 year old Eve (Jurnee Smollett). Family legend has it that an earlier Baptiste, a French general in the Napoleonic era, had his life saved by a local black slave girl, the ancestral Eve. She married him and had 16 children, thus kick-starting local development. By the early 1960s, in which this movie is set, the Bayou is your archetypal Southern backwater. Louis didn't get that bit at medical school about not screwing your patients and in fact it seems to be an integral part of his practice. His sister Mozelle (Debbie Morgan) is also a therapist of a sort - having the gift (or curse) of second sight she finds lost relatives by exercising her psychic powers. Unfortunately she's hopeless as to her own affairs- her three husbands, all much loved, have all died prematurely.At the start of the film Eve, in voice over mode, announces  The year I killed my father, I was 10. Then we switch to a party at the Baptise house where Eve discovers her Dad having it off with a patient in the carriage house. He laughs it off, but the seed of doubt is planted, and when there is an incident involving Louis and Eve's older sister Cisely (Meagan Good) the stage is set for tragedy. In fact the movie is not so much about murder as about guilt, the especially keen variety which afflicts someone who injures another he or she adores and is dependent on.On the way, as the film moves through lush swampy scenery at an appropriately languid pace, we meet the rest of the Baptiste family and Diahann Carroll, enjoying herself as a downmarket sorceress. There's no sign of the racially conscious South - as far as race is concerned we might as well be in the highlands of Scotland. The whole film has a dreamlike quality (Brigadoon?). As Eve explains, her story is about the way memory is formed often as much by imagination as by what actually happened. I seem to remember they told us that in Psych 101 but it is rather more poetically put on this occasion.The photography is gorgeous and the acting more than proficient. Jurnee Smollett in her first role stands out, but Debbie Morgan as Mozelle the psychic aunt produces a three dimensional character from a part which could easily have been done as caraciature. Samuel L Jackson fills the bill as the charming philanderer Louis.The film is apparently the first from writer-director Kasi Lemmons, though Samuel L is credited as one of the producers and very likely had a say in the production. Maybe it wasn't such a great idea to introduce all the main characters in such a rush at the party in the opening sequence but it's all sorted out in the end. The brief black and white psychic sequences fit seamlessly into the rest of the film and somehow one doesn't stop to ask just how Mozelle does it.At the end of the day, you wonder how a child of 10 could go through what Eve has gone through and not become a gibbering wreck. At the end, she sits on the edge of the Bayou with sister Cisely, contemplating a gorgeous sunset, apparently at peace with the world. Is the atmosphere so thick, so cloying, in the Bayou, that even murder and mayhem are quickly forgotten? It's a beautiful sensuous (and sensual) atmosphere though, and worth sampling.  "},{"Title":"Stunning Imagery, Haunting Beauty","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MEMORY IS A SELECTION OF IMAGES, SOME ELUSIVE, OTHERS PRINTED INDELIBLY ON THE BRAIN. THE SUMMER I KILLED MY FATHER, I WAS 10 YEARS OLDWith those shocking opening frames from the movie, 'Eve's Bayou'(1997), I was hooked from start go.'Eve's Bayou' is an anomaly. It has achieved a rare distinction of excellence in all departments of film making; from the direction to the writing, from the acting to the cinematography. Here was a film not content with telling a tale of nostalgic retrospection. Instead, it shocked the senses of the unsuspecting viewers with an eerie collage of imagery, underscoring the chilling suspense with an undercurrent of tumultuous emotion (jealousy, loss and sadness; anger, vengeance and guilt) all culminating into the inevitable foreshadowed tragedy.But of course, this is far too distinguished a film to present an easy resolution. From there spring forth the painful revelation on the very essence of memory and the perception of truth, distilled and faceted with the passage of time. A valuable lesson indeed. Poetic and shadowy, the dream-like moods sustained throughout this poignant film is its over-riding strength. For here was a film which sights and sound has transcended the mere plot convention of its humble genre origins. Thankfully, the film turned out the better for it. Coupled with the celebrated fact that this was the product of a first time director(Kasi Lemmons), one can't help but feel the divine intervention bestowed upon this film to make it such an magically entrancing experience.Alongside 'Shawshank Redemption' and 'The Sweet Hereafter', 'Eve's Bayou' certainly ranks as one of the most hauntingly beautiful piece of cinema ever committed to film.  "},{"Title":"Exquisite!","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a delightfully good movie. Set in the Louisiana bayou country in the 60's, it is a wonderful story of a well-to-do black family caught up in family tensions that drive the plot but never overpower the family's love for each other. Infidelity, an over-protective mother, the psychic aunt's tragic loss of loves and a delicious dose of voodoo all make this a good watch. The child actress, Jurnee Smollett as Eve, delivers a beautiful performance with talent far beyond her years. Debbie Morgan is terrific as the fortune-telling wise, but cursed-in -love Aunt Mozelle.Lynn Whitfield and Samuel L. Jackson are also superb as the parents whose complex and troubled relationship's problems spill over onto the children, especially the two daughters, Eve and Cisely. Cisely sees herself as a buffer comforting her father and trying to protect him from her mother whom Cisely sees as a rival for her father's affections. Eve bounces around amidst the angst of being a middle child and the desire to understand the adults' world. This definitely a movie to see. It's a shame that jewels like this get overlooked in the usual Hollywood hype machine. "},{"Title":"Really, really good","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this film when my wife ordered it from NetFlix, and I keep wondering why. This is a terrific flick. Jurnee Smollett as Eve is truly excellent, and not just good for a kid, or good but annoyingly precocious, she is just plain good. The story is wonderful, and I love the fact that the race of the characters is hardly mentioned. It's a story about people, and it doesn't matter on what continent their ancestors originated. The cast is uniformly excellent, especially Samuel Jackson (one of the film industry's most versatile actors), and Debbi Morgan. Small parts portrayed by Branford Marsalis and Vondie Curtis Hall are very nicely done, and add color to the background of friends and relatives of the Batiste family. I enjoy the way the film shows us the world of psychic perception and Voodoo, and the degree to which belief in them can affect behavior. The location filming is wonderfully evocative of the steaming south, and the direction spot-on. I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Another fantastic film that didn't get the recognition -(","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I came across eve's bayou at the video store and decided to give it a shot. I am so glad I did. It is one of my favorite films. The story is outstanding and the acting has got to be some of best acting I have ever seen. Its a shame that there aren't enough quality roles for black actors because there are some fantastic black actors and actresses out there. I like to think I can recognize talent when I see it and the performances in this film were nothing short of top notch. I immediately went out a bought this movie after I had rented it because it was just that good. The voodoo/cajun/french/bayou vibe was cool and I think thats what attracted me to it to begin with when I rented it. Just wanted to share that with you folks and let you know that I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Mojo better blues","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   The ghost of Tennessee Williams hover over Eve's Bayou. The action takes place in a moss draped Louisiana backwater, and the family under observation (in their big gracious bayou house) is ripe with desires, disappointments, and the mysterious scent of sex as any in Mr. William's neighborhood. But the notable accomplishment of actress-writer Kasi Lemmons in her feature directorial debut is in creating a landscape quite beautiful and entirely her own - a fluid, feminine, African American, Southern gothic narrative that covers a tremendous amount of emotional territory with the lightest and most graceful of steps.   The story belongs to young Eve Batiste. The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old, a grown up Eve announced in a provocative prologue voice over. But the drama unfolds (in an unspecified bygone era when well to do woman wore gorgeous dresses to parties in their own homes) is far more shape shifting than such an audience grabbing statement can convey. Eve's father, Louis, is a suave, popular doctor and gentle family man who's also a womanizer - a flaw that bedevils Eve's graceful mother and especially torments Eve's older sister, Cisely, who adores her daddy more than she should.  Eve, meanwhile worships her big sister. And in reaching out to support Cisely in a primal sexual struggle neither girl understand, Eve turns first to her father's sister Aunt Mozelle a vibrant, enigmatic woman infused with good-witch spiritual powers, and then to Elzora a voodoo priestess with potent bad witch abilities.  Lemmons thus lays out big themes - the little seductions of fathers and daughters - the thick bond between sisters - the power of dark and light intentions in the material world. But she covers any traces of heaviness with shimmering, dream state visual elegance. And she makes up for any rough spots from the movie's younger actors with with a lovely score, and a great soundtrack of classic jazz and blues.  "},{"Title":"A heavy but gripping film.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this film I rated it 8; the 2nd time it got a 9.  There is much visual beauty in the film  a lovely, serene setting and many gorgeous women.  The film focussed on the devastation caused by a father who could not resist beautiful women even though he loved his family. As the film ended, I was left counting the number of people who would have considerable guilt to deal with but the end was, nevertheless, very satisfying. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful movies ever","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the most well shot and directed movies I've ever seen besides the GodFather I &II. The acting in the movie was excellent. Jurnee Smollett is an excellent actress as well as Debbi Morgan - both should have been nominated for an award. The cast well picked. Samuel L Jackson character created a love/hate relationship with me. The women were absolutely beautiful. What is amazing is that this movie did not receive any type of nominations or honorable mentions, much less advertisement when it originally came out. I am amazed how the script of Good Will Hunting was nominated for an Oscar and more amazed that it won. Kasi Lemmons thank you for such a beautiful film. "},{"Title":"A slow and perhaps stretched drama but well crafted and rewarding nonetheless","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1962 Eve was only about 10 and lived with her family in Louisiana. Her father, Louis, is the popular town doctor who has a beautiful wife and three children (including Eve). However he is too knowing about his popularity with the women in the town and is quite the flirt. When Eve sees him kissing and touching another woman behind their house it distresses her but she is convinced by elder sister Cisely that it was all her misunderstanding of the situation. This is the first of a series of events in her memory that she recalls ended with her killing her father. However, the memory of a child can be such a subjective thing.Starting with the statement from Eve about her hand in her father's dead, I was ready for a mystery that would be dark and tense but the film left that mystery in the air while going on to be a slower, but just as interesting, story. This is despite the fact that it seems to rely quite heavily on voodoo and similar Southern clichés to move the story forward. Although this gradually becomes less important it is quite obtrusive early on and I found it a little bit off-putting but gradually got over it thanks to the story overcoming it with a real emotional involvement from the characters. The writing of people is strong and the direction is quite assured, even if some of the sets and shot-framing were reminiscent of daytime TVMs (an affect the music doesn't help).With the characters and their stories well written, it required good performances all round and it is to Lemmons' credit that he draws strong performances from all ages of his cast. Although Jackson is the big name involved, it is really Smollett who won me over. Avoiding the cute kid cliché she delivers a really convincing performance that is the heart of the film &#150; it is a real weight to carry it, but she does it well. Jackson himself is good, not overplaying his character to the point where we hate him, but just as far as us disliking him for the weakness that he knows he has. Good and Whitfield are both good and they are where the main battle for feminine attention from Louis &#150; it is touching to see Good grow and fascinating to see Whitfield respond to it &#150; good writing and good acting. Support is roundly good but they have less to do &#150; Smith in a minor role, Carson using her ample body, Ayler playing a cliché and Curtis-Hall sporting a haircut that looks like it fell onto him from a tree. However the main performances are so good it doesn't really matter &#150; they produce a film that is both emotionally engaging and just about avoids melodrama.Overall this is a film worth seeing. The story relies a bit too much on voodoo and such, and is rather forced to the extremes of events but it is covered by never losing focus on the characters; characters that are well written and very well performed on the whole. A touch too soapy for some tastes I'm sure but for me it was quite engaging and a very enjoyable little drama. "}{"Title":"A Marvelous Character Driven Drama","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is perfect down to the last detail, but lovers of popcorn movies may pass Eve's Bayou without notice. The film is, against all odds, hopeful even while quietly stirring outrage. It's a deceptively passive movie that quietly moves mountains behind the scenes. Under the skillful hand of writer-director Kasi Lemmons, layers are revealed -- the pain of loss, the wrath of secrets , the je ne sais quoi of contented family life -- all while building up to a shattering conclusion, Lemmons' movie is both outrageously schematic and powerfully humanist. Eve's Bayou is a marvel of character-driven drama that no serious film-goer should miss. "},{"Title":"Memory is a selection of images","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let's make it simple. Eve's Bayou was the greatest independent film released in 1997. There may been other greats released at 1997's end, but nothing that is even in the same league. It's that good. Sidenote The Sweet Hereafter and L.A. Confidential were absolutely amazing as well.As director, Kasi Lemmons etches each and every character with precision. The situations, emotions, conflicts and characters all feel real. It would have been easy to turn all of this into a cliché drama, but Lemmons avoids the obvious. As an actor, she understands and appreciates the caliber of talent in front of her camera. The entire cast take tremendous leaps of faith, and Lemmons tightly woven direction and sturdy script are always there to catch them.Stirring, unsettling, powerful and devastating, Eve's Bayou goes beyond being just a movie and becomes an experience that will haunt you long after the film is over. "},{"Title":"A Mature Master Work","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons keeps the focus of Eve's Bayou so fully, so intently, on the characters that the film plays like a quietly studied family drama. It speaks to broadly defined themes that are staples of literature and art&#151;specifically the dimensions of familial grief and the roles of good and evil&#151;yet it is done intimately, always with an eye on the people who are affected. The film is riveting from start to finish. It is a mature, thoughtful film for adults - a picture unafraid to mine some difficult territory. The movie also contains one of the single most well-acted scenes I've ever watched. I won't give it away, but it's a moment between Debbi Morgan (Aunt Mozelle) and Jurnee Smollet (Eve), involving a tragic accident that happened in Mozelle's past. What happens is shocking and revealing, a perfect example of the intense psychological realism Eve's Bayou so beautifully achieves. "},{"Title":"Humanistic Gem","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Eve's Bayou, small isn't just beautiful. It's terrific. By small, I refer to the below-the-radar activity that takes up most of our time the joys, misunderstandings, passions, animosities and yelling matches of everyday living. This is the stuff you don't see in Hollywood movies, except as minor accompaniment to bigger concepts, such as the saving of the world, the sinking of the Titanic, etc. Kasi Lemmons'movie, winner of a National Board of Review and Independent Spirit Award, exults magnificently in this stuff. Eve's Bayou is a humanistic gem of a movie, with unforgettable performances from Jurnee Smollet(Eve) and Debbi Morgan(Aunt Mozelle). The interaction among these and other characters is so absorbing and (above all) so non-hyped, there's no need for special effects or over-the-top premises. The film is a fountain of narrative surprise. You never know where this thing is going. And it's such a pleasure to tag along with these characters. There you have it a movie that hinges entirely on character. It could be that the summer/fall season of hyperbolic story lines has induced me to oversell this movie. But I'm letting my giddiness ride. Maybe you will, too. "},{"Title":"Deeply Moving","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons imposing directing debut, Eve's Bayou, was a strong contender in the avalanche of year-end awards and 10-best lists. The film, which was taken from a short story,is a deep and heartfelt consideration of love, loss, rage and the meaning of justice that treats the themes from an unusual and particularly moving angle. This is film making at its most powerful drama capable of shaking the soul, yet free of even the slightest hint of manipulation, sentimentality, or mawkishness. The movie has an impact that extends far beyond the walls of a movie theater - a quality shared by a distressingly few of today's releases.The most amazing thing about Eve's Bayou is not the style, the acting, or the cinematography (ALL OF WHICH ARE EXCEPTIONAL), but the way the film successfully juggles so many themes, persuading us to reflect upon them all before the running time is up. This is truly a great film - easily one of 1997's best. "},{"Title":"One of a kind experience","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons neo-film noir drama, Eve's Bayou, was the movie for those of us who had been waiting for something new and original -- perhaps even great -- to come out of that vast wasteland known as the African American Cinema.Confusing? Absolutely. Demanding? You bet. This is one movie that actually forces us to keep re-examining the situations that occur during the film and straining to make mental links. But, dramatically, the device works. In a clever way, the film also works on a profound metaphoric level as well. It's a sly comment on an emerging 21st-century culture that's so burdened with passwords and number codes that the epidemic of memory loss and senior moments is even beginning to hit teenagers. Great film, and incredible progress for African American Cinema. "},{"Title":"Assured and Daring","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is so assured and daring, you're almost petrified the picture's going to mess up, make some kind of boneheaded move. You're sitting there, rooting for this thing not to fall off its conceptual high wire. But hallelujah, it keeps its balance; and you're exhilarated from beginning to end.What's great about this film is the way it deconstructs time. But the structure is not arbitrary. Each new day yields more information in a skillfull order We learn what happened, in tantalizing increments. And with each revelation, the big picture changes radically. Eve's Bayou doesn't just draw you into a dramatic mystery, it makes you aware of human mystery. And that's food for thought and entertainment.FYI Debbi Morgan gives one of the best supporting performances of the 90s, bar none. This woman is a revelation! Excellent acting from the rest of the cast also. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Twisted","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Most films are made merely to entertain. That's not to imply that being entertained is a shallow or unimportant goal, but an intelligent movie fan can only take so many horror sequels, prom date mishaps and microwaved action snacks before they begin to devolve. Just like it's nice to just turn your brain off for a movie like Charlie's Angels, there's also a profound sense of pleasure in taking in a brilliantly twisted film like Eve's Bayou and letting your synapses warm up. The brain is a muscle, and you have to challenge it once in a while. And in the case of this film, this is an exercise in pure cinematic bliss.Do our memories play tricks on us? Do we, at least subconsciously, choose our memories? Would we be better off going only by cold, hard facts and not relying on something so subjective as memory? Fantastically taut, crafty and utterly original, Eve's Bayou answers these questions and asks a thousand more. It's ironic, given the subject matter, but it's a film you'll remember for a long time.Grade A "},{"Title":"Exceptional Directorial Debut","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Memory - it is one of the key elements that separates human beings from animals. It is one of the basic building blocks of personality. Who we are is shaped as much by our experiences as by our environment. Memory can also be unreliable, not to mention easily influenced. Ask three people to describe the same event, and none of those accounts will be the same. But, although memories are skewed by perspective, they are critical to the human experience. Eve's Bayou is very much concerned with all aspects of memory, especially the manipulation of it, and this endlessly fascinating, wonderfully open-ended motion picture will be remembered by many who see it as one of the best films of 1997.The film is wonderfully acted by ALL involved. Debbi Morgan was the true standout, her performance was nothing short of brilliant. She truly deserved Oscar consideration. Bayou was Lemmons' first film, but you certainly can't tell. Her direction and writing is truly outstanding and rivals that of a seasoned director. A- "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Without a doubt one of the most original and inventive films of all time, Eve's Bayou is one of those films that, after watching it, you immediately feel the urge to see it again. Incredibly difficult to describe and mesmerizing to regard, it is irritating for all the perplexity it crafts around the viewer's mind and fascinating for its uniqueness. Seldom has a film had such an impact on me, seldom has a film left me thinking, This is it. This is what cinema should be like. There truly aren't sufficient words for me to describe the film. Eve's Bayou is a film worth seeing over and over again, because of it's thematic and narrative density and richness. The joy we obtain from Eve's Bayou does not arrive with the solution itself, but with the solving of it. A riveting experience, Bayou proves to be vividly innovative and ingeniously stimulating. And in a time where originality is the main factor that the vast majority of Hollywood films seem to lack, it comes as a breath of fresh air. A labyrinthine masterpiece that is as psychologically worrying as it is incredible. Now... where was I? "}{"Title":"A New Classic","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hitchcock was once famously quoted as saying, You need three things to make a good movie a good script, a good script and a good script. This citation does not just suit Eve's Bayou; it defines it. Kasi Lemmons, who both wrote and directed the film, has made an unrepeatable tour DE force about memory & magic and the consequences that they may bring. The script is full of twists and turns, and given that its narrated in a totally distinct way, the more credit that should go to Lemmons. The film is excellently acted. Jurnee Smollet(Eve) and Debbi Morgan(Aunt Mozelle) paints the whole film with a multifaceted assortment of emotions; grief, anger, irony, whatever feeling or sensation that they display is done wonderfully, not just with talent but with versatility, too. Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, and Meagan Good provide fine supporting roles. The characters in the film are all well illustrated; each one suffers from different things, but the most admirable concept (character-wise, that is) is that it's not all a matter of good and bad.Despite all odds, Kasi Lemmons' direction is simply superb, both fooling and disorienting the viewers with the diabolically clever story, and managing to skillfully execute the complex narrative (which at the same time is very neatly edited, too). Her taut, hawk-eyed direction is mainly what makes the film work. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Film","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' debut film is a surprisingly great, multi-layered and even-toned reminiscence. As seen through the eyes of young Eve (the deceptively simplistic Jurnee Smollett), Eve's Bayou recreates the hazy subjectiveness of one's own memories, and how what we recall may or may not actually be what truly happened. It's rare, especially for a first feature, to successfully keep one point of view, however inaccurate, through the entire film, but Lemmons excels both as director and writer. She gets fine support both behind the camera and in front of it. Behind it, Amy Vincent's lazily beautiful cinematography is as intoxicating as Aunt Mozelle's Southern drawl and Terence Blanchard's score perfectly underscores the action. In front of it, Lemmons is blessed by Sam Jackson's sexy and understanding turn as a womanizer, Lynn Whitfield as his suffering wife, the aforementioned Smollett, and a powerhouse named Debbi Morgan. As Mozelle, a fortune teller who sees all but her own future, Morgan commands the screen, underplaying when other actresses would reach for the rafters. She figures in the most achingly brilliant scene of the year, one that drives home once and for all the power of memory. For a film about memories, Eve's Bayou is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Delivers On All Fronts","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Attention to detail and a perfect execution of an amazing screenplay makes me believe that Eve's Bayou was the best film of 1997. While not having the grand scope of Boogie Nights and without the benefit of the marketability of L.A. Confidential nor the immediate emotional pull of The Sweet Hereafter, Eve's Bayou does succeed on many, many levels.It succeeds everywhere the others do and suffers none of their failures. The acting is outstanding, the direction is excellent, and with a score that is hauntingly effective, Eve's Bayou delivers on all fronts. It also challenges viewers and gets them involved in the story; In the case of this moviegoer, it also had her emotionally involved. And none of this can be truly appreciated after one viewing. A second viewing is a must and will really highlight the strengths of a screenplay that goes beyond twists and turns and originality for the sake of originality. There is a reason the film is told in such a unique fashion and it is effective beyond a need for style.If you've seen all the other wonderful films I've listed and not this gem, I definitely recommend you catch it. "},{"Title":"One of the 90s Greatest!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently discovered this lovely film, and boy am I glad I did. Honestly, I didn't expect to see such a caliber of talent. First off, all the acting from all the leads(Jackson, Whitfield, Smollet, Morgan, and Good) was excellent. Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet were especially great. There's a wonderful scene between the two that involves a mirror. This scene is masterfully shot and edited. Kasi Lemmons' script is very poetic and rich, the Academy should have given her an Original Screenplay nomination. Amy Vincent's cinematography was also outstanding. It's obvious she has a knack for detail. Ms. Vincent also captured very beautiful images of Louisiana. I especially loved the shots of the trees, rain, and the bayou. The opening to this film is FANTASTIC. It's black and white images, which is later confirmed to be flashbacks of Eve's(Jurnee Smollet) memory. If you have a chance to see this film, definitely watch it...it's great. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a movie unto itself, a rousing, original yarn about family life that includes everyone, whether they're from Louisiana or miles away. It is a well-made with strong performances, striking cinematography by Amy Vincent, and an unobtrusively dramatic score from Terence Blanchard.Bayou begins with voice-over narration spoken by Eve Batiste, as she recalls her childhood in a haunting flashback to the tragic summer her family came apart at the seams. Shown from young Eve's perspective, much of the narrative comes from a child's point of view but not so much as to limit the film's dramatic depth or spiritual mysticism.If only the Academy had shown Eve's Bayou some attention. Jurnee Smollet and Debbi Morgan were richly deserving of nominations for their performances. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Masterpiece","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou, is a near-monumental achievement. Though Waiting to Exhale and Soul Food were obvious crowd-pleasers that bumped so-called black cinema out of the trap of endless urban crime capers, this one is the real torch carrier for a literate new beginning. A nostalgic, tragic, exhilarating reverie, it's a movie that defines the boundaries of a magic-shrouded world and then (through the eyes of a child who is too smart for her own good) proceeds to thoroughly convince us of that world's existence. Along with L.A. Confidential, Eve's Bayou was the most thoroughly and consistently realized vision seen at the movies in 1997. And I do mean vision. Eve's Bayou contains little of that film's intentional fairy-tale gaudiness. Amy Vincent's crisp cinematography is magnificent, the best I've seen in a long, long while. Her intoxicating images of a small Louisiana town in the 1960s are bright and vivid, setting a direct counterpoint to a story that deals with, among many other things, voodoo, and the destructive capacity of overpowering sexuality. Bottom lineEveryone who worked on the film, from Lemmons and Vincent down through the large cast works as a cohesive unit to create a finely tuned dream-scape of memory and magic. Simply put, this is one entertaining movie, as consistently original and intimate as commercial film-making currently gets. "},{"Title":"Kasi Lemmons' finest film!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only one Black person (John Singleton for Boys N the Hood) and three women (Lina Wertmüller for Seven Beauties, Jane Campion for The Piano and Sophia Coppola for Lost in Translation) have been nominated for the Best Director Oscar to date. Both those numbers should have swelled in 1997 with Kasi Lemmons' atmospheric direction of the chilling drama Eve's Bayou. This nail-biting tale of family tension in the Louisiana bayou in the early 1960s was among the finest films of the 1997, but was completely bypassed in the Oscar race amidst the hysteria over Titanic. Regrettably, Lemmons (who won an award for Outstanding Directorial Debut from the National Board of Review for Eve's Bayou) has had only two small budget directorial opportunities since. This is an amazing piece of cinema with fine performances from the ensemble cast. Samuel L. Jackson, Jurnee Smollet and Debbi Morgan all turn in A+ performances. "},{"Title":"Rich family saga with an interesting twist","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is now showing on cable here in Australia, and is a far better than average offering.Written and directed by Kasi Lemmons, the film is a powerful family drama set in the sixties in the south of the USA. It stars Samuel L Jackson as a small town doctor with a wandering eye. The story is told from the viewpoint of his middle child, Eve, wonderfully played by Jurnee Smollett, who sees her middle-class family life threatened by her father's infidelities.No tale set in a bayou village could exist without references to black magic and voodoo, and this film also has them as a rather central part of the plot. But these elements are handled skilfully and believably, and heighten the tension that develops.One of the interesting tools used by Lemmons is to tell and retell a story from different characters' perspectives, asking the viewer to determine which is more truthful, and indeed, whether the truth is paramount.Jackson gives a sparkling performance as Dr Louis Batiste, a man of warmth and generosity who is well regarded by the local community that he serves. His family is seemingly a happy and close one, until the children begin to question some of the adult behaviour they witness.Jurnee Smollett's Eve is the main protagonist around whom much of the story is centred, and she effortlessly moves back and forth between being a precocious brat and a young woman with powerful emotions. The rest of the cast is also very good, including a voluptuous Lisa Nicole Carson as the temptress Mattie Mereaux, and Diahann Carroll as a bayou witch.This film moves along at a good pace and is a little more than you might expect. "},{"Title":"Well Crafted Film","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 10 / 10 Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou, the best film of the year 1997, is the kind of movie lover's dream that requires more suspension of disbelief than your usual fantasy or musical. It demands a willingness of the viewer to be transported back to a time when movies were shot on studio back lots and came with a lush artificiality and a distinct archness.Eve's Bayou seems to get it's inspiration from the florid melodramas that director Douglas Sirk made in collaboration with producer Ross Hunter at Universal, working within the 1950s studio system. Lemmons is serious and takes those ingredients further. She re-creates Sirk's soapy tableaux with such a single-minded, virtuosic flair that her bid for perfection becomes an unconstrained fetish. The result is a film that works as a tribute to a specific bygone film genre and style, but also to the 1950s-60s era itself. "},{"Title":"Great Screenplay","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While Kasi Lemmons' direction and attention to detail are brilliant, and her visual clues and her actors' excellent acting(Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet deserved Oscar nominations) are inspired, the real power of Eve's Bayou is its smart, hard-edged, poetic and all too human screenplay.Eve's Bayou is much more than just a mind-bender that aims to make you think and it is more than what it will be remembered for. At the heart of the screenplay is a touchingly heartbreaking exploration of loss, loneliness, and coping with death. The film is more about dealing with the loss of the only important person in your life and it is also about the nature of such loss and how revenge is ultimately an empty and unfulfilling quest. The emotional center of Eve's Bayou is quite prevalent and is by no means a subplot within the script. The character's motivations aren't only included for the sake of showing motivation but they are indeed the focal point and moral center of the story. The challenge of the film is to present that in an effective way that will draw and audience in and keep them on the journey with the characters. While the actual words woven by Kasi Lemmons are quite brilliant, it is structure that draws in the viewer and puts this screenplay above all. "}{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou received no Oscar nominations, yet it is one of the finest motion pictures of 1997 -- a fully realized production from the screenplay and direction to the acting and cinematography. It depicts a prosperous black family in early '60s Louisiana. The father and husband (Samuel L. Jackson) is a physician who philanders yet dearly loves his children. When a wedge of suspicion comes between them, events proceed toward a tragedy that may even have supernatural implications. This is one of the few black films in recent memory without a whiff of racism in the air. In part, that's because the world it depicts is wholly black, while the situations are timeless and universal. The cast is superb, from Jackson as the life-loving and sometimes misunderstood patriarch to Lynn Whitfield as his fearful wife and Meagan Good as his willful eldest daughter. The point-of-view character is Eve, the youngest daughter, played with heartbreaking fervor by Jurnee Smollett. Also strong in support is Debbi Morgan, as Jackson's sister. But the most credit should go to Kasi Lemmons, a relatively unknown actress who shows a rare artistry in her writing and directing debut. Trust us She makes Good Will Hunting's Ben Affleck and Matt Damon look like amateurs -- and they were Oscar-nominated. "},{"Title":"heart warming","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" recently had the good fortune to (re-)catch eve's bayou on TV. i don't know how anyone can help but fall in love with eve.she is sooo vivacious and adorable.an angelic child with invisible devil horns.why it never received the same recognition as steel magnolias , i will never know, but it is a takes ya back kind of flick,as tho if you breathed deep, you could smell the bayou or the dinner that was on the table.i came to the site , however to find the screenwriter's name. it has Mia Angelou all over it. i think it is time for me to buy the DVD.prayers for all of those souls in the bayou that just felt the sting of Katrina. ,ghostie "},{"Title":"Little Masterpiece puts Hollywood Blockbusters to shame.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This little movie is in my top 20 list after having seen well over 3000 movies. Jurnee Smollett's performance as the young Eve left me mesmerized for days. It was so evident the work was a labor of love, and it delivers. The story is provocative and memorable. The performances are all excellent and well integrated. There are good reviews here that do a fine job of praising this film so I won't elaborate. I simply suggest that thoughtful viewers will find this a thoroughly satisfying little masterpiece that on a next to nothing budget puts most Hollywood blockbusters to shame.  "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation Female Soap Opera","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This came highly recommended by a NYT reviewer, but yikes, before I was 1/2 way through it became real torture. Cast is mainly female--old & young--and they just scream and carry on in jealous nonsense with fortune telling and voodoo? thrown in. Samuel Jackson-- who the heck convinced him to play in this mess-- is reduced to a clichéd prop. 1960 Louisiana Bayou?? with blacks constantly in haute bourgeois costume with Connecticut accents is beyond laughable. The latter is cool--if that's what the director wants--but the story is pure soap opera slush! Bayou photography is great, and set against these ridiculous characters it comes as a great relief. The movie just slogs along with a cast of over-dressed harpies, both old and young. "},{"Title":"A Family Drama Like No Other","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A family drama like no other, Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou is a bleak, mesmerizing rhapsody of family-destruction, defiantly uninterested in peddling Hollywood-style uplift. Lemmons doesn't pretend, and I won't either, that this movie is for everybody. But anyone who cares about ravishing film-making, superb acting and art willing to dive into the mystery of family's secrets will leave this dark drama both shaken and invigorated.This film simply works as a character study, pitilessly well observed and intimately familiar with its terrain. Mrs. Lemmons based her film on a previous short film she'd made. She describes the film as a semi-portrait of her own family. Although is it quite a heavy film, Eve's Bayou is far less dolorous than might be expected. "},{"Title":"Don't Overlook Eve's Bayou","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From first time writer/director Kasi Lemmons comes a dark drama of a Southern family facing problems and struggling to keep their name above water. All told through the eyes of a 10-year girl named Eve, it is a gloomy and eerie tale of murder and deceit. The ensemble cast is one the best I've ever seen, highlight performances are provided by Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan, and Jurnee Smollet as Eve. Lemmons captures rural Louisiana with haunting results, complete with voodoo, adultery and breathtaking cinematography. The Academy Awards ignored Lemmons' directorial debut, which is unforgivable. Don't make the same mistake the Oscars did. Rent Eve's Bayou and you will feel what the academy apparently couldn't. "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This coming-of-age saga begins with Eve's v.o. narration Memory is a selection of images. Some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old. It is to the director's credit that, though Louis' death is known from the start, it's still shocking to observe the specific circumstances in which he is killed and the effects of his demise on the family. Cast against type, Jackson reveals a suave, romantic side to his versatile talent, which so far has been limited mostly to action and pulp-fiction fare. The riveting female characters are deftly etched by fine actresses. Highest marks go to young Smollett as Eve, a precocious girl who pries open her family's secrets and then tries to save its members from the consequences. Whitfield is compelling as the urbane, proud wife-mother who seems to have it all, except her hubby's fidelity. The sexy Debbi Morgan excels as the superstitious and intuitively impulsive Mozelle, a young widow whose three husbands never survived her affections. Morgan's performance was worthy of Oscar consideration. Technical credits are polished The smoothly assured mise-en-scene and authentic look (pic was shot on location by the gifted Amy Vincent) seldom indicate that Eve's Bayou is a first directorial effort. 10/10 "},{"Title":"An Exceptional Directorial Debut","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In my opinion, Kasi Lemmons had created one of the best directorial debuts in modern film history. Eve's Bayou is a well directed, written, and acted film. As I mentioned before, the direction was helmed by Lemmons(as was the screenplay). She captured some of the most beautiful images of Louisian I have ever seen. It's also obvious that detail is very important to she and her cinematographer. The acting is excellent all around, but the standouts are Jurnee Smollet, Debbi Morgan, and Samuel L. Jackson. It's amazing how Lemmons was able to attain such a outstanding performance from an 11 year old(Smollet). Debbi Morgan performance is a revelation. This woman was simply amazing, and worthy of an Academy Award. If you're looking for a great film, then Eve's Bayou is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Trouble on the 'Bayou'","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou oozes with lush scenery, powerful performances and that rare, quality director who gives purpose to everything in the film. Eve's Bayou is a beautiful story, and director Kasi Lemmons is just the woman to tell it.The film centers around 10-year-old Eve Batiste (Jurnee Smollett, whose only prior film credit was a bit part in Jack). As Eve searches for her own identity in a family that is in a constant state of emotional chaos, Eve's Bayou serves as a coming-of-age story, as it tells the tale of a seemingly perfect family hiding pain behind closed doors.The Batiste family is well-respected in the community. But as people well know, sometimes looks can be deceiving.Dr. Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson) is a bit too kind to his female patients, and his philandering ways are beginning to eat away at his family. Though this problem could be ended with a quick divorce, his wife Roz (played passionately by Lynn Whitfield of The Josephine Baker Story) would rather ignore the problem than confront it. By doing so, she feeds the fire that is slowly destroying her children.Eve is an observant child, and though she is not exactly sure what is going on, she knows her father is to blame. She finds a confidante in her aunt Mozelle (the radiant Debbi Morgan), who is possibly the most intriguing character in the film. Mozelle is a capable psychic, and she begins to sense danger ahead for the family.Smollett is outstanding in her portrayal of Eve. The emotion she evokes is incomparable. A great deal of credit for this performance can most likely be given to Lemmons. It takes a passionate and driven director to get this out of a 10-year-old girl.Whitfied and Jackson are equally powerful in their roles. They have great chemistry with one another and with the child actors.But Morgan's tormented Mozelle is the stand-out of the cast. Her eyes say a thousand words in every scene. The raw emotion Morgan can convey with the blink of an eye far surpasses what most actresses can do with an entire monologue. Morgan proves deserving of an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress from the very moment she enters the story.As for the direction and writing, what can one say? Many words come to mind brilliant, phenomenal, momentous ? but none does it justice. Lemmons is a master of her craft and deserves praise far and wide for this gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"A Deeply Moving Film","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the new drama, Eve's Bayou, the story of an African-American family in Louisiana is told reminiscing through the eyes of the 10-year-old title character, and many of the consequential scenes in the film involve children. So, this excellent script could have been ruined if the children didn't step up to the challenge, and I must say there simply could not have been better performances by the young actors in this movie.Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson) is the head of the story's central family and is also the town doctor who is constantly called upon to fix every illness, especially the lustful cravings of the local women.Louis comes across as the perfect father and his children adore him for it, particularly his eldest daughter, Cisely (Meagan Good). The mother of this prosperous family, Roz (Lynn Whitfield), begins to suspect Louis has been unfaithful, and Cisely believes her mother is unjustly accusing Louis.All of the family turmoil becomes too much for young Eve (Jurnee Smollett). She soon finds herself hating her father for the wrong reason, and suffers for it after the film's penetrating climax.Writer/director Kasi Lemmons' script is excellent and her direction shines, especially her perplexing, black-and-white portrayals of Eve's memory.The acting is great all around, but the brilliancy of Smollett and Debbi Morgan as Aunt Mozelle is what made the movie for me. It's a real Oscar magnet. "}{"Title":"After Casablanca, my absolutely favorite movie.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ....for the life of me, the beginning sentence of this movie escapes me.  I don't know why because its the most profound, moving beginning I've ever heard in cinema or fiction.  But just like in Jerry McGuire, Tom Cruise's character had Renee Zellweger's character from Hello Eve, the narrator of this movie had me with the words, the summer I killed my father I was 10 years old.  From that sentence, I wanted to know EVERYTHING there was to know about this family and that character.This movie won accolades at the Toronto film festival.  Why it didn't win similar accolades at the Oscars escapes me.  I've heard it said that there were some who were disturbed by the voodoo undertones in the movie which to me was absurd. The theme of this movie was universal.  On a basic level its about family.  The beauty of this movie is that you could have changed the colour of the family and it wouldn't have mattered a damn.Everything about this movie had me...from the rich backdrop of the scenes in the Louisiana bayou; the beautiful and appropriate soundtrack which I went out and bought (the Terrance Blanchard instrumental at the end of the movie and the Erykah Badu theme were worth the price of the CD) and the chemistry between the characters.I'm a huge Samuel L. Jackson fan and even though the women featured prominently in the movie (Eve, her sister, the mother, the aunt), Sam held his own.This was an outstanding directorial debut from Kasi Lemmons.  All new directors should have a debut this outstanding.   "},{"Title":"The best film of 1997, one of the top 25 in film history","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was quite simply the best picture of 1997.  Only L.A. Confidential and Good Will Hunting came close, but even they can't compete with this film---even though they both won respectively, an Academy Award for adapted and original screenplay.  There was PLENTY of room for Eve's Bayou at the 1997 Oscars, but the Academy instead chose to recognize films that came across as made-for-tv-movies like As Good As It Gets, Titanic, and The Full Monty.  But oh well, at least the film is in print, isn't that the most important thing?  Eve's Bayou is an interesting study, each time you watch it you will notice something new, and each time you view it, it becomes more pleasureable.  Solid performances by all of the films actors, particularly by a young Jurnee Smollett, who carries this film with the same power and conviction Osment showed in the Sixth Sense.  There are amazing youth performances here. If you are reading this review, pondering whether to see it, then let me tell you that you should-- the effect it will have on you is well worth two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal movie, well-crafted plot","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This remains one of my favorite all-time movies. Why this expertly crafted, truly imaginative film didn't get more recognition is beyond me. Debbi Morgan delivers a breakout performance as Aunt Mozelle, and why more opportunities have not come her way is a mystery. Samuel L. Jackson, Roger Gwynver Smith, and Jurnee Smollett are all spectacular. Unfortunately, Debbi Morgan is but one in a string of talented African-American actresses that haven't gotten the attention and roles they deserve. (This group includes Paula Kelly, Lonette McKee, Margaret Avery, Olivia Cole, C.C.H. Pounder, Janet Hubert, Tamara Tunie, Jonelle Allen, and Lisa Nicole Carson.)Amidst breathtaking cinematography, Eve's Bayou leaves its privileged audience to draw its own conclusions, making this a clever, well-paced, and outstanding achievement in American film. "},{"Title":"Outstanding cinematography...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film in 1997 when it was released.  I was hooked 15 minutes into the film.  I enjoyed this film for the following reasons1. It had an outstanding cast.  I remember watching Debbi Morgan on _All_My_Children_ in the early 80s.  It was truly a treat to see her in this film.  Lynn Whitfield gave one of her best performances in this film as well (my humble opinion, of course!)  Jurnee Smollett and Meagan Good will have long, enduring film careers if they keep choosing roles that have depth and complexity.2. Excellent cinematography.  This film displayed all of the beauty one sees in southern Louisiana (I am a native Louisianian, so I am very biased!) Seeing the bayous and sprawling trees with the moss hanging off of the branches reminded me of summertime in Louisiana.3. Seeing an affluent African-American family during the Civil Rights movement.  A lot of people don't realize these families existed before, during, and after the Civil Rights movement in the south.  I have not seen many films that show the economic class diversity of the African-American community.  That is my favorite aspect of this film.I enjoyed watching this film.  I can't wait to see more of Kasi Lemmons' films in the future "},{"Title":"Very highly recommended by one who does not like to waste time.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Multi-leveled without being exhausting. The cinema photography of the swamp scenes is enough to allow you to step in for a few seconds and live in the bayou for a brief moment. Sassy, intelligent, rich in visuals. Exquisite costuming. Superb acting. Oh, give this one a chance (and it's on your favorites shelf, so it won't cost you much to try.) Personally, I think I shall buy it. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Triumph......","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       There are some movies that as soon as there over you forget about them, Eve's Bayou is not one of those movies. Eve's Bayou is a triumph of acting, writing, directing, and cinematography.                   Kasi Lemmons who wrote and directed Eve's Bayou was by far and a way the best new movie talent of the 90's (and that includes Paul Thomas Anderson). The script is engrossing and involving and gives each of its characters depth and life. The direction is flawless. The tone of the movie never wobbles, the actors are uniformly excellent, and the story never loses momentum.                                        The story is told through the eyes of a young girl named Eve. Eve is  played by Jurnee Smollett in a great performance. Without giving too much of the story away, it involves her relationship with her father (Samuel L. Jackson), her sister (Meagan Good) and other relatives.             One of these relatives is an unlucky psychic aunt played by Debbi Morgan. Morgan gives in this movie one of the best performances in film history. She has one scene where she is describing the death of one of her husbands that will stay with you forever. The way she delivers her lines just grabs your heart, and is almost painful to watch, it's that powerful. She deserved an Oscar nomination to say the least.                      Eve's mother is played by Lynn Whitfield. Her acting is as striking as her beauty. Her performance in this movie is excellent. Samuel L. Jackson gives one of his best performances in this movie as Eve's father. Diahann Carroll has a striking role which is mostly done  in white-face.                               Overall Eve's Bayou was one of the best films of 1997 and is one of the most underrated films in history.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film With An Excellent Cast","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be amazing. Not only did Kasi Lemmons MORE than deserve Oscar consideration for her moving and beautiful film, but so did most of the cast. As always, Samuel L. Jackson pulled off a deep and layered performance, and I thought that Debbi Morgan was quite powerful as well. Jurnee Smollett is definitely one to watch as she grows older. This girl is probably the best younger actress out there. This is definitely a movie that everyone should see!   "},{"Title":"One of the best films I have seen.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful film.  I had an opportunity to watch it when it was first released but I neglected to watch it because I didn't think it would be too good.  But my friend talked me into borrowing it from him so I finally watched it about 2 weeks ago.  This was an excellent film!  The performances be Jurnee Smollett, Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, Meagan Good and Debbi Morgan were some of their best.  The story and plot were well written and the setting was perfect for the events that occurred in the movie.  The father-daughter relationship between Samuel L. Jackson's character and Meagan Good's character added an interesting and a usually unexplored twist to the story.  A must see! "},{"Title":"what better word than amazing?","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie is amazing.  everyone's performances are oscar-worthy, in my opinion - especially lynn whitfield and diahann carroll.the plot is brilliant.  it weaves a story together about a dysfunctional family, and the use of voodoo.the imagery is stunning.  there is nothing more i can say about it.  when people in the movie have little psychic flashes, the images are breath-taking.  there is one sequence when someone is telling a story to her neice about something that happened not too long ago and involved now dead people, but the story is acted out and the people are real (meaning they seem to come back from the dead) and it draws you in like nothing else.amazing. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable, artful and intelligent - Smollett eats the screen alive.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just caught the film on video and its hard to imagine that a first time director and screenwriter could create a masterwork such as this. Congratulations to Kasi Lemmons for achieving the highest level of film art within the confines of a movie that is also powerfully entertaining and moving.  Every frame could be hung on a gallery wall, and the lead performers are unusually photogenic.  Jurnee Smollett (10 year old Eve) in particular, who for some reason hasn't received much attention in these comments, utterly eats up every frame she is in - she has a screen charisma that I can't remember seeing in a child since, oh I don't know, Hayley Mills?  She has some development ahead of her in the acting department - she sometimes seems to be doing nothing more than basking in her own magnificence.  But few child actors reach the level of a Jodi Foster at age 11.  Hail to this film and everybody involved in its conception.I eagerly anticipate Ms. Lemmons new film.  For now, I think I'm going to take a drive down to Louisiana.    "}{"Title":"A Must-See!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies I have seen in the last few years. Absoloutely stunning in all regards.  Such a beautiful blend of poetry and magical realism.  This is actually a great movie to watch all by yourself on a stormy night, it will bring you back to a place in your childhood you'd never thought you could return to.    "},{"Title":"My favorite film of 1997","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As I put Titanic in a category of its own, Eve's Bayou was undoubtedly my favorite film of its year.  There was something about it that just hit me. I thought the acting was superb by everyone, especially Debbi Morgan.  This film was robbed of Oscar nominations and should not be forgotten.  The cinematography is beautiful and so is the directing by Kasi Lemmons.  Check out the DVD for Lemmons' great commentary and short film that inspired this film. "},{"Title":"A sensitive and evocative gem.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is so rich in its themes, its acting and in its look that it is difficult to sum it up in a few sentences.  Eve's Bayou is a triumph of intelligent filmmaking.  The story is told through the eyes of a ten-year-old girl who knows too much for her years.  We are voyeurs as we watch the tragic disintegration of a family.  These are people who seem to have it all  good looks, money, and status.  The father is a doctor, the mother is a great beauty and the children are adorable and precocious.  Unfortunately, the father, played brilliantly by the great actor, Samuel L. Jackson, has a weakness for women and drink.  His love for his children does not make up for his cruelty to his wife.  Lynn Whitfield does a nice job as the insecure and neurotic wife who doesn't know what to do about her philandering husband.  Debi Morgan is wonderful as Jackson's psychic sister, Mozelle, and the children give amazing performances.  The look of the movie is spectacular.  The bayou country of Louisiana is beautifully photographed and it serves as a sharp contrast to the tempestuous life of this troubled family.  How tragic that we are our own worst enemies.  People who have it all so often throw it all away. "},{"Title":"A richly rewarding drama","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eve's Bayou is a movie of revelations, the first being the arrival of writer-director Kasi Lemmons, who scores an unforgettable debut with this haunting, mesmerizing, completely original piece of work . The second is Debbi Morgan, a soap-opera actress who gives a seductive, transfixing performance as a widow with psychic abilities that should have garnered her an Oscar nomination. The third is that alluring, literary dramas can be still be done so well. This is a great film, about ghosts, voodoo, and the power of memory. Its Southern gothic tone is a mixture of Tennessee Williams and Anne Rice. And besides Morgan's breakout performance, it features strong work from a good cast, particularly Samuel L. Jackson as straying family man, Lynn Whitfield as his wife, and two of the best child performances to grace the screen in ages by Jurnee Smollett and Meagan Good.  "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess that in a year that produced Titanic there was no room for a small, haunting, beautifully acted character-driven film.  It was great to see Samuel L. Jackson giving such a subtle performance (after his bombastic turns in Tarentino pix).  Why Debi Morgan wasn't at least nominated for an Academy Award is a complete mystery (if only for the scene in which she recounts the murder of her husband).  All in all, a moving, memorable film. "},{"Title":"More than words","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Incredible movie that hasn't been given justice by the press or the public. Deeply-moving and very real (apart from the over-stylized voodoo). It's not often you can relate to someone as young as the character of Eve, who plays the young daughter and the narrator of the film. And it's not often you get to see both sides of a story. Well worth watching - another to add to the collection of intelligent, stylish, modern classics. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As 'predicted' by others regarding this film, I became deeply engrossed in the story line, the beautiful photography and by far, the superb acting of everyone in this film.  I feel ashamed that the so-called 'critics' side-stepped this film because of prejudices.  This is a must-see and I will be purchasing it for my home library this week. "},{"Title":"power to the children","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one complex film.  I like it for its beautiful photography, stately pace, and beautiful characters.  It weaves themes of coming of age, adultery, second sight, black magic, loyalty, family triangles, and selective memory into a a magical modern version of RASHOMON.  It left me with a feeling of awe and a sweet appreciation of human frailty.  "},{"Title":"A movie as engrossing as a novel","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know how you get when you're deeply into a novel and you can't stop  turning the pages... then take a bathroom break before you start watching  this movie. Only of course you have to just deal with the pace of the movie  which is great in this case and leaves not one dull moment.I think this was one of the best movies of 1997 and should have received  more recognition. I look forward to what Kasi Lemmons does next.  "},{"Title":"an overlooked jewel of a movie","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director/Script Kasi Lemmons, Cast Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, Jurnee Smollertt, Meagan Good.This movie has it all, mystery, voodoo, deceit, lust, dark family secrets. The narrator at the beginning tells the story of a slave girl on a southern plantation who possessed special powers. The plantation owner was struck with a disease and Eve was able to save him.In return for his life,the owner willed off his estate to Eve. They bore sixteen children together and the affluent family of this film are the descendants. Eve,the second daughter,was named after her. Eve and her aunt both inherited this power. Eve is now an adult telling the story of her childhood leading up to the death of her father. The movie takes off from there.Samuel Jackson,of course, has been in many good films. I think Meagan Good did a fine job portraying the eldest daughter. She is a beautiful actress with a lot of potential. I checked her filmography on IMDb and was not too impressed. I hope better film roles are offered for her besides just teenage fare. Jurnee Smollett is excellent as Eve. It will be interesting to see what becomes of her career. I noticed that she is being cast in two or three new movies. The whole entire cast performed well in this movie.This was a great original story by Kasi Lemmons. I noticed that she is also an actress. I thought this was a very powerful and gripping drama. The father(played by Samuel Jackson)is a total sleaze. I really felt sorry for the girls. This is mostly a downbeat film but it does have a few amusing moments. I first saw this movie about eight years ago and I still remember it. I happened to come across it at our local k-mart and picked it up. I just watched it and it is as good as I remember. "}{"Title":"Absolutely stunning!","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love to discover that a film which I have never heard of turns out to be a gem, especially when it makes you think.  Mind candy it is not.  I came across this film in the budget DVD section of one of the chain stores when I was buying a bunch of films that I had never heard of to watch when it got too hot in summer to move outside.  After it had lain around for several months, I finally got around to watching it, and it just blew me away!This film held my attention from the opening scene.  To begin with, it was set in a completely different world - Louisiana, which may be an American state, but is still foreign.  The film contained elements of mystery, family life, and infidelity in an exotic mix spiced with voodoo.  The story centered around an upper middle class creole family, descended from a Frenchman and a freed African slave, who bore her liberator 16 children! The film began with a party at the elegant home of the Doctor, Louis, the father of the child Eve and philandering husband of Roz.  The family included Louis' mother and sister, who had the gift of second sight and who was not unfamiliar with the inside of a mental hospital.  From that party, events unfolded, the significance of which depended on the perception of the participant.  Eventually tragedy strikes, but was it provoked or did he have it coming?  Not only was the setting and story oh so different, the performances were excellent, including the small cameo roles, and the background music just so haunting that I agree with all those reviewers who found it to be one of the best films ever.  I would just love to see what this group would do with an all black version of Streetcar named Desire.  "},{"Title":"***** out of 5","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is not one word in the English langue that has enough imagination behind it to describe Eve's Bayou, but when films are of such high recognition as this talk is cheap. I guess that is why some of this movie's greatest scenes are played in silence. `I was ten years old the summer I killed my father.' Tells Eve in a narrative introduction, making it hard to tell if we are being told a story in flashback or viewing a period of exaggeration. This was a delicious introduction, making me wonder if I would be exploring a forgotten chronicle or subsiding in metaphor.  Would this be an abbreviation of something or indirect deliberation of something else? On some levels I am still in awe over such a question. We witness the lifestyle of a young girl named Eve, the threads of who's name is derived from suffering in its cruellest form, slavery.  Eve lives with a family built on one older sister, one younger brother, a mother, a grandmother, a father who is a doctor, a cheat, an all around low-life and a cursed aunt who can see the future. One night after witnessing her daddy with another women Eve is stricken with awe, her emotions are sent into spirals, the family doesn't know, but is thrown into a vortex of uninspired feelings and everything resides in Eve, yet all that comes out is hate. Hates fuels this film, maybe more accurate is resentment. The characters tell their stories, each of which protest a different view, without speaking, only to evade righteous use or words. There is a fable to behold here but no means by which to generate a decent forward movement so it strays, it ponders, it entices and it enthrals through sounds, imagery and feeling of mass awareness. But this never removes the fact that these people resent each other, or maybe themselves, I don't know. I don't need to. Director Kasi Lemmons creates  something astonishing here. There is a universe within a timeframe that can be haunting without being affirmative. She places her camera in front of characters, only to have them look off to the side as they speak as if to mean something that we can't see. A lot of films are self conscience, they are sure of themselves, have belief in their structure and lead us where they want us to go. This film goes where we want it to lead. Lemmons takes us down one path, not to educate us, but to make ethical decision about another. This film struck me with style not dignity, most would have gloated and went for emotion bondage. I loved how it made me see what I shouldn't only to congratulate me with what I actually couldn't illustrate on my own. There was a sensation to this, a stigmatic receptor of insubordinate journeys into fear and loneliness with the passion of a war torn beast, this is material that will by no means evoke happiness in you, yet bring forward spear-headed emotions. This is not a film that runs in forward fashion, it may not even have a story to produce it's movements. This film is like a painting, it is meant to be emotional, an array of colours that grab the mind and persuade it be, not ask it to follow. Yet although artistic, this is not David Lynch, it is not strange, it has characters who not only understand reality but live in it. You don't expect Eve's Bayou to lead you beyond the realm is sanity because this is nothing you expect it to be and everything you believe it won't come to. Due to this, scenes collide in un-primitive fashion. There are no beginning or ends, cuts represent nothing but an editor doing his job, this is a train wreck of melodramatic soap opera in this form of distillation, one of the best films of 1997. And it works on the grounds of discovery. I love films that push from one thing to he next in hopes of finding something unrecognizable, this film does one better. It places these happenings in a realm of constituency, leaving the viewer never to know what to make of such offerings. All the actors play their parts for what they are worth, they all have the same basic role to play, but on different emotional arks. Samuel L. Jackson is particularly good as Eve's father, a man who struts around oblivious to himself. The script, also and original work by Lemmons, presents another fiendishly clever device in which to motivate the audience. She portrays all characters as constituting neither good nor evil. The only villain in this story is the story itself. Empathy is the only hero on display in these surroundings. This is a piece of work that is artistic, poetic and reprehensible, sometimes all at the same time, sometimes all of its on game. It is a film that twists around bends and hides between crevices only to watch itself unfold. I had no idea how such a complex story could end, but waited in silent amazement to find out, and so will you. Not because it is unforeseeable but because it doesn't come to conclusions, it simply can't. "},{"Title":"A Strange Voodoo Story","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story is set in 1962 Louisiana. The Batiste family is headed by charming doctor Louis (Sam Jackson). Though he is married to beautiful Roz, he has a weakness for attractive female patients. One night Louis trysts with married and sexy Metty Mereaux, not knowing that he is observed by his youngest daughter Eve, who is there by accident.The film received overwhelmingly positive reviews, with Chicago Sun-Times' Roger Ebert naming it the best film of 1997. Despite the praise, it seems to have been largely forgotten, and did not merit a single Oscar nomination that year. Going in to the picture today (2016), I had never heard of it, nor did I have a clue what it was about.The best part of this movie is that you can never be sure how much is real. Because most of it is told through the eyes of a 10-year old, some things may be misunderstood or distorted. A second viewing might be helpful. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seeing page after page of 10 star reviews of Eve's Bayou, I felt compelled to add my $.02. Just watched this film last night, and generally thought is was very good. The filmmakers stuck with and developed the characters well. The opening party scene was a bit of a mish-mash of faces, so it took a while to suss out who was who, but as the film went on, that got worked out.Before writing a few criticisms, let me say that one thing I liked about the film was that it refrained from becoming a 'white/bad, black/good' story. In fact, I don't recall a single white face throughout, nor any dialog about race relations. That was refreshing.Now, what I didn't like. First what the heck was with the wardrobes and make-up? Not only during the original party scene, but throughout the entire movie, the women are dressed up like they're going to a photo shoot or prom. Totally unrealistic/overly glam. Next the hokiness of some of the dialog. After the family tragedy, for example, rather than hug Eve and let her cry, Aunt Mozel relates some abstract dream she just had. Ugh. The kid's 10, she just lost her father, and you're telling parables?Finally I hated the ending. The father's letter reveals that he may have been innocent of his older daughter's accusation that he made a sexual advance toward her. When confronted by Eve, the best the older daughter can come up with is, I can't remember. Are you kidding me? The sisters then dunk the father's letter in the swamp, forever to be unseen by its intended recipient, Mozel.Overall, good movie. Perfect? no. "},{"Title":"Great family drama","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons wrote and directed Eve's Bayou, with such precision that I'm astounded that she hasn't had anything as good since this feature. Orson Welles is still famous for Citizen Kane after which he never reached such heights again.Samuel L. Jackson is a doctor who has a monogamy problem, constantly cheating on his wife, played by Lynn Whitfield. They have two daughters, Eve of the title, Jurnee Smollett is awesome as the lead character of this story and her sister Cisely(Meagan Good) is also a charming child actress. The two worship their father but they eventually discover his shortcomings as a husband.The two young sisters steal this film, an absorbing, tragic family drama of Shakespearean proportions. Lemmons has created a memorable classic. "},{"Title":"Love Love Love It","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" LOVE LOVE LOVE IT!!!!!One of my ALL TIME favorite movies ever made. Brilliant acting by the whole cast. Eve's Bayou is a spectacular movie. The color and scenery is wonderful and the people are elegant and troubled. Even the character's names stir up visions of dark swamp water and sultry heat. The story is told and seen through the eyes of little Eve Batiste played by a wonderful young actress named Jurnee Smollett. Eve takes us deep into her world which is filled with colorful characters and complex personalities.Diahann Carroll is fabulous as the old fortune teller Elzora with her insane laughter. Debbi Morgan as Aunt Mozelle Batiste Delacroix is something to behold. Aunt Mozelle has promised her family that she will not use her second sight to tell fortunes, but neighbors won't let her keep her promise. They seek her out to find missing husbands anyway. Lynn Whitfied as the manor born wife is beautiful and poised as she tries to keep her family together in spite of her wandering husband (Samuel L. Jackson). Jackson is very sexy in this movie and his character has roving eyes as well as roving hands that don't stop even when he is caught in a compromising position by his youngest daughter, Eve. This starts a set of events that lead to the total destruction of an already deeply troubled family.Although this movie did not make history at the box office my guess is that it will become a cult classic. Years from now this movie will be viewed for what it is, a brilliantly produced film. You can literally feel the Louisiana heat from Eve's Bayou. danceability. Amsterdam "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the '90s -","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" - which i am embarrassed to admit we only went to see because of the coincidence of the name!! But this absurd 'excuse' to see a film we'd heard nothing about (no publicity or marketing - just an option among several others at our local multiplex cinema, lured in by a beautiful poster which it turned out proved to be a foretaste of a gorgeously shot movie) paid off richly. We are seldom impressed as we were with 'Eve's Bayou'; this layering of memories, filtered through the perceptions of three distinctly different women, was such an intelligent and suspenseful use of the much-abused medium of film, that I thought about and remembered it yesterday after 11 years (!) and decided to rent it again; I am confident I will like it just as much on second viewing. Now that i know it was a low budget first outing for the (female) director (whose DP was likewise female - something which is STILL an anomaly, even today, where commercially released features are concerned), I am simply blown away....Roger Ebert is absolutely right; the fact that this was not nominated for an Academy Award means they were simply not paying attention; for shame! It ought to have been a runaway success, and at very least nominated for Best Director, Best Supporting Actress(es), Best DP, Best Costumes, Best Screenplay. Unfortunately, Kasi Lemmons' follow- up to this (the gruesomely dark 'Valentine' something-or-other) was nowhere near as accomplished as this (though it was still good, by any movie standards). Perhaps she lost heart after being so overlooked? (and if so, who could blame her?!). I hope this film gets a re-release and much belated marketing 'push', with a perhaps more prominent placing at the local DVD stores, at least (I'm having to order my rented copy in 'cause it's not in the store...)! "},{"Title":"Flaaaaaaaaaaaawwwwwwwless!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having been a TOTAL fan of Lynn Whitfield and Debbi Morgan for YEARS, I KNEW I would be in for a treat. This overlooked film is indeed a wonder and in time will place among one of the finest movies ever made. It is multi-layered and deals with some extremely sensitive issues all the while painting a beautiful tapestry of African-American life in the Louisianna bayou. For those of you who have not seen it, it deals with the awakening of a father and his daughters one summer and the emotions that accompany this learning. The young Eve is brilliantly played by Smollett and Debbi Morgan gives a knockout performance that you crave to see over and over again. Diahann Carroll works you because her character is not at all glamorous but pivotal to the plot as Eve comes to realize the responsibility of her gift and learns the truth of the age-old adage, Be careful what you wish for, for you just might get it. Samuel L. Jackson is wonderful as usual and perfectly cast. While his character is not necessarily sympathetic, he is totally understandable and for a little girl who worships her father he is perfectly cast. While some aspects of the father-daughter relationship may be somewhat uncomfortable, the director does a beautiful job bringing the complexity of these issues to the screen and I heartily applaud her. This is one that belongs in any movie collection and one where African-American life is celebrated and treated with the utmost respect and honesty. Hats off to a wonderful production!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou is a 90s Great","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer/director Kasi Lemmons and her outstanding cast have outdone themselves in the sublime Eve's Bayou. Eve's Bayou is fleet but not in a hurry. The scenes are clear and lean against the richness of the setting, but they flow leisurely toward the climax, like a punt bearing two lovers languidly downstream.Eve's Bayou is such a great story, partly because Lemmons herself is a master storyteller who is particularly gifted at strong endings, partly because the splendid cast embodies the characters so fully that the events actually seem to be happening to them, instead of unfolding from a screenplay.What a beautiful film it is Not an overdecorated period portrait, but a film in which the people move easily through town and country homes and landscapes which frame and define them. "},{"Title":"An Elegant and Deeply Disquieting Drama","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons ''Eve's Bayou,'' is an elegant and deeply disquieting drama that became 1997's highest grossing independent film. The tenuous bonds that hold the Batiste, a highly accomplished African-American family, together have finally come undone. Spouses cheat; secrets are held -- lies are told ; parents and children share households but have no common ground.Beautifully acted as it is, Eve's Bayou still elects to keep its characters and their emotions at a distance. They remain as hidden from the viewer as they are from one another, which is an essential part of the film's disturbing power. Mrs. Lemmons daringly chooses to keep her story's motivational mysteries unexplained, leaving this richly observed film open to the viewer's assessments. Yet the sense of imbalance is ever-present and strong. Films like Eve's Bayou are not easily summarized; they don't have that slick high concept one-sentence peg that makes them easy to sell. Maybe all I've said still leaves you wondering what the movie is about. But some of the best movies are like this They show everyday life, carefully observed, and as we grow to know the people in the film, maybe we find out something about ourselves. The fact that Lemmons is able to combine these qualities with turmoil, loneliness and even tragedy make the movie very rare. "}{"Title":"Outstanding, Outstanding, Outstanding!","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons has invigorated and enriched her debut film, Eve's Bayou, through the use of a thousand details, a strong sense of time and place, outstanding characterizations and a display of energy and cinematic flair that marks an advance on any other film released in 1997. Lemmons works with such piercing fervor and intelligence that Eve's Bayou just about transcends its tidy moral design.Eve's Bayou is as good a compromise of fact and fiction as you could hope for -- and still call it a movie. Lemmons directed this with a single-mindedness and attention to detail that makes it riveting. She doesn't make the mistake of adding cornball little subplots to popularize the material; she knows she has a great story, and she tells it with such realism that feels like we're apart of the Batiste family. This is a powerful story, one of 1997's best films, told with great clarity and acted like a finely tuned powerful fire(bravo Debbi Morgan). "},{"Title":"Profoundly Sad and Yet Magical","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou perfectly captures the melancholia that sometimes settles on a body like the gloaming, when the dying light seems profoundly sad and yet magical. Based on the short film Dr. Hugo (available on the DVD), this is a gem in the debut film making crown for writer/director Kasi Lemmons. Lemmons, with customary nuance and visual brilliance, crumbles the upper crust while breaking hearts with this poignant portrait of the Batiste, a wealthy African American family dwelling on a beautiful/haunting Louisiana bayou.While virtually every scene resonates with longing, there is one that is a masterpiece of unspoken words -- and somehow calls up visions of Ingmar Bergman's great family dramas. Debbi Morgan and young Jurnee Smollet -- who provide outstanding performances -- are supported by a host of deft players, and the detailed re-creation of this small universe is in all ways remarkable. "},{"Title":"An Affecting Movie Experience","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Put Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet together and you can expect sterling performances. This trio could make Conan the Barbarian feel like one of the great works. Perform from a screenplay as touching and accomplished as the one for Eve's Bayou and you can expect wonders. A classically polished drama about family turmoil, repressed emotions and protracted heartbreak, provide one of the finest films of 1997.As for that acting, the central scenes between Morgan and Smollet -- including a brilliant mirror scene -- makes for one the best moments in 1997's cinema. Jackson plays his part with magnificent ease, nobility brimming from his every gesture. The remaining members of the cast are so uniformly great, it completes the sense of seamlessness, like a perfectly realized banquet. Sit down to this and savor the human sumptuousness. "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of 1997's great films and winner of the Independent Spirit Award for Best First Feature, the American indie opened to wide critical acclaim. Delicate and complex, it's not only a showcase for great acting but also a deeply affecting film about family, loneliness , and the line between right and wrong.Directed by Kasi Lemmons, who's worked mostly as an actress. ''Eve's Bayou'' is inspiring with its look at the resilience of the human spirit and the ways in which truth can clarify, transcend and redeem a broken life. Like Jim Sheridan's ''My Left Foot,'' ''Eve's Bayou'' delivers a full emotional palette without undue sentimentalizing.Although Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet are stunning -- and are the highlights, the rest of the cast is equally powerful -- particularly Lynn Whitfield, Samuel L. Jackson all charming and powerful as Louis, and Meagan Good, rebellious yet complex as Cisely. There would be no great acting if the incredible screenplay weren't in tact. At the very least, Lemmons deserved an original screenplay nod. Eve's Bayou currently sits at # 24 in my Top 50 Films of the 90s. It's truly a great film that didn't the recognition it deserved (i.e. Academy Award nominations), so don't let it pass you by -- buy the Special Edition DVD. "},{"Title":"Compassionate , Morally Complex Drama","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons was at the peak of her powers with Eve's Bayou, a compassionate, morally complex drama that stands easily alongside other 1997 greats, The Sweet Hereafter and The Ice Storm, but may even surpass those films in showcasing the rich yield of the director's signature extended rehearsal process. Impeccably designed, skillfully inhabited story of an African American family in the early 1960s performed by a peerless cast highlighted by an outstanding turn from Debbi Morgan.While the drama is emotionally harrowing it's also riveting, profoundly affecting and observed with a real generosity of spirit. The film also benefits from a deeply rooted sense of time and place -- in the haunting bayou landscapes, beautiful living quarters and vivid colors of the meticulous production design and in the muted, wintry tones of Amy Vincent's poised, detached camera-work. Terrance Blanchard's sonorous string score adds greatly to the emotional texture.This is a must see, and sure to become a classic. "},{"Title":"A Spell from the Past","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply put, Kasi Lemmons'Eve's Bayou is a ravishingly beautiful film. An achingly sincere melodrama (now, when's the last time you saw one of those?) inspired by the incredible films of the mid 1900s. It's a glorious wallow in vivid color and pale, perfect light. And for its splendid actors, Bayou is a chance to find genuine, heartbreaking emotion within what, in lesser hands, might have been just an exercise in style.If you've ever wondered how life looked and felt back then, this is for you. Costumes, sets, cars, attitudes are all spot-on (kudos to the production designer and costume designer Karyn Wagner) -- and the film even boasts the music of masterful composer Terrance Blanchard. "},{"Title":"Innumerable Moments of Brilliance","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It may sound blasphemous in the context of a film review, but criticism -or rather what we traditionally think of as criticism, can seem futile when confronted with a great work of art. Like any masterpiece, one doesn't question the style, which seems utterly important and essential to the substance. Or the technique. If you wouldn't want a brush stroke changed the most you can give is thanks to the artist. It seems unthinkable while watching Kasi Lemmons' debut film that it be anything other than what it is. It's anachronisms are vital to its existence. It is what it is.The story is a carefully constructed, slightly modernized extension of an old 50s/60s melodrama. Eve's Bayou's artistic gamble is to present the film as if it were set in the 50s/60s and its extraordinary look is a monument to the talents of the production team. Terrance Blanchard kicks the film off in high gear with his impossibly beautiful period appropriate score. Karyn Wagner, possibly the greatest costume designer working, outdoes herself throughout with rich and vibrant character specific creations. Amy Vincent does the cinematographer and has the extremely difficult challenge of recreating the 50s/60s Technicolor surfaces, a now virtually extinct film technique. Above all is the writing, directing, and acting. All of which are top-notch. When it comes 1997 Best of list, Eve's Bayou tops my lists. In my opinion, this is one of best screenplays of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Extremely Well Written","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Modern movies today sometimes get wrapped up in the trivial, or special effects - but Eve's Bayou is definitely not one of these films. It started as a great work on paper - and grew from there. And this is what it has over a lot of other films that have came out in 1997; an inventive, surprising, and intriguing story. Hey, I enjoy the special effects romp, the mindless comedy, or the sentimental tear jerker - as long as they are done well. But nothing can take the place of a well-written story. Sure, there are many pieces that need to come together in order to make a good film, but the one that seems to be overlooked more than any other is the most important one of all; the written piece. Eve's Bayou is one of the few films that truly has a grasp on that most important piece. "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert's End of the Year Review","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the astonishingly assured debut film by writer-director Kasi Lemmons, who explores the secrets of a Louisiana family through the not always understanding eyes of a 10-year-old girl (Jurnee Smollett). She has a strong affection for her father, a local doctor -- and is jealous when he seems to favor her older sister. The doctor (Samuel L. Jackson) is also a womanizer, and when Eve sees him with a local woman, all sorts of half-understood emotions come churning into her heart. The film evokes a time and place as well as any movie released all year, and it creates vivid characters -- for example, Eve's aunt (Debbi Morgan), who can foretell everyone's future except for her own. Released with little fanfare on a limited budget, Eve's Bayou became the top-grossing art-house film of the year, mostly because people told one another about it. It takes us into a realm of poetry and dreams and shows us how deceptive memory can be. In the way it examines a family's emotional life, it reminded me of the family dramas of Ingmar Bergman. Couldn't have worded better! "},{"Title":"Bayou Is Grand!","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou is a rare cinematic experience where direction, performance, and writing merge to create something truly special, a powerful, emotionally devastating story about relationships lost and found, infidelity , lies and deceit, and personal conviction. The look and tone of Eve's Bayou reminded me of a David Lynch film pretty images hiding an ugly interior, connected by a current of underlying suspense that slowly creeps up on you and strikes without warning.Lemmons makes specific choices on what she shows us, and how she shows it to us. Eve's Bayou is a drama that at times can be suspenseful , but it's not really thrilling. Instead, Lemmons and Amy Vincent(cinematography) lead us on a calculated, gripping exploration of the human condition, allowing the actors to ignite the emotional fireworks of the incendiary topic. One of my all time favorites 10/10. "}{"Title":"Overpowering piece of work!","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a major independent picture, an overpowering piece of work that involves some of the most basic human emotions love, hate, fear, revenge, despair. Directed by Kasi Lemmons with absolute confidence and remarkable control, it owes both its success and its significance to the way it seamlessly unites elements that are difficult to pull off on their own, much less together.Eve's Bayou is simultaneously an intricate and gripping story that involves subliminal incest, infidelity, and intimately murder. Most of all it is a thoughtful and disturbing emotional drama about the nightmarish past sending destructive tentacles into the present. Instead of clashing, these elements reinforce each other every step of the way. This is an independent release that deals with the kind of dark and disconcerting material Hollywood usually tries to avoid. It's an performance vehicle that provides memorable roles for it's major players (notably Debbi Morgan /OUTSTANDING/, Jurnee Smollet, and Samuel L. Jackson) yet also takes pains to cast even the smallest speaking parts with care. "},{"Title":"Sneaks, Messes, Floors","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By any measure, Eve's Bayou is riveting movie-making in the popular vein. Kasi Lemmons avoids easy answers and sentimental compromises, mastering a many-leveled scenario both in terms of narrative momentum and thoughtful exploration of sweeping themes. Lemmons pours everything she knows about directing into Eve's Bayou. The film sneaks up, messes with your head and then floors you. You can't shake it. It's that haunting, that hypnotic. The sheer brilliance of Debbi Morgan's performance anchors the film. Do you want to see screen acting at its riskiest and most riveting? Watch Morgan. How this lady was overlooked for an Oscar is beyond me. Morgan isn't the only great performance, every performance in this film is pivotal and exquisite(most notably Jurnee Smollet). Even the small roles are vividly acted.Eve's Bayou is a dark masterpiece that can stand with any of the 1997 Best Picture nominees. It takes a piece out of you. "},{"Title":"All About Eve","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons debut film, Eve's Bayou, a stark and brooding drama that explores the dark side of human nature and the frailty of the perfect families that we all think we have, but don't.The story begins in flashback, one that is vividly captured in black & white and appears to be an event that will take place as the film progresses. Based on the short film Dr. Hugo, Lemmons has crafted a riveting story with complex situations and extremely well defined characters. Her spare approach to film-making, in which less is always more, gives this film a grim reality and a deep sense of intimacy. In many ways the film almost seems like a dream or a beautiful painting, and the Louisiana bayou and other landscapes themselves -- are as much characters as the human principals.It also helps that Lemmons has three fine actors(Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan, and Jurnee Smollet) at her service. Each actor's character is damaged in their own way and their interwoven histories provide a magnificent subtext to this deeply moving story. Lynn Whitfield, along with other members of the ensemble deliver top-notch performances as well. "},{"Title":"Dizzingly Complex","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So I finally turn the television off, in awe at Lemmons' achievement, a young writer/director coming out of nowhere with a film that is bold enough not only to mess with our minds by redefining our understanding of how one thinks when coming of age, but also has the audacity to use that radical storytelling conceit to question what it is that makes us human. I can't wait to see what Lemmons has up her sleeve for her next film, Talk to Me.At a time when the studio bandwagon mentality couldn't be more prevalent, filmmakers look for ways out of the business of making films outside of the mainstream system. Sometimes, the more avant-garde turns out to be unwatchable see Mike Figgis's two latest works for examples of an artists' ego gone amok. In much rarer cases, an experiment can turn into a work of startling originality and power, as in this film. Few films have been so dizzyingly complex, and none so richly rewarding. A definite 10! "},{"Title":"Enjoy the Darkness","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a daring and unsettling film about a few of the complex and taboo emotions of grief. In her debut as a film director, actress Kasi Lemmons (The Silence of the Lambs) has made a mesmerizing film with Academy Award-caliber performances by Jurnee Smollet (as Eve) and Debbi Morgan (as Aunt Mozelle). The film is potently effective vicarious grief, but Lemmons is sensitive enough to allow a reprieve of sorts in the film's last act. It's the kind of gesture a Hollywood director might have tacked on to a heartbreaking movie to acquiesce to test audiences. But Lemmons is intelligent enough to make her ending, in its own way, almost as surprising, suspenseful and troubling as the tragedy itself.This film was critically adored when it was released and deserved Oscar consideration. Unfortunately the Academy overlooked this film. What the critics had to say Piercingly alive . . . The poise and passion leaves one grateful, exhausted and nourished. - Richard Corliss, TIME MAGAZINE /Mesmerizing . . . Ultimately strengthening.- Alice Walker, author, THE COLOR PURPLE / Magnificent!- Jim Ferguson, PREVUE CHANNEL /****! Don't miss it!- Paul Wunder, WBAI / Brilliant . . . superb performances across the board!- Bill Zwecker, NBC-TV / An inspired achievement . . . There has never been a film quite like EVE'S BAYOU! - Kevin Thomas, LOS ANGELES TIMES / ****! - Roger Ebert, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES / ****! - Eleanor Ringel, ATLANTA JOURNAL CONSTITUTION / A(-) -Entertainment Weekly / Every element of the film...merges to create an atmosphere of extraordinary erotic tension - The New York TimesDefinitely deserved all the rave reviews! "},{"Title":"Elegantly Moving","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In what appears, at first glance, as outright parody, Lemmons has co-opted the vernacular, the style, the substance, of 1950s Hollywood melodramas. Much as classic opera works within fixed and formal parameters to explore life's wild pangs and passions, Eve's Bayou uses the burnished artifice of Hollywood's Technicolor days - the vibrant hues, the perfect clothes, the gusts of emotive music - to frame its story of infidelity, incest and despair.The movie is, start to finish, candy-colored angst. The deep, dark Eve's Bayou is a bold experiment in movie-making that really pays off. Many modern films have been set in the fifties, but Kasi Lemmons takes it a step further. She makes a movie that looks like it was made in the fifties. "},{"Title":"An All Around Treat","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Filmgoers of a certain age may spend the first moments of this film feeling as if they've stepped out of a time machine and into the past. Not the real past, but the gloriously fake one perpetuated in the exquisite dramas of the '50s. Kasi Lemmmons' Eve's Bayou, perhaps 1997's most daring and fully realized movie, is a pitch-perfect re-creation of '50s melodramas, showcasing four-hankie performances by an uniformly excellent ensemble(including standout work by Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet). Eve's Bayou is an all-around treat, featuring a lush score by veteran Terrance Blanchard, luminous cinematography by Amy Vincent, a stunning production design and gorgeous costumes by Karyn Wagner - all of which belie the modest budget.It's one of 1997's best movies - miss it at your peril. For film lovers who understand that the truth is often a gift to be unwrapped slowly, this is as close to heaven as it gets. "},{"Title":"Remarkably Perceptive","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer-director Kasi Lemmons remarkably perceptive Eve's Bayou is a sensitive, intimate, enormously touching drama that explores the intricate bond between an African American family in the 1960s. The moods of Lemmons' Bayou are so artfully mingled that it's difficult to get a fix on this highly personal independent feature. Set in a quiet little town in the Louisiana Bayou , it is at once a drama about the unresolved traumas of childhood and a sly portrait about how sibling conflict tests the limits of family love. Don't worry about defining categories or genres too precisely, though Lemmons comes at you on her own terms, and that's her strength. "},{"Title":"Dazzling Conceptual Feature","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an impeccable example of mid 1990s melodrama. Well-written, wonderfully acted and beautifully shot and scored, the film works on several levels, openly questioning social mores while ensnaring the audience with its emotional pull.From its lovely, too-pristine-to-be-real opening image, a slow, black and white flashback shot accompanied with haunting music, through its tumultuous tale of a Louisiana family whose lives are ripped apart by desires they can scarcely acknowledge, the entire movie is a picture-perfect. Lemmons gets at something more elusive the mood, and mystery, of the past. Nudging her story into areas of sexuality incest and infidelity that would have been taboo at the time, she at once preserves and pokes through the repressed spirit of the mid 1990s, fashioning the era into an eerie echo of our own. This tale of people whose inner lives tear away at their surface ''normalcy'' speaks to the current glitzy era of surface obsession, which is less removed from that period than we'd like to think.Eve's Bayou is a dazzling conceptual feature, but more than that, it's a work of enthralling drama -- a deconstruction of Hollywood soap opera that is also a full-fledged, utterly unironic masterpiece of the form. It may have taken a mad film buff to dream this movie up, let alone to bring it off, but only a true artist could have suffused it with such searching purity of emotion. "},{"Title":"Great Period Film","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou, a daring and spectacular reinterpretation of the lush melodramas of the 1950s, surrounds you with its beauty and grace. It's one of 1997's best films, featuring an Oscar-worthy performance by Debbi Morgan and outstanding work by Samuel L. Jackson and Jurnee Smollet.Writer-director Kasi Lemmons' wants you to reach for a hankie (or two) and succeeds with the story of the Batiste family, the perfect suburban family whose lives are less than perfect. The themes here - sexuality, fidelity, incest - ironically are ones that you would never find discussed frankly during the films of the 1950s. It's easy in period films - especially the squeaky-clean cliché to which the 1950s have been unfairly reduced - for a director to come across as smug and superior. Lemmons plays it straight, placing her themes in even starker contrast. The detail work in this film is amazing. The production team transports you to a long-ago era of big skirts and scarves, glamorous family parties and classic cars. The cinematography soaks up the Louisiana landscape that gives everything a painter's touch. The crane shots that pull back to look down on the trees in all of their splendor will leave you breathless. So will Lemmons' story, which ends in such a way that lets the Batiste fully realize the consequences of their actions while remaining true to the genre of the film that it so perfectly embraces. "}{"Title":"Shattering Movie","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Recurring motif writer/director Kasi Lemmons uses to shape Eve's Bayou, her subtly shattering movie about life's highs and lows in a small rural town, is the Pied Piper of Hamelin. Eve's Bayou is a study of the piercing, intersecting angles of grief rendered in miniature -- a reminder of how, although we all know the basic characteristics of sorrow, when you look closely, you see a network of feelings as individual and mysterious, and as unchartable, as ice crystals. Lemmons is a very deliberate filmmaker, and sometimes even her solemn restraint has an air of calculation about it. But for the most part, she's dedicated to the gravity of her story. The movie has a crispness about it, an unwillingness to succumb to sentimentality, that's underscored by the snowy fir-dotted landscapes captured by cinematographer Paul Sarossy. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Rendered","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Director Kasi Lemmons uncommon approach to common realities is wonderful, and her script is full of beautiful poetry, with not a word wasted. Add to that the film's electric visual style, and what emerges is a terrific film about troubled souls. Eve's Bayou is that rare instance where all the elements of a movie--story, setting, acting, shot construction--come together to convey its message. And although discontent disguised by living the American dream isn't a new theme, its never been rendered so beautifully. Lemmons is obviously a talented filmmaker, one of the few American directors who understands emotional complexity and, more importantly, can translate that to the screen in a way that registers without feeling forces. 'Bayou' is a stunning piece of work in its evocation of the limits of human grief and understanding. "},{"Title":"Assured Directional Debut","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Memory is a selection of images - some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father, I was ten years old...' Thus Eve, at the beginning of this rich, assured directorial debut, set in a Louisiana backwater. Eve Batiste (Smollett) is second daughter to the elegant Roz (Whitfield) and her husband Louis (Jackson), the popular local doctor. Louis is an effortless charmer, debonair and handsome - that's his trouble. When Eve catches him kissing a woman in the shed, she does her best to block out the memory of this betrayal, but the past is not so easily contained. The film is suffused in a lovely amber light, whence the material slips easily into a spirit world of ghosts, fancy and voodoo curses. Yet the languid air and lazy ambiance defuses these 'excessive' elements and keep the focus squarely on character. The female competition for Louis' affections is movingly played out from the youngster's perspective. Writer/director Kasi Lemmons shows sweet judgment here, doesn't caricature or demonise the errant father, and elicits a host of nuanced performances from women of all ages. "},{"Title":"Enigmatic Marvel","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quick, name a film by a black female director. Better yet, name a black female director, any black female director. Got one? I didn't think so. Now is as good a time as any to evaluate the inequality still inherent in the Hollywood system. The almost total lack of black women behind the camera might lead one to draw the false conclusion that no one from the group has emerged yet to distinguish herself. With the modern masterpiece Eve's Bayou, however, writer-director Kasi Lemmons refutes that fallacy.Drawing from her southern heritage, Lemmons has crafted an enigmatic marvel that effectively blends poetry with pathos. Eve's Bayou, the titular setting, becomes a community firmly embedded in our minds. The characters we come to know as if they were our own family &#151; their strengths, their weaknesses, their fears, are our own. "},{"Title":"Devastatingly Beautiful Film","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With a haunting, unnerving music score, by Terrance Blanchard; astoundingly gorgeous cinematography, by Amy Vincent, in which every frame and lighting decision turns out to be extremely important in its visual collage of the bleak corners in these characters' lives, as well as in the show stopping way it observes the things most people take for granted, such as a tree, or a person's face; and most importantly, in the literally pitch-perfect screenplay, by Kasi Lemmons, 'Eve's Bayou' is an instant indie great, and one that cannot be labeled under a certain genre, as it has both drama and mystery, both of which are sparked from its natural dialogue and sharp human observations. Entirely unpredictable as life's fortuitous turns and developments usually are, what we have here is a painstakingly on-target portrait of the human condition, as seen through the eyes of a group of always-original characters. Better yet, none of them are ever shortchanged or judged, nor are all of their dimensions revealed immediately, but instead, we learn about them as their true selves are gradually revealed. Because of this, there are no good or bad guys, but rather wholly sympathetic creations that, in one way or another, any adult or teenager will be able to identify with. By the time the ending arrived, a simply-filmed emotional powerhouse, the film had so deeply involved me that I felt as if I had known these characters all my life, and therefore, what happened to them meant just as much, if not more, to me, than in any other film I have ever seen. 'Eve's Bayou' is a devastating motion picture of unconceivable power, made with both intelligence and care, and it may just cause you to reevaluate the whole way you view the world. "},{"Title":"Pure Art","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer/Director Kasi Lemmons uses a trajectory that is articulate and smart. She has created multi-dimensional characters &#150; not stereotypes &#150; who are easy to care and cringe for. They shape the story, alerting us to a false consciousness.Samuel L. Jackson is outstanding in his understated anti-congenial performance; Debbi Morgan gives a flawless performance as Aunt Mozelle(definitely Oscar worthy ); and most notable is young Jurnee Smollet(Eve). Though these performances stood out the most, the entire cast is phenomenal.In her feature directorial debut, Kasi Lemmons creates a magical world with her cinematographer Amy Wincent. The only slight to the cause of Eve's Bayou is that the narrator announces the inevitable fate right at the start. The resulting anticipation overrides the shocking ending. Nonetheless, Lemmons give us a story that defies but is disguised as a Hollywood film. In reality, it is art that entertains and tells us something about ourselves. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Cinematic Experience","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an exceptional film. That point is hardly debatable. The acting, photography, direction, soundtrack, score, and ever-building drama all combine to make this film stand out against the competition. But what is it that makes this film a truly unforgettable cinematic experience? It is the screenplay, that penetrating, character-driven screenplay, that surely makes Eve's Bayou one of the best (if not the best) films of the year 1997. Sometimes, in order to experience true transformation, we must explore the dark side of human nature. Eve's Bayou takes us to this dark side full throttle, and the end result is simultaneously compelling, poignant, disturbing, and sad. While you might not agree with all of its observations about life, you must see this film for what it is. "},{"Title":"Emotionally Effecting","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How do you review a movie with as much emotionally harrowing power as Eve's Bayou, being able to only use words, and still give the film the justice it deserves? It is next to impossible to do. Eve Bayou is not a drama, nor is it a thriller or an action picture. The film doesn't fit agreeably into any given category. This film is easily one of best African American movies ever made. That said, the film isn't for everyone. It isn't a date movie, a feel-good movie, nor is it appropriate to take the family to on a Sunday afternoon. Kasi Lemmons has constructed a flawless and mesmerizing production that is mature and adult, intended for people who are emotionally effected by movies&#151;and it sure is a beauty. "},{"Title":"On the Bayou","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The raw materials of Kasi Lemmons' astonishing Eve's Bayou is the stuff of sensationalism. Eve's Bayou is, in effect, a chamber piece, a study of the uncontainability of human emotions in the most extreme circumstances, and the results are as devastating as they are understandable. Never standing back from her characters, Lemmons constantly keeps us in the middle of the emotional trauma, never letting us gain a comfortable distance to assess it from an objective point of view; she wants us to suffer with the characters and to understand&#151;but not necessarily agree with&#151;what they do. Eve's Bayou was Lemmons' feature-film debut, and it reveals her to be a confident director whose sometimes overreaches visually(which is fine), but is superb in generating strong performances from her actors. When directing scenes that focus on the performances, Lemmons is brilliant, knowing just how to frame and capture the essence of what the characters are going through. The fact that every single performance in this is a knock-out says something. "},{"Title":"An Indie Great","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a flawlessly made film, magnificently acted, with beautiful cinematography to go with a compelling story about the life of an African American family in Louisiana during 1960s. The films is not the kind of movie that typically finds a large audience; it is somewhat surprising that it even made it to these parts. You ought not let the opportunity to see it get away. Bayou is the kind of motion picture that it's almost impossible to forget. It has an impact that stays with the viewer long after the theater has been vacated - this is a hallmark of a powerful movie. It epitomizes what an American independent film can be when the director is willing to abandon the safety net. "}{"Title":"Near Perfect","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The battle between good and evil finds the rest of us on the sidelines holding on to our hats. We root for the angels, but too often, events decide a course of action for us. And that is when ordinary people can find themselves capable of great cruelty or extreme bravery.Eve's Bayou, the best movie I saw earlier this year, follows in the tradition of 1980's Ordinary People by scrutinizing a seemingly perfect yet flawed family that comes apart during a crisis. Actor Kasi Lemmons directorial debut is a meticulously observed portrait of an entire community--a Louisiana Bayou with a subtle but distinct caste system.The strength of the film is that we've come to know the characters so well that both accusations have a measure of validity, as disaster bares the hidden cracks in this family. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is based on the short story Dr. Hugo written by Kasi Lemmons. The screenplay (also written by Lemmons) has an unassuming, hypnotic momentum that carries the storyline along in impeccable fashion. The characters are as intriguingly handled as the unspeakable act that takes place in the movie. Lemmons knows how to incorporate the smallest details that invoke the seeds of a tragedy. The pacing is slow at times, but it makes for an enticing and deceptive drama. Her narrative is refreshingly unpredictable and shocking, intense and cryptic. It's one of the most impressive and intoxicating independent films to arrive on the screen in a long time.The performances are astounding and the players click with a noteworthy potency. Not one actor delivers a less than stellar performance, Debbi Morgan, Samuel Jackson, and Jurnee are the acting stand outs. RATING 10 "},{"Title":"The Best of 1997","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1997 a year where Oscar candidates were even thinner on the ground than usual, Kasi Lemmons' intense, superbly acted chamber piece emerged hopeful contender. Unfortunately, this great film was left unrewarded. But if Eve's Bayou did scoop a few statuettes , it would probably be down to its cast(notably Jurnee Smollet, Debbi Morgan, & Samuel L. Jackson), who root the dramatic narrative in recognizably human emotions and failings.Thanks to a generous running time of , there is room to sketch the peculiar dynamics of this essentially loving family before fate throws everything out of joint. This story is not so surprising as it is inevitable. It is so well crafted that you cannot see any way for the characters to escape their tragedies. That makes it all the more heartbreaking. This film rates an A "},{"Title":"Engaging and Entertaining","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a wistful meditation on human complexity &#150; exposing the underbelly of the human being and all its complex interrelating parts. Quiet vengeance, indecision, and jealousy are the score this film is written on &#150; creating a wide, challenging experience for viewers. For a film that has pockets of slower-than-average contemplation, Eve's Bayou is very engaging and entertaining.This masterpiece is one of the best examples of character study in film. The how's and what's of the plot become secondary to the why's of the characters' actions and motives. It's marvelous to sense the thought processes of the characters, and to be swept beyond uncomfortable boundaries, asking the morally challenging question, what would I do? The performances are as stellar as they come.I didn't think an entire cast could be so excellent, but boy was I proved wrong. Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet definitely deserved Oscar nominations for their respective parts in the film. It wouldn't have hurt if the Screenplay was given consideration either. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Observed","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The typical American movie is so committed to noisy spectacle and shameless emotional button-pushing that when a film as profoundly quiet as In the Bedroom comes along, it feels almost miraculous, as if a shimmering piece of art had slipped below the radar and through the minefield of commerce.This perfectly observed, wrenchingly acted drama about a middle- class African American family coping with the ups and downs of life cuts to the quick. Its portrait of grief, rage, jealousy, flawed justice and revenge on the Louisiana bayou zeroes in on its characters' tragic flaws, yet refuses to condemn them. It reminds us that, like it or not, the capacity to make mistakes is part of being human.Eve's Bayou is the directorial debut of Kasi Lemmons, who also wrote the screenplay. Phrase by phrase, image by image, it is an astonishingly rich, detailed and grimly moving piece of work. "},{"Title":"Quietly Devastating","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is one of the most quietly devastating movies of all time. The entire film has little in the way of meaningful talk&#151;and that's the point. Words could temper nothing, relieve nothing. The language is in the images, in the progression of shots during a walk, in the breeze (an echo of the earliest motif) that makes a tree blow, in the aura of futility that surrounds a family gathering, in the sound of a radio in the abyss. During the last hour, I could barely breathe; I swore at the screen; I called for blood; I cried for vigilantism to restore the natural order; and I sat in shock when the natural order was and wasn't restored. That's the thing about a masterpiece like Eve's Bayou. It isn't over when you leave the theater. It isn't over when you brood on it for days. It's just always going to be there, in the air! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons direction is brilliant, her script a gem. Eve's Bayou is nothing short of a mesmerizing. It's even better the second time around. This is a film which grows in stature with familiarity. Lemmons is a one-armed juggler in Eve's Bayou, throwing all those plot lines in the air and controlling them with seeming nonchalance. There are three stories moving in the air with a magic script and editing wand making them dance to Lemmons's will. Continuity is a challenge met with perfection; yet, no matter how hard you concentrate there's a vague feeling that something is amiss. Even the visual look is wonderful using black and white and color to help define the movement of the story. Any visual flourishes mate perfectly with the material. It's simple, elegant and never too cute. Lemmons rules! The acting Debbi Morgan is amazing as Aunt Mozelle. What a concentrated, layered performance. You have to get behind the eyes of Mozelle, and Morgan provides the window. She acts with her entire being. Her body movement, the details of her performances, everything rings true. Kasi does a wonderful job with all the actors. Smollet's(Eve) center-piece performance is complimented by a seedy Samuel L. Jackson as Louis and Lynn Whitfield crafts her Roz with subtlety and frustration. The rest of the ensemble provide fine work as well. "},{"Title":"Smart, Savy, Honest, and True to Itself","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a brilliant enigma twisted with devious delight. That first scene with everything moving in flashbacks is a beautifully etched road map to guide you through the internecine film. While at times confusing, it's always a riveting and stimulating experience. The film sparks conversation, and there aren't too many of those these days.Eve's Bayou is brilliant film-making that works on multiple levels. The fantastic script by writer/director Kasi Lemmons is adapted from a story Dr. Hugo. The director is an intelligent writer. Wonderful dialogue makes the characters inhabit this world she created. You feel like you are inside their skins. Character history develops naturally. Eve's Bayou is smart, savvy, honest and true to itself. The rich tapestry is woven with an artist's care and love of the material. Such highly original work must be admired. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Soak It In","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou, directed by 30-year-old director Kasi Lemmons, is the kind of movie that's bound to be talked about, debated and eviscerated far more than it's understood. If you get up to go the bathroom during this film &#150; do not bother coming back. You can't come back in and ask someone what you missed because you then rob them the opportunity of keeping up themselves. Even when the film slows down enough for you to catch your breath and offer a little dimension of character, your brain is still working overtime to fit the pieces you just saw ten minutes ago. Save your questions and save you applause until the end of the film because people will want to talk about it. "},{"Title":"Crafty and Clever","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Memory is a selection of images, some elusive other printed indelible on the brain. The summer I killed my father I was 10 years old.Welcome to Eve's Bayou, one of the finest films of the year 1997. The debut effort of writer- director Kasi Lemmons, Eve's Bayou is the sort of film that grabs you by the throat and goes for the jugular. It leaves you little time to breathe, much less catch your breathe. Hold on for the mind game of your life. Bayou is about manipulation and perception, all brilliantly tweaked by Lemmons, who creates a slice of film noir that instantly draws you into it's web of deceit. From the first frame you know you're in for something special. What transpires after the first frame will keep you guessing right up until the end titles. Eve's Bayou is as crafty and clever as anything that has been put on film. "}{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written and directed by Kasi Lemmons, and based on a short story, Eve's Bayou is a unique and provocative art-house movie. Lemmons theory Our memories are not to be trusted. They're merely temporal souvenirs. Akira Kurosawa toyed with the same notion in Rashomon, the classic examination of shifting realities and self-serving motives. In Kasi's movie, of course, the motive is the true mystery and the very last thing we learn. It explores the nature of the human beast in crisis, in this case when an individual is forced to construct his life out of fragments, many of which are illusionary or ambiguous. It examines the meaning of morality when context is missing, or the role of guilt when memories are destroyed.It also helps that the movie is extremely well-acted by Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan(brilliant as Aunt Mozelle), Lynn Whitfield, Meagan Goode, and the amazing Jurnee Smollet. Even the actors who have small roles are fantastic. "},{"Title":"Dazzling Vision and Skill","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons is a moody craftsman of dazzling vision and skill. Eve's Bayou has scenes that command you with their cleverness, beauty, and poetic depth. Watching Eve's Bayou is a unique experience tense, irritating, and all-absorbing. These factors is what make the film great. The acting is top notch from the entire cast. Debbi Morgan's brilliant portrayal of Aunt Mozelle is what stood out most of all. I can't understand why this woman was not nominated for an Oscar. This character is beautifully complex, and is ultimately the soul of the film. Jurnee Smollet's also turns in an exquisite performance. Lemmons deserves all the praise in the world for acquiring such a fine ensemble. The direction, screenplay, and cinematography also grade A quality.Eve's Bayou remains ambiguous to the end, and that feels shiveringly right. We're left with the disquieting sensation that memory itself is a kind of private inner flashback -- and that, like the characters, none of us can ever fully see the movie of our lives. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story of a Creole family in 1960s Louisiana, the movie begins with a monologue by Eve (Jurnee Smollett), recounting how, when she was a child, she murdered her father. This surprising opening monologue turns out to be less than accurate, as the events she describes unfold. In the story, Eve is a young girl who lives with her parents, Roz (Lynne Whitfield) and Louis (Samuel L. Jackson), and her older sister, Cisely (Meagan Good). Louis is a philandering doctor, and Roz seems to know, although she keeps quiet. Eve's aunt Mozelle (Debbi Morgan) is a voodoo practitioner who has bad luck with men&#151;all of them die after she marries them. At a party, Eve witnesses Louis fooling around with another woman. She is horrified, and tells Cisely, who worships her father, and attempts to convince her that she didn't really see what she thought she saw. Eve wants to believe her, but as her father's cheating and lying begin to tear the family apart, Eve angrily decides to have him killed. She turns to Elzora (Diahann Carroll), a local eccentric who is known to practice black magic.This is a movie about keeping secrets, and the consequences of both holding them and releasing them. It is also about perceptions, and how things might not always be as they seem upon first inspection. Was I right about the big secret? It depends on how you look at it. This was one of the best films of 1997, but it didn't receive a single Oscar nomination. I have always thought that the Academy tends to forget African Americans, and now I have another example. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a film starts out with the narrator saying, The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old, only the most blasé of viewers would remain disinterested. How could such a tragedy happen? Eve's Bayou pieces together the childhood memories of Eve Batiste, played to perfection by a remarkable youngster, Jurnee Smollett, in a movie combining elements usually found in domestic dramas, psychological thrillers, and Gothic mysteries. Set in the lush swamplands of Louisiana back in the 1960s, this cinematic feast boasts a full menu of guilt, jealousy, revenge, infidelity, possible incest &#150; and just enough supernatural mambo-jumbo to cast a spell over the audience. Trouble brews beneath the surface for Eve's well-to-do African American family. A clairvoyant aunt (Debbi Morgan) worries about falling in love because of a curse that's already struck down three of her husbands. Eve's elegant father (Samuel L. Jackson), a medical doctor, engages in extra-marital affairs which her beautiful mother (Lynn Whitfield) overlooks. He also pays more attention to their pretty oldest daughter than to Eve. On a fateful evening during a party, Eve accidentally sees her father making love to one of their guests, and this incident becomes the most disturbing moment of her life, setting the stage for the tragedy to follow. Despite the film's dramatic opening line, screenwriter and first-time director Kasi Lemmons uses all the tricks of the trade to remind us that memories can be misleading. She leaves plenty of room for speculation about what really happened here.Too bad moviegoers didn't flock to this intriguing movie. Granted, Eve's Bayou defies classification -- which probably stymied both promoters and the general public. But, in terms of artistic creativity, complexity emerges as one of its many assets. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is one of the best films of 1997. This film has many characteristics that make it great, but the acting is what stands out to me. This is one of the best acting ensembles in my opinion. All of the actors gave such deep, realistic, and heartfelt performances. Debbi Morgan surpassed any category, she is truly phenomenal. The scene in which she describes an incident of the past was truly brilliant.The technical aspects of the film are mostly greatly polished; from the moody, dry cinematography of Amy Vincent to the phenomenal editing and Terrance Blanchard's score, it can be affirmed that every technical component is magnificently used for the benefit of the film.Without a doubt one of the most original and inventive films of all time, Eve's Bayou is one of those films that, after watching it, you immediately feel the urge to see it again. Incredibly difficult to describe and mesmerizing to regard, it is irritating for all the perplexity it crafts around the viewer's mind and fascinating for its uniqueness. Seldom has a film had such an impact on me, seldom has a film left me thinking, This is it. This is what cinema should be like. There truly aren't sufficient words for me to describe the film. "},{"Title":"Heat in the Bayou","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A father's philandering nature is only one of several problems for a black southern family, but, to 9 year-old Eve, it is the most immediate. As her suspicions deepen, so does her desire to bring the infidelity to an end, even if it means calling down justice on its perpetrator. This is a stylish, southern Gothic tale of family discord and coming of age by first-time writer/director Kasi Lemmons, and starring Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, Debbi Morgan, Branford Marsalis, and Diahann Carroll. The acting , from the entire cast, is excellent. Debbi Morgan totally walked away with this movie. Her performance as Aunt Mozelle is one of the best of the 90s(imo). I really don't understand why this movie is so underrated, it you haven't experienced this film...you need to. A "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou has to be one of the most well made films of the 90s. The acting in the movie was excellent. Jurnee Smollett is an excellent actress, the way she portrayed Eve rivaled that of a seasoned actress. Debbi Morgan's performance is the highlight of this wonderful film. I was shocked to learn that she wasn't nominated for an Oscar. The rest of the cast delivered amazing performances also. I think the SAG's ensemble acting award should have been awarded to Eve's Bayou. L.A. Confidential had fine acting also, so they should have tied.Kasi Lemmons' well written script along with Amy Vincent's haunting cinematography other strengths for this film. Vincent captured some of the most beautiful visuals I've ever seen. I highly recommend this film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Movie You'll Never Forget!","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is one of hell of a film! I discovered this film many years back but was too lazy to write a review for it. After a while, I finally decided that this cinematic gem was worthy of a review. This movie is filmed with many characteristics that make up a masterpiece. It has a brilliant screenplay, outstanding acting, skillful direction, and beautiful cinematography. This film tells the story of the Batiste family, a prosperous African American family living in Louisiana in the 1960s. Over the course of the film we follow the family as they experience a summer they will never forget.Ultimately, Eve's Bayou is a sad and heavy film. The same subject matter that is touching and emotional, the same subject matter that challenges morals and questions judgment, also, in the end, makes for a very heavy and depressing film. It is this mood that resonates within the viewer, this negative and down feeling that comes with walking out of the theater after having to sit through two hours of tension and repeated heartbreak. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Bravo Kasi Lemmons","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an amazing cinematic accomplishment with great direction, outstanding acting, beautiful cinematography, and a deeply poetic script. Kasi Lemmons' screenplay for Eve's Bayou is one of the best of 1997. A screenplay, after all, is not just a collection of dialogue but it is what its name suggests, a play for the screen. A play requires structure and proper and interesting developments. No script embodies originality in its structure quite like Eve's Bayou.The beauty in how Lemmons decided to structure this film is that the structure serves the simple purpose of taking the viewer on the same roller coaster that the characters are going through. Confusion is the key for Eve's Bayou. It is most effective when both the characters and each individual watching the movie has the same look on their face, whether it be shock, anger or sorrow. And because Lemmons perfectly builds apathy for the characters, she allows for the moral ambiguity to present itself by the end of the film. This dichotomy is so subtle it is scary; even scarier because it takes a second or third viewing for a viewer to fully understand the consequences of the character's actions and one's own feelings about what they have done. 10/10 Terrific Film, Yet Underrated! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an exceedingly charming movie, that surprises and entertains on many levels. Most astonishingly however, this film is the debut of first-time writer and director Kasi Lemmons, who brings her very unique, female touch into this movie, which turns out to be one of the film's strongest elements. Eve's Bayou displays a kind of sensuality and poetry that seems to be unbeknownst to us men, conjuring up luring images and strong personal feelings.The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old&#133; With those opening words, the film sets its mood from the very first second of its running time for the things to come, underlined by atmospheric and dense black and white photography. It is then quickly replaced by rich and beautiful color images in a masterfully created, smooth cut, as if we were paging through our own memories, touching upon things we vaguely remember and those we remember all too well. The characters are very well developed and the screenplay is vividly poetic. Kasi has also managed to pull outstanding performances from her ENTIRE cast, mainly Debbi Morgan as Mozelle and Jurnee Smollet as Eve.Eve's Bayou got me by surprise. I had heard many good thing about the movie, but seeing it on DVD, made me realize, just how stylish movies can look and feel like if the people involved share a vision. It is not only the directorial style that impresses, it is the story, the editing, the lush cinematography, the beauty of the settings, the top notch acting with intelligent characters and dialogue. A+ "}{"Title":"The Soul of Eve's Bayou","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had to register to say how much I love this film. After giving it some thought, I have come to conclusion that the screenplay is what makes this film so great, not to take away from the acting or direction. This is one hell of a screenplay! Written by first time writer/director Kasi Lemmons, the story of Eve's Bayou takes place over a summer on the bayou in which we follow the lives of the Batiste family(Louis, Roz, Eve, Poe, Cisely, and Mozelle). These characters are very well developed, and the actors brilliantly give them life. The way Kasi shot this movie is also masterful. She and the cinematographer chose some of the most beautiful angles and images of Louisiana. I find it hard to believe the film, screenplay, and actors were nominated for Academy Awards. In my eyes, they are the true winners regardless. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of 1997 's Best","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What can I say about this movie? One word - Brilliant. Back in 1997 when this film was released, director Kasi Lemmons was looking to make her mark in the film world. All that I can say is she definitely accomplished what she set out for. EVERYTHING about this movie is practically flawless - the direction, the acting, the story(screenplay), the emotional resonance, the cinematography, etc. is incredible. It's a film you can't help but get swept up in right from the get-go, in fact I can't remember a film where I really ran the gamut of emotions from happy and awed to despair and terror - and this film manages to do all that in just the opening five-minute sequence. A- "},{"Title":"No Holds Bar","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou begins with voice-over narration spoken by Eve Batiste, as she recalls her childhood in a haunting flashback to the tragic summer her family came apart at the seams. Shown from young Eve's perspective, much of the narrative comes from a child's point of view but not so much as to limit the film's dramatic depth or spiritual mysticism. The opening lines set the tone for a story reminiscent of a Toni Morrison or Zora Neale Hurston novel. Memory is a selection of images, Eve tells us. Some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father, I was ten years old. From these chilling and enigmatic first lines, audiences gain an introduction to the Batiste clan, an affluent, Creole family living in backwoods Louisiana during the 1960s.We learn that the folk tale behind the bayou involves miscegenation, land inheritance, and lifesaving witchcraft. According to legend, the Batistes are the descendants of an African slave named Eve and her onetime owner, General Jean-Paul Batiste. That their family history begins with sexual transgression in the form of miscegenation proves ironic. The violation of sexual taboos such as adultery and incest plague the Batiste household, gnawing away at boundaries and bonds between family members, destroying the image they have established and try to maintain for themselves as well as others.This film features some of the best acting I've ever seen by an ensemble. All of the actors played their roles masterfully, especially Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet(Oscar worthy performances). These two actresses had impeccable chemistry. Samuel L. Jackson also gives an Oscar caliber performance as Louis Batiste. The powerful performances mesh well with the beautiful cinematography and the haunting score. Above all is the outstanding screenplay written by director Kasi Lemmons. A++ "},{"Title":"A Sail Through Eve's Bayou","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Question when was the last time you saw a high quality film from a first time director? Can't think of any, we'll I found one. 'Eve's Bayou' is one of the most beautiful pieces of cinema I've ever seen. Everything about this film is perfect, if not, then nearly perfect. The screenplay is phenomenal! It seemed as if the actors were reciting beautiful poetry that collided into a coherent story. Speaking of the actors their, the entire ensemble, acting was some of 1997's best. Debbi Morgan is simply brilliant as Aunt Mozelle. Her eye movement, laugh, speech, walk, and voice was so skilled thought out and masterfully portrayed. Jurnee Smollet is also a standout. Her acting chops do not resemble those of any other 10 year old, she is amazing. The cinematography and score were also riveting and haunting.In conclusion, this is an amazing film. Do not pass up an opportunity to sail through Eve's Bayou. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow! That's the only word I can think of to describe this gem of a film. Kasi Lemmons' has created a masterpiece, it's only her first film. The story of Eve's Bayou deals with the descendants of a slave named Eve and Jean-Paul Batiste, who inhabit an incredibly nice home on the Louisiana bayou. The Batiste family is a powder keg waiting to explode. It has a philandering father (Samuel L. Jackson), a psychic aunt (Debbi Morgan), and three children under fifteen. The mother is overprotective and knows of her husbands infidelities. The aunt is cursed that each man she marries will die. Though all the actors provide amazing performances, Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet gave the best. Their chemistry together was breathtaking, and when they were apart their acting chops were just as strong. It's a shame the Academy didn't nominate this film for anything, especially acting awards for Morgan and Smollet.If you love great films, then Eve's Bayou is a must see. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Character Study","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you love slow paced character studies, then you'll love Eve's Bayou. The characters in this exceptionally directed film are all flawed yet lovable, and very well developed. I was blown away by the acting. The ENTIRE cast was great, even the young performers. Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan, and little Jurnee Smollet provide the standout performances. These three actors deserved Academy Award nominations in 1997. Furthermore, I was shocked when I learned that this was writer/director Kasi Lemmons debut film. That fact that she can make a film of such high quality on the first try is mind blowing. Her script is vivid, poetic, and very deep. She too deserved an Original Screenplay selection at the Academy Awards. Overall, this is a very well made film with riveting performances. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Cinema","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an outstanding piece of cinema that was sadly overlooked by the Academy and audiences alike. The film begins with a beautifully shot black and white flashback which features the strong lines, Memory is a selection of images some elusive others printed indelibly on the brain. After vividly highlighting a few images of outdoor Louisiana, the story then moves inside an exquisite mansion where a lively party is taking place. It's during this party that the audience is introduced to the main characters. The Batiste family is a well off African American family living in the 1960s. The family is comprised of Mr. Batiste and Mrs. Batiste(Samuel L. Jackson and Lynn Whitfield) and there three children Eve(Jurnee Smollet), Cisily(Meagan Good), and Poe(Jake Smollet). Also living with the Batiste is an eccentric aunt (Debbi Morgan). Throughout the film we follow the lives of the Batiste as they experience the extreme highs and profound lows of life.The acting is excellent from the entire cast. Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet were the standouts to me. The way Debbi Morgan is portraying this character is masterful. She as well as Jurnee were robbed of Oscars. Kasi Lemmons' script was always snubbed for an Academy Award nomination. One of the strongest things about this film is the script. The fact that she could write something this great on the first try is amazing. Her direction and Amy Vincet's cinematography are also strong elements of the film. Eve's Bayou is definitely one of the Best films of the 1990s. A+ "},{"Title":"High Caliber Film","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here's a high caliber film from first time writer/director Kasi Lemmons. Set in the swamps of Louisiana, Eve's Bayou is a dynamic look at growing up in a family both gifted and flawed, as seen through the eyes of Eve Batiste (played with truth and tenacity by Jurnee Smollett).Upset that her father dances with her blossoming sister Cisely (Meagan Good) and not with her, she runs off to a shed, only to wake up to her father, Louis (Samuel L. Jackson) rubbing up against a woman who isn't her mother.The film climaxes as Eve, certain she wants her father dead, consults a frightening town priestess.The only possible flaw is that we already know his fate because of Eve's voice-over in the opening moments. But Lemmons knows what she's doing, and the film allows for more than one explanation and teaches us, as the film says, truth changes color depending on the light. "},{"Title":"A Touch of Voodoo in a Steamy Eden","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" NY Times''Eve's Bayou'' unfolds as a tormented family scrapbook whose overriding theme is the fearsome power of sex in the lives of the Batiste women. Eve, the youngest of two Batiste daughters, watches her 14-year-old sister, Cisely (Meagan Good), who is the apple of her father's eye, ripen almost overnight into a sullen, rebellious beauty who emits a sexual charge she barely understands and can't control. The girls' mother, deeply wounded by her husband's infidelities, maintains an attitude of bitter gallantry as she takes out her frustrations on her daughters by being hysterically overprotective. The film's most fascinating character is Louis's sister Mozelle (Debbi Morgan), who stays with the family after the death of her third husband in a drunken car accident. Mozelle does psychic readings for the local women whose husbands, sons and lovers have strayed or disappeared ''Eve's Bayou'' is a film that really believes in psychic portents and in magic, both white and black. Mozelle's benign, if scary gift is counterbalanced by the vengeful voodoo worked by her rival Elzora (Diahann Carroll), a white-faced local witch who casts spells for a hefty fee and whom the 10-year-old Eve consults when her world seems on the verge of exploding. You don't have to believe in magic to be gripped by the psychic forces that the characters' sorcery unleashes. Sibling rivalry, sexual jealousy and anxiety are all feelings that, when heated to the boiling point, have incendiary, semi-magical powers. Every element of the film -- from the turbulent, stormy performances to the rich cinematography (which includes black-and-white computer-enhanced dream sequences) to the setting itself, in which the thick layers of hanging moss over muddy water seem to drip with sexual intrigue and secrecy -- merges to create an atmosphere of extraordinary erotic tension and anxiety. "},{"Title":"'Bayou' Paints Rich Portraits of Women","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou takes place in a small backwater Louisiana community in the '50s. It unfolds from the point of view of a 10-year-old girl; it is her voice as a woman looking back over the decades that serves as the film's narration. She tells us that the community's name, Eve's Bayou, comes from the name of a slave woman whose medicines saved the life of a white planter, Jean-Louis Batiste, who set her free and gave her land. Our narrator, named Eve in honor of her ancestor, informs us wryly that the original Eve in turn presented Batiste with 16 children. The present-day head of the family is Dr. Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson), who lives in that gracious old home with his beautiful, glamorous wife Roz (Lynn Whitfield), their 14-year-old daughter Cisely (Meagan Good), Eve (Jurnee Smollett) and 9-year-old son Poe (Jake Smollett) and the proud and proper Gran' Mere (Ethel Ayler). We meet the Batistes during a gala party in their home. Everyone seems to be beaming with happiness but already we have evidence that this impression is misleading, as Louis dances vigorously with a woman who flaunts her lush body outrageously. Dr. Batiste is a world-class charmer who sincerely loves his wife and family but is a constant philanderer who seems oblivious to the pain he causes his wife--and the daughters who, as worshipful as they are of him, are on the verge of comprehending his infidelity and its impact on their mother and themselves. In a very real sense Eve's Bayou is a gallery of portraits of women. The most vivid is Debbi Morgan as Mozelle, Louis' gorgeous, fiery sister, a self-described psychic counselor who can see into the futures of many but was never able to foretell the deaths of her three husbands, something that understandably haunts her. In contrast to Mozelle is the ferocious local voodoo woman Elzora (Diahann Carroll) whose fortunetelling so scares the already unhappy Roz that she becomes terrified to leave her three children out of her sight. Together, Mozelle and Elzora represent the range of superstition, the mix of Catholicism and Yoruba that persists into modern times. Lemmons not only sees all these people in the round but also understands that human relations can be a Rashomon--that truth can seemingly vary depending on the point of view. This shifting view of reality, coupled with the spiritual longings of Lemmons' people, give Eve's Bayou a distinctive richness. Lemmons' command of cinematic style, her appreciation of the chimerical aspects of life and her ability to inspire actors to give remarkably faceted portrayals mark Eve's Bayou a first film of exceptional promise. "}{"Title":"A Surprisingly Great Film","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ''The summer I killed my father I was 10 years old.'' That's the bold opening confession of this film, and what follows more than lives up to it. Set in a rural Louisiana parish, it's the story of a well-to-do black family torn apart by jealousy, adultery, and voodoo. At the tale's center is young Eve (Smollett), who, deeply disturbed by her philandering father (Jackson, also one of the movie's producers), resorts to local magic to confront the household's secrets. The Oscar nominations overlooked Eve's Bayou, including first-time feature director Kasi Lemmons' luminous script and soap vet Debbi Morgan's supporting turn as Eve's psychic aunt. But you shouldn't. A- "},{"Title":"Curse and Tell","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is set in rural Louisiana at a time when blacks and whites were living segregated lives, handsome GP Dr Louis Batiste (Samuel L Jackson) occupies a fine country house on a plot of land that has belonged to his family for more than a century. Back in the days of slavery, an ancestor of his, an African-born witch called Eve, was given her freedom for saving the life of her master, Mr Batiste.The woman's magical powers have been handed down from generation to generation, and although Louis is a rationalist, his sister, Mozelle (Debbi Morgan), is a psychic counselor, and the 10-year-old Eve (Jurnee Smollett) appears to have inherited the gift. But with the power of insight goes a curse that has led Mozelle to lose three husbands.This southern Gothic tale is plausibly interwoven with a psychological story of family romance. Louis is a womanizer and his daughters, Eve and the flirtatious, 14-year-old Cisely (Meagen Good), compete for his attention. When at a party, Eve sees her father making love to a neighbor's wife, Cisely persuades her that she misunderstood an innocent encounter. Later, Eve believes Cisely when she claims their father made sexual advances to her. It is this which makes Eve wish her father dead, and to believe she brought his death about by consulting a voodoo specialist.Eve's Bayou is impeccably acted (the expressive Jurnee Smollett is wonderful as Eve- as is Debbi Morgan) and touches truthfully on family relationships. "},{"Title":"Debbi Morgan at her best!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The reason why I like this independent film so much is Kasi Lemmon's amazing directorial debut and Debbie Morgan's outstanding performance as Aunt Mozelle. Miss Morgan won the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Female as well as numerous other film critics prizes for her amazing performance that year. But she was sadly overlooked when it came to the Oscar nominations. It's really sad that Hollywood still ignores great talent from actors of different minorities. In today's society I find that actors of different minorities still aren't being given the recognition they solely deserve based on the simple fact of doing great work. Hollywood still has a long way to go before things start to really change. One of the classic scenes from the film is when Aunt Mozelle (Debbie Morgan) tells her niece the story of when her lover killed her husband right in front of her in cold blood. This is when Kasi Lemmons, as a director and writer, is at her best. It also one of the best scenes where you can see Debbie Morgan put her acting chops to work. As Aunt Mozelle begins to describe in great detail how the whole tragic incident unfolded, we as the viewer see the images of her lover and husband in the mirror behind her. As she continues telling the story she slowly walks over to the mirror making an amazing transition (with the help of great camera work) into the past. We then see her become part of the reenactment as she interacts with the images of her husband and lover while still continuing to narrate the story. It's is very compelling to watch the whole scene unfold and I promise you that you will glued to your seat watching it.The rest of the cast is very remarkable including Lynne Whitfield, Samuel L. Jackson and newcomer Jurnee Smollett. I will not go any further and spoil the whole storyline for you. But please rest assured that you will not be disappointed with this amazing film that Roger Ebert called, The best film of 1997! "},{"Title":"The Right Stuff!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Eve's Bayou' is a searing and heart-breaking saga of one family's disintegration and of one child's grim initiation into adulthood. Lemmons subtly mixes scenes from the past with those of the present to show the truth of Faulkner's adage, 'the past is never really past.' The sensual and labyrinthine bayou backdrop mirrors the intertwined and twisted roots of passion that slowly tear the Baptiste family apart.Not only is the film candy to watch, but Lemmon's poetic script is music to the ears as well. Aphoristic gems fall from everybody's lips, making 'Eve's Bayou' seem more like a novel unfolding before your eyes. And these gems are delivered with the grace and power that only a true actor/actress can give. Samuel Jackson gives one of his greatest performances as the womanizing doctor who needs 'to be a hero' to the ladies of the town. But it is the ladies who carry 'Eve's Bayou.' Lynn Whitefield, Debbie Morgan and Diahann Carroll all help create a 'creole' atmosphere that even Kate Chopin would be proud of. Yet, the frosting to this very tasty cake is without a doubt, Eve's Jurnee Smolett. She doesn't act her part. She IS her part, that of innocence stolen, of wisdom grown old before her time.Anybody looking for a film that will grip you, move you and leave with the feeling of having been touched by the muses, check out this film! It's got all the right stuff! "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Memory is a selection of images, some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. This line is the set up for the entire film, a skillfully made film with masterful performances. The story of Eve's Bayou deals with the descendants of a slave named Eve and Jean-Paul Batiste. The two slaves were given land that it passed down to the later generation of Batiste. That generation includes a philandering father (Samuel L. Jackson), a psychic aunt (Debbi Morgan), and three children under fifteen. The mother is overprotective and knows of her husbands infidelities. The aunt is cursed, and each man she marries l dies. The greatness of this film comes in its ability to be almost all things at once. Encompassed inside its borders are tinges of comedy, doses of drama, and an abundance of thrills. Like Eyes Wide Shut, its thrills come from the intellectual level. They are not, in any way, shape, or form, visceral. As the mystery unravels itself, you are drawn more and more into the characters and the temperature of the room seems to continually decrease. Kasi Lemmons have crafted a riveting script that deserved Oscar consideration. Once this film enters your brain, it will not leave. "},{"Title":"Well Made Film","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer/director Kasi Lemmon's Eve's Bayou is a very well made film. I was shocked to learn that this was her first as a writer/director. The fact that she was able to make such a quality film and attain the cast that she did, is wonderful. Speaking of the cast, I was blown away by their outstanding performances. Although the entire cast excelled, Samuel L. Jackson, Debbi Morgan, and young Jurnee Smollet all gave A+ performances. Jurnee Smollet was only 11 years old during the making of this film, but her acting reflects that of a seasoned vet. Not only is the acting fabulous, but the so is the cinematography and the script. Amy Vincent(the cinematographer) captured some of the most beautiful images ever, giving support to the already poetic script. Overall, this film is very well made. If you're looking for a great story backed by wonderful performances, Eve's Bayou is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I cannot believe I'm only now writing a review for a 1997 film. My professor show used this film a few weeks ago in my literature class. I know you're probably scratching your head, but if you see the film you would understand why it was shown in a literature class. The screenplay is pure poetry, and FANTASTIC might I add. Kasi Lemmons is an unsung genius. Not only is the screenplay top notch, but so is the direction and cinematography. Bayou was Lemmons' directorial debut, although the film suggests she's a veteran. It's obvious that she put a lot of thought and precision into every scene. One scene that stands out is the mirror scene with Aunt Mozelle(Debbi Morgan) and Eve(Jurnee Smollet). Not only is the scene well shot, but also extremely well acted. I pity the Academy for not giving Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet nominations. These two actors had great chemistry, and their scenes together were breathtaking. I must also had that the entire cast of actors delivered fine performances. I highly recommend Eve's Bayou, you will not be disappointed.10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Produced Film","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The color and scenery in this movie is wonderful. The people are elegant and troubled. Even the character's names stir up visions of dark swamp water and sultry heat. How does a young child of 10 kill her father? Was it murder or something else? It is revealed at the end of the child's disturbing tale. The story is told and seen through the eyes of little Eve Batiste played by a wonderful young actress named Jurnee Smollett. The story starts in 1962 in the Louisiana Bayou area. Little Eve takes us deep into her world which is filled with colorful characters and complex personalities. Diahann Carroll is fabulous as the old fortune teller Elzora with her insane laughter. Debbi Morgan as Aunt Mozelle Batiste Delacroix is something to behold. Aunt Mozelle has promised her family that she will not use her second sight to tell fortunes, but neighbors won't let her keep her promise. They seek her out to find missing husbands anyway. Lynn Whitfied as the manor born wife is beautiful and poised as she tries to keep her family together in spite of her wandering husband (Samuel L. Jackson). Jackson is very sexy in this movie and his character has roving eyes as well as roving hands that don't stop even when he is caught in a compromising position by his youngest daughter, Eve. This starts a set of events that lead to the total destruction of an already deeply troubled family. Although this movie did not make history at the box office my guess is that it will become a cult classic. Years from now this movie will be viewed for what it is, a brilliantly produced film. You can literally feel the Louisiana heat from Eve's Bayou. "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou Is Fantastic","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is breathtaking ! When I saw it for the first time, I couldn't believe it was written and directed by a first time director. Although the critics raved about it and it had a modest box office success, few people know of this gem....which is a shame.As this wonderful movie opens, we enter the world of Eve's Bayou, the Louisiana home of ten-year old Eve (Jurnee Smollett) and her charming, philandering father Louis (Samuel L. Jackson), her glamorous and superstitious mother, her psychic aunt (Debbi Morgan), and her big sister who idolizes Daddy as much as Eve does. The narrator's opening line concerns a murder, and we wait for this terrible event to occur.I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. It drew me in and held me spellbound, with it's believable story and likable characters. We really get to know and care about Eve's family and all their secrets. The actors are uniformly excellent, especially the young star, Jurnee Smollett. The director succeeds by constantly reminding us of the picturesque bayou setting and its unique community. As the story got closer and closer to the inevitable tragedy, I was almost holding my breath. It's an intense story about real, multi-layered people.P.S.Debbi Morgan was robbed of an Oscar for her riveting performance. From her first few seconds on the screen, she commands your attention. Too bad this movie didn't have a lot of studio push behind it. "},{"Title":"Mysterious and Alluring","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a lyrical film taking the audience into a vivid world. With realistic characters, plenty of atmosphere, and an intelligent script, it's a journey worth taking. The story focuses on the Batiste family in Eve's Bayou, Louisiana. The Batiste's are respected members of society. Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson) is a well liked doctor. Perhaps too well liked, for he apparently often cheats on his wife, Roz (Lynn Whitfield). Louis and Roz have three children, and the film is told from the point of view of the middle child, the 10 year old Eve (Jurnee Smollett). She has an older sister, Cisely (Meagan Good), and a younger brother, Poe (Jake Smollett). Eve has a special attachment with her father's sister, Mozelle (Debbi Morgan). Mozelle is a psychic, who claims to be able to see anyone's future but her own, a fact that has resulted in tragedy, as she has already lost three husbands. A voodoo priestess (Diahann Carroll) that Mozelle meets claims that she is cursed, and she believes it. The priestess also has a warning for Roz, watch your children. This combined with a premonition by Mozelle causes a panic in the slightly superstitious Roz. She forbids her children from leaving the house that summer, unaware that the danger may come from a different source. Director Kasi Lemmon, who also wrote the screenplay, displays a blossoming talent here. The story, told in flashback, weaves a complex web of differing points of view, fading memories, and hazy visions of the future. Yet, Lemmons never loses track of the threads, and creates a striking visual tapestry. The story is well written, and the characters are well defined, with the detailed nuances that make them seem almost real. The dynamics of the Batiste family are particularly well recognized. The performances are superb throughout. Jurnee Smollett in particular stands out as the child who makes a crucial choice during the summer. Samuel L. Jackson delivers yet another nuanced performance as the father figure who's simultaneously a figure of love and hate. "}{"Title":"One of My Favorite Films","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou I believe that black films are unfairly overlooked at the Oscars. One look at this film substantiates that argument. Eve's Bayou received no nominations, yet it is one of the finest motion pictures of 1997 -- a fully realized production from the screenplay and direction to the acting and cinematography. It depicts a prosperous black family in early '60s Louisiana. The father and husband (Samuel L. Jackson) is a physician who philanders yet dearly loves his children. When a wedge of suspicion comes between them, events proceed toward a tragedy that may even have supernatural implications. This is one of the few black films in recent memory without a whiff of racism in the air. In part, that's because the world it depicts is wholly black, while the situations are timeless and universal. The cast is superb, from Jackson as the life-loving and sometimes misunderstood patriarch to Lynn Whitfield as his fearful wife and Meagan Good as his willful eldest daughter. The point-of-view character is Eve, the youngest daughter, played with heartbreaking fervor by Jurnee Smollett. Also strong in support is Debbi Morgan, an Oscar worthy performance, as Jackson's sister. But the most credit should go to Kasi Lemmons, a relatively unknown actress who shows a rare artistry in her writing and directing debut. Trust us She makes Good Will Hunting's Ben Affleck and Matt Damon look like amateurs -- and they were Oscar-nominated. "},{"Title":"Quality Film, Sadly Overlooked","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a film starts out with the narrator saying, The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old, only the most blasé of viewers would remain disinterested. How could such a tragedy happen? Eve's Bayou pieces together the childhood memories of Eve Batiste, played to perfection by a remarkable youngster, Jurnee Smollett, in a movie combining elements usually found in domestic dramas, psychological thrillers, and Gothic mysteries. Set in the lush swamplands of Louisiana back in the 1960s, this cinematic feast boasts a full menu of guilt, jealousy, revenge, infidelity, possible incest &#150; and just enough supernatural mumbo-jumbo to cast a spell over the audience.Trouble brews beneath the surface for Eve's well-to-do African American family. A clairvoyant aunt (Debbi Morgan) worries about falling in love because of a curse that's already struck down three of her husbands. Eve's elegant father (Samuel L. Jackson), a medical doctor, engages in extra-marital affairs which her beautiful mother (Lynn Whitfield) overlooks. He also pays more attention to their pretty oldest daughter than to Eve. On a fateful evening during a party, Eve accidentally sees her father making love to one of their guests, and this incident becomes the most disturbing moment of her life, setting the stage for the tragedy to follow. Despite the film's dramatic opening line, screenwriter and first-time director Kasi Lemmons uses all the tricks of the trade to remind us that memories can be misleading. She leaves plenty of room for speculation about what really happened here.Too bad moviegoers didn't flock to this intriguing movie. Granted, Eve's Bayou defies classification -- which probably stymied both promoters and the general public. But, in terms of artistic creativity, complexity emerges as one of its many assets. "},{"Title":"I Heart Eve's Bayou","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not very good at writing reviews, but I knew I had to write something about this amazing film. I found an interesting article about this film that I will post instead.Eve's Bayou director Kasi Lemmons is a film industry triple threat. The young artist, whose acting credits include Candyman (1993), Fear of a Black Hat (1993), and Til There Was You (1997), made her screenwriter- director debut with Eve's Bayou, one of the most financially successful independent films released last year. The film was so successful at the box office, earning over $13 million in only a few weeks on an investment of $4 million, that it prompted Trimark executives to find out who was going to see the film, leading them to the surprising discovery that over half of Bayou's moviegoers were white. Not only was it a major crossover vehicle - playing in art houses and mainstream theaters alike - it also dominated the NAACP's Image Awards nominations, beating studio films Soul Food (20th Century-Fox), Rosewood (Warner Bros.) and Amistad (DreamWorks) for a total of seven nominations. It should come as no surprise, however, that Lemmons's picture has been successful, since it is a well-made movie with strong performances, striking cinematography by Amy Vincent, and an unobtrusively dramatic score from Terence Blanchard. Bayou begins with voice-over narration spoken by Eve Batiste, as she recalls her childhood in a haunting flashback to the tragic summer her family came apart at the seams. Shown from young Eve's perspective, much of the narrative comes from a child's point of view but not so much as to limit the film's dramatic depth or spiritual mysticism. The opening lines set the tone for a story reminiscent of a Toni Morrison or Zora Neale Hurston novel. Memory is a selection of images, Eve tells us. Some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father, I was ten years old. From these chilling and enigmatic first lines, audiences gain an introduction to the Batiste clan, an affluent, Creole family living in backwoods Louisiana during the 1960s.We learn that the folk tale behind the bayou involves miscegenation, land inheritance, and lifesaving witchcraft. According to legend, the Batistes are the descendants of an African slave named Eve and her onetime owner, General Jean-Paul Batiste. That their family history begins with sexual transgression in the form of miscegenation proves ironic. The violation of sexual taboos such as adultery and incest plague the Batiste household, gnawing away at boundaries and bonds between family members, destroying the image they have established and try to maintain for themselves as well as others.The narrative revolves around Dr. Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson), a prominent small town doctor, his beautifully elegant wife Roz (Lynn Whitfield), and their three children, fourteen-year-old Cisely (Meagan Good), ten-year-old Eve (Jurnee Smollett), and nine-year old Poe (Jake Smollett). Louis's stalwart mother (Ethel Ayler) and sultry sister, Mozelle (Debbi Morgan), are the nearby extended family. On the surface, Louis is a devoted husband, loving father, and an excellent provider. His wife Roz may have doubts about his fidelity but chooses to keep up appearances and ignore her husband's indiscretions. The facade of bourgeois respectability begins to crumble when Eve accidentally catches her father in the adulterous act, setting off a chain of events that force the family to deal with latent sibling rivalry, repressed jealousy, and incestuous desire.Eldest daughter Cisely, whose adolescent adoration of her father engenders her own adult self-fashioning, makes a desperate attempt to deny Eve's tearful report she saw daddy messing' with Matty Meraux. Cisely's sassy defiance in defense of her father's transgressions escalates until a profound misunderstanding eventually turns her against him. At this crucial moment of misinterpreted desire, Lemmons uses the unreliable narrator to demonstrate how a change in perspective alters the way audiences construe a given scene. Unfortunately, this same scene becomes the reference point for the film's cliché conclusion during which the narrator speaks rapturously about the inaccessibility of truth.The central focus of Eve's Bayou may be prepubescent Eve's relationships with mother, father, and siblings, but equally important to the story's dramatic trajectory is her Aunt Mozelle Batiste-Delacroix, the spiritual center of their world and Eve's emotional anchor during this period of familial discord. Lemmons prompts audiences to notice parallels between Louis and his sister. Both behave selfishly by entertaining passionate extramarital affairs so lengthy in duration that these affairs d'amour end in tragic standoffs. Yet Mozelle is depicted as the more sorrowful - and therefore sympathetic - of the two. Her sensitivity and spirituality, which manifest as the gift of sight, ironically fail to prevent recurring tragedy in her own life, making Mozelle a melancholy albeit introspective woman whom the local voodoo priestess (Diahann Carroll) refers to as cursed. Morgan is perfectly natural in Bayou as the soulful essence of Creole culture.Perhaps in an attempt to maintain the momentum of its crossover appeal, veteran film critics have been reluctant to celebrate Eve's Bayou as an African-American film for fear racial affiliation might frighten off would-be viewers. Andrew Sarris, for example, remarked, To hail Eve's Bayou as the best African American film ever would be to understate its universal accessibility to anyone on this planet. To hail Eve's Bayou is to praise a film that received standing ovations at the Telluride and Toronto festivals and earned Kasi Lemmons the Director's Debut Award from the National Board of Review. It is to recognize as enjoyable the charisma of stars Samuel L. Jackson and Lynn Whitfield. More significantly, to applaud this movie is to acknowledge the strongest performance comes from child actor Jurnee Smollett, who convincingly portrays Eve, despite the few melodramatic moments scripted for a grown woman rather than a precocious preteen. To hail Eve's Bayou, however, as the best African American film ever precisely because it's not African American is to fail to acknowledge the reasons for its crossover appeal. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Film","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A key rule in any sort of writing is to get your audience hooked at the very beginning of your work. Kasi Lemmons, the writer and director of the new film Eve's Bayou, apparently knows the rule and follows it. The movie's second line is an immediate hook The summer I killed my father, I was ten years old. The Batistes are a prosperous middle-class African American family living in the lush Louisiana backwoods. Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson) is the congenial breadwinner of the family, the town doctor with a philanderers bedside manner for the town's female population. His beautiful wife, Roz (Lynn Whitfield), holds down the homestead, well aware of her husband's infidelities. With their three kids, Cisely, Eve, and Poe, the Batistes live like most middle-class families. Though on the outside everything seems amiable, under the surface lies a totally different reality.The family life of the Louis and Roz is in contrast to the life of Louis' sister Mozelle. Seemingly doomed to have all her husbands die, Mozelle views life with a grim pessimism tempered only by her faith in her supposed psychic powers.The film begins with a party at the Batiste's residence, during which young Eve spies her father and another woman in a passionate interlude. When she confides this to her sister, she is met with angry resistance. Cisely, an attractive and overly sophisticated fourteen-year old, thinks the world of her father.When Mozelle for tells that a vehicular accident could claim the life of one of the Batiste children, Roz demands that all the children stay in the house. As would happen with most families, the group gets sick of each other, and young Eve brashly confronts her mother with the realities of Louis's straying. In the interim, Cisely begins waiting up late for her father to come home from work, and comes dangerously close to becoming a Lolitaesque target of her father's affections.Nobody wants to confront these harsh truths, at least not in front of the children. As revelations build on revelations, Eve acts against her father in a variety of ways, inevitably weaving their way toward the preordained conclusion.Lemmons makes a strong directorial debut. The film is admirably full of subplots and interesting scenes, yet still comes in at an hour and fifty minutes. The ability alone to keep a film under two hours long while avoiding a rushed feeling in the film is something that most seasoned directors seem to have problems with, and Lemmons ability to wrap things up is refreshing.She also does a great job with the actors. Granted, Samuel L. Jackson does not need much work to be a great actor. Though his Louis is for him only a walk-through performance, he plays Louis' weakness in a manner so touching that we almost feel sorry for him. Lynn Whitfield isn't half-bad as Roz, either. If you look fast, you'll also catch jazz great Branford Marsalis in a small role as one of Rozelle's husbands.Where Simmons works wonders, though, is in the portrayals of the two girls. While the young boy Poe is largely irrelevant to the film, Eve and Cisely are crucial characters which both require significant range. Jurnee Smollett and Meagan Good, respectively, won the roles, and both of them are amazing. As Eve, Smollett defines being a ten-year old. The irreverent curiosity, the testing of the limits of parental control, the overwhelming initial faith in one's father - Smollett's Eve runs the gamut without a hitch. As Cisely, Good perfectly expresses the confusion of a fourteen-year old girl dealing with the problems of adolescence. Both characters display an amazing depth, particularly Smollett. Overall, a great film. "},{"Title":"Destined To Become A Classic","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This overlooked film is indeed a wonder and in time will place among one of the finest movies ever made. It is multi-layered and deals with some extremely sensitive issues all the while painting a beautiful tapestry of African-American life in the Louisianna bayou. For those of you who have not seen it, it deals with the awakening of a father and his daughters one summer and the emotions that accompany this learning. The young Eve is brilliantly played by Smollett and Debbi Morgan gives a knockout performance that you crave to see over and over again. Diahann Carroll works you because her character is not at all glamorous but pivotal to the plot as Eve comes to realize the responsibility of her gift and learns the truth of the age-old adage, Be careful what you wish for, for you just might get it. Samuel L. Jackson is wonderful as usual and perfectly cast. While his character is not necessarily sympathetic, he is totally understandable and for a little girl who worships her father he is perfectly cast. While some aspects of the father-daughter relationship may be somewhat uncomfortable, the director does a beautiful job bringing the complexity of these issues to the screen and I heartily applaud her. This is one that belongs in any movie collection and one where African-American life is celebrated and treated with the utmost respect and honesty. Hats off to a wonderful production!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rare is the film that has all the ingredients for greatness compelling story, stellar acting, evocative script and images that stick with you. 'Eve's Bayou' is one of those privileged few destined to last as a classic. Director Kasi Lemmons deserves the highest praise for creating such a masterpiece.From the opening line, 'Memory is a selection of images, some elusive, some printed indelibly on the brain,' you slowly fall under the spell of film-making pushed to the artistic limit. 'Eve's Bayou,' is the story of the creole Baptiste family in 1960's Louisiana as seen through the innocent eyes of the youngest girl, Eve. After catching her father in the act of adultery, Eve becomes a reluctant shareholder in her father's secret life. Eve tries to share her awful burden with her sister, but as Eve learns much later, Cisely has her own secrets to hide. Eve soon becomes the gadfly of the family, taunting both mother and father with a knowledge that could destroy her whole family. Her only refuge is her Aunt Mozelle, the clairvoyant sister of her father, who has her own tragic baggage to deal with. In Mozelle, Eve finds a friend and substitute mother who tries to help her come to grips with her dying family. Yet, when Eve learns another horrible 'truth' about her father, nothing can assuage her pain. Action is the only catharsis and Eve takes a fatal step she soon regrets. As her family crumbles around her, she struggles to hold onto her 'truth,' only to learn just how elusive such truth really is. The film ends just as somberly as it began. Message we can never know the whole truth of something unless we dare to experience all sides.'Eve's Bayou' is a searing and heart-breaking saga of one family's disintegration and of one child's grim initiation into adulthood. Lemmons subtly mixes scenes from the past with those of the present to show the truth of Faulkner's adage, 'the past is never really past.' The sensual and labyrinthine bayou backdrop mirrors the intertwined and twisted roots of passion that slowly tear the Baptiste family apart.Not only is the film candy to watch, but Lemmon's poetic script is music to the ears as well. Aphoristic gems fall from everybody's lips, making 'Eve's Bayou' seem more like a novel unfolding before your eyes. And these gems are delivered with the grace and power that only a true actor/actress can give. Samuel Jackson gives one of his greatest performances as the womanizing doctor who needs 'to be a hero' to the ladies of the town. But it is the ladies who carry 'Eve's Bayou.' Lynn Whitefield, Debbie Morgan and Diahann Carroll all help create a 'creole' atmosphere that even Kate Chopin would be proud of. Yet, the frosting to this very tasty cake is without a doubt, Eve's Jurnee Smolett. She doesn't act her part. She IS her part, that of innocence stolen, of wisdom grown old before her time.Anybody looking for a film that will grip you, move you and leave with the feeling of having been touched by the muses, check out this film! It's got all the right stuff! A- "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Once, maybe twice in a lifetime, a movie comes along that captures the black experience in a way that white folks could not even begin to fathom. Without the shuffling and attempts at assimilation, some movies are pure beauty. Eve's Bayou is that kind of movie. It is only unfortunate that the flashback movies that remind us so much of our culture in the South (the lead character is a doctor that makes house calls) tend to also revolve around how callous we can be as a people. Along this same line is Denzel's Devil in a Blue Dress, which captured the black neighborhood in a way that few movies have.Eve's Bayou is a movie about family -- and infidelity. I do not want to give much away, but suffice it to say that in the South, the believe in spirituality is not limited to Christianity; there are those of us who delve into voodoo and, among some of our other people, you have Santeria and Curandismo. The belief that a curse could be put one someone is at the root of a young girl's concern about and commitment to her family and, more profoundly, her doctor-father. He has relationships with other women but takes care of his home. At the end he dies in a way that many black men back then died allowing machismo to get in the way of common sense. And we're STILL dying like that.At any rate, Eve's Bayou is the kind of movie that should be shown in every Black Literature, Contemporary Literature and History of the American South course that is offered at the university level. The scenery is breathtaking, the essence of black southern life flourishing despite segregation should remind brothers and sisters of the validity of the statement, Be careful what you wish for - you just might get it. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Kasi Lemmons' Masterpiece","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A truly impressive and memorable debut by Kasy Lemmons. Beautifully acted and masterfully conceived of the supernatural on the bayou. It takes you back to a time when magic and voodoo were really big and highly believed in. An absorbing story that has otherworldliness to it and that is what makes this film exceptional, everything from bayou, fortunetellers and spells are interwoven into the story in a fascinating way. But also the acting is truly impressive, not a bum characterization in the whole cast, even the younger cast members are great. Lynn Whitfield who is beautiful and poised has delivers a powerful performance as Jackson's tortured wife who must put up with Jackson's affairs with other women to keep a stable household but yet is in denial of what is happening around her. Debbi Morgan is also phenomenal as Jackson's sister who has a supernatural gift. There is a scene where she explains the death of her second husband to young Smollett that is masterfully surreal, a gem of a scene that is a highpoint in the film, as is the powerful ending. The performance of Eve (Smollett) almost stopped my heart, that little girl could really make you feel what she was feeling and boy can she act. And Cisely (Good) also did a wonderful job. I really cried with her and my heart went out to her; she only loved her father. Samuel L. Jackson delivers a powerful performance; as the doctor-father whose need for love and affirmation is so engulfing that he seeks it anywhere and everywhere. But heading this terrific cast is the young Jurnee Smollett; she plays a key role and carries the whole film on her shoulders. A lyrical drama with surreal undertones. A beautiful one of a kind film. "},{"Title":"A Great Drama","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As this wonderful movie opens, we enter the world of Eve's Bayou, the Louisiana home of ten-year old Eve (Jurnee Smollett) and her charming, philandering father Louis (Samuel L. Jackson), her glamorous and superstitious mother, her psychic aunt (Debbi Morgan), and her big sister who idolizes Daddy as much as Eve does. The narrator's opening line concerns a murder, and we wait for this terrible event to occur.I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie. It drew me in and held me spellbound, with it's believable story and likable characters. We really get to know and care about Eve's family and all their secrets. The actors are uniformly excellent, especially the young star, Jurnee Smollett. The director succeeds by constantly reminding us of the picturesque bayou setting and its unique community. As the story got closer and closer to the inevitable tragedy, I was almost holding my breath. It's an intense story about real, multi-layered people. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A+ for Eve's Bayou","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an incredible film about a family struggling to keep family together. Eve's Bayou is a town founded by a freed slave. Our heroine is named after her predecessor.Eve's father, Louis (Samuel L. Jackson) is the town's doctor and he fancies himself as a ladies' man. Her mother, Roz (Lynne Whitfield) chooses to turn a blind eye to his infidelities. Eve has an older sister and younger brother. But the most colorful is her Aunt Mozelle (Debbi Morgan). Mozelle has visions of things to come and people come to seek her help. When she has a vision it always comes true. She also has a curse. All of her husbands have died.But reality hits this fantasy land first when Eve accompanies her father on a house call and it becomes evident to her that daddy was doing more than helping the sick woman. Then at a party Eve goes out to the shed and falls asleep. But she is awakened by her father with another woman, a woman with her own man.Things continue to spiral out of control when Mozelle has a vision that a child is going to be killed by a train. Roz panics and keeps the kids confined to the house until the premonition comes true. In the process, Eve's older sister withdraws from the family but it it's not what everyone thinks.This is a great film with breakout performance by Debbi Morgan (well sort of as she has been giving great performances for 20 years.) This was an Oscar worthy performance in an Oscar worthy film. "}{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a film shocking in methods and motives.In methods, it creates a movie that has bone-chilling characters, moments at which you jump, and yet has characters that make you emotional putty in writer-director Kasi Lemmons' hands. In effortlessly sidesteps clichés involving taboo subjects such as incest.In motives, Eve's Bayou is one of those rare movies that has characters about whom you can care... no matter what they have done or profess to do. Going far beyond just a tiny bit of moral ambiguity, all of the residents of Eve's Bayou live in a realm of gray. It makes you realize perfectly that life can at the same time be utterly chilling and incredibly dramatic. A+ "},{"Title":"Best Film of 1997","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That is what Roger Ebert called Eve's Bayou, and since he's better at writing reviews that I am....i'll quote some of his review.''Memory is a selection of images, some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father, I was 10 years old.'' With those opening words, ''Eve's Bayou'' coils back into the past, into the memories of a child who grew up in a family both gifted and flawed, and tried to find her own way to the truth. The words explain the method of the film. This will not be a simple-minded story that breathlessly races from A to B. It is a selection of memories, filtered through the eyes of a young girl who doesn't understand everything she sees--and filtered, too, through the eyes of her older sister, and through the eyes of an aunt who can foretell everyone's future except for her own.As these images unfold, we are drawn into the same process Eve has gone through We, too, are trying to understand what happened in that summer of 1962, when Eve's handsome, dashing father--a doctor and womanizer--took one chance too many. And we want to understand what happened late one night between the father and Eve's older sister, in a moment that was over before it began.We want to know because the film makes it perfectly possible that there is more than one explanation; ''Eve's Bayou'' studies the way that dangerous emotions can build up until something happens that no one is responsible for and that can never be taken back.All of these moments unfold in a film of astonishing maturity and confidence; ''Eve's Bayou,'' one of the very best films of the year, is the debut of its writer and director, Kasi Lemmons. She sets her story in Southern Gothic country, in the bayous and old Louisiana traditions that Tennessee Williams might have been familiar with, but in tone and style she earns comparison with the family dramas of Ingmar Bergman. That Lemmons can make a film this good on the first try is like a rebuke to established filmmakers. Ebert gave the film 4 stars, and I couldn't agree more. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Billie Holliday's autobiography, Lady Sings the Blues, opens with a famously shocking declaration Mom and Pop were just a couple of kids when they got married. He was 18, she was 16 and I was three. Writer-director Kasi Lemmons's Eve's Bayou seizes our attention by administering an even greater shock in its opening lines. Memory is a selection of images, says the narrator, Eve Batiste, as she looks back to 1962, some elusive, others printed indelibly on the brain. The summer I killed my father I was 10 years old. I cannot say anything bad about this film, that's how amazing it is. The acting, screenplay, directing, cinematography, and score are all top notch. It's hard to believe the film was snubbed by the Academy. This dark family drama had almost every element needed for Oscar success; one really has to wonder why it got the cold shoulder. At bare minimum, Debbi Morgan's unshakable portrayal of Aunt Mozelle should have had Supporting Actress consideration. In my opinion, it one of the top 5 best African American films ever.10/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting mix of drama and the mystique of voodoo-ism.","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Eve's Bayou' ranks among one of my most favourite films ever as I just love the haunting air that clings to it with the undercurrent of jealousy, sexuality, rage, confusion and innocence bubbling beneath the surface.The film is told from the memory of Eve thinking back to when she was ten years old when she lived with her parents-- her beloved physician father Louis and beautiful mother Roz-- and two siblings, fourteen-year-old Cisely and nine-year-old Poe, with close contact being maintained with her enigmatic Aunt Mozelle. In many ways, this is a coming-of-age film as Eve reaches an age where she is becoming increasingly self-aware of the world around her, taking her first steps away from childish naivety. As she vacillates between adoring her elder sister and being jealousy of the attention Cisely receives from their father, Cisely herself is torn by the deep-seated, bordering on incestuous, love she feels for her father. And while Eve struggles to cope with her confusion when she discovers Louis is having an affair, Roz is starting to realise her husband is not the devoted man he pretends to be, and both mother and daughter turn to Mozelle for advice.The quality of acting was excellent. You'd expect no better from Samuel L Jackson though as he takes on the role of the flirtatious, devil-may-care Louis and strikes a balance with Lynn Whitfield's Roz in portraying their confusing and intricate love for each other and their children. Debbi Morgan also gave a concrete performance as Mozelle, showing how this is a character of many contrasts in the way she is strong yet vulnerable and a woman who is fiercely devoted to her family but struggles with her own love life. But it is the child actors who provide the backbone of the film. Both Jurnee Smollett, as Eve, and Meagan Good, as Cisely, deliver powerful performances, depicting the complexities of sisters and love. Smollett, in particular, is top class in illustrating the confusion, mischievousness and anger of Eve.Set against the gorgeous, warm vista of Sixties Southern Louisiana, 'Eve's Bayou' explores many issues such as growing awareness of sexuality in others' (namely her father, sister and aunt), how sibling bonds grow as one gets older, rivalry and the allure of magic/voodoo, as seen mainly through the eyes of a ten-year-old child. The characters are all solid and engaging, drawing us into the film and this family.This is a very subtle film, bittersweet and evocative, and there is certainly something to be said from that approach. It doesn't hammer in its points but lazily leads you on Eve's journey culminating to the stirring finale that will leave you pondering over all that has happened. Highly recommended to those looking for a drama that is less mainstream. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou(A-) Writer/director Kasi Lemmons' sensuous film, Eve's Bayou, is a near-monumental achievement. Though Waiting to Exhale and Soul Food were obvious crowd-pleasers that bumped so-called black cinema out of the trap of endless urban crime capers, this one is the real torch carrier for a literate new beginning.Everyone who worked on the film, from Lemmons and Vincent down through the large cast works as a cohesive unit to create a finely tuned dream scape of memory and magic. Simply put, this is one entertaining movie, as consistently original and intimate as commercial film-making currently gets. It's shame it was overlooked by the Academy. The film could have easily been nominated and/or won in the following categories Best Original Screenplay, Best Actress(Jurnee Smollett), Best Actor(Samuel L. Jackson), and Best Supporting Actress(Debbi Morgan). "},{"Title":"lyrical genius","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" for some reason when thinking of the film 'eve's bayou' the phrase i find floating thru my thoughts it 'lyrical genius.' this movie has such rich characters and was filmed with such depth and poignancy that it is affects me almost as if it were something written. the difference is that with the written word i am the one responsible for creating the world and defining its existence. films are usually thought of as a medium that is more direct and controlling in the images one leaves with. yet somehow this movie manages to be accessible enough for the viewer that i left almost believing that it was of my creation. due, significantly to the accessibility of the actors in the roles. "},{"Title":"One of the best acted  ensemble dramas of the past thirty years!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Set against the sultry and sweltering Louisiana south of the 1960's, Eve's Bayou tells the tale of a prominent African-American family that contends with a little bit of hidden dysfunction. Samuel Jackson plays the patriarch that is having an affair, unknown to social-conscious wife Lynn Whitfield. Lisa Nicole Carson plays the object of his affection and Roger Guenveur Smith plays her hapless husband. Emmy winners Debbi Morgan and Diahann Carroll illuminate the screen with their respective appearances as Jackson's sister and the root doctor Elzora.However, as good as the adults are, the top acting honors go to Jurnee Smollett in the title role, her real-life brother Jake assaying the coincidental role of brother Poe, and Meagan Good as eldest daughter Cisely, the pride of both Whitfield and Jackson's eyes. This trio of youngsters hold their own with the more experienced actors and fit their parts, perfectly and equally altering between scenes of dramatic tension, as well as those of pure humor.Eve's Bayon is exquisitely filmed, wonderfully costumed, and evenly paced to make it a standout for the serious film-goer. "},{"Title":"Eve's Bayou is a movie about a dysfunctional family that is slowly falling apart. This movie is starring Lynn Whitfield And Samuel Jackson","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie Eve's Bayou in my own words is worth millions. The movie kept me interested and it seemed like every time I watched it there was something new to figure out. I watch this movie almost everyday and I think the characters did a GREAT job bringing this movie to life. If I were a movie critic I would give it all the stars its worth. Although it didn't win an award I think It should be a collectors item. All the characters seemed to have there own personal issue that needed to be dealt with. This movie should be watched by every person in the world. It deserves a good comment from every one who sees it. I'm sure everyone who saw it loved it "},{"Title":"An atmospheric southern Gothic tale","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a mesmerizing, yet also wrenching tale of family secrets, betrayal, and emotional turmoil, mixed with voodoo and The second sight. Every semester I teach film appreciation to 100 or more college students, and often I show my classes this film (most of them have not seen it before). The common reaction from the vast majority of these students is how much they liked the film, and get caught up in its story. This is true regardless of their race/ethnicity, gender, age, or any other category one might consider in determining the appeal of a movie. It also doesn't seem to matter when in the semester I show it--students generally are moved by the film even if they don't know much yet about film and film-making. I wish I could say the same for other films I've chosen to screen over the years.It is true that if you are a person who only likes fast-paced action films with lots of explosions and little character development, then you probably will be bored by this film, and not really understand it. Indeed, the film is slow-paced, even languid (rendolent of a Louisiana summer). It also is somewhat episodic in structure, building slowly to its climax. Because of this the film is able to develop complex, well-rounded characters along with clearly evoking a particular time and place of the past, a past of memories, some elusive, some indelibly printed on the mind. Jurnee Smollett as Eve is a revelation, as the story unfolds through her eyes (framed by narration from the adult Eve). We get drawn into the story at the very start when she announces The summer I killed my father I was 10 years old. It is her memories of the early 1960s that we are viewing. Eve is a realistic child, full of sibling rivalry and pranks, but she is not portrayed in a simplistic manner; instead, her feelings of love for her father and sister are complicated by an anger she herself hardly understands. Samuel L. Jackson perfectly captures the philandering doctor father. The other actors are equally wonderful, from the black widow Aunt Mozelle (Debbi Morgan) to the witch Elzora (Diahann Carroll).Now, after multiple viewings (seeing something new each time), I would have to say that Eve's Bayou has become one of my favorite films. I would certainly agree with critic's Roger Ebert's assessment that this is one of the best films of 1997. Those persons looking for a different, more unique viewing experience will find it in this film. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly acted, brilliantly shot","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eve's Bayou is a film which keeps you engrossed from start to finish. This captivating story is given great impact by the excellent performances (particularly the two daughters and Moselle) and the gorgeous photography which is a dream to watch.  I was also impressed by how the film allows voodoo / black magic to be almost normal to the viewer, not over-doing it, which I imagine would be so easy to do.  Particularly liked the scene where Moselle describes her husbands death, merging flashback and present, and also the early scene where Cicily tells Eve what 'really' happened with Mrs Marone.  Rating 8.5 / 10. "}{"Title":"Be Prepared to be Perplexed","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' ''Eve's Bayou'' is a film that perplexes its viewers, even those who admire it, because it challenges the ways we attempt to respond to it. Is it a portrait of desperate human sadness? Then why are we so consumed? Is it a tragedy? Then why its tenderness with these lonely people? Is it about depravity? Yes, but why does it make us suspect, uneasily, that the depraved are only seeking what we all seek, but with a lack of ordinary moral vision? In a film that looks into the abyss of human despair, there is the horrifying suggestion that these characters may not be exceptions, but may in fact be part of the mainstream of humanity.Why see the film? ''Eve's Bayou'' is about its unhappy characters, in a way that helps us see them a little more clearly, to feel sorry for them, and at the same time to see how closely tragedy and farce come together in the messiness of life. Does ''Eve's Bayou'' exploit its controversial subjects (infidelity and incest)? Finally, no It sees them as symptoms of desperation and sadness. These are the kinds of thoughts the film inspires. It is not a film for most people. It is certainly for mature film seekers only. But it shows Lemmons as a filmmaker who deserves attention, who hears the unhappiness in the air and seeks its sources. "},{"Title":"An Exuberantly Well Crafted Film","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou creates an intricate counterpoint on themes of alienation, loneliness, infidelity and regret. These themes merge together to form an exuberantly, well- crafted film that gets the audience involved on a gut level even before the opening credits are over.The brilliancy of Lemmons' vision is tempered by her compassion for almost every one of her characters. She is treading a mighty fine line here between drama, tragedy and poetry (i.e. the astonishing finely tuned performances and screenplay). Bayou is unnerving because it forces us into uncharted waters Lemmons doesn't tell us how to feel but makes us thrash out our responses for ourselves. In doing so, she has made one of the few indelible movies of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Stunning Study of Love and Loss","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' 'Eve's Bayou' offers the most riveting turmoil of any film released in 1997, along with brief but incredibly powerful acts of emotional and physical violence. The result is a stunning study of the power of love and the pain of loss. The power comes in equal measure from the literate, subtle artistry of a first-time director and the vital, oh-so-real performances of her cast. With the graceful brilliance of 'Eve's Bayou' , Lemmons emerged as a filmmaker to watch.Much of Lemmons' talent shows up in the uniform excellence of her cast. Samuel L. Jackson has seldom delivered as potent a portrayal as this study of a domineering man, weighed down with lust and guilt. Debbi Morgan(Oscar worthy) made a smashing re-entry with this performance, it is shocking to discover what she's capable of. Jurnee Smollet, too, is at the top of her game; her Eve is a perfectly realized confused young girl, struggling for a bit of belonging, understanding, and affection in her life. The rest of the cast provide memorably vital performances as well. "},{"Title":"Strangely Astonishing","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Strange, astonishing, and strangely astonishing, Eve's Bayou is one of the best films of 1997. This is not a movie for everybody. It's sophisticated, compelling, and offbeat. Directed/written by Kasi Lemmons, in a remarkably assured feature film debut, Eve's Bayou starts out a finely drawn family drama and builds with a menace so subtle that you almost don't notice it until violence strikes as it does in real life suddenly and shockingly. Even though, in retrospect, the signs that it was imminent are all there. So spare and true to the rhythms of life is this film that its sudden turns leave you as shell-shocked as genuine tragedy might. The way Lemmons paces this film is incredible. She allows the audience to meditate on the character's feelings and actions. The performances are spectacular, Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet in particular. These ladies blew me away. The way they react with one another and the power of their emotions is unspeakably great. They truly deserved Academy Award consideration. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Unfortunately Underrated","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's easy to run out of superlatives when describing Eve's Bayou - everything about it is taken to the max and there isn't a wrong note or bad line of dialog or a feeling that comes across as false. There are some heart-stopping moments where the story is shocking, but an understandable part of the plot- it's not gratuitous violence, which makes it all the more difficult to watch.Kasi Lemmons has shown she's a brilliant director (who takes her time telling a story). She has shots that will amaze any film student, set up to maximize the audience experience. A moment can speak volumes and it's effective the way the story jumps between the characters, especially when building to the final sequences. "},{"Title":"Rich With Human Experience","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a startling film unlike I've ever seen before so rich with human experience, so wrought with tragedy, so compelling, the film honors many forms even as it transcends them. Bayou flows like time -- unpredictable but unstoppable, here for an eternity and gone in a second. We can only do little but hold on and hope, leaving ourselves in the hands of an expert storyteller(Kasi Lemmons), and losing ourselves in the uniformly fine performances. It seems almost criminal to single Debbi Morgan out for praise, so fine is the work of Jurnee Smollet and Samuel L. Jackson, not to mention Lynn Whitfield and Meagan Good in the secondary roles. Nevertheless, it is all but impossible not say Morgan's performance was the best supporting performance(female) of 1997. So deeply and intensely felt is her penetrating portrayal of Aunt Mozelle. Shame on you Academy!!!!!All involved are aided in the accomplishments of cinematographer Amy Vincent and production designer Jeffrey Howard, who effectively capture enclosed, isolated Louisiana lands, and the composer of the film's spare, haunting score. "},{"Title":"A Great Film, Strong Performances","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is Kasi Lemmons' debut film as a director, and one of the finest motion pictures of 1997. She shows here a deep rapport with the characters and the actors, who are allowed lancing moments of truth. To see strong acting like this is exhilarating. In a time of flashy directors who slice and dice their films in a dizzy editing rhythm, it is important to remember that films can look and listen and attentively sympathize with their characters. Directors grow great by subtracting, not adding, and Lemmons does nothing for show, everything for effect.The experience of being so absorbed in a movie and the lives of the people in it, of trusting a director / writer and actors to take me places completely unexpected, is so rare that I savored every unexpected turn and twist. Highly recommend!Oh yeah, Debbi Morgan's performance is one of the most underrated performances of the 90s. "},{"Title":"The Touch of a Great Director","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons is a uniquely self-possessed director in the face of short-attention-span modern Hollywood. She isn't afraid to take her time telling a story, letting it breathe like fine wine and thereby making it feel more like life than a movie, as the winds of emotions and atmosphere blow through each scene.Her profound dramas aren't just set in a place and time -- they take you there. This is true of the psychological wreckage of the characters therein -- in her debut film Eve's Bayou. The story is of the Batiste family, a prosperous black family residing in Louisiana in the 1960s. Having used this build-up of back story to weave us into the fabric of their lives, Eve's Bayou then tears apart that fabric. We learn that their lives aren't as wonderful as they appear. The tag line, the secrets that hold us together can also tear us apart, is best group of words that can describe the action that further takes place in this film.Debbi Morgan's performance as the clairvoyant Aunt Mozelle, a woman whose had life worth of tragedy, stands out as the soul of Eve's Bayou. She digs so deep for the pain seeping through Mozelle's leathery exterior that it becomes agonizing to lose sympathy for her. Jurnee Smollet's portrayal of Eve is the film's other standout. Few adult actors have shown the range of this - then 11 year old, truly outstanding. Both of these performances were deserving of Oscar nominations. Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, and Meagan Good all provide strong memorable performances as well. "},{"Title":"A Strangely Compelling Drama","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1997, Kasi Lemmons' debut film Eve's Bayou was the only film to receive a standing ovation at the Telluride and Toronto films festivals. All I can say is it deserved every applause and acclaim it got. The film is a big, ambitious, absorbing and strangely compelling drama that's not quite anything we've seen before, and a movie experience that carries a lingering, powerful aftershock. Bayou moves along its course and overflows at its climax with that indefinable but unmistakable assurance of a master filmmaker who knows just what she wants to say, is in total command of her medium and is in no mood to make any compromises. "},{"Title":"Uniformly Excellent","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons has transcended her peer's works in what can be considered a masterpiece of modern cinema that reps the maturing of an artist into world-class filmmaker. Lemmons film is blessed with amazing acting performances from the entire cast. Most notably are Samuel L Jackson who departs from his usual persona and delves into the desire and guilt that make up Louis Batiste's life. Debbi Morgan gives her best performance to date as she gives dimension and feeling to Mozelle, allowing the audience to understand her tragedy and pain. Morgan performs brilliantly. Jurnee Smollet deserves the highest praise for her portrayal of Eve. You'll have to see it to believe it. The rest of the supporting cast also help give depth to the characters of Eve's Bayou. Acting, alone, does not always make a film great (though it does not hurt) and first class production values also contribute to a film's overall quality. The behind the camera crew that Lemmons gathers provides exemplary craftsmanship to Eve's Bayou. Henry Cline provides high quality camera work that equals the on screen talent. Production design and art direction, by Jeffrey Howard and Adele Plauche respectively, help create the mood and tone that are the film's period hallmark. Costume design, by Karyn Wagner, is brilliant, especially in clothing the actresses in a series of fashionable dresses that smack of the 50s/60s. "}{"Title":"Hard Hitting and True to Life","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou is as near perfect a film that graced the screen in 1997 and richly deserves all the acclaim it garnered. Rarely does their come along a movie of such quality on so many levels.The film is true-to-life, hard-hitting and utterly absorbing. The look of the film and its Terrance Blanchard score create the perfect 1960s film that never could have been made during that time.You will never forget these characters. Debbi Morgan gave a riveting performance as Aunt Mozelle. This is the finest role yet for Morgan, who interprets Mozelle as a woman who is angry at the substance of her own tragedy and lashes out in her misery and confusion. Samuel L. Jackson and Jurnee Smollet also provide stellar work as Louis and Eve. Honestly, I didn't find a performance that wasn't pitch perfect. This definitely gets a 10. "},{"Title":"Why I love Eve's Bayou","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a skillful combination of exquisite melodrama and character study, superbly written and directed by Kasi Lemmons, who was only a first time director in 1997 when this film was released. The story builds beautifully from character and incident, and some may argue with Lemmons' sense of pace but any time saved there would jeopardize the extremely intricate set of relationships and story possibilities. Each character is a point on this massive web that she has spun, and each scene gives us another small piece of this painting. To her great credit, Lemmons handles the material with great subtlety, ensuring that only the right kind of sensationalism appears on screen &#150; the kind that that we decode ourselves through the pain-racked faces and tear-filled eyes of her characters.It's a superb cast and they all stretch a bit to go places of great inner pain. But if this makes the film sound a heavy, desperate affair, it isn't meant to. They are intoxicating performances that touch us on every level. Wonderful production design and cinematography, and Lemmons' touch extends to the music(scored by Terrance Blanchard). Enthralling from start to finish, Eve's Bayou holds many secrets and leaves much to be digested. "},{"Title":"What A Film!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The beauty of Eve's Bayou is the way in which writer/director Kasi Lemmons slowly but surely draw the viewer into this world and its well-drawn characters.Although one would think that creating and playing normal people would be easier than, say, fantasy characters of some sort, it's actually more difficult. That's because either they come off as unnatural or artificial - based on our intimate knowledge of such people - or boring and too familiar - also due to the same reason.Thus, it's a testament to the cast and crew that they pull that off and create such an engaging, moving and ultimately rather shocking experience. They do so by taking their time in setting up the story and letting those normal, everyday characters grow on the viewer, rather than rushing to get to the pivotal event and its consequences on all involved. By doing so, they allow us to care more about the characters and thus be affected, like them, by the turn of events that change the dynamics of the story.Of course, no matter how great the script or direction might be, the cast has to be on top of their game and up to the challenge of playing such characters, making them credible, and then dealing with the emotionally charged and draining material. To Lemmons' credit, she's been blessed with a small group of terrific performers who take the material and knock it out of the ballpark. Phenomenal! "},{"Title":"wonderful film","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would just like to preface this comment by saying this is my favorite film and I have nothing but love for the entire project. Eve's Bayou is one of the most underrated films I have ever seen. To be perfectly honest I can't find one problem with it. I've heard people say it is too soap operaish, but I disagree. It is definitely a drama, but it isn't a melodrama. The acting is not over the top, as a matter of fact, the acting is amazing. Jurnee Smollett, Samuel L. Jackson, Diahn Carroll, everyone in the film does a wonderful job. The cinematography is also gorgeous. Towards the end of the movie on the day of a funeral there is this shot of the sky that is breath taking. I just don't understand why more people don't love this movie. "},{"Title":"A Moody Debut from Director Kasi Lemmons","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw Eve's Bayou I was blown away by the artistic prowess on display. I thought it was utterly transfixing. However, upon second and third viewings it hasn't held up that well and I'm not quite sure why. The script is highly intelligent and taut. The direction from Lemmons is inventive, moody, and thoughtful (I still love how the flashbacks and visions coexist and interact with the characters imagining them on screen). Some of the dialogue verges on poetry. The film gives you a wonderful sense of place and time. The cinematography is breathtaking. It has a great jazzy musical score. Yet something is missing. Perhaps it is because it is essentially a pulpy soap opera about the secrets and infidelities of an upper class African American/French family in the Louisiana Bayou. The film is played too straight and earnest. Some subtle humor would've been nice to accent the tone and the overwrought storyline. Kasi Lemmons is capable of collecting all the right ingredients, but the brew hasn't quite come to a bubble yet. She showed similar imagination next in the grossly miscalculated Caveman's Valentine. I have faith she could become an A-list director. Still, this is a good film to study, even if it gets a little heavy-handed at times. It's not often you see an art-house film targeted at African-Americans, and that makes this substantially unique and worth watching for cinephiles. "},{"Title":"A fine family drama set in 1960s Louisiana.","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is the name of the small settlement along the bayou that former slave Eve gave her name to. The story is told from a young girl's point of view, Eve Batiste (Jurnee Smollett), who is narrating as an adult. It was filmed in Louisiana, in the bayou areas north of Lake Pontchartrain, north of New Orleans. I particularly like the exposition during the last scene where Eve describes our lives and memories as an intricate tapestry of all of our memories. This movie is about Eve's memories. The movie starts by saying that Eve was 11 years old when she killed her father. We don't find out what she means until the very end. Her father is small time doctor Louis Batiste (Samuel L. Jackson) who mostly makes routine house calls, dispenses aspirin, and flirts with the lonely ladies. He says he loves his wife, he appears to be a good father to his 2 daughters and son, but occasionally strays, and that is what gets him in hot water. Meagan Good is fine as the older sister Cisely Batiste. Lynn Whitfield is also good as the wife and mother Roz Batiste.SPOILERS. When Eve wanders into the storage shed during a party, and falls asleep, she awakens to find her dad and Mrs Mereaux engaged in sexual activity. This scares her, but what really gets her going is when sis tells her that dad made advances towards her, then hit her when she withdrew. Little Eve decided she needed to have her dad dead, goes to voodoo lady Elzora (Diahann Carroll) for a spell. What really gets dad is when Mrs Mereaux's husband shows up and finds him and his wife together at a bar. He tells Loius to never speak to his wife again or he will kill him. Louis smiles and yells 'good night Matty', and the jealous husband shoots and kills him. So, Eve really was responsible, because it was she in an earlier conversation that hinted to Mr Mereaux that her dad and his wife 'both seemed to come home late a lot.' Eve feels bad when she later finds out her sister's story was not true, she had been the one who made an advance by kissing dad as a mistress might, and dad rejected that which made sis mad enough to lie about it.Of interest to me, Branford Marsalis had a small role as friend Harry. "},{"Title":"A Flawlessly Written Film","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The biggest snub at the 1997 Academy Awards was Kasi Lemmons in the Best Original Screenplay category. Her screenplay for Eve's Bayou was easily one of the best scripts of that year. So good in fact, that the less informed members of the Academy may well have thought that Lemmons adapted it from a novel. The film opens with an adult woman voice-overing the line, I was nine years old the summer I killed my father. With this revelation starts Eve's Bayou, a slow paced drama about an upper middle class African-American family in Louisiana. The story is told through the eyes of Eve, played by Jurnee Smollet. She is the middle of three children with an older sister and a younger brother. Samuel L. Jackson (who also produced the film) and Lynn Whitfield are the parents and Debbi Morgan plays Jackson's somewhat unstable sister.On the night of a party at their house, Eve finds her father in an amorous encounter with another woman. Eve then begins to question why her doctor father is always summoned for house calls to female patients at all times of the day and night. Eve's subtle innuendos about her father's extramarital affairs cause a rift between Eve, her sister, her mother, and her aunt. All the women know what is happening, however, each has their own way of dealing with reality.Eve decides that she has to stop her father's philandering so she enlists the help of a local fortune teller to use voodoo on him. Eve's aunt is also a fortune teller, but wants no part of her plan. Eventually, Eve realizes that she still loves her father and attempts to stop the so-called spell before it works.Eve's Bayou is the first feature film for writer-director Lemmons, previously best known for her acting work. In one of the most impressive debuts in recent years, Lemmons' work is very comparable with John Sayles, the best independent filmmaker working today. Lemmons' writing is extremely novelistic with attention to rich characterizations and dense story lines. Like Sayles, she also has a soft fluid touch as a director.Lemmons also shows that her time spent in front of the camera has helped get superb performances from her entire cast. It is rare that a child actor can carry any film, let alone a drama, as well as Jurnee Smollett does. Her performance is on par with Anna Paquin's in The Piano for capturing adolescent sensitivity. Samuel L. Jackson does a nice turn as the philandering doctor who is so charming and flawed. Actress Debbi Morgan is also award-worthy. As one of the most successful independent films of any year it is a wonder that Eve's Bayou was not nominated for any Academy Awards. Watching this tremendously well-written and acted film, it's easy to see why the African-American community feels woefully under-represented on Oscar night in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Lifts Our Heart While Chilling to the Bone","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a great, haunting film; it affects us in ways we're not used to...it is capable of both lifting our hearts and chilling us to the bone. Believe me, it is a work of art like no other. Slow-moving, ominous looking, profoundly spiritual film that can hold an audience in absolute thrall.The film switching gears radically, bravely defying conventional wisdom about what it takes to excite moviegoers, Lemmons presents the flip side of a family drama and turns it into a supremely improbable triumph.Not only is this a directorial triumph, but also a strong screen writing debut for Lemmons. She revels in the delicate nuances of the great Louisiana bayou, from the omnipresent waters to the rushing of wind through the trees, while Lemmons' composer, Terrance Blanchard, outdoes himself with a score that's the elegiac equivalent of threshing wheat. Above all, Lemmons treats her characters with near reverence. Bayou is filled with brilliant performances (specifically Debbi Morgan, Samuel L. Jackson, and the two leading young actresses). This is my third favorite film of 1997, behind The Sweet Hereafter and Boogie Nights. "},{"Title":"We Need More Films Like This","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With the heartbreaking ''Eve's Bayou,'' filmmaker Kasi Lemmons delivered one of the best and most successful independent films of 1997. Like John Cassavetes, whose work is often held up as a standard for emotional rawness on film, Lemmons' goes right to the core of her character's lives and mines the place where we're weakest, most alone and sometimes the cruelest. Lemmons marvelous achievement is not only in capturing emotional clarity on film, but also in illustrating the ways in which families start to heal and find a certain bravery in their efforts. There's not a weak performance in Eve's Bayou, a fact made more notable by the seeming ease with which the cast performs as an ensemble. Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet delivered two of the finest performances of 1997. It's terribly hard to understand why they didn't get Oscar nominations. Even more hard to comprehend is how the Screenplay was left out of the Original Screenplay category. Don't be like the Academy and this film pass you by. "},{"Title":"Reasons why I love Eve's Bayou","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Moment after moment, scene after scene, ''Eve's Bayou unfolds with the fascination of eavesdropping. We are waiting to see what these people will do next, caught up in the fear and the hope that they will bring the whole fragile network of their lives crashing down in ruin. When they prevail--when common sense and good hearts win over lies and secrets--we feel almost as relieved as if it had happened to ourselves. Kasi Lemmons' debut film work like that. She finds a rhythm of life--not ''real life,'' but real life as fashioned and shaped by all the art and skill her phenomenal ensemble can bring to it--and slips into it, so that we are not particularly aware we're watching a film.This is genuinely a great film with astonishing performances from the entire cast. Hardly is a debut screenplay this well written either. If you are looking for two hours of riveting art, Eve's Bayou is the film for you. "}{"Title":"An Extended Multilayered Revelation","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Eve's Bayou, African American filmmaker Kasi Lemmons' deeply touching movie about family relationships and the ever painful search for identity, these two figures are brought together only momentarily. But they're part of a richly woven tapestry of universal anguish. In this corner of a Louisiana bayou, the world is filled with bitter acrimony, painful secrets and a vague sense of loneliness.Eve's Bayou, which was very well received at the Toronto and Telluride Film Festivals in 1997, reveals itself detail by searing detail. The movie is an extended, multi layered revelation, and you don't get the full, complex picture until the final scene. So, it's best to leave off here. "},{"Title":"A Pot of Gold at the End of 1997's Rainbow","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Perhaps any performance suffused with verbal fire and brimstone will get undue attention, especially around Oscar time. But Debbi Morgan's performance in Eve's Bayou is not only flashy and expansive, it's delicate and finely tuned. As a clairvoyant who can foresee everyone's future but her own, Morgan confirms what everyone should already know she deserved the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 1997. Eve Bayou, which Kasi Lemmons, produced, wrote and directed, marked her first directorial effort, followed up by The Caveman's Valentine and the forthcoming Talk to Me a biopic about Ralph Waldo Petey Green. Eve's Bayou reflects an unusual haunting atmosphere, and a sense of unharnessed realism. Not to mention a well written screenplay that reads like poetry. Lemmons', not surprisingly for an actress-turned-director, gives everyone generous breathing room.Without exception, they respond. Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, Meagan Good and most notably Jurnee Smollet are all outstanding. Even the actors with relatively small parts are terrific. But make no mistake Debbi Morgan owns this film every time she's on the screen. Her performance is so passionate, so energized, that it's almost eerie is Mozelle acting her or is she acting Mozelle? Breathtaking stuff. "},{"Title":"Observations and Revelations in Every Scene","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ''Eve's Bayou has become something of a legend in independent film circles, because Kasi Lemmons was so long in getting the movie made. The major studios turned her down (of course; it's about something, which scares them). So did old associates who had always promised help, but didn't return her calls on this project. As she waited, Lemmons must have added to the script many times, because it is astonishingly great. There isn't a canned and prefab story arc, with predictable stops along the way. Instead, the movie feels as alive as if it's a documentary of things happening right now.Many of her scenes develop naturally, instead of along the lines of obligatory clichés. The film's final scene, for example, doesn't end as we think it might. And scenes that involve a retelling of the past develop along completely unexpected lines. Eve's Bayou is not easy to read; Lemmons' screenplay does what great screen writing is supposed to do, and surprises us with additional observations and revelations in every scene. Did I mention how riveting the acting was? Lemmons' should thank her luck stars every night for acquiring such a powerful ensemble on a debut film. ''Eve's Bayou is like a lesson in how movies can escape from convention and penetrate the hearts of rare characters. "},{"Title":"Unusual, Unhurried Tour de Force","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for Hollywood to enter the kingdom of heaven by making a non-condescending movie about realistically flawed human beings who are, African American. That said, Kasi Lemmons may be in line for eternal reward, and possibly an earthly citation or two. Lemmons produced, wrote, and directed Eve's Bayou, the story of the Batiste, a flawed well to do African American family from Louisiana. And in this unusual, unhurried tour de force -- a seamless match of strong artistic vision and physical performances draws on experiences personifying the hard contours and bruised souls of African American families to create a fearless and fascinating piece of work. "},{"Title":"This Film Deserved a Wider Audience","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No disrespect to winner Kim Basinger or any of the other nominees, but by far, the finest performance by a supporting actress in a motion picture released in the year 1997 -- the most technically difficult, the most nuanced, the most heartbreakingly human -- was that given by Debbi Morgan in this exceptional film Eve's Bayou. Anyone who has seen the movie knows this. Unfortunately, few people saw the movie.Writer/director Kasi Lemmons' effrontery is effectively a personal statement, a brand of dynamism that isn't just technique for its own explosive ends but rather is integral to the storytelling. By the end of the film, she has made a movie bleaker than any other released in 1997. People may find it infuriating precisely because it's so intimidating, and it may leave you shaken. Be warned it's a downer, and a knockout. Lemmons also draws astonishing performances from her actors. Seeing such fine acting makes you wonder why the Academy and other award ceremonies didn't honor these actors accurately. I guess it all comes down to race and clout in Hollywood, such a shame. Debbi Morgan especially deserved an Oscar nomination for her portrayal of Aunt Mozelle. Her work here left me speechless, as did the writing and direction. "},{"Title":"Independent Film-making at it's Best","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is an example of independent American film-making at its very best. If this sounds like a backhanded compliment, it's not. Eve's Bayou is engrossing, smart and morally complex. Only three other films in 1997, it's release year, could hold a candle to it. The story is complicated, but the skillful, incisive screenplay by writer/director Kasi Lemmons (mostly known for her role in The Silence of the Lambs) negotiates it nicely. The film weaves in and out of the lives of the Batiste family. The Batistes are a financially comfortable African American family residing on a Louisiana bayou in 1962. Aside from the impeccable structure of Lemmons' screenplay, Eve's Bayou also showcases an array of fine performances. Debbi Morgan and Jurnee Smollet are equally brilliant as Aunt Mozelle and Eve. Both grueling, vulnerable performances exists in a place beyond praise. The entire cast, including Samuel L. Jackson, Lynn Whitfield, and Meagen Good, is extraordinary. It's difficult to spot one performance that's not pitch perfect. Although the stellar contributions to this supremely intelligent film are many, there's no mistake that the presence of director Kasi Lemmons dominates the film.Like any artistic endeavor that endures, Eve's Bayou asks difficult questions but offers few, clear answers. "},{"Title":"A Spectacularly Gripping and Unsettling Debut","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou, Kasi Lemmons' spectacularly gripping and unsettling debut film, is a grave and haunted film, yet its power lies in its willingness to be a work of audacious art. Lemmons' shoots Eve's Bayou without showy virtuosity, yet her camera seems to be everywhere at once, and Terrance Blanchard's score is like a telltale heartbeat. The result is a drama that seeps into your central nervous system. There are sequences in Eve's Bayou that make you sick with fear, that are impossible to shake off&#151;among them one in which the eldest of the Batiste children has got out in to town, after they were warned to stay indoors. Most horrible of all is the movie's one pure vengeance killing, which is among the most appalling things I've ever seen.Well, it's too bad we don't have more narrative filmmakers with this kind of audacity. Eve's Bayou is one the most potent, one of the most vital, films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"A Fierce Wrenchingly Passionate Film","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Risky does not begin to describe Eve's Bayou, the ravishing, complex piece of cinema that was the highlight of the Telluride Film Festival and the highest grossing independent film of it's release year. Writer/director Kasi Lemmons has created a fierce, wrenchingly passionate film about the struggles of a young girl ,coming of age, and her slightly dysfunctional family.The film's visceral effectiveness is heightened by the beauty of Amy Vincent's vigorous cinematography and by Lemmons' formula-free affectations, which sustain their peculiar discipline while also indulging the film maker's every whim. Viewers for Eve's Bayou can be expected to spend an unusually long time studying the closing credits, regaining their composure after having been put through Lemmons' wringer. "},{"Title":"One of the most haunting and vital films of 1997","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A transcendent performance by actress Debbi Morgan puts heart, soul and enigmatic beauty into the extraordinary ''Eve's Bayou,'' which opened to critical acclaim in 1997. One of the most haunting and vital movies of that year, was the debut film from writer-director Kasi Lemmons, whose was mostly known as an actress before this film.Set on a bayou in Louisiana in the early 1960s, ''Eve's Bayou'' explores the nature of a family's bond and their dark secrets. Gorgeously detailed cinematography gives it a raw lucidity and intimacy in the fashion of an audacious photo. The style, in fact, is magically right for the subject. Morgan's Mozelle is an unforgettable character -- simple, profound, heartbreaking, tragic and yet triumphant. The way Morgan keeps Mozelle alive and evolving-- in all the scenes she appear in-- is astonishing. Although Morgan was the stand out in my opinion, the entire is cast is phenomenal. If there were an Oscar for Best Ensemble, I would have definitely given it to this cast in 1997. Lemmons' careful, peculiar, astonishing film eloquently addresses the great question of what's right & wrong and why it's not always good to keep secrets. You have to carefully watch this film to acquire a great understanding of it, and to catch the subliminal undertones. "},{"Title":"True Art","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" True art is a journey to somewhere you've never been, and there has never been a movie quite like EVE'S BAYOU. Set on a beautifully haunting Louisiana bayou during the early 1960s, this solemnly rapturous epic, the debut film by director Kasi Lemmons, might be described as a mystical cinema-verite fairy tale, a theological daydream of martyrdom and redemption, or the most passionate family portrait of 1997. More than anything, though, Eve's Bayou is an experience, a movie that invites you, with moment-to-moment intimacy, to share the psychic space of its characters, to enter a world in which love, madness, infidelity, loneliness, and secrets flow in and out of each other. "}{"Title":"This Film Will Age Very Well","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' mesmerizing, haunting and in the end harrowing Eve's Bayou was a hit at the 1997 festival circuit. The film received standing ovations at the Telluride and Toronto festivals and earned Lemmons the Director's Debut Award from the National Board of Review, this is a work that she certainly did not prepare us for.The African American director has taken a tragic family story, lacerated it into 6 main chapters, set in perversely lovely landscapes and classic jazz tunes by the likes of Etta James, Louis Armstrong and Jimmy Radcliffe(I Pretend I'm Loving You). Beside Lemmons' genius&#151;&#151;and if you are going to throw that word around, you might as well use it here&#151;&#151;Eve's Bayou is even more memorable for a spectacular performance by 10 year old Jurnee Smollet. Few child performances have been as golden as Smollet's, her work (among others) truly deserved many accolades.For those of you who just want to find out and for you others who just want to bask yourselves in sublime acting, astute writing, and intuitive direction, sail through this Bayou. "},{"Title":"Hit Heights That Few Debut Films Can","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons has made an extraordinary debut film that rivals The Piano with its visual creativity, stunning performances, and dramatic intensity. Lemmons direction is stunningly bold. The film is completely, unabashedly melodramatic. It manages to hit heights that few debut films can, since it fearlessly risks alienating us. It's one of the best debut films of 97, and it's easily one of the top 50 films of the 90's.If you haven't seen this film yet, stop reading and seek it out. It's best seen if you know little about it, as the film provides some of cinema's most transcendent moments, and those are best experienced without dilution. "},{"Title":"An Emotionally Disturbing Film","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Quite simply one of the most emotionally disturbing films I have ever seen, Eve's Bayou left me numb from ringing sadness, desperate loneliness and regretful guilt. Beautifully captured by Amy Vincent (director of photography), the vivid imagery and haunting atmosphere adds immensely to the personal nature of the story. It looks like a carefully crafted painting, which provides a framework that allows for some slow moments, but also provides for very personal depth.The day after I viewed Eve's Bayou, my phone rang twice and I didn't answer it -- I couldn't cope with anything remotely real until I came to terms with the emotions in the film. I can't honestly recommend it to anyone who is depressed or lonely in the slightest, because it is so heartbreaking, so sorrowful. But there is no better example of why film is such a powerful medium. Although the film deals with deeply complex emotions; it is, however, ultimately strengthening. "},{"Title":"This Film Is Wonderful!","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the the short film Dr. Hugo, Eve's Bayou is a slow paced, well written character study that focuses on one family's bond in 1960s Louisiana. But hidden in the shadows and not far out of reach lurk vengeance, infidelity, lies, and pain . Carefully navigating the right balance between the layers is writer/director Kasi Lemmons, providing her restrained style and uncanny ability to capture subtlety and complexity. Lemmons eloquently displays the neuroses of a well to do African American family blanketed in pain. However, the film emphasizes character turmoil and atmosphere and is further greatened by a slew of powerful performances. Debbi Morgan is the standout of this excellent cast. I can't think of enough adjectives to describe this woman's powerful performance. All I know is it's great. Jurnee Smollet is also a highlight. It's fascinating to see the change in her performance from the beginning of the film to that at the end. Smollet quietly quantifies the grief that she acquires from her sister's pain into rage and revenge right before our eyes. Two very underrated performances of the 90s that deserved Academy attention. Jackson, Whitfield, and Good are terrific in their respective roles as well. This is a wonderful film that deserves your complete attention. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Meticulous Composition","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every shot in this film is a painting, every scene a meticulous composition; I lost myself in the gorgeous, pitch-perfect vistas that Lemmons somehow gets to the screen. The uniformly excellent cast are amazing in roles that ask for our sympathy even as the characters do things that are not always right. And even though I accepted its intentions from frame one, Eve's Bayou remains an occasionally difficult pill to swallow. It will likely become a legendarily polarizing experience, what with its slow pace and elaborate artifice, but I found its core miraculously complex. This kind of project often becomes merely a film school exercise; Eve's Bayou is much more. One of the great films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Luminously Beautiful Drama","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eve's Bayou is a wonder of a film -- a luminous, beautifully executed drama that gathers the best cast of 1997 and marks a sensational screen debut for director Kasi Lemmons.Lemmons' achievement is so remarkable that it's tempting to call this one of the best directorial debuts of 1997. She's that good an abundantly gifted woman who works brilliantly and skillfully with actors, has a mastery of narrative complexity and understands the compositional and visual demands of film. Bayou is difficult in that it doesn't spell out its intentions or indicate, as most films do, the kind of emotions it expects from us. The script also by Lemmons works off a variety of tones and colors, and also splits the focus among it's primary characters(all extremely well acted). The performances are some of 1997's best, and they are; for the most part, unforgettable. "},{"Title":"This Is Why I Love Art Films","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou not only triumphs with its characters, design and presentation, but also with the unique and elaborate structure it beholds. The film is held together with conflicts in the narrative through line&#151;a series of events that connect to one other. The internal and external problems are faced within the characters. . The tensions arise, become more and more complicated, then the issues are solved. But this is not your ordinary climax, here. It is not necessarily unexpected, but when it concludes itself, one would be lucky to complete this film without an emotional reaction&#151;regardless of how heavy it may be. The movie ends how it needs to end. It leaves us with not a message, nor a moral, but with characters who are facing pain, guilt, and are ultimately on the road to healing. Eve's Bayou is a rare film. More than just a production hoping to gross dollars. It is a lot more than that. It is an explanation of why I love the movies so much. "},{"Title":"A Flicker of Hope","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What Eve's Bayou has to say isn't pretty, at least not in the conventional fashion, but it is a brilliant, exhilarating piece of film-making. It may even be the BEST independent film of 1997. Kasi Lemmons tackles her film debut with gusto, alternately savaging the way African Americans are portrayed and offering a flicker of hope in black cinema. It's a heady, intoxicating mix, made all the more so by the ecstatic, swirling cinematography of Amy Vincent and a quietly seething score by Terrance Blanchard. It's all of a piece, and as a whole, it's skillful complex material. In fact, there's precious little about Eve's Bayou that doesn't engage the mind and tweak the eye, from the production design on down. Its message of redemption may be a bit muddled -- but the filmmakers seem to be saying, hey, that's life. And it is. This film is a MUST SEE! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Serenely Confident","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons emerged at 1997's Toronto Film Festival as one of today's most gifted young American writer-directors. Her Eve's Bayou, is one of the best films of that year(it's still a strong film to this day) - elegant, sensuous, haunting. It's the story of a Louisiana family and its secrets, with supernatural undertones; Tennissee Williams has been evoked in reviews, but it reminded me in ways of Ingmar Bergman's later family dramas, with their fathers, distant and mysterious, and their women confiding and conspiring, and their children interpreting everything in their own ways. Lemmons wrote the screenplay, which is told through the eyes of a young girl named Eve (Jurnee Smollett). Unlike a lot of first films, which are overeager to impress, Eve's Bayou is serenely confident. The story introduces us to Eve's father, a successful, womanizing physician (Samual L. Jackson), and her long-suffering but loving mother (Lynn Whitfield), and her aunt, in some ways the movie's most complex character, brilliantly played by Debbi Morgan, who is a very accurate psychic and not unfamiliar with the inside of a mental hospital. The film is set largely in and around a large house in bayou country, which Lemmons and her cinematographer, Amy Vincent, paint in dreamy, sometimes scary detail There is one extraordinary shot in which a mirror is used to blend past and present, and others in which flashbacks show how emotional shock can be remembered in different ways. A great film worthy of repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Opening narration alters movie's impact.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eve's Bayou is an excellent movie, but I strongly recommend that the first minute or two be avoided.  At the very beginning, a voice-over reveals certain facts about the plot, facts that can alter how the movie is experienced.  Consider this analogy Suppose a comedian introduces a joke by telling the punch line.  Not only will the joke not be as enjoyable, the audience will likely listen to the joke differently.  It will probably be distracted, listening for the set-up line, and not enjoy the unfolding of the joke and the ultimate payoff.  The same thing can happen with Eve's Bayou.  Instead of absorbing the precious--and suspenseful--unfolding of a family dynamic, the viewer can become preoccupied with trying to figure out which event or events precipitate the payoff.I consider myself lucky because when I first saw Eve's Bayou, I had not read any reviews, and I inadvertently missed the first minute or two.  I believe it is a different movie, and a better movie, not hearing the initial narration.  "}{"Title":"An Unrelenting , Yet Outstanding Film","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou is a masterpiece. OK, Eve's Bayou might be a masterpiece. I'd have to do more than see it again to really know -- I'd have to see it again five or 10 years from now, when the distractions and diversions of its present context have fallen away. Eve's Bayou is a great film, though, to deserve its audience's best efforts to banish distraction and view it clearly.Lemmons calmly unveils one garish shock after another, always turning the screws a few notches past the point we'd expected. Her art has something in common with the works of Tennessee Williams , or the songs of Miles Davis Like those towering artists, her vision is surpassingly caustic -- even, at times, vindictive. We can certainly yearn for magnificently accusatory artists like these to grow to find a greater sympathy in their work, a greater forgiveness. Eve's Bayou is so unrelenting that it may prompt such yearnings; I, for one, would be thrilled to see Lemmons heart open in her future work. But it would be a mistake to flinch from the greatness of Eve's Bayou, with it's outstanding writing, direction, and superior acting, in the meantime. "},{"Title":"A Film You'll Want to See Over and Over","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kasi Lemmons' Eve's Bayou is the kind of movie that you'll want to see again because it's a different experience the second time around - the motivation of the characters changes when you know the outcome and can see what's really going on inside their heads. These characters go through extremely painful experiences and thanks to the compelling performances by the amazing cast, they take the audience along with them - so it's not exactly a joyride, but it's a brutally honest one. You feel so tense in this movie, even when you think you know where the story is going.When a movie delivers some of the finest performances of it's release year, it's hard to single out which is better, but here are a few things that blew me awayAunt Mozelle(Debbi Morgan) telling Eve(Jurnee Smollet) a story , in the mirror, of a tragedy that happened in her past. *BREATHTAKING*Eve and Cisely in the final sequence of the film. *POWERFUL*Louis'(Samuel L. Jackson) last scene in the film. "},{"Title":"Voodoo misfire","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Eve's Bayou' is a strange tale of a young girl growing up in an affluent Creole family, circa 1960. The film is strange because half of it wants to be a gentle, authentic, character-driven period piece, and half of it wants to be a horror movie. The result is an over-earnest tale, too straight-faced and solemn to work as horror, but plain dull unless one can accept the portrayal of voodoo powers not just as something which some people believe in, but as actual realities. In fact, such powers are actively demonstrated by no less than three of the characters, so the normal creepy or co-incidence? questions appear to be superfluous - and yet, most of the time, the characters' behaviour is that of completely rational human beings. Another point about this film is that pretty much every character is uncommonly attractive. The film ends with some banal and irrelevant philosophising about the nature of memory. But director Kasi Lemmons appears to have forgotten, while making this movie, what its point was supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Parts in search of a whole","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For all the obvious talent and technique that went into Eve's Bayou, I'm sorry to say the total experience left me cold and unmoved. From the start there seemed to be a lack of focus. Just what was being said and why?  The film seemed to move from one crises or unpleasant situation to another, without a central theme or motivating factor. All the characters seemed to be in need of therapy, and a reason for giving them attention was unclear. A major problem was in the scripting, which for me lacked cohesiveness. The actors were uniformly strong, as were the production values, including Kasi Lemmons' direction; what was lacking was Lemmons' central theme. It was a long journey down these sad and dismal swamplands, and without a hint of a plot, one seemed to drift from episode to episode aimlessly. It's really a shame so much genuine talent was to a degree wasted on such an uncohesive tale. There have been many casualties resulting from the death of the plot device in contemporary drama.  Eve's Bayou is a prime example. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson as Producer","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With the success of his previous films, Jackson could now produce his own films, and makes his first attempt in this project with Diane Carroll (Dynasty) titled 'Eve's Bayou'. It rings bells of a similar film in the early 80's where a black girl was raped by her uncle. Did Jackson actually interfere with his daughter? "},{"Title":"best of 1997? I don't think so","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all the raving reviews of this film I was expecting something good. What I got was 2 hours of boring slop. what are good actors like whitfield doing in this? I'm sure this movie has a point somewhere. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Snooooore.......","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had to watch this as a part of a film class I am taking.  Ten minutes into the film my eyes started to bleed.  Halfway through the film I wanted to shoot myself in the face.  By the time I had finished watching I was a crying,blubbering,mess curled up in the corner of the classroom.  I have not been so affected by a movie since My Girl.  At least you get the pleasure of seeing McCauley Caulkin getting stung to death by bees in that movie. "},{"Title":"Not Very Interesting","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was flicking through the TV Guide a few nights ago and saw that there was a film about to begin called EVE'S BAYOU . Despite sounding like a brand of soap I decided to watch simply because it starred Samuel L Jackson who is always value for money Jackson plays Doctor Louis Batiste who is a naughty boy since he is caught playing  horses  with a female patient by his ten year old daughter Eve . What then becomes clear is that the story isn't seen through the eyes of Dr Batiste but by Eve so Jackson's casting amounts to something slightly more than a cameo . The story itself is beautifully filmed and acted by the cast but is woefully too low concept to be of much interest for those of us who tuned in hoping to see a funky actor dude battle the forces of voodoo . You read that right - voodoo actually features in the plot somewhere and it's nowhere as exciting as it sounds "}]